<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653246</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Atomizer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F308	B01F308	B01F500	B01F500	B01J1900	B01J1900	B02C1900	B02C1900	B05B126	B05B126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01J	B01J	B02C	B02C	B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F3	B01F3	B01F5	B01F5	B01J19	B01J19	B02C19	B02C19	B05B1	B05B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is an atomizer for atomizing a material into 
fine particles thereof, comprising an atomizing unit and a 

pump for forcibly supplying the material to the atomizing 
unit (15). The atomizing unit (15) comprises: a container (17) having an 

inner space; an inlet (25) for communicating the inner space of 
the container to the outside thereof; a honeycomb body (19) 

being provided in the inner space of the container (17) and 
having a peripheral surface, a plurality of first holes (31B) and 

a second hole (31A), each of the first holes (31B) and the second hole 
(31A) being inwardly bored from the peripheral surface to connect 

with one another at the inside of the honeycomb body (19); and 
an outlet tube (27) being connected to the honeycomb body (19) and 

extending to the outside of the container (17) for communicating 
the second hole (31A) and the outside of the container (17). The pump 

(5) supplies the material into the container (17) through the inlet (25). 
A plurality of the atomizing units (15) can be connected in 

series to use. The atomizer is applied to pulverization of 
a solid material, preparation of an dispersion liquid, an 

emulsion liquid and break of soft material. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NANOMIZER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NANOMIZER INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAITO TOMIHISA C O NANOMIZER I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAITO, TOMIHISA C/O NANOMIZER INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an atomizer for 
atomizing various materials which are used in the field of 
ceramic materials, metals, pharmaceutical materials, foods 
and the like, and, in particular, to an atomizer for 
breaking a material into ultrafine particles in various 
modes such as emulsification, dispersion, pulverization, 
breaking and the like. It has been known that, when a material is pulverized 
into ultrafine particles of the 1 micron order or less, or 
at the nanometer level, the particles of that material tend 
to exhibit electrically and chemically peculiar properties. 
Therefore, various mill devices have been developed for 
breaking a material into ultrafine particles. For such a 
mill device, an ultrafine pulverizer for use in 
pulverization of ceramic materials which is difficult to be 
abraided has been proposed. This mill device is a dry type 
vertical mill having a pair of rollers. In this mill 
device, a material to be pulverized is dropped onto a 
rotating table and scattered in radial directions by means 
of centrifugal force exerted by the rotating table. The 
scattered material is then crunched between the rollers and 
the table. The pulverization operation is controlled and 
continued until the particle size of the pulverized 
material reaches to a desired level, while detection of the 
particle size and separation of the particles are carried  
 
out by operating a microcomputer. However, since the essential part of the conventional 
mill device described above is also a milling part, a large 
space, a large scale of facilities and troublesome 
construction work are required for installing the mill 
device. Moreover, the mill device itself is expensive due 
to its high manufacturing cost. In addition, even when the 
above severe terms are overcome, the throughput capacity of 
the conventional mill device is low. With these problems in mind, therefore, it is the 
primary object of the present invention to provide a novel 
atomizer, that is, a cheep atomizer having a large 
throughput capacity, which includes no milling part and 
which enables simple installment with a small scale of 
facilities. In order to achieve the above-mentioned object, an 
atomizer for atomizing a material into fine particles 
thereof, according to the present invention comprises an 
atomizing unit comprising: a container having an inner 
space; an inlet for communicating the inner space of the 
container to the outside thereof; a honeycomb body being 
provided in the inner space of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An atomizer for atomizing a material into fine 
particles thereof, comprising 

   an atomizing unit comprising: 
   a container having an inner space; 

   an inlet for communicating the inner space of the 
container to the outside thereof; 

   a honeycomb body being provided in the inner space 
of the container and having a peripheral surface, a 

plurality of first holes and a second hole, each of 
the first holes and the second hole being inwardly 

bored from the peripheral surface to connect with one 
another at the inside of the honeycomb body; and 

   an outlet tube being connected to the honeycomb 
body and extending to the outside of the container for 

communicating the second hole and the outside of the 
container, and 

   a pump for forcibly supplying the material into the 
container through the inlet. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 1, wherein the 
honeycomb body has a stereoscopically symmetric shape which 

is selected from the group consisting of a sphere, a 
regular dodecahedron, a regular icosahedron, a regular 

octahedron and a regular hexahedron. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 1, wherein the 
honeycomb body has a substantially spherical shape. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 1, wherein the first 
holes and the second hole are symmetrically disposed in the 

honeycomb body. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 4, wherein each of 
the first holes and the second hole is bored in a radial 

 
direction, and the first holes and the second hole are 

connected at the center of the honeycomb body. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 1, wherein each of 
the first holes and the second hole has a cylindrical 

shape. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 1, wherein the 
container has a cylindrical body which is opened at the top 

and a lid for closing the opened top of the cylindrical 
body, and the inlet and the outlet tube are formed to pass 

through the lid. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 1, further 
comprising a thermal controller for controlling the 

temperature of the material so that the temperature is 
maintained at a predetermined value. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 1, wherein the 
material to be treated by the atomizer is in the form of 

coarse solid particles. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 1, wherein the 
material to be treated by the atomizer is in the form of 

either of dispersion, emulsion, gel, sol or semisolid. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 1, further 
comprising: 

   a monitor unit for monitoring the particle size of the 
material treated with the atomizing unit to feed back the 

material to the atomizing unit when the particle size of 
the treated material is larger than a desired value. 
An atomizer for atomizing a material into fine 
particles thereof, comprising 

   a plurality of atomizing units, each of the atomizing 
 

units comprising: 
   a container having an inner space; 

   an inlet for communicating the inner space of the 
container to the outside thereof; 

   a honeycomb body being provided in the inner space 
of the container and having a peripheral surface, a 

plurality of first holes and a second hole, each of 
the first holes and the second hole being inwardly 

bored from the peripheral surface to connect with one 
another at the inside of the honeycomb body; and 

   an outlet tube being connected to the honeycomb 
body and extending to the outside of the container for 

communicating the second hole and the outside of the 
container, 

   a joint connection for connecting the atomizing units in 
series by joining the outlet tube of the former atomizing 

unit of every two successive units to the inlet of the 
latter atomizing units, and 

   a pump for forcibly supplying the material from the 
inlet of the first atomizing unit of the series into the 

successive atomizing units. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 12, further 
comprising a thermal controller for controlling the 

temperature of the material so that the temperature is 
maintained at a predetermined value. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 13, wherein the 
thermal controller is arranged on the joint tube. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 12, further 
comprising a tank with a bottom portion, and the containers 

of said plurality of the atomizing units are integrally 
formed on the bottom portion of the tank. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 15, wherein each of 
 

the inner spaces of the containers has a cylindrical shape 
which is opened at the top thereof, a lid closes the opened 

top of each of the cylindrical inner spaces, and the inlet 
and the outlet tube of each atomizing unit are formed to 

pass through the lid. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 12, wherein the 
honeycomb body has a substantially spherical shape. 
The atomizer as set forth in claim 17, wherein each of 
the first holes and the second hole is bored in a radial 

direction, and the first holes and the second hole are 
connected at the center of the honeycomb body. 
An atomizing unit for atomizing a material into fine 
particles thereof, by forcibly passing the material 

therethrough, comprising: 
   a container having an inner space; 

   an inlet for communicating the inner space of the 
container to the outside thereof; 

   a honeycomb body being provided in the inner space of 
the container and having a peripheral surface, a plurality 

of first holes and a second hole, each of the first holes 
and the second hole being inwardly bored from the 

peripheral surface to connect with one another at the 
inside of the honeycomb body; and 

   an outlet tube being connected to the honeycomb body 
and extending to the outside of the container for 

communicating the second hole and the outside of the 
container. 
The atomizing unit as set forth in claim 19, wherein 
the honeycomb body has a substantially spherical shape, 

each of the first holes and the second hole is bored in a 
radial direction, and the first holes and the second hole 

are connected at the center of the honeycomb body. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
