<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618476</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rear projection screen with off-axis sunlight rejection.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2700	G02B2700	G02F113	G02F113	G02F11335	G03B2110	G03B2110	G03B2162	G03B2162	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02F	G02F	G02F	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B27	G02B27	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G03B21	G03B21	G03B21	G03B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A projection system having a rear projection screen 
(28) employs a collimating lens (26) in the form of a 

Fresnel lens adjacent the rear surface of the screen (28) 
to improve the image luminance at various viewing angles 

and provide uniform brightness over the area of the screen. 
A fiber optic face plate (30) or two crossed films of 

microlouver light control material is interposed between 
the collimating Fresnel lens (26) and the rear of the 

projection screen (28) to provide a high degree of blocking 
of high intensity light, such as sunlight, that may impinge 

upon the front of the screen. The optical fibers (42) of 
the fiber optic face plate have a low numerical aperture 

and an opaque cladding. The arrangement allows an image to 
be provided on the screen with high contrast even in the 

presence of sunlight striking the screen. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD RANDALL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD, RANDALL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to projection systems 
having a rear projection screen, and more particularly 
concerns control of adverse effects of high intensity 
ambient light impinging on the front surface of the screen. Optical projection display systems are most commonly 
employed for viewing in darkened areas, such as a darkened 
theater, for example, because of the adverse effects of 
reflections of ambient light. However, in many 
applications, such as in avionics, for example, where a 
display must be viewed in an open cockpit which is brightly 
lit by natural daylight or even sunlight, image contrast is 
greatly degraded. Significant difficulties have been 
encountered in various attempts to provide a useful image 
with sufficient contrast in a brightly lit environment. Particularly in systems having a short projection 
length lens, various elements of the projecting optical 
system may be positioned so close to the rear surface of a 
rear projection screen that sunlight at the front face of 
the screen will pass through the screen to be reflected 
from lens elements of the projection system back through  
 
the screen. Such reflected sunlight significantly degrades 
contrast and viewability of the image. Anti-reflection 
coatings on the lens elements may decrease but cannot 
satisfactorily eliminate such bright ambient light 
reflections. For sunlight rejection absorption filters are 
typically used at a great cost in decreased efficiency. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention 
to avoid or minimize above mentioned problems. An optical projection system embodying principles of 
the present invention includes a rear projection screen 
having a screen axis, imaging means for projecting 
modulated collimated light to the rear face of the screen 
and light blocking means interposed between the imaging 
means and the screen for blocking light transmitted at a 
relatively large angle to the screen axis while passing 
light transmitted at a relatively small angle to the screen 
axis. According to a feature of the invention, light 
directed to the rear face of a rear projection screen is 
transmitted through a collimating Fresnel lens that gives 
a uniform brightness across the screen surface. In one 
form of the invention the light blocking means comprises a 
fiber optic face plate interposed between the collimating 
Fresnel lens and the screen and formed of fibers having a 
relatively small numerical aperture. Stated otherwise, the 
fibers of the fiber optic face plate have a small 
a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical projection system comprising: 
   a rear projection screen having a screen axis, 

   image forming means for transmitting an image 
toward a rear face of said screen, 

   light source means for projecting a light beam to 
said image forming means, 

   collimating means interposed between said screen 
and said imaging forming means for substantially 

collimating light transmitted toward said screen, and 
   blocking means interposed between said 

collimating means and said rear projection screen for 
passing light transmitted at a relatively small angle to 

said screen axis and blocking light transmitted at a 
relatively larger angle to said screen axis. 
The optical projection system of Claim 1 wherein 
said blocking means comprises a fiber optic sheet. 
The optical projection system of Claim 1 wherein 
said blocking means comprises a microlouver light control 

film. 
The optical projection system of Claim 1 wherein 
said blocking means comprises a pair of crossed microlouver 

light control films. 
The optical projection system of Claim 2 wherein 
said fiber optic sheet comprises optical fibers having a 

low numerical aperture and having an opaque cladding. 
The optical projection system of Claim 2 wherein 
said fiber optic sheet comprises optical fibers having a 

numerical aperture not greater than about 0.50. 
The optical projection system of Claim 2 wherein 
said fiber optic sheet comprises optical fibers having a 

numerical aperture not grater than about 0.35 and having an 
opaque cladding. 
The optical projection system of Claim 2 wherein 
said collimating means comprises a Fresnel lens. 
The optical projection system of Claim 2 wherein 
said collimating means comprises a projection lens having 

a long focal length. 
An optical projection system comprising: 
   a rear projection screen having a rear face and 

a screen axis, 
   collimating means adjacent said screen for 

transmitting light to said rear face, 
   light source means for transmitting light to said 

screen through said collimating means, 
   image forming means for modulating light 

transmitted from said light source means to said 
collimating means, and 

   light blocking means interposed between said 
screen and collimating means for passing light transmitted 

at a relatively small angle relative to said screen axis 
and for blocking light transmitted at a relatively larger 

angle to said screen axis. 
The optical projection system of Claim 10 wherein 
said image forming means is interposed between said light 

source and said collimating means. 
The optical projection system of Claim 11 wherein 
said image forming means comprises an active matrix liquid 

crystal light valve. 
The optical projection system of Claim 10 wherein 
said blocking means comprises a fiber optic sheet. 
The optical projection system of Claim 10 wherein 
said blocking means comprises a microlouver light control 

film. 
The optical projection system of Claim 10 wherein 
said blocking means comprises a pair of crossed microlouver 

light control films. 
The optical projection system of Claim 13 wherein 
said fiber optic sheet comprises optical fibers having a 

low numerical aperture and having an opaque cladding. 
The optical projection system of Claim 13 wherein 
said fiber optic sheet comprises optical fibers having a 

numerical aperture not greater than about 0.35 and having 
an opaque cladding. 
The optical projection system of Claim 10 wherein 
said image forming means is interposed between said 

collimating means and said screen. 
A projection system for use in a high ambient 
light environment comprising: 

   a rear projection screen having a screen axis and 
a rear face, 

   imaging means for projecting modulated 
substantially collimated light to said rear face, and 

   blocking means interposed between said imaging 
means and said screen for blocking light transmitted at a 

 
relatively large angle to said screen axis and transmitting 

light transmitted at a relatively small angle to said 
screen axis. 
The projection system of Claim 19 wherein said 
blocking means comprises a fiber optic face plate. 
The projection system of Claim 19 wherein said 
blocking means comprises 
a pair of crossed microlouver 
light control films. 
The projection system of Claim 20 wherein said 
fiber optic face plate comprises optical fibers having a 

low numerical aperture and having an opaque cladding. 
The projection system of Claim 20 wherein said 
fiber optic face plate comprises optical fibers having a 

numerical aperture not greater than about 0.35 and having 
an opaque cladding. 
The projection system of Claim 20 wherein the 
ends of said optical fibers extend at a slight angle to the 

plane of said fiber optic face plate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
