<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657097</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A construction for automatically milking animals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01J508	A01J500	A01J5017	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01J	A01J	A01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01J5	A01J5	A01J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a construction for milking 
animals, such as cows, comprising a milking box (1) with teat 

cups (8). In addition, the construction includes detection 
means (8; 14; 67), with the aid of which the position of the 

animal, or at least of part of the animal, relative to a 
milking parlour can be determined. On the basis of said 

position, using a computer, a teat cup (8) is moved to near 
the bottom end of a teat, whilst furthermore means are 

present, with the aid of which the teat is sucked into the 
upper end of the teat cup (8). The means include an air pump, 

by means of which a relatively strong suction air current can 
be applied near and above the aperture of a teat cup (8). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY, CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a construction according
to the preamble of claim 1.EP-A-0 480 541 relates to a construction in which
the teat cups are moved individually to the teats by the
milking robot. Subsequently the teat cups suck to a relevant
teat by a vacuum which is also used for milking. A sensor is
disclosed for detecting whether a teat cup has been applied
in the correct manner or has not been applied. Disadvantage
of such a construction is that the teat cups need to be moved
very close to the teats by complicated and accurate and
therefore expensive positioning means.The invention has for its object to provide a
construction of the above-defined type, in which a relatively
simple but efficient manner, with the intermediary of a
milking robot and added means which suck the teat into the
teat cup, the teat cups are connected to the teats of an
animal to be milked.According to the invention this is achieved in that
the sensor is adapted to cause the air current to be
interrupted upon connection of the teat cup to the teat.
Under the influence of the suction air current, a teat
located near and above the aperture of the teat cup will be
sucked into the teat cup by the suction air current. This has
for its advantage that also a teat cup, whose aperture is not
positioned accurately under a teat, can be connected to the
relevant teat.So as to improve the connection of a teat to a teat
cup, the milking robot has, in accordance with a preferred
feature of the invention, a holder in which the teat cup is
supported, whilst the teat cup is also freely movable in
height relative to the relevant holder under the influence of
the suction air current. During connecting of the teat cup to
the relevant teat, the teat cup can be sucked to the relevant 
teat under the influence of the suction air current.Before a teat cup can be connected to a teat under
the influence of the suction air current, the position of the
teat cups is altered, in accordance with a further preferred feature of
the invention, with the aid of data stored in the computer
about the position of the teats of a specific animal, utilizing
a pivotal arm construction with incorporated electric
motor, e.g. a stepping motor. In accordance with a further preferred
feature of the invention, each electric motor includes a free-wheel
device, which becomes operative for an electric motor
after the computer has supplied a signal indicating that a
teat has been positioned in or near a teat cup. By starting
the free-wheel device, the teat cups are freely
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A construction for milking animals, such as cows,
comprising a milking robot (6) with teat cups (8), which

construction includes detection means (8; 14; 67), which
determine the position of the animal, or at least of part of

the animal, relative to a milking parlour on the basis of
which position, computer controlled means move a teat cup (8)

close to the bottom end of a teat, whilst furthermore means
are present, which suck the teat into the upper end of the

teat cup (8) and a sensor is present for ascertaining the
attachment of the teat cup, the suction means including an air pump,

by means of which a suction air current can be applied near
and above the aperture of a teat cup (8) for sucking a teat

into a teat cup (8), 
characterized in that
 the sensor is
adapted to cause the air current to be interrupted upon

connection of the teat cup to the teat. 
A construction as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized
in that
 the milking robot (6) includes a holder (44) in which
a teat cup (8) is supported, whilst the teat cup (8) is also

freely movable in height relative to the relevant holder (44)
under the influence of the suction air current.
A construction as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, 
characterized in that
 the milking robot (6)
includes a holder (44) in which a teat cup (8) is supported,

whilst a teat cup (8) can be moved downwards against the
action of a spring (58).
A construction as claimed in any one of
claims 2 or 3, 
characterized in that
 the holder (44) is cylindrical
and is arranged near the midway point around a teat

cup (8), whilst the length of the holder is less than the
length of a teat cup (8).
A construction as claimed in any one of
claims 2 to 4, 
characterized in that
 near the bottom side of a
holder (44) a sleeve bearing (54) is rigidly connected to the

holder (44) and in a position more to the top a further
sleeve bearing (56) is rigidly secured to the teat cup (8). 
A construction as claimed in claim 5, 
characterized
in that
 a compression spring (58) is confined between the
sleeve bearings (54, 56).
A construction as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, 
characterized in that
, with the aid of data
stored in the computer about the position of the teats of a

specific animal, the position of the teat cups (8) is
altered, utilizing a pivotal arm construction (15) with

incorporated electric motor (30; 33; 37; 41), e.g. a stepping
motor.
A construction as claimed in claim 7, 
characterized
in that
 a pair of teat cups (8) is connected to a robot arm
(7) by means of one pivotal arm construction (15), it being

possible, using the electric motors (30; 33; 37; 41), to
alter the position of the relevant teat cups (8) in a predominantly

horizontal plane.
A construction as claimed in claim 8, 
characterized
in that
 a pivotal arm, by means of which a teat cup (8) is
pivoted, is connected to a stepping motor (30; 33; 37; 41) ,

while the shaft (31; 34; 36; 42) of the stepping motor (30;
33; 37; 41) is connected to a pivotal arm other than the said

first arm.
A construction as claimed in claim 9, 
characterized
in that
 each of the pivotal arms is constituted by two
spaced-apart strips.
A construction as claimed in claim 10, 
characterized
in that
 at least at one end of a pair of strips, between
these strips, a stepping motor (30; 33; 37; 41) is disposed.
A construction as claimed in claim 10 or 11,

characterized in that
 the robot arm (7) is fitted with four
teat cups (8), of which two teat cups (8) each include two

pairs of strips, and of which the further two teat cups (8)
each include one pair of strips.
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 10 
to 12, 
characterized in that
 the strips have one end connected
to the holder (44) surrounding the relevant teat cup

(8).
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 13,

characterized in that
 each of the electric motors
(30; 33; 37; 41) includes a free-wheel device, which becomes

operative for an electric motor (30; 33; 37; 41) after the
computer has supplied a signal indicating that a teat has

been positioned in or near a teat cup (8).
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 14,


characterized in that
 each of the electric motors
(30; 33; 37; 41) includes a sensor which, after the teat cups

(8) have been connected to the teats, passes the position of
the teat cups (8) on to the computer, in such a way that at a

subsequent milking turn of the relevant animal the co-ordinates
can be used again for positioning the teat cups (8)

relative to each other.
A construction as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, 
characterized in that
, during the lactation
period of an animal, the teat co-ordinates are stored in a

memory unit in order to be retrieved again therefrom at the
beginning of a next lactation period for the purpose of

positioning the teat cups (8).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
