<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641067</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Motor start examining device and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2612	G02B2612	H02P100	H02P104	H04N1047	H04N1053	H04N1113	H04N1113	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	H02P	H02P	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B26	G02B26	H02P1	H02P1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is suitable for examination of 
the rotating state of a Polygonal motor in an image forming 

apparatus. It is judged whether or not the rotational speed 
of the motor is a target speed until a first time has 

elapsed since the supply of power to the motor for rotating 
a Polygonal mirror was started every other second time 

sufficiently shorter than the first time continuously for a 
third time sufficiently shorter than the second time. If it 

is judged that the rotational speed of the motor is the 
target speed continuously for the third time, it is judged 

again whether or not the rotational speed of the motor is 
the target speed after an elapse of a fourth time since the 

judgment. If the rotational speed of the motor is the 
target speed, the motor outputs a signal indicating that the 

motor is stabilized at the target speed. If the rotational 

speed of the motor is not the target speed, the motor 
further waits until a fifth time has elapsed for judging 

whether or not the rotational speed of the motor is the 
target speed. If the rotational speed of the motor is the 

target speed, the motor outputs a signal indicating that the 
motor is stabilized at the target speed. Image formation 

processing is performed in response to the signal indicating 
that the motor is stabilized at the target speed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITA INDUSTRIAL CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITA INDUSTRIAL CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUNO MASAYUKI C O MITA IND C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUNO MASAYUKI C O MITA IND C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a motor start 
examining device and method for examining, when the 
rotational speed of a motor is predetermined, a state from 
the time when the rotation of the motor is started to the 
time when the rotational speed of the motor reaches the 
predetermined rotational speed. More specifically, the 
present invention relates to a start examining device and 
method of a motor for driving a Polygonal mirror which is 
provided for an image forming apparatus or the like. In an image forming apparatus of a laser recording type 
such as a laser beam printer, a facsimile of a laser 
recording type and a digital copying machine of a laser 
recording type, an electrostatic latent image corresponding 
to an image to be formed is written into a photoreceptor by 
exposing and scanning the surface of the photoreceptor by a 
laser beam. The electrostatic latent image on the surface 
of the photoreceptor is developed into a toner image. The 
toner image is transferred onto paper sheets and is further 
fixed thereto, thereby to form an image. A laser scanner for scanning the surface of the 
photoreceptor by the laser beam comprises a laser light 
source, a Polygonal mirror for reflecting the laser beam 
irradiated from the laser light source toward the 
photoreceptor, and a motor for rotating the Polygonal mirror  
 
at constant speed. The Polygonal mirror is rotated at 
constant speed so that a light path of the laser beam is 
changed, to expose and scan the photoreceptor. In order to accurately write the image by the laser 
beam, the rotation of the motor must be rigidly controlled. 
That is, constant-speed rotation control of the motor for 
rotating the Polygonal mirror is carried out. A control circuit for realizing the constant-speed 
rotation control of the motor comprises a stability 
detecting circuit for determining whether or not the motor 
is stabilized at a target rotational speed. The stability 
detecting circuit outputs a rotation stability signal when 
the rotational speed of the motor is the target rotational 
speed or a rotational speed within a predetermined allowable 
range centered around the target rotational speed 
(hereinafter also referred to as "target rotational speed"). At the time of starting the motor, power is supplied to 
the motor, the rotational speed of which is quickly raised 
to the target rotational speed. However, it is actually 
impossible to monotonously increase the rotational speed of 
the motor so that the motor is stabilized at the target 
rotat
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A motor start examining device for examining the rotating state of a 
motor (15) immediately after starting the motor (15), comprising: 

   a timer (20,S3,S12) for starting to measure time in response to the start of 
the supply of power to the motor (15), to output a time-up signal when it 

measures a predetermined rise time; 
   speed detecting means (17) for detecting the rotational speed of the motor 

(15); 
   means (21) for outputting a stability signal when the speed detected by the 

speed detecting means (17) is maintained in a predetermined relationship with a 
predetermined target speed; and 

   judging means (20,S2,S11) for judging that the motor (15) is stabilized at 
the target speed when said stability signal is outputted continuously for an examining 

time (T3;T6) shorter than the rise time before the time-up signal is outputted 
from said timer (20,S3,S12). 
The motor start examining device according to claim 1, wherein: 
   said stability signal is outputted when the detected speed is within a speed 

range (ΔR) between a speed slightly higher than the target speed and a speed 
slightly lower than the target speed. 
The motor start examining device according to claim 1 or claim 2, 
wherein: 

   said judging means (20,S2,S11) judges whether or not the stability signal 
is outputted every other interval time (T2) sufficiently shorter than the rise time. 
The motor start examining device according to claim 3, wherein: 
   said examining time (T3) is sufficiently shorter than said interval time (T2). 
The motor start examining device according to claims 1, 2, 3 or claim 
4, wherein: 

   said judging means (20,S2,S11) further comprises additional judging means 
(S5) which waits until a predetermined waiting time (T4) has elapsed when the 

stability signal was outputted continuously for said examining time (T3) for judging 
that the motor (15) is stabilized at the target speed if the stability signal is 

outputted even after an elapse of the waiting time (T4). 
The motor start examining device according to claim 5, wherein: 
   said additional judging means (S5) further waits until a predetermined 

second waiting time (T5) has elapsed if said stability signal is not outputted after 
an elapse of said waiting time (T4) for judging that the motor (15) is stabilized at 

the target speed if the stability signal is outputted after an elapse of the second 
waiting time (T5). 
The motor start examining device according to any one of claims 1 to 
6, wherein: 

   said motor (15) is a motor for driving a Polygonal mirror (100) in an image 
forming apparatus, 

   image formation processing being started if said judging means (20,S2,S11) 
or said additional judging means (S5) judges that the motor (15) is stabilized at the 

target speed. 
A method of examining the rotating state of a motor (15) immediately 
after starting the motor (15), comprising the steps of: 

   judging whether or not the rotational speed of the motor (15) is a target 
speed in a time period (T1) from the time when the supply of power to the motor 

(15) is started to the time when a first time (T1) elapses every other second time 
 

(T2) sufficiently shorter than the first time (T1) continuously for a third time (T3) 
sufficiently shorter than the second time (T2); 

   judging, if it is judged that the rotational speed of the motor (15) is the 
target speed continuously for the third time (T3), whether or not the r
otational 
speed of the motor (15) is the target speed again after an elapse of a fourth time 

(T4) since the judgement, and 
   outputting a signal indicating that the motor (15) is stabilized at the target 

speed if the rotational speed of the motor (15) is the target speed, while further 
waiting until a fifth time (T5) has elapsed if the rotational speed of the motor (15) 

is not the target speed and judging whether or not the rotational speed of the 
motor (15) is the target speed, to output a signal indicating that the motor (15) is 

stabilized at the target speed if the rotational speed of the motor (15) is the target 
speed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
