<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656187</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pulse rate calculating apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5024	A61B50245	A61B5024	G04G9900	G04G9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	G04G	G04G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G04G99	G04G99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pulse counting apparatus which has a simple 
structure and makes few count errors. When the number 

of pulses at a wrist or the neck of the user counted by 
means of palpation amounts to 10 and the user stops by 

using an S1 key the measurement of the pulse counting 
time period in a timer (T), it is determined whether the 

pulse counting time period is 3 seconds or less (FIG. 4, 
step S41). If the time period is 3 seconds or less, it 

is determined that the pulse is miscounted, the value of 
the timer (T) is cleared (step S42) and "1" is set in a 

flag (G). As a result, the apparatus is switched to a 
measurement mode. If the time period exceeds 3 seconds 

(step S41), pulse per minute is calculated from the time 
period and the number of the pulses (step S44) 10. An 

exercise intensity corresponding to the pulse is 
calculated from the pulse and the set age of the user 

(step S45). The pulse and the exercise intensity is 
displayed in a display (8). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a pulse rate calculating
apparatus according to the subject matter of claim 1.Conventionally, in medical facilities, an
electrocardiographic signal or pulse generated when the
heart contracts is detected by a sensor, and an
apparatus for displaying a waveform of the detected
signal and an apparatus for calculating the pulse per
minute from the signal detected by the sensor and
displaying the pulse have been used. However, since
these apparatuses are large and expensive, there has
been a demand for a portable pulse counting apparatus,
which is inexpensive and which thus allows personal use.
In response to the demand, a pulse counting apparatus
having a sensor for counting a pulse, applicable to a
small apparatus (e.g., a watch), has been put into
practice. Such a pulse counting apparatus is disclosed
in, for example, U.S. Patents Nos. 4,807,639 and
5,316,008. EP-A-0 556 702 discloses the features of the preamble of claim 1.The aforementioned pulse counting apparatus in the mentioned US-patents,
however, has the following drawback. That is, noise is
liable to generate in a sensor of the apparatus for
detecting an electrocardiographic signal or an optical
sensor for detecting pulse. Since noise can result in
an inaccurate count, the pulse must be counted 
repeatedly.The object of, the present invention is to provide a
pulse rate calculating apparatus, which has a simple structure
and makes few count errors.This object is solved by the subject matter of claim 1. Further
advantageous embodiments of the invention are subject matter of the dependent
claims.According to the present invention, a pulse rate can be
calculated with a very simple structure, without using a
pulse sensor.This invention can be more fully understood from
the following detailed description when taken in conjunction
with the accompanying drawings, in which:
FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a pulse rate calculating
apparatus according to the present invention;FIG. 2 is a diagram showing the structure of the
RAM shown in FIG. 1;FIG. 3 is a flowchart showing an operation of a
pulse rate calculating apparatus according to a first embodiment
of the present invention;FIG. 4 is a flowchart showing a calculating
operation;FIG. 5 is a diagram for explaining a mode switching
operation;FIG. 6 is a diagram showing a state of the display 
in a time display mode;FIG. 7 is a diagram showing a state of the display
in an initial mode of a pulse mode;FIG. 8 is a diagram showing a state of the display
in a pulse display
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pulse rate calculating apparatus comprising:

time measuring means (T) providing time data for producing a period of time
during which a predetermined number of pulses are to be counted by the user;
numerical data storing means (5) for storing predetermined numerical data;
calculating means (S16) for obtaining pulse data representing the number of
pulses per minute on the basis of the predetermined numerical data stored in the

numerical data storing means and the time data produced by the time measuring
means (T); and
display means (8) for displaying the pulse data obtained by the calculating means,
and
manual operation switch means (SW2) operable for starting or stopping the time
measuring means (T), to produce the time period during which the predetermined

number of pulses are counted by the user,
characterized by
control means (S6, S7) for automatically stopping the time measuring performed
by the time measuring means (T), if the time since the manual operation switch

means started the time measuring exceeds a predetermined time.
The pulse rate calculating apparatus according to claim 1, 
characterized in that

the numerical data storing means stores as numerical data 60 times the number 
of pulses to be counted by the user, and the calculating means includes means

(S44) for dividing the numerical data by the time data and outputting a calculation
result as the data representing the pulses per minute.
The pulse rate calculating apparatus according to claim 2, 
characterized in that

the calculating means performs the calculation of the pulse rate once every
second whilst the time measuring means is operating.
The pulse rate calculating apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 3,

characterized in that
 the calculating means obtains the data representing the
pulses per minute once every second whilst the time measuring means is

operating.
The pulse rate calculating apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 4,

characterized by
 further comprising:

age data storing means (23) for storing age data; and
exercise intensity calculating means (S45) for calculating exercise intensity data
from the age data stored in the age data storing means and the pulse data

obtained by the calculating means.
The pulse rate calculating apparatus according to one of claims 1 to 5,

characterized by
 further comprising:

restarting means (S41, S42, S43) for automatically restarting the time measuring
performed by the time measuring means by clearing the time measured by the

time measuring means when the time measuring is stopped by the manual
operation switch means and the time measured by the time measuring means is

less than a predetermined time.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
