<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627866</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Burst server switching system and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1256	H04Q1104	H04Q1104	H04L1256	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04Q	H04Q	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04Q11	H04Q11	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a packet transmission method and apparatus which 
prevent the holding of unavailable links during packet transmission. An embodiment 

of the present invention assumes that the case of a packet transmission 
between transmitting terminal x and receiving terminal y which includes seven of 

links 0 to 6 and switches 1 to 6. Switches 3 and 5 are connected with burst servers 
1 and 2, respectively, which have a buffer for temporarily holding of a message 

packet and a function of the packet transmission. The function comprises to 
request a link reservation, to transmit message packet, to store the received 

message packet, to release the reserved links upon completing the transmission of 
message packet. When transmitting terminal x transmits a message packet, burst 

server 0 starts the packet transmission including the link reservation to burst server 
1, and when the packet transmission is completed, reserved links 0, 1, 2 are 

released. The same packet transmission is repeated consecutively to each burst 
server until receiving terminal y if the link reservations are not blocked. If a link 

reservation is blocked at a link, the packet transmission is held the last burst 
server, and another link reservation is using the same bandwidth or converting the 

bandwidth to another available bandwidth. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURASE TUTOMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURASE, TUTOMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a packet switching system
including an ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode).A switching system (Fast Reservation Protocol (FRP))
in an ATM or a packet switching system by which a bandwidth
necessary for information transfer, that is, a
transmission channel having an appropriate frequency is
reserved prior to information transfer and, after the
bandwidth is reserved, that is, after the necessary
bandwidth is allocated, information is transferred in
order to avoid overcrowding of the network is proposed as
an FRP system in H. Suzuki et al. "Fast Bandwidth Reservation
Scheme with Multilink & Multipath Routing in ATM
Networks", IEEE INFOCOM 1991. The FRP system is described
with reference to Figs. 1 and 2. Link 0, link 1, link 2,
link 3, link 4, link 5, and link 6 are connected in order
from terminal x to terminal y as shown in Fig. 1, and for
j = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, switch j+1 is interposed between
link j and link j+1. When information to be transmitted
is produced, terminal x immediately sends out to link 0 a
reservation request packet for reserving bandwidth B
necessary for information transfer. Since link 0 may also 
possibly be used also for information transfer between
terminal x and any other terminal than terminal y, if
requested bandwidth B is not reserved (fails), link 0
returns a reservation failure packet to terminal x. When
bandwidth B is reserved (succeeds), link 0 reserves bandwidth
B and sends the reservation request packet to link
1. Bandwidth reservation is also attempted by link 1,
link 2, link 3, link 4, and link 5 in a similar procedure
to that performed by link 0. It is assumed that link 6 is
fixed exclusively to terminal 6 and does not require
reservation. When the bandwidth reservation gets through
at all of the links from link 0 to link 5 so that a bandwidth
is reserved from terminal x to terminal y, terminal
x sends information to terminal y. On the other hand, if
reservation fails even at only one link, a reservation
failure packet is returned to terminal x from the link at
which bandwidth reservation has failed. When reservation
has failed, the bandwidth reservations from terminal x to
the link are canceled and the reserved bandwidths are
released. The failure corresponds to a so-called loss in
a telephone network, and the probability of failure indicates
the quality of the network. This failure is called
a block, and the probability of failure is called the
block rate. Fig. 2 shows an example of a diagram of
transmission of control signals and information
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A packet transmission method in a packet switching
system, packet transmission being performed after a confirmation

that a bandwidth which is necessary for transmitting a
message packet is reserved and that a corresponding

receiving terminal has sufficient storage capacity,

wherein said method further comprises the steps of:

providing at least one burst server (BURST SERVER 1, BURST SERVER 2) interposed
between a transmitting terminal (X) and a receiving terminal (Y)

through at least one link (LINK 1, LINK 2, LINK 3, LINK 4, LINK 5), said burst server having the
ability to store a received message packet, requesting

reservation of a free link having a required bandwidth
and sufficient storage capacity at the receiving side

burst server, and releasing the link after a transmission of
the message packet is completed;
performing the reservation of bandwidth and receiving
side storage capacity between the transmitting terminal

and the burst server closest to the transmitting terminal, between adjoining burst
servers, and between the receiving terminal and its adjoining

burst server;
transmitting consecutively the message packet via
interposed burst servers, and releasing consecutively the

reserved links according to each completion of transmission
of the message packet at the corresponding burst

servers.
The packet transmission method according to claim 1, wherein the terminals are separated by at least two links,
comprising the steps of:


performing packet transmission, which requires
reservation of a necessary bandwidth through relevant

links and receiving side storage capacity for the message
packet, from the transmitting terminal to a first burst

server closest to the transmitting terminal;
storing the received message packet at said first
burst server;
releasing the link between the transmitting terminal
and the first burst server after transmitting the message

packet;
performing said packet transmission for transmitting
the stored message packet from the first burst server to

a burst server next to the first burst server;
storing the received message packet at each burst
server when the message packet is received; 
repeating said packet transmission for consecutively
transmitting the stored message packet to the next burst

server until the message packet is received at the
receiving terminal; and
repeating the release of the link to the next burst
server after the transmission of the message packet is

completed at each burst server consecutively until the
message packet is received at the receiving terminal.
A packet transmission method according to claim 1
wherein said

   packet transmission,which requires the
reservation of a necessary bandwidth through relevant

links and sufficient storage capacity for the message
packet at the receiving side, is performed between the transmitting

terminal and an available burst server furthest away from the
transmitting termin
al, as far as the reservation is
obtained;
 
further comprising the steps of:


storing the received message packet at said furthest
available burst server as the receiving side burst server;
releasing the link between the transmitting terminal
to the furthest available burst server after completing the

transmission of the message packet;
performing said packet transmission for transmitting
the stored message packet from the furthest available

burst server to a second furthest available burst server, as far as
the reservation is obtained;
storing the received message packet at each burst
server when the message packet is received;
repeating said packet transmission for transmitting
the stored message packet to the next furthest burst

server as far as the reservation is obtained consecutively
until the message packet is received at the receiving

terminal; and
repeating the release of the link used for
transmitting the message packet after completing the

transmission of the message packet at each concerned burst
server consecutively until the message packet is received

at the receiving terminal.
The packet transmission method
as claimed one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the burst servers

are provided fixedly. 
The packet transmission method
as claimed one of claims 1 to 3, wherein each of the burst

server designates the next burst server to which a
received message packet is to be transmitted.
The packet transmission method
as claimed in one of claims 1 to 3, wherein one of the burst

servers which is connected to a subscriber exchange in
which the transmitting terminal is accommodated performs the

step of designating the burst servers to use.
The packet transmission method
as claimed in one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the method further

comprises the step of restarting the request of reservation
by converting the required bandwidth to another

available bandwidth the link reservation request is blocked.
The packet transmission method
as claimed in one of claims 1 to 3, wherein an inquiry of the

storage capacity of the receiving side burst server at the
request of said reservation is performed using a bandwidth

reservation request packet.
The packet transmission method
as claimed in one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the method comprises

the further step of notifying the current receiving 
storage capacity at least to the adjoining burst servers

so that they can recognize the current receiving storage
capacity without an inquiry. 
A packet transmission apparatus of a packet switching
system providing:


at least one burst server (BURST SERVER 1, BURST SERVER 2) interposed between a
transmitting terminal (X) and a receiving terminal (Y) through at

least one link (LINK 1, LINK 2, LINK 3, LINK 4, LINK 5) when the terminals are separated by at
least two links, said burst server comprising,
means (701, 702) for performing packet transmission which
requires a reservation of a necessary bandwidth through

relevant links and sufficient storage capacity for a
message packet at the next burst server;
means (701) for storing the received message packet; and
means for releasing the link used for
transmitting the message packet after the transmission of the 

message packet is completed at the next burst server.
The packet transmission apparatus of a packet
switching system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said

burst server further comprises means (801, 802) for designating the
next burst server based on a place of a switch by

which the receiving terminal is accommodated.
The packet transmission apparatus of a packet
switching system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said

burst server which accommodates the transmitting terminal 
comprises means for designating the burst server to be

used based on a place of a switch by which the
receiving terminal is accommodated.
The packet transmission apparatus of a packet
switching system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said

burst server comprises means (909) for converting the bandwidth
to another available bandwidth and restarting the

reservation request for the converted bandwidth when the
former reservation is blocked.
The packet transmission apparatus of a packet
switching system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said link

reservation is requested by using bandwidth reservation
request packet.
The packet transmission apparatus of a packet
switching system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said

burst server further comprises means for notifying the
current storage capacity of at least adjoining burst

servers so that they can recognize the current storage
capacity without inquiry.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
