<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656646</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of making devices with buried layers by epitaxial growth.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21335	H01L2170	H01L2174	H01L2706	H01L2706	H01L2902	H01L2904	H01L2910	H01L2966	H01L2978	H01L2980	H01L29808	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vertical field effect transistor (100) and fabrication method with 
buried gates 

(104) having spaced apart gate fingers and connecting structure and 
overgrown with source (102) 

and channel (106) epilayer followed by a doping connection 
(115) of the gate fingers and connecting structure. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLUMTON DONALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLUMTON, DONALD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to electronic semiconductor devices and circuits, and, more 
particularly, to methods of fabrication with epitaxial overgrowth and devices so fabricated. Various semiconductor processing flows include formation of epitaxial layers on 
substrates. Such epilayers may provide a change in doping level, a crystal superior to the 
substrate's, or even a change in material such as a gallium arsenide (GaAs) substrate with 
an aluminium gallium arsenide (Al,Ga₁,As) epilayer for heterojunction devices. Epilayer 
growth by metalorganic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) on {100} orientated GaAs 
substrates produces smoother surfaces when the substrate orientation is tilted 2° in the 
{110} direction, and industry standard GaAs wafers have such an orientation tilt. This 
tilt provides a slightly terraced surface (terrace widths on the order of 100-200 Å) which 
apparently insures smooth epilayer growth. Certain processing flows include epitaxial overgrowth of nonplanar structures. In 
particular, silicon bipolar transistor processes frequently have a buried layer formed by 
epitaxial overgrowth of a doped region which has been depressed below the substrate 
surface by an oxidizing drive-in cycle. But more significantly, heterojunction bipolar  
 
transistors (HBTs) and self-aligned structure (SAS) lasers can be fabricated with epitaxial 
growth over steps in a GaAs layer. See Plumton et al. Planar AlGaAs/GaAs HBT 
Fabricated by MOCVD Overgrowth with a Grown Base. 37 IEEE Trans. Elec. Dev. 118 
(1990)(growth of n-AlxGa1-xAs emitter over p-GaAs base mesa for an HBT) and Noda et 
al. Effects of GaAs/AlAs superlattic buffer layers on selective area regrowth for 
GaAs/AlGaAs self-aligned structure lasers. 47 Appl. Phys. Lett. 1205 (1985)(molecular 
beam epitaxy growth of p-AlxGa1-xAs over n-GaAs antiguiding mesa for a SAS layer). 
However, such epitaxial overgrowth on step structures has problems including finding 
growth conditions for enhancing device performance. The present invention provides buried doped regions (such as a VFET gate 
structure) by epitaxial overgrowth of locally disconnected structures (such as gate fingers 
and a connection rail) to bury the regions, followed by doping to connect the locally 
disconnected structures together. This changes the crystal plane orientation for lateral 
growth to redirect defect propagation.  The drawings are schematic for clarity. 
Figures 1a-c are perspective and cross-sectional elevation and plan views of a first 
preferred embodiment vertical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of fabrication of a buried doped region, comprising the steps of: 

(a) forming first and second structures on a semiconductor layer, said layer having 
a first conductivity type and said first and second structures spaced apart and each having 

a second conductivity type opposite said first conductivity type; 
(b) forming an epilayer on said first and second structures plus on said layer, said 
epilayer of said first conductivity type; and 
(c) forming a region of said second conductivity type in said epilayer, said region 
connecting said first and second structures. 
The method of claim 1, wherein: 

(a) said layer is n type GaAs; 
(b) said first and second structures are p type GaAs; and 
(c) siad epilayer is n type GaAs. 
The method of claim 1, wherein: 

(a) said forming a region in step (c) of claim 1 is by implantation, and said region 
extends from a surface of said epilayer to said first and second structures. 
The method of claim 1, wherein: 

(a) said second structure has the shape of a rectangular prism with rounded edges; 
(b) said first structure has a flat sidewall; and 
(c) said region connects an end of said prism to said flat sidewall. 
The method of claim 4, further comprising the steps of: 

(a) forming third, fourth, ... Nth structures on said layer prior to said epilayer 
forming in step (b) of claim 1, N a positive integer greater than 2, said third, fourth, ... 

Nth sturctures are each of the shape of a rectangular prism with rounded edges and 
parallel to said second structure; and 
(b) wherein said region connects an end of each of said second, third, fourth, ... 
Nth sturctures to said flat sidewall. 
The method of claim 5, wherein: 

(a) said forming first, second, ... Nth structures is by dedposition of a second 
epilayer of said second conductivity type on said layer of first conductivity type; and 
(b) removing portions of said second epilayer to yield said first, second, ... Nth 
structures. 
A method for fabrication of a vertical field effect transistor, comprising the steps of: 

(a) forming a plurality of parallel gate fingers of a first conductivity type on a 
 

planar drain of a second conductivity type; 
(b) forming a connecting structure of said first conductivity type on said planar 
drain and spaced from ends of said gate fingers; 
(c) forming an epilayer on said gate fingers, connecting structure, and planar drain, 
said epilayer forming channels and between adjacent ones of said gate fingers and a planar 

source over said gate fingers and said channels; 
(d) changing the conductivity type from first type to second type for a region in 
said epilayer which connects said ends of gate fingers to said connecting structure. 
The method of claim 7, wherein: 

(a) said forming gate fingers in step (b) of claim 7 and said forming a connecting 
structure in step (c) of claim 7 are done simultaneously by deopsition of a second epilayer 

of said second conductivity type followed by removal of portions of said second epilayer 
to yield said gate fingers and connecting structure. 
The method of claim 8, wherein: 

(a) said planar drain is n type GaAs; 
(b) said second epilayer is p type GaAs; and 
(c) said epilayer is a type GaAs. 
The method of claim 9, wherein: 

(a) said changing the conductivity type of step (d) of claim 7 is implantation of 
heryllium. 
The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of: 

(a) depositing metal contacts to said source, drain, and region wherein said region 
extends through said epilayer. 
A vertical field effect transistor, comprising: 

(a) a plurality of parallel gate fingers buried in a semiconductor body of a first 
conductivity type, said gate fingers of a second conductivity type opposite said first 

conductivity type; 
(b) a connecting structure of said second conductivity type buried in said body and 
spaced from said gate fingers; and 
(c) a region of said body connecting said gate fingers to said connecting structure, 
said region containing dopants for both said first and said second conductivity types with 

the concentration of said dopants of said second conductivity type exceeding that of said 

dopants of said first conductivity type. 
The transistor of claim 12, wherein: 

(a) said gate fingers and said connecting structure are p type GaAs; and 
(b) said body is n type GaAs. 
The transistor of claim 13, wherein: 

(a) said gate fingers and said connecting structure have dimensions characterized 
by formation from a planar layer by removal of portions of said planar layer. 
The transistor of claim 14, wherein: 

(a) the concentration of first conductivity type dopants in said body is greater in 
the portions between adjacent ones of said gate fingers than in the portion on one side of 

and adjacent to said planar layer. 
The transistor of claim 15, further comprising: 

(a) a metal contact to said portion of said body on said one side of said planar 
layer; 
(b) a second metal contact to a second portion of said body on a side of said planar 
layer opposite said one side; and 
(c) a third metal contact to said region which extends to a surface of said body. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
