<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656557</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hinge for eyeglasses.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02C522	G02C522	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02C	G02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02C5	G02C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The hinge (1) for eyeglasses, of the type including a 
lens-bearing front (11) having two temples (3) hinged 

thereto, has a shaped element (5) and a support (9). The 
shaped element (5) has a protruding tab (7) defining an L-shaped 

base (6) which can be detachably accommodated in a 
complementarily-shaped first seat (8) formed in the end 

portion of a temple (3). The shaped element (5) is 
detachably accommodated in a second seat (10) formed in the 

support (9). Elastically deformable engagement members (12) 
are connected to the support (9), for detachably connecting 

the support (9) to a complementarily shaped third seat (13) 
formed in a front (11). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KILLER LOOP SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KILLER LOOP EYEWEAR S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KILLER LOOP S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMIONI LUCIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMIONI, LUCIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a hinge for 
eyeglasses. Eyeglasses are currently constituted by a front that 
supports a single lens or a pair of lenses; hinges for 
connection to temples are associated with the ends of said 
front. It is accordingly known to manufacture hinges that are 
constituted by two elements that are mutually rotatably 
associated and have free ends that can be embedded, for 
example, in the temple and in the front or are directly 
obtained or formed at the ends of said temples and said 
front. The use of these conventional hinges entails drawbacks: 
first of all it is necessary to pre-assemble the two parts 
that constitute the hinge to the front and to the temple and 
then rotationally connect said parts. Furthermore, if the temple is damaged, it cannot be 
easily replaced, since the user must have particular tools, 
such as a screwdriver with a very narrow tip. The use of these conventional hinges furthermore forces 
the temples to close by swinging with respect to the front, 
with the drawback that they increase the bulk of the pair of 
eyeglasses when not in use, entailing difficulty in storage 
by the user. Finally, it is noted that in case of accidental impacts 
of the front or the temple, these impacts are transmitted to 
the entire pair of eyeglasses, with consequent possible 
damage to the user not only in the part affected by the 
impact but also in the remaining portion of the pair of  
 
eyeglasses rigidly connected to it. A principal aim of the present invention is therefore 
to solve the described technical problems, eliminating the 
drawbacks of the prior art and thus providing a hinge that 
allows to rapidly and simply assemble it to the remaining 
parts that constitute the pair of eyeglasses in order to 
allow better industrialization. Within the scope of this aim, an important object is to 
provide a hinge that allows easy and quick 
interchangeability of the individual components of the pair 
of eyeglasses without using particular tools. Another object is to provide a hinge that allows to 
limit the overall space occupied by the various parts of the 
pair of eyeglasses when not in use, particularly for highly 
curved lens shapes. Another important object is to provide a hinge that can 
be applied to a pair of eyeglasses, the remaining parts of 
which can equally be made of either plastics or metal. Another object is to provide a hinge that is 
structurally simple. Another object is to provide a hinge that associates 
with the preceding characteristics, that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Hinge for eyeglasses which include two temples and a 
front, characterized in that it comprises at least one 

shaped element which is associated or detachably associable 
with said temple and with at least one lens or with a 

support which in turn is associated, or detachably 
associable, with said front or with part of it or with said 

at least one lens. 
Hinge according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said shaped element has a configuration selected from among 

a spherical, a cylindrical, and a polyhedral configuration, 
and in that said support has at least one seat, which is 

shaped complementarily with respect to said shaped element, 
and means for temporarily engaging said shaped element. 
Hinge according to claim 2, characterized in that 
said shaped element comprises at least one spherical element 

having means for detachable connection to said temples, said 
means being constituted by at least one tab which is 

essentially T-shaped or L-shaped, has a base whose thickness 
tapers so as to form a wedge-like element, and is detachably 

associable at a complementarily shaped first seat formed at 
one end of said temples. 
Hinge according to claim 3, characterized in that 
said spherical or cylindrical or polyhedral element is 

detachably associable with at least one support which has a 
suitable second seat that is shaped complementarily with 

respect to said element, said support being detachably 
associable at the front or at the temple or at the end of a 

lens or at the ends of two mutually adjacent lenses. 
Hinge according to claim 4, characterized in that 
said support has temporary engagement means which are 

constituted by four elastically compressible arms which 
allow the snap-together insertion of said support within one 

or more suitable and complementarily shaped third seats 
formed at one end of said front or of said temple or of the 

end of said lens or at the ends of said two mutually 
adjacent lenses. 
Hinge according to claim 5, characterized in that 
said at least one support and/or f
ront and/or temple have, 
at the axis of said tab that protrudes from said spherical 

or cylindrical or polyhedral element, at least one pair of 
grooves that allow to correctly locate said temples in the 

closed and open conditions. 
Hinge according to claim 6, characterized in that it 
comprises engagement and securing means which are 

constituted by at least one wing that protrudes from said 
arms and is detachably associable at complementarily shaped 

openings which are formed laterally to said support or 
temple and are connected to said one or more third seats. 
Hinge according to claim 6, characterized in that it 
comprises means for snap-together connection between said at 

least one support and said temple or front or lens. 
Hinge according to claim 8, characterized in that it 
comprises means for preventing the excessive opening of said 

temples beyond the normal active position, said means being 
constituted by a first tooth, which protrudes transversely 

at the end of said front that is located away from said lens 
and abuts at a complementarily shaped recess formed 

transversely at the end of said temples. 
Hinge according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises at least one 

cylindrical element from which said at least one tab 
protrudes radially along a generatrix, said tab being 

detachably associable at said complementarily shaped first 
seat formed at one end of said temple. 
Hinge according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said at least one support is 

essentially shaped like a truncated pyramid or a cylinder 
and can be detachably placed within said complementarily 

shaped second seat. 
Hinge according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises at least one 

connecting element, two spherical elements being rigidly 
coupled to its ends and being detachably associable with a 

first support and with a second support which are 
essentially shaped like a truncated pyramid or a cylinder, 

said first and second supports having a suitable second seat 
which is shaped complementarily with respect to said 

spherical elements and allows their temporary connection, 
optionally in a snap-together manner. 
Hinge according to claim 12, characterized in that 
at least one of said supports can be detachably arranged at 

suitable and complementarily shaped first seats formed at 
one end of said temples, said first seats being arranged 

sequentially with respect to each other to allow the 
selective arrangement of said first support. 
Hinge according to claim 13, characterized in that 
the other one of said supports is detachably associable at 

suitable and complementarily shaped third seats formed at 
 

one end of said front. 
Hinge according to claim 14, characterized in that 
said supports, said front, and said temple have, at the axis 

of said cylindrical element, suitable grooves to allow the 
passage of said cylindrical element. 
Hinge according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said at least one support is 

essentially C-shaped, its wings being slidingly associable 
at complementarily shaped guides formed laterally with 

respect to a protrusion that extends from said front. 
Hinge according to claim 16, characterized in that 
said at least one support has, at the surface of the base 

that connects said wings and is directed towards said 
protrusion, a second seat that is suitable to accommodate, 

together with a further seat formed on said protrusion, said 
cylindrical or spherical element. 
Hinge according to claim 17, characterized in that 
said protrusion has, at the axis of said tab that protrudes 

from said cylindrical or spherical element, a suitable 
groove that also allows said temple to rotate. 
Hinge according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said at least one support is 

essentially T-shaped, with a stem that is shaped like a 
truncated cone or a cylinder with arms that are flexible for 

their snap-together insertion within at least one suitable 
hole formed at one end of said lens or at the ends of two 

mutually adjacent lenses to allow the optional rotation of 
said support, the temporary connection being ensured by the 

abutting interaction of the head and of said stem of said 
support with the surface of said lens or lenses. 
Hinge for eyeglasses of the type comprising 
pivotally interconnected members including a front having at 

least one lens and two temples each having an end portion 
hingedly connected to said front, said hinge comprising 

first connection means including a shaped element for 
connection to one of said members, said shaped element 

having a three-dimensional configuration, and second 
connection means including support means for connection to 

another one of said members, said support means including a 
seat having a three-dimensional configuration corresponding 

to said three-dimensional configuration of said shaped 
element, said shaped element being at least partially 

accommodated in and detachably connected to said seat of 
said support means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
