<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649116</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Piezoelectric surface pressure input panel
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L116	G01L500	G01L522	G06F3041	G06F3033	G01L522	G06K900	G01L116	G06F3033	G01L500	G06F3043	G06K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	G01L	G01L	G06F	G06F	G01L	G06K	G01L	G06F	G01L	G06F	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L1	G01L5	G01L5	G06F3	G06F3	G01L5	G06K9	G01L1	G06F3	G01L5	G06F3	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An active matrix surface pressure input panel 
comprises a piezoelectric sheet (3) having electrode lines (3a,3b) formed 

thereon and coupled to a piezoelectric body (5) for vibrating the 
sheet at a given reference frequency. When an object having 

surface variations, such as a fingertip, is pressed against 
the sheet, corresponding underlying portions of the sheet 

vibrate at frequencies that differ from the reference 
frequency. The local vibration frequencies are detected by 

electrode lines applied to opposing sides of the sheet, 
preferably in an X-Y grid, so that the relative locations of 

the sheet from where the detected signals emanate can be 
determined. The surface pressure input panel exhibits high 

definition over a relatively large detection area so that 
complicated surfaces, such as fingerprints, can be accurately 

detected and reproduced. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENIX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENIX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAMORI TERUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAMORI, TERUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to surface pressure input
panels generally and more specifically to a piezoelectric
surface pressure input panel suitable for detecting
complicated surface contours and irregularities such as a
fingerprint pattern.The inside surface of the fingertip has intricate
contours that are unique to each individual. This has made
the fingerprint pattern an important vehicle for
identification, particularly for law enforcement purposes. To
facilitate identification via fingerprints, efforts have been
made to develop fingerprint detection devices capable of
electronically mapping an individual fingerprint pattern.
Accurately mapping the contour of each person's fingertip,
however, has proven to be a difficult and expensive task.
This is because each fingerprint pattern is made up of a large
number of convex portions, or ridges, separated by concave
portions or grooves that generally extend in random directions
over the fingertip. These ridges and grooves have minute
dimensions, on the order of 100µm, making them difficult to
detect.Conventional fingerprint detection devices generally
employ a surface pressure input panel that includes a contact
sheet that changes in some manner when it is engaged by the
ridges and grooves of the fingertip. One such device
comprises a conductive rubber sheet that undergoes local
variations in conductivity when engaged by a surface with a
pressure differential. Similar devices include a resistive
film that varies in resistance with changes in surface
pressure. These devices employ a means for detecting the
changes in the contact sheet or film in order to 
electronically map the contour of the fingertip. The
detection means, however, typically has difficulty detecting
small pressure changes, particularly when a non-uniform
pressing force is applied or the fingertip is contaminated
with grease, sweat or the like. Therefore, these devices are
often incapable of accurately detecting the small surface
variations necessary for mapping the contour of a fingertip.Other fingerprint detection devices have attempted
to overcome this problem by employing piezoelectric thin films
with MOS field-effect transistors to detect small surface
variations (e.g, see Japanese Patent Application Nos. Sho-62-2132,
Sho-63-208734, Hei-3-287034 and Hei-5-61966). These
devices, however, generally require complicated manufacturing
techniques and relatively expensive materials, such as silicon
semiconductor substrates. Although these devices can produce
high definition, they are difficult
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surface pressure input panel (1) for detecting surface irregularities in an object

comprising:

a pressure sensitive sheet (3) having first and second groups (3a,3b) of electrode
lines formed on two opposite surfaces of said sheet (3) and crossing each other at crossing

portions (9) of the sheet; and
an element (5) mechanically coupled to the sheet (3) for mechanically vibrating
the sheet at a given reference frequency, the sheet (3) vibrating locally at frequencies that

differ from the reference frequency when the surface irregularities of the object are
pressed against corresponding portions of the sheet(3), the sheet (3) being adapted to

generate electric signals that represent the local vibration frequencies and to apply the
electric signals to the first and second group of electrode lines so that a relative location

of each generated electrical signal can be determined.
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the pressure sensitive sheet (3) is a
piezoelectric member comprising a resin plate.
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the element (5) is a high frequency vibrating
body adapted to vibrate at the given reference frequency when an electric signal is

applied to the body.
The input panel of claim 3 wherein the high frequency vibrating body (5) is a
piezoelectric body comprising a ceramic plate disposed between first and second

conductive surfaces (5a,5b). 
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the local vibration frequencies differ from the
reference frequency by an amount proportional to the pressure applied by the surface

irregularities of the object against said corresponding portions of the sheet (3).
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the first and second groups of electrode lines
form an x-y grid.
The input panel of claim 1 wherein the electrode lines of each group (3a,3b) are
substantially parallel and spaced approximately 20-150 µm from each other.
The input panel of claim 1 further including an insulating film (2) on a surface of
the piezoelectric sheet (3), the film being adapted for receiving a fingertip having an

inside surface with contours and to deflect generally in conformity with the contours
when the inside surface of the fingertip is pressed against the film (2).
The input panel of claim 1 further including an insulating layer (4) disposed
between the piezoelectric sheet (3) and the element (5) to insulate the sheet (3) from the

element (5), the sheet (3), insulating layer (4) and element (5) being laminated together.
An apparatus for use in mapping physical surface irregularities of an object, the
apparatus comprising:


a surface pressure imput panel (1) according to claim 1; 
detecting means for sensing the electric signals via said first and second groups of electrode lines, determining the relative
locations of the areas of the sheet (3) where the electric signals are sensed and determining from said

signals whether
the local vibration frequencies differ from the reference frequency, which occurs when

pressure is applied to said areas of the piezoelectric sheet (3) so that the
surface irregularities can be mapped on the basis of the generated electric signals and

the relative locations of the corresponding portions of the sheet (3).
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the detecting means comprises said first and second
groups(3a,3b) of electrically conducting lines which cross one another at said areas.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first and second groups (3a,3b) of lines are
substantially perpendicular with respect to each other and define an x-y grid of lines.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said element (5) is a piezoelectric body (5)
adapted to vibrate at the reference frequency when an electrical signal is applied to the

body (5), the body (5) being mechanically coupled to the sheet (3) such that the reference
frequency vibration is transmitted to the sheet (3).
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the piezoelectric body (5) comprises a ceramic
plate having opposing first and second conductive surface (5b,5c), the body (5) vibrating

when an oscillating signal is applied to the conductive surfaces (5a,5b).
An apparatus for use in mapping physical surface irregularities of an object, the
apparatus comprising:


a surface pressure input panel (1) according to claim 1; 
an oscillator (12) operatively coupled to the element (5) for vibrating the element
(5) at the reference frequency; and
a detection circuit (13,14) operatively coupled to the first and second groups
(3a,3b) of electrode lines for sensing the generated electric signals, determining the

relative locations of the crossing portions where the signals are generated
and determining from said electric signals whether the local vibration

frequencies differ from the reference frequency, which occurs when pressure
is applied to said areas of the sheet (3), thereby

enabling a reconstitution of the surface irregularities of the object.
The apparatus of claim 15 further including x-y direction switches (10,11) coupled
to the first and second groups (3a, 3b) of electrode lines, respectively, for cycling through

the electrode lines to transmit the generated electric signals at each crossing portion to the
detection circuit (13,14).
The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the element (5) is a piezoelectric body.
A method for obtaining a fingerprint pattern from a fingertip comprising the steps
of:


vibrating a piezoelectric sheet (3) at a given reference frequency by mechanical
means; 
pressing the fingertip against the sheet such that surface contours on the fingertip
subject portions of the sheet to differing pressures which generates local vibration

frequencies different from said reference frequency at the sheet portions which are
responsive to the applied pressures;
detecting the local vibration frequencies which are different from the reference
frequency by means of two groups of electrode lines (3a,3b) formed on opposite surfaces

of the sheet and crossing each other at crossing portions (9) of the sheet;
determining from said groups of electrode lines a relative location of the sheet
portions (9) where the local vibration frequencies different from the reference frequency

are detected; and
recreating the fingerprint pattern by correlating the local vibration frequencies
different from the reference frequency with the relative locations of the sheet portions (9).
The method of claim 13 wherein local vibration frequencies differ from the
reference frequency by an amount proportional to the amount of pressure applied to the

sheet portion.
The method of claim 13 wherein the detecting step includes the step of computing
a difference between the given reference frequency and the local vibration frequencies.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
