<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650167</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Content-addressable memory with programmable field masking.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C1500	G11C1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C15	G11C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for programmable field masking in content-addressable 
memory (CAM). The present invention provides a CAM with at least 

one group of memory cells (58,59) interconnected by a word line (77) and a match 
line (80). The group of memory cells includes data memory cells divided into a 

number of data memory cell fields for storing data bits of a data word. A mask 
memory cell (63) is provided within the group of memory cells for storing at least 

one mask bit indicating a status of data stored in at least one of the data memory cell 
fields. The mask memory cell is operative to interrupt the match line in response to 

the stored mask bit. A match line detector (65) detects a signal level on the match 
line to indicate if input data bits supplied on the data memory cell bit lines match 

data bits stored in at least one of the data fields. The data memory cell fields may be 
organized into a hierarchy, with mask memory cells connected between the data 

fields, to provide hierarchical masking. General programmable masking of any data 
field within the group is provided using multiplexed mask memory cells connected 

by bypass lines. The multiplexed mask memory cells may store one or more mask 
bits in order to allow a bypass line to be connected to portions of the match line, 

thereby masking a given data memory cell field. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIN HORNG-DAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIN, HORNG-DAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
improvements in information storage, retrieval and 
processing. More particularly, the present invention 
relates to improvements in content-addressable memory 
(CAM) used to process data packets or other information in 
a digital telecommunication system. A content-addressable memory (CAM) is a digital 
electronic memory circuit capable of storing quantities of 
digital data which can be simultaneously addressed or 
searched in response to an input data word. A CAM 
typically includes an array of memory cells, each memory 
cell storing a single data bit. The array of cells is 
usually organized into a number of rows and columns, with 
each row representing a group of stored data bits, or data 
words, and each column including individual stored data 
bits at a particular position in each data word. A CAM 
may output the actual data values stored in its memory 
cells when addressed by an input word. In its memory cell 
organization and data storage aspects, a CAM is thus 
similar to a random access memory (RAM). However, unlike 
a RAM, the CAM may also output a match signal indicating 
whether or not a given input word matches any of the data 
words stored in the entire CAM cell array. The CAM can 
thus provide parallel searching of the stored data words 
in each row of the array. This parallel searching 
function facilitates data a storage and retrieval in a 
variety of different applications. One important application of CAM is data packet 
processing in a broadband integrated services digital 
network (BISDN) operating in asynchronous transfer mode 
(ATM). BISDN is presently being developed to provide a  
 
high-capacity wide-area digital network suitable for 
multimedia communication. The variable high-speed data 
requirements of BISDN are efficiently handled using 
flexible packet processing techniques such as those 
provided by an ATM communication system. Such a system 
dynamically allocates data packet time slots to various 
users to obtain maximum network capacity for variable data 
traffic, rather than assigning fixed time slots to 
accommodate peak user data traffic as in synchronous 
transfer mode (STM) communication. The dynamic allocation 
of available bandwidth is accomplished, in part, by 
including a header in each data packet which identifies 
the packet by content rather than by a fixed time slot. 
The information in the header is checked against a look-up 
table to determine the appropriate processing steps for 
its corresponding packet.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A content-addressable memory comprising: 
   a group of memory cells interconnected by a word line 

and a match line, each of said memory cells having a bit 
line for supplying an input bit to said cell, said group 

including a plurality of data memory cells for storing 
data bits of a data word, said plurality of data memory 

cells divided into a plurality of data memory cell fields; 
   a mask memory cell within said group of memory cells 

and connected between two of said data memory cell fields 
for storing at least one mask bit indicating a status of 

at least one of said data memory cell fields, said mask 
memory cell operative to interrupt said match line in 

response to said mask bit; and 
   a first match line detector for detecting a signal 

level on said match line to determine if input data bits 
supplied on said bit lines of said data memory cells match 

said data bits stored in said data memory cells of at 
least one of said data memory cell fields. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 1 further including a second 
match line detector at an end of said match line opposite an end of said match line 

connected to said first match line detector. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 1 wherein said plurality of 
data memory cells are divided into a first and a second data memory cell field. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 3 wherein said mask 
memory cell is connected between said first and second data memory cell fields and 

said mask bit stored in said mask memory cell causes said mask memory cell to 
interrupt said match line interconnecting said first and second fields if said bits 

 
of said data word stored within said first data memory 

cell field have a don't care status. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 1 wherein 
said plurality of data memory cells are divided into a 

first, a second and a third data memory cell field, with a 
first mask memory cell connected between said first and 

said second fields, and a second mask memory cell 
connected between said second and said third fields. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 5 wherein 
mask bits stored in said first and second mask memory 

cells cause at least one of said mask memory cells to 
interrupt said match line interconnecting two of said data 

fields if said bits of said data word stored within at 
least one of said first and said second fields have a 

don't care status. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 1 wherein 
said mask memory cell includes a switch for interrupting 

said match line in response to said mask bit stored within 
said memory cell. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 1 wherein 
said group of interconnected memory cells includes: 

   a first data memory cell field at a word line 
driver end of said interconnected group; 

   a second data memory cell field at a match line 
detector end of said group; 

   a first multiplexed mask memory cell connected 
between said first field and said second field; 

   a second multiplexed mask memory cell connected 
between said second field and said match line detector; 

and 
   a bypass line connected to said match line 

interconnecting said multiplexed mask memory cells in said 
group such that said match line may bypass a data field 

connected between said multiplexed mask memory cells in 
response to at least one mask bit stored in at least one 

of said multiplexed memory cells. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 8 wherein 
said group of memory cells further includes: 

   at least one additional data memory cell field 
connected between said first multiplexed mask memory cell 

and said second data memory cell filed; and 
   an additional multiplexed mask memory cell 

between said additional data fields and a data field 
adjacent thereto, said bypass line connected to said match 

line passing through said multiplexed mask memory cells in 
said group such that said match line may bypass a data 

field connected between said multiplexed mask memory cells 
in response to at least one mask bit stored in said 

multiplexed memory cells. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 9 wherein 
said additional data memory cell field is a third data 

field connected between said first multiplexed mask memory 
cell and said second data field, and said additional 

multiplexed mask memory cell is a third multiplexed mask 
memory cell connected between said third data field and 

said second data field. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 8 wherein 
said first multiplexed mask memory cell includes a left 

mask memory cell for storing a left mask bit and a right 
mask memory for storing a right mask bit. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 8 wherein 
said second multiplexed mask memory cell includes a single 

mask memory cell for storing a single mask bit. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 9 wherein 
said additional multiplexed mask memory cell includes a 

left mask memory cell for storing a left mask bit and a 
right mask memory cell for storing a right mask bit. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 8 wherein 
said bypass line is connected between a right portion of 

said match line within said first multiplexed mask memory 
cell and a left portion of said match line within said 

second multiplexed mask memory cell. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 11 wherein 
each of said right and said left mask memory cells in said 

first multiplexed mask memory cell include a switch for 
interrupting said match line in response to said right and 

left mask bits. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 13 wherein 
each of said right and said left mask memory cells in said 

additional multiplexed mask memory cell includes a switch 
for interrupting said match line in response to said right 

and left mask bits. 
The content-addressable memory of claim 15 wherein 
said switch is a MOS transistor with a drain and a source 

connected in series with said match line, and a gate 
connected to a memory storage element storing one of said 

right and said left mask bits. 
A method of field masking a content-addressable 
memory comprising the steps of: 

   providing a group of memory cells interconnected by a 
word line' and a match line, each of said memory cells 

having a bit line for supplying an input bit to said cell; 
   providing a plurality of data memory cells within 

said group of memory cells for storing data bits of a data 
word, said plurality of data memory cells divided into a 

plurality of data memory cell fields; 
   providing a mask memory cell within said group of 

memory cells and connected between two of said data memory 
cell fields; 

   storing in said mask memory cell at least one mask 
bit indicating a status of at least one of said data 

memory cell fields, said mask memory cell operative to 
interrupt said match line in response to said mask bit; 

and 
   detecting a signal level on said match line to 

determine if input data bits supplied on said bit lines of 
said data memory cells match said data bits stored in said 

 
data memory cells of at least one of said data memory cell 

fields. 
The method of claim 18 further including the step of 
providing. a plurality of said groups of memory cells for 

storing a plurality of said data words. 
The method of claim 18 wherein said mask bit stored 
in said mask memory cell causes said mask memory cell to 

interrupt said match line interconnecting two of said data 
fields if said bits of said data word stored within one of 

said data memory cell fields have a don't care status. 
The method of claim 18 further including the steps 
of: 

   providing a first data memory cell field at a 
word line driver end of said group;

 
   providing a second data memory cell field at a 

match line detector end of said group; 
   providing a first multiplexed mask memory cell 

connected between said first field and said second field; 
   providing a second multiplexed mask memory cell 

connected between said second field and said match line 
detector; and 

   providing a bypass line connected to said match 
line interconnecting said multiplexed mask memory cells in 

said group such that said match line may bypass a data 
field located between said multiplexed mask memory cells 

in response to at least one mask bit stored in at least 
one of said multiplexed memory cells. 
The method of claim 21 further including the steps 
of: 

   providing at least one additional data memory 
cell field connected between said first multiplexed mask 

memory cell and said second data memory cell field; and 

   providing an additional multiplexed mask memory 
cell connected between each of said additional data fields 

and a data field adjacent thereto, said bypass line 
connected to said match line interconnecting said 

multiplexed mask memory cells in said group such that said 
match line may bypass a data field connected between said 

 
multiplexed mask memory cells in response to at least one 

mask bit stored in said multiplexed memory cells. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
