<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0255596</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTINUOUS PRESS MACHINE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4322	B30B506	B29C4322	B29C4336	B30B500	B29C4336	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B30B	B29C	B29C	B30B	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C43	B30B5	B29C43	B29C43	B30B5	B29C43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A continuous press machine includes a pressure 
applying device for urging a pair of opposed endless 

belts (12) toward each other to compress a sheet-like 
material (16) passing therebetween. The pressure apply­

ing device includes a stationary housing (18) defining a 
pressure chamber (28) and having a peripheral edge (32) 

facing and spaced slightly from a back side surface of 
each endless belt (12), and a device for supplying a 

pressurized urging fluid (F2) to each of pressure 
chambers (28), so that the pressure in the pressure 

chamber (28) is applied to the back side surface of each 
endless belt (12) so as to urge each endless belt 

against the material (16). A seal device is provided 
for sealing a gap (G) between the peripheral edge (32) 

of each housing (18) and the back side surface of each 
endless belt (12) facing the peripheral edge (32), so as 

to prevent the pressurized urging fluid (F1) in the 
pressure chamber (28) from flowing through the gap (G). 

The seal device includes a fluid seal mechanism for 
continuously applying a pressurized sealing fluid (F2) 

from at least part of the peripheral edge (32) toward 
the back side surface of each endless belt (12) facing 

the peripheral edge (32), so as to provide a fluid seal 
therebetween. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI RAYON ENGINEERING CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJIWARA, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKAJIMA, KIYONORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAITO, JUGORO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a continuous pressing machine 
which can mold a sheet of thermosetting resin reinforced by a 
paper, cloth, glass fiber or the like, or laminated 
thermoplastic resin sheets or plywoods. As for a pressing, a batch type pressof a single- or 
multi-daylight process has been used. Materials pressed by 
this type of press are, for example, papers, clothes, glass 
fibers or the like impregnated with a liquid thermosetting 
resin which are pressed at room temperatures or elevated 
temperatures, thermoplastic resin sheets or films for forming 
laminated sheets, wood boards with adhesive coated on their 
surfaces for forming plywood at elevated temperatures. In 
this press, the material to be pressed is interposed between 
upper and lower press plates or die plates and pressed 
therebetween at either room temperatures or elevated 
temperatures. It has been desired to effect such a pressing 
operation in a continuous manner so as to save labor, improve 
the productivity and achieve a uniformity of the quality of 
the finish product. One such continuous press machine employs at least a pair 
of opposed endless steel belts instead of the above-mentioned 
pressure plates, each extending around a pair of drums. A 
material to be pressed is continuously passed between the pair 
of endless belts, and pressure is put to the material at  
 
either room temperatures or elevated temperatures. The continuous press machine employs a pair of steel 
belts and a plurality of pairs of upper and lower opposed 
rollers which are mounted respectively on the back sides of 
these belts facing away from the material to be pressed 
between the belts. The pairs of upper and lower opposed 
rollers put compression pressures to the material through the 
belts, at a space between the neibouring pairs of rollers, and 
the belts are in stretched condition, thus imparting a certain 
degree of pressure to the material between each two adjacent 
pairs of upper and lower rollers. Alternatively, two groups 
of small-diameter rollers are mounted respectively on the back 
sides of the belts and urged to the back surfaces of the belts 
by flat sheets so as to bring the outer surface of the endless 
belt into contact with the material. The small-diameter 
rollers are rotated and thereby move at about a half of the 
moving speed of the belt. With this apparatus, however, the 
material to be pressed is subjected to different pressures 
when it passes through the opposed endless steel belts. In 
other words, the material is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A continuous press machine comprising: 

(a) a pair of opposed endless belts (12) each operable 
to move along a looped path, said pair of endless belts 

(12) having respective inner sides disposed in parallel 
opposed relation to each other, said opposed inner sides 

of said endless belts (12) being adapted to hold a 
sheet-like material (16) therebetween so as to compress 

and advance it when said endless belts (12) move; 
(b) pressure applying means for urging each of said end­
less belts (12) toward the material (16), said pressure 

applying means comprises (i) a stationary housing (18) 
mounted within said looped path of each of said endless 

belts (12), said housing (18) defining a pressure 
chamber (28) and having a peripheral edge (32) facing 

and spaced slightly from a back side surface of the 
inner side of each endless belts (12), said peripheral 

edge (32) defining an opening of said pressure chamber 
(28) disposed in opposed relation to the back side sur­

face of the inner side of each endless belt (12), and 
(ii) means for supplying a pressurized urging fluid (F1) 

to each of said pressure chambers (28), so that the 
pressure in said pressure chamber (28) is applied to the 

back side surface of the inner side of each endless belt 
(12) so as to urge the inner side of each endless belt 

(12) against the material (16); and 
(c) seal means for sealing a gap between said peripheral 
edge (32) of each housing (18) and the back side surface 

of the inner side of each endless belt (12) so as to 
prevent the pressurized urging fluid (F1) in the pres­

sure chamber (28) from flowing through said gap (G), 
said seal means comprising fluid seal means for 

continuously applying a pressurized sealing fluid (F2) 
from at least part of said peripheral edge (32) toward 

the back side of the inner side of each endless belt 
(12) so as to provide a fluid seal therebetween. 
2. A continuous press machine according to claim 1, in 
which said peripheral edge (32a) of each housing (18) 

has a pair of transverse portions disposed transversely 
of a path of travel of the material (16) and spaced from 

each other along said travel path, said sealing fluid 
(F2) being applied from said transverse portions of said 

peripheral edge (32a) toward the back side surface of 
the inner side of each endless belt (12). 
3. A continuous press machine according to claim 1, in 
which said peripheral edge (32) of said housing (18) has 

a groove (36) formed at said part thereof and opening 
toward the back side surface of the inner side of each 

endless belt (12), an elongated floating member (46) be­
ing received in said groove for sliding movement toward 

and away from the back side surface of the inner side of 
each endless belt (12), urging means being accommodated 

within a space defined by said groove (36) and said 
floating member (46) so as to urge said floating member 

(46) toward the back side surface of the inner side of 
each endless belt (12), said floating member (46) having 

a passageway (42) to which said sealing fluid (F2) is 
supplied, and said passageway (42) having an opening 

facing the back side surface of the inner side of each 
endless belt (12) so as to discharge said pressurized 

sealing fluid (F2) from said opening toward the back 
side surface of the inner side of each endless belt 

(12), so that the floating member (46) is slidingly 
moved in said groove (36) away from said back side sur­

face against the bias of said urging means. 
4. A continuous press machine according to claim 3, in 
which said urging means comprises a pressurized fluid 

(F1). 
5. A continuous press machine according to claim 3, in 
which said urging means comprises a resilient member 

(62). 
6. A continuous press machine according to claim 1, in 
which said gap is 0.1 µm to 0.3 mm. 
7. A continuous press machine according to claim 1, in 
which said pressurized urging fluid (F1) is incompress­

ible fluid. 
8. A continuous press machine according to claim 1, in 
which said pressure applying means comprises means for 

heating the pressurized urging fluid (F1). 
9. A continuous press machine according to claim 1, in 
which said pressure chamber (28) is divided into a plur­

ality of compartments (68, 70) arranged along the path 
of travel of the material (16), said means for supplying 

the pressurized urging fluid (F1) supplying separate 
pressurized fluids (F1a, F1b) to said compartments (68, 

70), respectively. 
10. A continuous press machine according to claim 9, in 
which said pressure applying means comprises means for 

heating at least one of said separate pressurized fluids 
(F1a, F1b), and means for cooling at least one of the 

other separate pressurized fluids (F1a, F1b). 
11. A continuous press machine according to claim 8, in 
which said housing (18) is lined with a thermal insulat­

ing member (71), said thermal insulating member (71) de­
fining said pressure chamber (28). 
12. A continuous press machine according to claim 1, in 
which cooling means is provided at said part of said 

peripheral edge (32) of said housing (18) so as to cool 
said sealing fluid (F2) to keep its viscosity to a pre­

determined level. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
