<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625077</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRASONIC SURGICAL APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F9007	A61B1800	A61B1800	A61B1812	A61B1732	A61F9007	B06B102	A61M302	A61B1732	B06B102	A61M300	A61B1812	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	B06B	A61M	A61B	B06B	A61M	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F9	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B17	A61F9	B06B1	A61M3	A61B17	B06B1	A61M3	A61B18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical apparatus for driving an ultrasonic piezoelectric crystal transducer in a surgical handpiece for the fragmentation and aspiration of tissue, which apparatus includes an electronic control loop (12) in combination with a voltage source amplifier (2) having an output which is connected to the piezoelectric crystal transducer (3) with a tuning inductor (4) in parallel. A control system for monitoring the control loop (12) and a component for controlling tissue selectivity are also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VALLEYLAB INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VALLEYLAB, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSE EMERY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSE, EMERY, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an electrical apparatus for driving an ultrasonic 
transducer in a surgical handpiece for the fragmentation and aspiration of tissue at an 
operation site on a patient, and to electronic control loops in the electrical circuitry of 
the apparatus. In particular, the invention relates to an apparatus for driving an 
ultrasonic surgical device while maintaining the vibration frequency at mechanical 
resonance utilizing a feedback control. The invention is also concerned with means for 
controlling amplitude. 
The invention also provides means for controlling the tissue selectivity of 
the apparatus. The use of ultrasonically vibrating surgical devices for fragmenting and removing 
unwanted tissue by aspiration with precision and safety has led to the development of 
valuable surgical procedures. Initially, the technique of surgical aspiration was applied 
to the fragmentation and removal of cataract tissue as disclosed, for example, in U.S. 
Patent No. 3,589,363. Later, similar techniques were applied with significant success 
to neurosurgery and other surgery specialties where the application of ultrasonic energy 
through a handheld device for selectivity removing tissue on a layer-by-layer basis with 
precise control was found to be feasible. Certain devices known in the art characteristically produce continuous vibrations 
having a substantially constant amplitude at a frequency of about twenty to about thirty 
KHz up to about forty to about fifty KHz. U.S. Patents No. 4,063,557, 4,223,676 and 
4,425,115 disclose a device suitable for the removal of soft tissue which is particularly 
adapted for removing highly compliant elastic tissue mixed with blood. Such a device 
is adapted to be continuously operated when the surgeon wishes to fragment and 
remove tissue, and generally is operated by a foot switch. A known instrument for the ultrasonic fragmentation of tissue at an operation site 
and aspiration of the tissue particles and fluid away from the site is the CUSA model 
System 200 Ultrasonic Aspirator manufactured and sold by Valleylab, Inc. of Stamford. 
Connecticut: see also U.S. Patent No. 4,827,911. When the longitudinally vibrating tip 
in such an aspirator is brought into contact with tissue it gently, selectively and 
precisely fragments and removes the tissue. Advantages of this unique surgical  
 
instrument include little damage to healthy tissue in a tumor removal procedure, blood 
vessels can be skeletonized, healing of tissue is promoted, no charring or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical apparatus for driving an ultrasonic piezoelectric 
crystal transducer in a surgical handpiece for the fragmentation and 

aspiration of tissue, which apparatus comprises a voltage controlled 
oscillator (1) in series with an amplifier (2) and a first electronic control loop 

connected from a piezoelectric crystal (5) through a phase comparator (8) 
and a loop filter (10) to the voltage controlled oscillator (1), said apparatus 

being characterised in that: 

said piezoelectric crystal (5) is a feedback piezoelectric 
crystal which is mechanically coupled to an ultrasonic piezoelectric crystal 

transducer (3) in the surgical handpiece such that the feedback 
piezoelectric crystal (5) provides a feedback signal which is a function of 

the actual frequency of vibration of the ultrasonic piezoelectric crystal 
transducer (3); 
in that the phase comparator (8) compares the phase of the 
feedback signal of the feedback piezoelectric crystal (5) with that of a 

driving signal to provide a control signal which maintains the driving signal 
at the resonant frequency of the ultrasonic piezoelectric crystal transducer 

(3); 
in that said amplifier (2) is a sinusoidally oscillating amplifier, 
which is connected in parallel with a tuning inductor (4) and has an output 

which is connected to the ultrasonic piezoelectric crystal transducer (3), 
said output constituting said driving signal, and by including an automatic 

gain control loop (13) comprising: 

means for sensing the amplitude of vibration of the ultrasonic 
piezoelectric crystal transducer (3) and providing an amplitude signal (16) 

in proportion thereto, means (17) for comparing the amplitude signal with a 
command signal (14) and generating an error signal (18) in proportion to 

the difference between the amplitude signal and the command signal, the  
 

error signal (18) changing the amplitude of vibration to a desired level, the 
amplitude signal (16) remaining in proportion with the command signal 

under varying loads, a limiter (21) operable to enable adjustment and 
limitation by an operator of the maximum error signal output of the loop, so 

as to achieve tissue selectivity, and a switching unit (30) connected to 
provide the command signal (14) as an input to the automatic gain control 

loop (13), the switching unit (30) being connected to limit selectivity with 
either an operator amplitude set point (32) or a low reference point (31) 

according to a switching control signal (29) derived from said control signal 
of the first control loop and said error signal (18). 
An apparatus according to claim 1, in which the piezoelectric 
crystal transducer is operatively connected to a tool (121) having a distal 

tip, which transducer, upon activation by a driving signal, ultrasonically 
vibrates the tool tip so that the tip is capable of fragmenting tissue at a 

surgical operation site. 
An apparatus according to claim 2, in which the handpiece 
includes aspiration means (128) for removing fragmented tissue from said 

surgical site. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, in which a low value 
resistor (R) is connected in series on the output of the amplifier (2) for 

added stability. 
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4, in which 
the automatic gain control loop includes a converter (15) which converts 

the RMS AC feedback signal to DC. 
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 5, further 
including a control system for monitoring said first control loop (12) and 

said automatic gain control loop (13) to detect and respond to error 

conditions occurring during operations controlled by said loops, which 
system comprises a microprocessor (26) coupled to an analog-to-digital 

converter (25) and a multiplexer (22), wherein the control signal of the first  
 

control loop and the error signal (8) of the automatic gain control loop are 
input to the multiplexer (22), the output from the multiplexer is converted to 

digital form in the converter (25) to provide an input digital signal which is 
processed in the microprocessor (26) to respond with an appropriate 

algorithm to correct the error condition. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
