<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646307</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WATER-RESISTANT TRANSDUCER HOUSING WITH HYDROPHOBIC VENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R100	H04R110	H04R2500	H04R1100	H04R110	H04R2500	H04R144	H04R144	H04R1100	H04R100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R1	H04R1	H04R25	H04R11	H04R1	H04R25	H04R1	H04R1	H04R11	H04R1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An immersion-resistant housing adapted to receive a vibratable diaphragm spanning the interior of the housing to divide the housing into first and second chambers includes a first port communicating between the first chamber and the exterior environment. The first port is configured as a tubulation. A second port communicates between the second chamber and the external environment. The tubulation has sufficiently small diameter that water entering therein moves essentially as a piston without breakup. The tubulation is configured to have a volume at least equal to that of the first chamber, and a hydrostatic head of about 32 feet of water is necessary before water can be forced into the first chamber. In the preferred embodiment the diaphragm completely seals the housing against direct communication between the two chambers. Pressure equalization across the diaphragm under conditions of varying atmospheric pressure is achieved by a selective sealing system permitting passage of air through the second port while preventing the passage of water therethrough at pressures up to at least three and preferably ten meters of hydrostatic head.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The technical field of the invention is water-immersible 
electrosonic transducers. In helicopter borne air-sea rescue operations, 
radio-equipped divers are frequently dropped into 
the water from a substantial height. For a diver 
to reach a depth of 3 meters below the surface of 
the water upon such an entry is a possible experience, 
and in exceptional cases depths of as much as 
10 meters may be momentarily attained.  
 It is desirable that the earphone of the two-way 
radio communication unit be configured to be 
worn in the ear. Furthermore, any such earphone 
must be able to withstand at least momentary immersion, 
preferably to as much as 10 meters, and upon 
returning to the surface be immediately in serviceable 
condition. This requires that an in-the-ear 
earphone must be sealed against water entry, and 
must also provide adequate signal output once the 
earphone is no longer immersed. This requires some 
form of water entry barrier system to the interior 
of the earphone. One approach to forming a barrier which is 
water-impermeable but sound permeable is disclosed 
in U.S. Patent No. 4,987,597, issued to Haertl, 
January 22, 1991. As disclosed therein, a membrane 
seal made of porous hydrophobic polytetrafluoroethylene 
is disposed to sealingly cover the output 
conduit of an in-the-ear hearing aid. The purpose 
of the mem-brane is to allow sound to pass through, 
but to reject any entry of perspiration. The 
hydro-phobic property of the membrane prevents 
water from entering the pores of the structure; 
however, in the absence of water blockage, the 
membrane can successfully pass sound. Attempts were made to employ this principle to 
a deep-immersion microphone. Similar membranes 
were affixed to the outlet conduits of in-the-ear 
hearing aid transducers. It was soon discovered 
that such a membrane, when made sufficiently stiff 
to successfully resist water at 10 meter immersion 
pressures, introduced an unacceptable degree of 
sound absorption. Alternative approaches using 
various forms of sealing diaphragms, either alone 
or in combination, resulted in structures that were  
 
either physically too large or insufficiently sound 
transmissive. The present invention is oriented toward a 
solution of these and other problems. An immersion-resistant housing adapted to 
receive a vibratable diaphragm spanning the interior 
of the housing to divide the housing into 
first and second chambers includes a first port 
communicating between the first chamber and the 
exterior environment. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An immersion-resistant housing (12) adapted 
to receive a vibratable diaphragm (16) spanning the 

interior of said housing and dividing said housing 
into first and second chambers (18,20) of given volumes 

sealed from interior pneumatic communication with 
each other, and including a first port communicating 

between said first chamber (18) and the exterior 
environment, the improvement comprising: 


said first port configured as an extended 
tubulation (23) open to fluid and sonic flow, said 

tubulation (23) having a cross-sectional dimension 
sufficiently small that water forced into said 

tubulation (23) from said exterior environment by immersion 
will travel as a homogeneous plug without 

breakup; 
a second port (24) communicating between said 
second chamber and the external environment; and 
selective sealing means (25) for permitting passage 
of air through said second port (24) while preventing 

the passage of water therethrough. 
The housing of claim 1 wherein said 
sealing means includes means for preventing the 

passage of water therethrough at pressures up to at 
least three meters of hydrostatic
 head. 
The housing of claim 1 wherein said 
sealing means includes a planar membrane of hydro-phobic 

material having a plurality of capillary air 
passages extending therethrough. 
The housing of claim 3 wherein said 
sealing means includes first and second planar 

screens disposed in confronting abutting relationship 
to opposite faces of said hydrophobic mem-brane.  

 
The housing of claim 4 including an 
earplug having first and second generally opposing 

outer surfaces and configured for emplacement into 
the exterior portion of a user's ear, said earplug 

including a first passage communicating with said 
first surface and configured to insertingly accept 

said housing and a second passage communicating 
between said second surface and said first passage 

and configured to insertingly accept said tubulation 
to project beyond said second surface and into 

a user's ear canal, said first passage being configured 
to provide fluid communication between said 

sealing means and said first surface.  
 
An immersion-resistant audio frequency 
transducer comprising: 


a housing (12); 
a vibratable diaphragm (16) spanning the interior 
of said housing and dividing said housing into a 

first chamber and a second chamber (18,20) of given volumes 
sealed from interior pneumatic communication with 

each other; 
one of an audio frequency motor and an audio 
frequency generator disposed within said second 

chamber (20) and coupled to said diaphragm (16); 
a first port communicating between said first 
chamber (18) and the exterior environment, said outlet 

port being configured as an elongated tubulation (23) 
open to fluid and sonic flow, said tubulation 

having an inner cross-sectional dimension sufficiently 
small that water forced into said tubulation 

(23) from said exterior environment by immersion 
will travel as a homogeneous plug without breakup, 

said tubulation (23) having an interior volume generally 
not less than one half the volume of said first 

chamber; 
a second port (24) communicating between said 
second chamber (20) and the external environment; and 
selective sealing means (25) for permitting passage 
of air through said second port (24) while preventing 

the passage of water therethrough at pressures up 
to at least three meters of hydrostatic head. 
The transducer of claim 6 wherein said 
sealing means includes a planar membrane of hydro-phobic 

material having a plurality of capillary air 
passages extending therethrough.  

 
The transducer of claim 7 wherein said 
sealing means includes first and second planar 

screens disposed in confronting abutting relationship 
to opposite faces of said hydrophobic mem-brane. 
The transducer of claim 8 including an 
earplug having first and second generally opposing 

outer surfaces and configured for emplacement into 
the exterior portion of a user's ear, said earplug 

including a first passage communicating with said 
first surface and configured to insertingly accept 

said housing and a second passage communicating 
between said second surface and said first passage 

and configured to insertingly accept said outlet 
port tubulation to project beyond said second 

surface and into a user's ear canal, said first 
passage being configured to provide fluid communication 

between said seal and first surface, said 
transducer being a motor for exciting vibrations in 

said diaphragm responsively to electrical signals 
applied to said motor.  

 
An immersion-resistant audio frequency 
transducer comprising; 


a housing (12); 
a vibratable diaphragm (16) spanning the interior 
of said housing and dividing said housing into a 

first chamber (18) and a second chamber (20) of given volumes 
sealed from interior pneumatic communication with 

each other; 
one of an audio frequency motor and an audio 
frequency generator disposed within said second 

chamber and coupled to said diaphragm (16); 
a first port communicating between said first 
chamber and the exterior environment, said first 

port being configured as an elongated tubulation (23) 
open to fluid and sonic flow, said tubulation (23) 

having an inner cross-sectional dimension sufficiently 
small that water forced into said tubulation 

(23) from said exterior environment by immersion 
will travel as a homogeneous plug without breakup, 

said tubulation (23) having an interior volume generally 
not less than one half the volume of said first 

chamber (18); 
a second port (24) communicating between said 
second chamber (20) and the external environment; 
a selective seal (25) disposed sealingly across 
said second port, said seal including a planar 

membrane (66) of hydrophobic material having a plurality 
of capillary air passages extending therethrough so 

as to be air-permeable but impermeable to water; 
and 
first and second planar screens disposed in 
confronting abutting relationship to opposite faces 

of said hydrophobic membrane. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
