<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615717</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Liquid dispensing system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47K500	A47K512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47K	A47K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47K5	A47K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A liquid dispensing system providing a housing holding a liquid 
filled pouch (48) inside, the housing pivotably supporting an actuating 

arm (24) which is thrust against the pouch (48) by a push button (18) 
extending outside the housing, the actuating arm (24) having an actuator 

(84) to compress an upper section of a tubular peristaltic pump section 
(60) of the pouch for squeezing out an incremental amount of liquid. The 

tubular peristaltic pumping section (60) provides V-shaped notches 
(72,76) arranged on lateral sides of the top section and the bottom 

section for ease of closure by flattening and other advantages. A check 
valve (106) having lever arms (116,118) to resiliently stretch flat a 

discharge nozzle section (62) at the lower end of the peristaltic 
pumping tube prevents dripping during non-use. A check valve actuator 

(90) is provided on the actuating arm (24) to engage with the check 
valve lever arms (116,118) to open the discharge nozzle (62) during 

actuation and a short time thereafter to create a suck-back to remove any 
drips. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INPACO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INPACO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTINE WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROTH SCOTT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTINE, WILLIAM C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROTH, SCOTT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a liquid dispensing 
system, particularly to a soap dispensing cabinet wherein 
incremental amounts of soap can be dispensed in response 
to actuation by a user. A number of liquid soap dispensers are known. U.S. 
Patent No. 4,349,133, U.S. Patent No. 4,546,904, U.S. 
Patent No. 4,667,854 and U.S. Patent No. 4,463,876 are 
examples of such dispensers. U.S. Patent No. 4,349,133, 
which represents the closest prior art, 
discloses a liquid 
dispenser and refill package. The dispenser has a 
housing, flexible plastic pouch, pumping mechanism and 
a check valve mechanism. The housing provides a front 
half and a rear half joined together by a hinge. A pouch 
located within the housing includes a reservoir and a 
tubular pumping section in fluid communication with the 
reservoir. A "duck bill" check valve for preventing liquid 
leakage from the pumping section is located at the free 
end of the pumping section of the pouch. In Figure 6 of 
U.S. Patent No. 4,349,133, the "duck bill" check valve 
is illustrated. The "duck bill" valve is a plastic 
cylindrical closure having a diametric slit thereacross 
which is normally closed but openable when the liquid is 
pressurized by the pump. The pumping mechanism is 
contained within the housing and comprises a first block 
and a second block which sandwich the pumping section and 
squeeze the pumping section when forced together. The 
second block is mounted on a lever hinged to the housing.  
 
The lever actuates the pumping mechanism when grasped and 
pulled forward. U.S. Patent No. 4,546,904 is similar to U.S. Patent 
No. 4,349,133. A check valve is provided in this device. 
The check valve can comprise one of two embodiments: a 
first embodiment is a ball and spring valve (see Figure 
5); and a second embodiment is a slit diaphragm valve 
(see Figure 4). U.S. Patent No. 4,667,854 discloses a liquid 
dispenser having a roller which travels along the length 
of the pumping section. A check valve is provided which 
comprises a nozzle which has a small opening. U.S. Patent No. 4,463,876 discloses a pouch liquid 
dispenser system having a reservoir section, a pumping 
section, and a discharge nozzle. U.S. Patent No. 4,932,562, which names one of the 
two inventors of the instant invention as an inventor, 
discloses a liquid dispensing system. The system 
includes a compressible housing holding a flexible pouch 
therein for storing liquid such as soap. A valve 
mechanism for checking the flow of the liquid from the 
pouch is provided
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for dispensing incremental liquid portions 
from a liquid reservoir, comprising liquid dispensing means having a 

supply section flow communicating into a tubular section (60), said tubular 
section (60) terminating in a discharge nozzle section (62) having 

an aperture (64) at a terminal end thereof, a framework having 
means for supporting said liquid dispensing means, and means for selectively 

compressing said tubular section to at least partially collapse 
said tubular section to dispense said incremental liquid portion, characterized 

by the fact that said liquid dispensing means is formed by a 
film pouch (48) containing a tube member (70) mounted within said 

film tubular section (60) of said film pouch (48), and having a sufficient 
thickness to have structural memory to spring back after being at 

least partially collapsed. 
The apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by the 
fact that said means for compressing comprises an actuating arm (24) 

pivotally mounted with respect to said framework, said actuating arm 
having an impact portion (88; 196) having a first arcuate convex surface 

aligned to contact an end portion of said tubular section on a side of 
said tubular section adjacent said supply section, when said actuating 

arm (24) is pivoted toward said pouch. 
The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterized by 
the fact that said pouch comprises engagement formations (136, 138) arranged on opposite 

lateral sides of said discharge nozzle section (62), and by the fact that said apparatus  
 

further comprises 

a lower check valve (106) mounted with respect to said framework 
and having two lever arms (116, 118) arranged laterally spaced 

apart and each arm engeageable respectively with one of said engagement 
formations (136, 138) of said pouch, said lever arms biased 

away from each other to stretch flat said discharge nozzle section for 
closure; and 
a check valve actuator (188), mounted for movement with 
said means for selectively compressing, said check valve actuator having 

two cammed surfaces (290, 292) each arranged to impact one of 
said lever arms respectively during selective compression of said tubular  

 
section, said cams engage said lever arms to force said lever arms 

toward each other. 
The apparatus according to claims 2 and 3, characterized 
by the fact that the impact portion and the check valve actuator are 

formed as an integral piece. 
The apparatus according to claim 3 or 4, characterized by 
the fact that said lever arms comprise pins (116, 118), said engagement 

formations comprise engagement holes (136, 138) and said check 
valve actuator comprises access holes arranged adjacent said cam surfaces, 

in alignment with said lever arms, said access holes receiving 
said lever arms therein during compression of said tubular section by 

said impact portion. 
The apparatus according to any one of claims 3 to 5, characterized 
by the fact that said two lever arms comprise two pins (116, 

118) each extending at a distal end portion through said engagement 
portions, said pins each pivotably connected at a middle portion thereof 

with respect to said framework, and a spring (120) attached under 
tension to adjacent first ends of said pins, said spring causing said base 

ends to be biased toward each other, and said distal end portions to 
be biased away from each other. 
The apparatus according to any one of claims 2 to 6, characterized 
by the fact that said framework provides a raised anvil 

(98) portion having a second arcuate convex surface aligned with the 
contacting of said impact portion (88) against said tubular section, 

said impact portion squeezing said tubular section against said anvil 
portion during pivoting of said actuating arm. 
The apparatus according to claim 7, characterized by the 
fact that said framework comprises a front cover member (14) having a 

window (16) therethrough; and 

an actuating button (18) providing a finger pushing surface 
outside said cover and mechanically communicating inwardly of said 

front cover to said actuating arm (24), pushing by user of said push 
button causing pivoting of said actuating arm and dispensing of the liquid. 
The apparatus according to any one of the preceding  
 

claims, characterized by the fact that said tube member (70) provides 
two V-shaped notches (72) at a top end thereof arranged on lateral sides 

of said tube member allowing said tube member to be collapsed at 
its top end by said compressing means. 
The apparatus according to claim 9, characterized by the 
fact that said two V-shaped notches (72) comprise an included angle of 

60° each. 
The, apparatus according to any one of the claims 1 to 8, 
characterized by the fact that said tube member provides two slits at a 

top end thereof arranged on lateral sides of said tube member allowing 
said tube member to be collapsed at its top end by said means. 
The apparatus according to any one of the claims 1 to 8, 
characterized by the fact that said tube member has cut out portions 

arranged on opposite lateral sides at a top portion thereof. 
The apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterized by the fact that said tube member further comprises 

a pair of V-shaped notches (178) arranged at a bottom end thereof, 
arranged on opposite lateral sides. 
The apparatus according to claim 13, characterized by the 
fact that a front arcuate surface (300) of said tube member on one side 

of said V-shaped notches is adapted to be longer than a rear arcuate 
surface (302) of the tube member. 
The apparatus according to claim 13, characterized by the 
fact that a back arcuate surface of said tube member between said V-shaped 

notches extends downwardly a greater distance than does a 
front arcuate surface of said tube member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
