<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638286</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method for sensing fluid flow using acoustic arrays.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B806	A61B806	A61B814	A61B814	G01P500	G01P500	G01P524	G01P1300	G01P1300	G01S1500	G01S1589	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01P	G01P	G01P	G01P	G01P	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	G01P5	G01P5	G01P5	G01P13	G01P13	G01S15	G01S15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Piezoelectric elements (62a, ..., 62e; 71(1,1), 
..., 71(20, 20); 92(1, 1), ..., 92(50, 50)) in a 

transducer array (70; 90) are individually excited and 
used to sense the back-scattered signal from fluid 

flowing within an interrogation volume (54; 66, 68; 76, 
78). The array is preferably a 2-D phased array with a 

pitch no greater than one-half the acoustic wavelength 
of the interrogation signal. By activating the 

transducer elements as a pattern of concentric rings as 
viewed from a point of interrogation, and by suitable 

phasing and range-gating of an interrogation signal, a 
substantially spherical interrogation volume (SIV) is 

created. The return signal from the SIV provides an 
isotropic indication of the speed of flow of the fluid. 

The focussing distance along an interrogation axis can 
be changed by changing either the size of the aperture 

created by the pattern of activated elements or their 
relative phasing. The interrogation direction can be 

angled off-axis by activating the transducer elements in 
a pattern of concentric ellipses. The interrogation 

axis itself may also be moved off-center by translating 
the pattern of activated elements. By deforming the 

activation pattern of the transducer elements from 
concentric rings to concentric ellipses, the long axes 

of ellipsoidal interrogation volumes (EIV) can be 
rotated. The back-scattered signals from these rotated 

ellipsoidal interrogation volumes indicate the direction 
of fluid flow. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENSTEIN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MELTON JR HEWLETT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YEUNG JR KING-WAH W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENSTEIN, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MELTON JR., HEWLETT E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YEUNG JR., KING-WAH W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention involves an array of ultrasonic 
transducer elements configured to sense the speed and 
direction of flow of a fluid, such as blood in a coronary 
artery, as well as a method for controlling the array to 
produce different ultrasonic interrogation volumes. The measurement of blood flow in the coronary 
arteries is a well-known technique for diagnosing coronary 
artery diseases. There are, consequently, many different 
devices and methods for determining this blood flow. One common sensing technique involves the use of 
ultrasound. Using this technique, ultrasound is directed 
into the body of the patient and tiny particles such as 
red blood cells, which are suspended in the blood, scatter 
the ultrasonic energy back towards the transducer. The 
transducer then converts the back-scattered ultrasonic 
energy into an electrical signal that is processed in some 
known manner to determine an estimate of the flow. One great advantage of ultrasonic sensing is that it 
is non-invasive, meaning that it can be carried out 
without having to cut or insert anything into the 
patient's body. A problem one faces when using existing 
ultrasonic flow measurement techniques, however, is that 
measurements are often made through the "keyhole" between 
the ribs in a transthoracic scan, where the coronary 
arteries typically twist over the curved surface of the 
moving heart wall. The direction of the blood in the 
arteries or the motion of the heart wall with respect to 
the line-of-sight of the ultrasonic beam is therefore 
usually not known. This is a serious problem for the many 
common techniques that use the principle of Doppler shift.  The Doppler principle used in existing techniques for 
calculating flow velocity v based on the frequency shift 
of ultrasonic waves scattered by moving red cells can be 
expressed as follows: 
fd=2(vc)f₀·cosϑ , in which f₀ is the frequency of the ultrasonic wave sent 
into the body, v is the flow velocity, c is the speed of 
sound, ϑ is the angle between the line-of-sight direction 
of the beam and the flow, and fd is the detected frequency 
shift of the signal that returns to the transducer. As 
long as cos ϑ is not equal to zero, the frequency shift 
will increase with increasing flow velocity. As the equation shows, it is not possible using 
conventional Doppler techniques to detect any frequency 
shift if ϑ equals 90°, that is, if the flow is 
perpendicular to the line-of-sight of the ultrasonic 
transducer, regardless of how fast the blood is flowing. 
Police
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for measuring blood flow within a blood 
vessel or organ comprising: 


A. an array of piezoelectric transducer elements 
(62a, ..., 62e; 71(1,1), ..., 71(20, 20); 92(1, 1), ..., 

92(50, 50)); 
B. signal generation, sensing, and conditioning 
circuitry: 


1. that electronically groups the transducer 
elements into a pattern of concentric active aperture 

regions (72a, ..., 72f); 
2. that individually and repeatedly applies to 
the transducer elements in each active aperture region a 

corresponding pulsed electrical transmit signal (f₁d, f₂d, 
f₃d) and thereby generates an ultrasonic interrogation 

volume within which blood flow is to be measured; and 
3. that senses an ultrasonic return signal that 
is back-scattered from particles within the interrogation 

volume; and 
C. a processor (82) calculates an estimate of a 
predetermined characteristic of blood flow as a 

predetermined function of the return signal. 
A system as defined in claim 1, in which the 
array is a two-dimensional phased array (70; 90). 
A system as defined in claim 1 or 2, in which the 
interrogation volume (54; 66, 68; 76, 78) is substantially 

isotropic and spherical as measured in a predetermined 
sense. 
A system as defined in claim 3, in which the 
aperture regions are substantially circular and the 

interrogation volume is focussed on an array axis that is 
substantially perpendicular to the array. 
A system as defined in claim 2, in which the 
aperture regions are substantially elliptical, and the 

interrogation volume is focussed along an interrogation 
direction that is offset from a center of the array and/or 

is at a positive angle to the array axis, which is 
substantially perpendicular to the array. 
A system as defined in claim 3, in which: 

A. the interrogation volume is substantially 
ellipsoidal as measured in a predetermined sense and has 

a long axis direction; 
B. the signal generation, sensing, and conditioning 
circuitry sequentially reorients the long axis direction; 

and 
C. the processor further determines a minimum value 
of the predetermined function of the return signal for 

different orientations of the long axis direction and 
indicates the direction of blood flow within the 

interrogation volume as being the same as the long axis 
direction corresponding to the sensed minimum value of the 

predetermined function of the return signal. 
A system as defined in claim any of claims 2-6, 
in which the transducer elements are arranged in the array 

with a pitch that is no greater than one-half an acoustic 
wavelength in a medium of propagation. 
A system as defined in any of claims 2-7, in 
which the array further includes guard elements (94, 96) 

arranged around an edge of the array (90). 
A system as defined in claim 1, in which the 
piezoelectric transducer elements (62a, ..., 62e) are 

annular and concentric. 
A method for measuring blood flow within a blood 
vessel or organ comprising: 


A. electronically grouping a plurality of 
piezoelectric transducer elements (62a, ..., 62e; 71(1,1), 

..., 71(20, 20); 92(1, 1), ..., 92(50, 50)) into a pattern 
of concentric active aperture regions (72a, ..., 72f); 
B. individually and repeatedly applying to the 
transducer elements in each active aperture region a 

corresponding pulsed electrical transmit signal to 
generate an ultrasonic interrogation volume within which 

blood flow is to be measured; and 
C. sensing an ultrasonic return signal that is back-scattered 
from particles within the interrogation volume; 

and 
D. calculating an estimate of a predetermined 
characteristic of blood flow as a predetermined function 

of the return signal. 
A method as defined in claim 10, further 
including the following steps: 


A. defining an interrogation boundary condition; and 
B. generating the interrogation volume substantially 
as an isotropic sphere as measured according to the 

boundary condition. 
A method as defined in claim 10 or 11, in which 
the array is a two-dimensional phased array, further 

including the following steps: 

A. grouping and activating the transducer elements 
as a pattern of substantially circular aperture regions; 

and 
B. focussing the interrogation volume at a variable 
distance from the array along an array axis that is 

substantially perpendicular to the array. 
A method as defined in claim 10, in which the 
array is a two-dimensional phased array, further including 

the following steps: 

A. grouping and activating the transducer elements 
as a pattern of substantially elliptical and concentric 

aperture regions; and 
B. focussing the interrogation volume at a variable 
distance from the array along an interrogation direction 

that is offset from a center of the array and/or is at a 
positive angle away from an array axis that is 

substantially perpendicular to the array. 
A method as defined in claims 10 or 13, in which 
the array is a two-dimensional phased array, further 

including the following steps: 

A. grouping and activating the transducer elements 
as a pattern of substantially circular aperture regions; 
B. defining an interrogation boundary condition; 
C. generating the interrogation volume (54, 56) 
substantially as an ellipsoid, which has a long axis 

direction, as measured according to the boundary 
condition; 
D. reorienting the long axis direction; 
E. sensing a minimum value of the predetermined 
function of the return signal for different orientations 

of the long axis direction; and 
F. indicating the direction of blood flow within the 
interrogation volume as being the same as the long axis 

direction corresponding to the sensed minimum value of the 
predetermined function of the return signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
