<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652826</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LABEL FACE STOCK
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09J702	C09J702	B32B2708	C08F2000	C08L3304	B32B712	C08F2010	B32B712	B32B2708	B32B326	C08L3300	C08L3306	B32B326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09J	C09J	B32B	C08F	C08L	B32B	C08F	B32B	B32B	B32B	C08L	C08L	B32B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09J7	C09J7	B32B27	C08F20	C08L33	B32B7	C08F20	B32B7	B32B27	B32B3	C08L33	C08L33	B32B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multilayer label stock structure comprising a label stock of polypropylene film having on one side thereof a highly printable blend of (A) alkylene acrylate copolymer and (B) an interpolymer of an alkyl acrylate, an alkyl methacrylate and an alkyl acrylate acid.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of label
face stock. More particularly, this invention
relates to polymeric film structures which may be
used to provide adhesively adhered labels.In recent years polymeric films have been
utilized to take the place of paper in materials such
as product labels. Synthetic film labels are
stronger and, in some respects, easier to handle in
automatic machinery employed for applying labels to
products.A typical system employs a release layer which
carries one or more labels removable therefrom. The
label carried by the release layer has a pressure
sensitive adhesive on one side and product
identifying indicia or other information on the
other. The release layer is composed of a substrate
which has a surface to which the label adhesive will
not aggressively adhere. The release characteristics
of the substrate and the adhesive are such that when
the substrate is bent through a certain angle, the
stiffness of the label will cause it to separate from
the release surface in spite of the presence of the
adhesive. This will permit a container or product to
be interfaced with the adhesive layer so that the
label will transfer from the release surface to the
product to be labeled. This technique happens
rapidly and sequentially in automated mechanisms.
One shortcoming with the use of polymeric films in
label face stock is that they may not have excellent
printability with high speed dot matrix and thermal
transfer printers. US-4 865 908 and EP-A-0 329 377 disclose laminated polymer films having a polypropylene
substrate and a coating layer of a single acrylic co- or ter-polymer.Therefore, it is an object of the present
invention to provide a polymeric film label face
stock having excellent printability. According to the present invention, there is
provided a multilayer label film comprising:
(i) a base structure which comprises a film of
an olefin polymer;(ii) on one side of(i); a blend of (A) one or
more
copolymers of a C2-C6 olefin and one or more types of monomers selected from the group
consisting of C1-C8 alkyl acrylates; C1-C8 alkyl methacrylates; acrylic acid and
methacrylic acid 
and (B)
an interpolymer of (a) an α,β-monoethylenically
unsaturated carboxylic
acid with (b) a neutral monomeric (i)
acrylate ester and (ii) methacrylic ester;
and(iii) on the other side of i), an adhesive layer.For use for label face stock purposes the base
structure (i) may be transparent or opaque,
preferably white opaque. It is desirable that the
film comprising the base structure (i) is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multilayer label film comprising:

(i) a base structure which comprises a film
of an olefin polymer;
(ii) on one side of (i), a blend of (A),
one or more copolymers of a C
2
-C
6
 olefin and one or more types of monomers selected
from the group of: C
1
-C
8
 alkyl acrylates; C
1
-C
8
 alkyl methacrylates; acrylic acid and
methacrylic acid 

and (B) an interpolymer of (a) an α,β-monoethylenically
unsaturated

carboxylic acid with (b) a neutral
monomeric (i) acrylate ester and (ii)

methacrylic ester; and
(iii) on the other side of(i), an adhesive
layer.
A label film according to claim 1 wherein the
base structure is transparent or opaque.
A label film according to claim 1 or 2 wherein
the film comprising the base structure (i) is

oriented.
A label film according to any preceding claim
wherein the film comprising the base structure

(i) is a multilayer coextruded structure.
A label film according to claim 4 wherein the
multilayer coextruded structure comprises a

comparatively thick core layer and a
comparatively thin skin layer on at least one

side thereof.
A label film according to any preceding claim
wherein the olefin polymer comprises

polypropylene. 
A label film according to any preceding claim
wherein the base structure is opaque and

comprises a cavitated core layer.
A label film according to claim 5
wherein one skin layer comprises medium

density polyethylene to which blend (ii) has
been applied.
A label film according to claim 8
wherein the other skin layer comprises

polypropylene.
A label film according to any one of claims 5,8 and 9
wherein the or each skin layer comprises an

inorganic filler.
A label film according to any preceding claim
wherein, in blend ii), (A) comprises at least

one copolymer which is poly(ethylene-acrylic
acid); poly (ethylene-methyl methacrylate);

poly (ethylene-ethyl acrylate); poly (ethylene-butyl
acrylate); or poly(ethylene-propyl

acrylate).
A label film according to any preceding claim
wherein, in blend (ii), (B) comprises an

interpolymer of (a) at least one unsaturated
carboxylic acid which is acrylic acid or

methacrylic acid. 
A label film according to any preceding claim
wherein in blend (ii), (B) comprises an

interpolymer of at least one of (bi)
methyl acrylate or ethyl acrylate and (bii)

methyl methacrylate.
A label film according to any preceding claims
wherein blend (ii) comprises an inert

inorganic filler.
A label film according to any preceding claim
wherein blend (ii) comprises from 30 to 60% by

weight of the total blend of inert inorganic
filler.
A label film according to any preceding claim
wherein, in blend (ii), (A) comprises from 70

to 95% and, correspondingly, (B) comprises
from 30 to 5% by weight of the total amount of

(A) and (B).
A label film according to any preceding claim
wherein the adhesive comprises a pressure

sensitive adhesive.
A label comprising a label film according to
any preceding claim contiguous with a release

sheet. 
A use of the blend defined in (ii) of claim 1
to confer improved printability on a film of

an olefin polymer.
A use according to claim 19 wherein the blend
comprises an inert inorganic filler.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
