<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648367</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PANTOGRAPHIC MOUNT FOR A MAGNETIC TRANSDUCING HEAD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B5588	G11B553	G11B5588	G11B553	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flexural pantographic mount for use in a helical scan magnetic tape transport employing a closed loop servo system having a specified frequency bandwidth is disclosed. The mount is a boxed leaf stiffened flexural pantograph mount, for holding and varying the position of a moveable head in a helical scan automatic scan tracking magnetic tape transport. The mount exhibits an acceptably low primary mode stiffness and a suitably increased higher order mode stiffness with increased resistance to torsional stresses and is adapted for use in a magnetic tape transport employing a closed loop servo system having a specified frequency bandwidth. The mount includes a moveable body such as a magnetic transducing head assembly coupled at one end of first and second parallel spaced apart elongated flexible flexural pantographic leaves configured at the opposite free ends thereof for attachment to a fixed body. Each leaf includes first and second integrally formed and bent leaf edge extensions, which act as side stiffeners. A triangularly configured opening and a trapezoidally configured opening are formed in each leaf with each opening being configured to include tab projections for bending into the opening to provide transverse or lateral stiffening. An auxiliary web-like stiffening member is added to each leaf in the space therebetween, each auxiliary stiffener being separately formed and configured for attachment to the respective leaf to the side stiffeners and the tab projections of the openings to form a box-like cross-sectional configuration in conjunction with the side leaf edge extensions. The main body portion of each leaf and the edge extensions of the auxiliary stiffeners are configured, dimensioned and arranged for connection to one another in both the longitudinal and transverse directions. The openings are formed in each leaf at locations such that the flexing surface of the leaves, at the connection to the fixed body and at the connection to the moveable body, are smaller width strap sections, substantially less than the width of the corresponding portion of the leaf.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMPEX SYSTEMS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMPEX SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUBIN JAMES K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAGNUSSON STEVEN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUBIN, JAMES, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAGNUSSON, STEVEN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to mounting assemblies for magnetic signal 
transducers, such as write/read (or record/reproduce) heads used for storing 
and retrieving information in or from a magnetic storage medium, like 
magnetic tape, and, more particularly, this invention relates to a mounting 
assembly for holding and supporting and varying the position of such 
magnetic signal transducers. As is known in the magnetic tape transport art, helical-scan magnetic 
tape transports employ one or more mounting assemblies for supporting and 
adjustably positioning a magnetic transducing head in a rotating drum. One 
such assembly is disclosed in US-A-4,212,043. 
There, adjustable mounts are secured to the interior of 
the rotating drum and extend radially toward the periphery of the drum with 
the transducer or head protruding through an opening in the drum to scan 
the recording tracks on a magnetic tape curved around the periphery of the 
drum in a helical path. Those adjustable mounts permit the head to move 
laterally with respect to the length direction of a recorded track. Each 
adjustable mount, also known as a flexural pantographic mechanism,  
 
includes a pair of parallel bending or pivoting leaf members anchored at one 
set of ends to a fixed body. The leaf members extend as cantilevered beams 
with the transducing head assembly mounted near the opposite set of ends in 
a manner so that the head assembly can operate as a moveable body. Each leaf 
assembly is suitably constructed so that, when a control voltage is applied 
such as by a tape transport head positioning servo system to a voice coil 
assembly, the leaf members deflect accordingly, thereby displacing the 
transducing head supported on the moveable body. The extent and direction 
of the deflection of the head is proportional to and a function of the 
amplitude and polarity of the control voltage applied to the voice coil. When 
used in combination with a servo system feedback circuit, the head may be 
positioned in an optimum location for following a tape track, which has been 
recorded on the magnetic tape medium. Such a head positioning arrangement has some disadvantages. For 
example, the inherent flexibility of usually long, thin head positioning leaf 
members sets up undesirable resonance in the leaf members under rapid and 
repetitive flexure loadings. Such resonances also result in undesirable 
deflections under repeated flexures of the leaf members. The occurrence of 
such conditions in the leaf members under the desired loading
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A mount for holding and varying the position of a 
magnetic transducing means (22,24), the mount comprising: 


a fixed body (28); 
a movable body (44) including transducing means (22,24) mounted thereto; 
first and second parallel spaced apart elongate flexible 
leaves (30,31) having first ends thereof attached to said fixed body (28) 

and second ends thereof attached to said movable body (44), the 
leaves, responsive to movement of the movable body being 

subjected to dynamic deflection and torsional forces and 
being adapted to deflect a distance and being adapted to 

exhibit a primary mode stiffness and being adapted to 
exhibit a higher than primary mode stiffness; and 
first and second side stiffening means (30a,30b; 31a, 31b) integrally formed 
with each corresponding leaf so as to raise higher 

vibrations to frequency values substantially greater than a 
specified bandwidth of a closed loop servo system of which the mount is intended to be a part without at the same time altering the 

thickness of the corresponding leaf and without 
substantially altering the primary mode stiffness of the 

corresponding leaf; 
characterised
 by:
 
first and second auxiliary stiffening means (40,41) attached to said 

side stiffening means (30a,30b; 31a, 31b) and to intermediate portions (35b,35c; 36a,36b,36c) of said 
leaves in a box-like cross-sectional configuration for 

providing cross-bracing which increases the torsional 
stiffness to said mount without substantially altering the 

primary mode stiffness.  
 
A mount according to claim 1 wherein each leaf (30,31) has a 
mesh structure. 
A mount according to claim 1 wherein each side stiffening 
means (30a,30b; 31a, 31b) includes an outward extension of a portion of each of 

the edges of the corresponding leaf (30,31) bent at about a right 
angle of the plane of the main body portion of the leaf. 
A mount according to claim 1 wherein each side stiffening 
means (30a,30b; 31a, 31b) is substantially centered on a corresponding edge of a 

main body of each leaf, the main body being that portion of 
the leaf extending between the fixed body (28) and the movable 

body (44). 
A mount according to claim 1 wherein each of said 
auxiliary stiffening means (40,41) is a web-like member having 

portions thereof bent for coaction and attachment to said 
side stiffening means (30a,30b; 31a, 31b). 
A mount according to claim 1 wherein said leaves (30,31) and 
said auxiliary stiffening means (40,41) are of about the same 

thickness and formed of the same material. 
A mount according to claim 1 wherein each of the leaves (30,31) 
and said auxiliary stiffening means (40,41) are formed of mesh 

material of the same general thickness and of the same 
material. 
A mount according to claim 1 wherein said leaves (30,31) each 
include first and second openings (35,36) having symmetry on the 

longitudinal axis thereof, and each of said openings (35,36) 
includes a base portion along each flex line of said leaves 

at the junction with said fixed body (28) and at the junction 
with said movable body (44), respectively. 
A mount according to claim 8 wherein said leaves (30,31) and  
 

said movable body (44) are formed from bending a blank of mesh 
aluminium material. 
A mount according to claim 9 wherein each of said 
auxiliary stiffening means (40,41) is formed by bending a web-shaped 

blank of mesh aluminium material. 
A mount according to claim 8 wherein one of said 
openings (35) is triangularly configured and includes ' first and 

second tab projections (35b,35c) formed on the two sides of said 
opening for bending at generally right angles to the plane 

of said leaves (30,31) for providing cross-bracing and means for 
attachment of said auxiliary stiffening means (40,41). 
A mount according to claim 11 wherein said second 
opening (36) is generally trapeziodally configured and includes 

at least first and second tab projections (36b,36c) formed on at least 
two of the sides of said opening for bending at generally 

right angles to the plane of said leaves (30,31) for providing 
cross-bracing and means for attachment of said auxiliary 

stiffening means (40,41). 
A mount according to claim 12 wherein said auxiliary 
stiffening means (40,41) includes tab projections (103b, 103c; 104b, 104c; 110a, 110b) dimensioned, 

configured and arranged for bending at generally right 
angles relative to the plane of the main body portion 

thereof for attachment to corresponding located portions of 
said leaves (30,31) and said tab projections (35b,35c; 36b,36c) of said openings. 
A helical scan magnetic tape transport including a 
rotary scanner which carries a magnetic transducing head 

assembly (20,22,24) by means of a mount, said mount comprising: 


a fixed body (28); 
first and second generally planar, generally parallel  
 

elongate flexible leaves (30,31), each leaf having a first end 
thereof attached to said fixed body (28) and a second end thereof 

attached to said head assembly (20,22,24), the leaves, responsive to 
movement of the movable head assembly being subjected to dynamic 

deflection and torsional forces and being adapted to deflect 
a distance and being adapted to exhibit a primary mode 

stiffness and being adapted to exhibit a higher than primary 
mode stiffness; and 
means (30a,30b; 31a,31b) integral with the opposite edges of a corresponding 
leaf (30,31) for providing side edge stiffening; 
characterised by:
 
first and second web means (40,41), each having a generally planar 

main body portion and bent projections (103,104,110) thereof configured, 
dimensioned and arranged for coupling to one of said leaves (30,31) 

with said main body portion in generally parallel relation 
with the respective leaf, the thus constructed mount 

generally maintaining the value of primary mode stiffness, 
while raising the frequencies of the higher order natural 

mode vibrations to values substantially higher than a 
specified bandwidth of a closed loop servo system for the 

control of the deflection of the leaves and the transducer, 
while significantly raising the torsional stiffness of said 

mount. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
