<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610906</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for encoding speech spectrum parameters with a smallest possible number of bits
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10L1900	G10L1904	G10L1906	G10L1900	G10L1908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10L19	G10L19	G10L19	G10L19	G10L19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
On encoding with a smallest possible number of 
bits LPC parameters produced by an LPC analyzer (19) from 

at least one of subframe signals of each frame signal of 
an input speech signal, a divider (21) divides the LPC 

parameters into several parameter regions. Using vector 
code books (25(1
m
), 25(2
m
)) loaded for each parameter 
region with code vectors, a vector quantizer (23) 

quantizes the LPC parameters into, for use as quantized 
codes, indexes of selected vectors which are selected 

from the code vectors and of which a linear combination 
minimizes a quantization distortion. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OZAWA KAZUNORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OZAWA, KAZUNORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a speech parameter
encoding device for encoding spectrum parameters of an
input speech or voice signal at a low bit rate, such as
below 4.8 kb/s.For use in encoding an input speech signal at a
low bit rate of less than 8 kb/s, a code excited LPC
coding (CELP) is already known. Examples are disclosed
in a paper contributed by M. R. Schroeder and B. S. Atal
to the Proceedings of ICASSP, 1985, pages 937 to 940,
under the title of "Code-excited Linear Prediction
(CELP): High-Quality Speech at Very Low Bit Rates" and in
another paper contributed by W. B. Kleijn and two others
to the Proceedings of ICASSP, 1988, pages 155 to 158,
under the title of "Improved Speech Quality and Efficient
Vector Quantization in SELP".According to the code excited LPC coding,
spectrum parameters are extracted from each frame signal
of an input speech signal. The frame signal has a frame
length which may be 20 milliseconds long. The spectrum
parameters represent spectrum characteristics of the
input speech signal. The frame signal is divided into 
subframe signals, each having a subframe length of, for
example, 5 milliseconds. Based on the subframe signal of
a previous subframe, pitch parameters are extracted to
represent a long-time or pitch correlation. Using the
pitch parameters in long-term predicting the subframe
signals, residue signals are calculated. Code books are
used to define noise signals of predetermined kinds. For
the residue signals, noise signals are selected from the
code books. One of the predetermined kinds is selected
to minimize an error power between the input speech
signal and a combination of such noise signals and to
calculate an optimum gain. The spectrum parameters and
the pitch parameters are transmitted together with the
optimum gain and an index indicative of the above-mentioned
one of the predetermined kinds.In the code excited LPC coding, LPC analysis is
used in calculating LPC parameters as the spectrum
parameters. The LPC parameters are quantized usually in
accordance with scalar quantization. When LPC coefficients
are used up to a tenth degree for quantization, it
is necessary to use a bit number of 34 bits per frame.
This bit number results in a bit rate of 1.7 kb/s in
encoding only the LPC coefficients. A reduction in the
bit number has given rise to a deteriorated quality.In order to more effectively quantize the LPC
parameters, vector-scalar quantization is proposed. An
example is revealed in a paper contributed by Takehiro
Moriya and another to the IEEE Journal of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A speech parameter encoding device including
a dividing circuit (15,17) for dividing each frame signal of an

input speech signal into a plurality of subframe signals,
said speech parameter encoding device comprising:


a spectrum parameter calculating unit (19) for
calculating spectrum parameters for at least one of said

subframe signals up to a predetermined degree;

   characterized by

a dividing unit (21) for dividing said spectrum
parameters by a predetermined region number of

parameter regions;
vector code books (25(1
m
), 25(2
m
)), a plurality of stages in
number for each of the parameter regions, each code book defining a plurality of code

vectors for each of said parameter regions;
a quantizing unit (23) for quantizing the spectrum
parameters of said parameter regions into quantized codes

by selecting code vectors from said code books with each
of said quantized codes calculated from a linear

combination of said selected vectors; and
an output unit (27) for producing said quantized codes
as an output code signal.
A speech parameter encoding device as claimed
in Claim 1, wherein:


each of said code books is loaded, for each of
said parameter regions, with the code vectors with said

code vectors given consecutive indexes; 
said quantizing unit producing, as said quantized
codes, the indexes given to said selected vectors.
A speech parameter encoding device as claimed
in Claim 1, wherein said quantizing unit selects said

code vectors so as to minimize a quantization distortion
calculated by using said linear combination.
A speech parameter encoding device as claimed
in Claim 3, wherein said quantizing unit minimizes said

quantization distortion with said quantization distortion
weighted by a weighting factor which gives a higher

evaluation to said quantization distortion when the
spectrum parameter has a greater degree in each of said

parameter regions.
A speech parameter encoding device as claimed
in Claim 1, wherein said spectrum parameter calculating

unit calculates said spectrum parameters for one of said
subframe signals alone in 
each frame signal.
A speech parameter encoding device as claimed
in Claim 1, wherein:


said dividing circuit divides each frame signal
of said input speech signal into said subframe signals

with an odd number used as said plurality to produce
consecutively numbered subframe signals;
said spectrum parameter calculating unit
calculating said spectrum parameters with each of

odd-numbered subframe signals used as said one of
subframe signals.
A speech parameter encoding device as dlaimed
in Claim 1, wherein said quantizing unit comprises:


a selecting subunit (29) for preliminarily selecting,
from the code vectors stored in the code book of at least

one of said stages, candidate vectors which minimize in
successive orders a simplified quantization distortion;

and
a search subunit (31) for calculating a regular
quantization distortion by vector combination of said

candidate vectors to select one of said vector
combinations and to produce, as said quantized codes,

indexes given to the candidate codes used in said one of
vector combinations.
A speech parameter encoding device as claimed
in Claim 1, wherein:


said speech parameter encoding device further
comprises an interpolation code book (37) loaded with

interpolation vectors;

   said quantizing unit comprising:

a quantizing subunit (33) for quantizing the spectrum
parameters of said parameter regions in said at least one

of subframe signals of one frame signal to produce, as a
combination candidate, one of linear combinations of the

code vectors that minimizes a quantization distortion
calculated in connection with said at least one of

subframe signals; and
a discriminator (35) subunit responsive to said
combination candidate for interpolating interpolated 

combinations of said interpolation vectors in connection
with others of said subframe signals of said one frame

signal and for calculating quantization distortions in
connection with said others of subframe signals to

minimize an accumulated distortion of the quantization
distortions calculated in connection with said at least

one and said others of subframe signals and to produce,
as said quantized codes, said combination candidate and

the interpolation vectors used in said interpolated
combinations.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
