<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619617</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dual bandpass microwave filter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01P120	H01P1208	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01P	H01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01P1	H01P1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A two port dual bandpass microwave filter (30) consisting of "n" 
resonant cavities (38,42). 

Each cavity resonates in two independent modes at displaced frequencies 
so that 

the filter has two passbands in a desired frequency band. By orienting 
an incoming 

waveguide (48) at an angle with respect to the filter, both TE and TM 
modes can 

be excited to produce two separate passbands. The passbands may have 
either 

equal or unequal characteristics. Fine tuning of the TE and TM modes is 
accomplished 

using tuning plungers or tuning screws. The dual bandpass response of 
the new filter is achieved by utilizing the TE 
1,1,1
 and 
TM 
0,1,0
 modes in right circular 
cylindrical cavities, or equivalent modes in rectangular, or other 

cavities. These 
modes are orthogonal so they do not couple to each other. The cavity 

loaded Qs 
are independently adjustable, so the two passbands can have the same or 

different 
bandwidths, the same or different amplitude ripples and the same or 

different 
phase responses. The dual bandpass microwave filter provides filtering 

with but 
one set of cavity resonators rather than two. It does not require three 

port microwave 
junctions with critical path lengths. The filter is well-suited to 

filter the output 
of a single transmitter capable of operation at two differential 

frequencies. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT STANDARD ELECTRIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERNS WILLIAM G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERNS, WILLIAM G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to waveguide filters of the type using dual 
mode cavities, and more particularly to filters which produce dual bandpass 
transfer functions with a single set of resonant cavities. An electrical filter is a two-port circuit that has a desired specified response to a 
given input signal. Many filters are used to allow certain frequencies to be transmitted 
to an output load while rejecting the remaining frequencies. The use of low 
pass, high pass and bandpass filters in microwave systems is well-known to 
separate frequency components of a complex wave. For instance, microwave 
filters are commonly used in transmit paths to suppress spurious radiation or in 
the receive paths to suppress spurious interference. The design of microwave filter circuitry is complicated by the fact that conventional 
electronic components do not retain their basic electric properties when 
operated at microwave frequencies. Thus, specialized electric circuit techniques 
which exploit both the electric and magnetic properties of the wave are commonly 
employed. For example, the conductors which carry microwave signals between 
components often take the form of waveguides. Waveguides are guided field 
structures commonly having either rectangular or circular cross sections, usually 
constructed of a highly conductive material and to a high degree of precision. The 
effects of capacitance and inductance are introduced into guided field structures 
through which the microwave signals pass by sitting posts, stubs, annuli and so 
on. The physical dimensions of these devices and their position in relation to the  
 
guided field structure determine the type of effect they are to produce. One such 
effect would be the passage of only a desired microwave signal band through the 
waveguide to realize a bandpass filter. Waveguide filters may operate in a single mode or may be of a multi-mode 
type. 
With the multi-mode filters of previous designs, the existing modes are synchronously 
tuned to augment the performance of filters with a single passband. Two 
of the earliest descriptions of a two mode filter is set forth in an article by Ragan, 
entitled "Microwave Transmission Circuits", Volume 9 of the Radiation Laboratory 
Series, McGraw Hill, 1948, pp 673-679, and an article by Wei-guan Lin, 
entitled "Microwave Filters Employing a Single Cavity Excited in more than 
One Mode", Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 22, No. 8, August 1951, pp. 989-1001, 
wherein a five mode single cavity filter is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A microwave passband filter having first and second passbands, said filter 
comprising: 

input and output waveguide means for propagating a band of microwave 
frequencies; and 

filter means coupled to said input and output waveguide means, said filter 
means resonating at a first microwave frequency in a first electromagnetic 

mode and a second microwave frequency in a second electromagnetic mode, 
said first and second filter passbands determined by said first and second 

resonant frequencies, whereby only those frequencies within said filter 
passbands can propagate within said output waveguide. 
The filter of Claim 1, wherein said first electromagnetic mode is a transverse 
electric (TE) mode and said second electromagnetic mode is a transverse 

magnetic (TM) mode. 
The filter of Claim 2, wherein said filter means and said waveguide means 
are disposed about a common longitudinal axis, said waveguide means being 

oriented about said longitudinal axis at an angle of inclination with respect 
to said filter means, thereby producing coupling variations to said first and 

second microwave frequencies. 
The filter of Claim 3, wherein said angle of inclination of said waveguide 
means is chosen to excite both said TE mode and said TM mode. 
The filter of Claim 4, wherein said angle of inclination is 45 degrees. 
The filter of Claim 1, wherein said filter includes at least one resonant cavity 
capable of supporting orthogonal electromagnetic modes. 
The filter of Claim 6, wherein each said resonant cavity includes a first port 
and a second port for transfer of energy into and out of said cavity. 
The filter of Claim 6, including a plurality of resonant cavities, wherein each 
of said cavities resonates in two orthogonal modes to produce two pass 

bands within a specified frequency band. 
The filter of Claim 8, wherein each said mode in said resonant cavities is 
separately adjustable to adjust said first microwave frequency and said 

second microwave frequency. 
The filter of Claim 9, including tuning means to separately adjust said first 
and second microwave frequency in each said resonant cavity. 
The filter of Claim 2, wherein said TE mode is a TE1,1,1 mode and said TM 
mode is a TM0,1,0 mode in a cylindrical cavity. 
The filter of Claim 2, wherein said TE mode is a TE1,0,1 mode and said TM 
mode is a TM1,1,1 mode in cavity of predetermined shape. 
The filter of Claim 8, wherein each said resonant cavity has a quality factor 
(Q) associated therewith, said Q of each said resonant cavity being independently 

adjustable. 
The filter of Claim 1, wherein said filter is an S-band microwave filter. 
The filter of Claim 6, wherein each said cavity is dimensioned to resonate at 
said first microwave frequency and said second microwave frequency. 
A dual passband microwave filter comprising: 
input and output waveguide means; and 

filter means coupled to said waveguide means, said filter means including a 
plurality of resonating cavities disposed therein, each of said cavities resonating 

at first and second microwave frequencies in orthogonal TE and TM 
modes respectively, said waveguide means being oriented at an angle of 

inclination relative said filter means in order to excite said TE and TM 
modes, and said cavities being tunable to said first and second microwave 

 
frequencies to produce a first passband at said first microwave frequency 

and a second passband at said second microwave frequency. 
The filter of Claim 16, wherein said cavities are dimensioned and shaped to 
resonate at said first and second microwave frequencies. 
The filter of Claim 16, wherein each said mode in said resonant cavities is 
separately tunable to adjust said first and second microwave frequencies. 
The filter of Claim 16, wherein the RF energy associated with each of said 
TE and TM modes is substantially equal. 
A microwave passband filter having separate filter passbands, said filter 
comprising: 

input and output waveguide means for propagating a band of microwave 
frequencies; and 

filter means coupled to said input and output waveguide means, said filter 
means resonating at a first microwave frequency in a first electromagnetic 

mode and a second microwave frequency in a second electromagnetic mode, 
said first and second filter passbands determined by said first and second 

resonant frequencies, whereby only those frequencies within said filter 
passbands can propagate within said output waveguide, said filter means 

and said waveguide means being disposed about a common longitudinal 
axis, and said waveguide means being oriented about said longitudinal axis 

at an angle of inclination with respect to said filter means, thereby producing 
coupling variations to said first and second microwave frequencies. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
