<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643307</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Visual immunoassay method for the detection of ligands, based in the use of opaque plastic supports.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N3358	G01N3358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is related to the field of immunology, 
and particularly with an immunoassay method ligand detection 

in fluid bodies, using plastic supports. 
The technical objective of this invention consists of a manual 
immunoassay method which provides high sensitivity, and 

specificity, and reagent economy, for the detection of ligands 
in fluid bodies, using opaque white plastic supports. The 

latter contain either antigens or antibodies, immobilized in 
low - depth microwells. The detection of the respective ligand 

binding partner (antibodies or antigens, respectively) is 
evidenced using reagents conjugated with monodisperse 

colloidal gold, being the signal amplified posteriorly "in 
situ" by physical developers based on silver ions. The 

samples, and all liquid reagents are placed in contact with 
the microwells, finally obtaining metallic coloured insoluble 

reactions of very high contrast, that can be easily 
interpreted i
n a visual fashion. 
This method can be employed for the detection of any type of 
antigen (including small molecules with discrete epitope 

structure) or antibody. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CIGB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CENTRO DE INGENIERIA GENETICA Y BIOTECNOLOGIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LESCAILLE BUITRAGO LISSETT DE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANTIAGO LAECAILLE CARLOS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LESCAILLE BUITRAGO, LISSETT DE LA C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANTIAGO LAECAILLE, CARLOS A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Infectious, acute, and chronic diseases of humans, 
animals, and plants can be diagnosed or detected using 
immunologically-based assays. A variety of such procedures are 
known, and include the so-called "sandwich" immunoassays, the 
competitive binding assays, and others, that can be employed 
to determine the presence or absence of a molecule of interest 
in fluid or non fluid samples. A common feature of 
immunoassays is that they are based on the specificity of 
antigen-antibody reactions. This specific reaction gives rise 
to what is denominated an immunocomplex. The antibodies (also 
known as immunoglobulins) can be of polyclonal or monoclonal 
origin, and act as specific binding partners for particular 
antigens, being the latter molecules with single or multiple 
epitopic sites. Not only non-immunoglobulin molecules, but 
also a second antibody, can be an antigen in a given 
situation. Immunoassays are also characterized by the presence 
of some kind of labelling procedure that allows the 
identification of an antigen-antibody reaction. The labelling 
can be part of this antigen-antibody reaction, or constitute 
an additional step in the assay. In the latter case, labelling 
involves an additional specific recognition of either the 
antigen or antibody in the immunocomplex by an additional 
molecule bearing a marker substance. A wide variety of markers 
are currently employed in immunoassays (radioactive isotopes, 
metal and non-metal particles that can agglutinate, substances 
that can be activated for light emission, or that can give 
rise to colored soluble or insoluble reactions. etc.).  Horisberger and Rosset, (J. Histochem. Cytochem. 25:295-305 
1977), describe an agglutination assay using colloidal 
gold as a label. In spite of the fact that the assay is simple 
and economic, it has disadvantages associated with the 
extended assay time, and an important subjective component in 
determining the final point of the reaction through color 
appreciation, among other aspects. Leuvering (U.S. Patent No. 4,313,734), describes a new 
immunoassay procedure involving the use of colloidal metal 
substances. While such colloids are employed as labels in 
immunological conjugates, the procedure is dependent upon the 
use of spectrophotometers for the identification of the 
presence of the colloidal metal, after it has been chemically 
extracted from the site of the immunological reaction. The 
assay thus relies on cumbersome preliminary extraction 
procedures, and expensive auxiliary instrumentation,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Immunoassay method for the detection of ligands 
characterized in that it comprises: 


a.- An opaque white plastic support delimited and polished 
surfaces, coated with a ligand or pairs of ligands. 
b.- A sample that contains a ligand or pairs of ligands, this 
sample contacting with said plastic surface and simultaneously 

or successively with a conjugate of colloidal gold and a 
ligand or pairs of ligands, in which a immunological reaction 

occurs. 
c.- A reactive containing a ligand or pairs of binding 
ligands, conjugated, directly or indirectly, with colloidal 

gold. 
d.- Liquid reactive agents consisting in a physical developer 
that contains silver ions able to improve the final detection 

of the colloidal metallic particles when contacting with said 
plastic surface. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1 characterized in 
that the ligand is an antigen. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1 characterized in 
that one of the ligands of the ligant binding partners of step 

a) is a specific immunoglobuline for the antigen of claim 2.; 
wherein one of the ligands of the ligand binding partners of 

step b) is a ligand, conjugated directly or indirectly with 
colloidal gold, which competes with the ligand of the sample 

and which is applied simultaneously with the sample. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the ligand is an antigen which contains a single epitopic 

site. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1 characterized in 
one of the ligands of the ligand binding partners of step a) 

the antigen of claim 4 which has the same immonological 
reactivity as the antigen contained in the sample; and in that 

one of the ligands of the ligand binding partners in step b) 
is an antibody conjugated directly or indirectly with 

colloidal gold, which is specific for the antigen contained 
in the sample; and in that the reactive and the sample are 

mixed prior to their simultaneously application to the plastic 
surface. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the ligand is an antigen which has at least two epitopic 

sites. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1 characterized in 
one of the ligands of the ligand binding partners of step a) 

is a specific immunoglobine for the first epitopic site of the 
antigen of claim 6; and of the ligands of the ligand binding 

partners of step b) is a specific immonoglobuline for the 
second epitopic site of the antigen; the second 

immunoglobuline being directly or indirectly conjugated to 
colloidal gold. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1, characterized 
in that one of the components of the ligand binding partners 

of step a) is an antigen that has the same immunological 

reactivity than the antigen contained in the sample; and in 
that one of the ligands of the ligand binding partnes of step 

b) is an antibody conjugated directly or indirectly with 
colloidal gold, which is specific for the antigens. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the ligand is an antibody. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1, characterized 
in that one of the pairs of ligands of step a) is an antigen 

 
for which the antibody is specific; and that one of the 

ligands of the ligand binding partners of step b) is a 
immunoglobuline, or protein A, or proteine G conjugated 

directly or indirectly with colloidal gold, whic is specific 
for the antibody. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1, characterized 
in that the utilized colloidal gold suspension has an optical 

density between 0.5 and 1.5, measured at 540 nm. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1, characterized 
in that the colloidal gold particle has a diameter in the 

range of 1-18 nm. 
Immunoassay method according to claim 1, characterized 
in that the white opaque plastic support is prepared based on 

a mixture of different polymeric substances such as 
polystyrene, polyvynil chloride, polycarbonate, polyamide, and 

others, conventionally used to obtain conformed rigid 
surfaces. 
A kit to be used in the immunoassay method of claim 1; 
characterized in that it comprises: a white opaque plastic 

support coated with a ligand binding partner for the reaction 
with the ligand to be detected; a container that contains a 

reactive which comprises the conjugated colloidal gold and the 
ligand to react with the other ligand corresponding to the 

binding ligand pair on the plastic surface in a competitive 
assay, or for a ligand contained in the fluid sample in the 

"sandwich" type assay; a container for each of the liquid 
reactives which previously mixed conform the physical 

developer based on silver ions for the final amplification of 
the visually detected signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
