<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643867</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR DAMPING THE TRANSMISSION OF AUDIBLE NOISE GENERATED BY A DISC DRIVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B3308	G11B3308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B33	G11B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for damping the transmission of audible noise generated by a disc drive (2) comprises a housing (4) defining a hollow interior region (10) within which the disc drive (2) is mounted on first resilient mounting members (16) for absorbing most of the mechanical vibrations generated by the disc drive (2). Audible noise is absorbed in the housing (4). A blower fan (18) circulates air around the disc drive (2) over first heat exchange fins (28) and third heat exchange fins (32) on the housing (4) and the disc drive (2) for transferring heat from the disc drive (2) to the housing (4). Second heat exchange fins (30) on the housing (4) dissipate heat from the housing (4).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANEMBO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANEMBO LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CUSACK MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NADLER FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHURMANN CHRISTOPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CUSACK, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NADLER, FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHURMANN, CHRISTOPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "Apparatus for damping the transmission of audible noise generated by a disc drive"The present invention relates to apparatus for damping the transmission of audible noise generated by a disc drive of a computer or other computer type device. The invention also relates to the apparatus comprising the disc drive, and the invention relates to a computer comprising the apparatus. Further, the invention relates to a method for damping the transmission of audible noise generated by a disc drive.Hard disc drives in computers tend to generate a relatively high degree of audible noise, which is caused by mechanical vibrations in the disc drive. The mechanical vibrations generate acoustic audible noise which is transmitted from the disc drive through the air medium surrounding the disc drive. The mechanical vibrations are also transmitted into a cabinet, such as, a computer cabinet, in which or on which the disc drive is mounted, thus generating acoustic audible noise in the cabinet, which is likewise transmitted through the air medium surrounding the cabinet. By virtue of the construction of such cabinets and the mounting arrangement of the disc drive in such cabinets, the audible noise generated by the disc drive and in the cabinet, in general, is significantly amplified by the cabinet. The mechanical vibrations are generated by the motor drive of the disc drive, and the related transmission which drives the disc. Additionally, the drive transmission for positioning the read/write head during read and write actions also generates mechanical vibrations which contribute to the audible noise. In general, the mechanical vibrations generated by the motor drive and related transmission are generated continuously while the computer is powered up. It has been found that such disc drive generated audible noise has significant adverse effects on operatives working with computers.There is therefore a need for apparatus for damping the 

transmission of audible noise generated by a disc drive of a computer. There is also a need for the apparatus when containing the disc drive, and a computer comprising the apparatus. Additionally, there is a need for a method for damping the transmission of audible noise generated by a disc drive.It is an object of the invention to provide apparatus for damping the transmission of audible noise generated by a disc drive of a computer. It is also an object of the invention to provide such an apparatus comprising a disc drive, and it is further an object of the invention to provide a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Apparatus for damping the transmission of audible noise generated by a disc drive (2) of a computer or other computer type device, characterised in that the apparatus (1) comprises a substantially closed housing (4) having an outer surface (12) and an inner surface (11), the inner surface (11) defining a hollow interior region (10) for housing the disc drive (2), a first vibration damping mounting means (16) for mounting the disc drive (2) in the hollow interior region (10) spaced apart from the inner surface (11) of the housing (4), and a blower means (18,19) for circulating a fluid medium in the hollow interior region (10) for transfer of heat from the disc drive (2) to the housing (4).
2. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 characterised in that a first heat exchange means (28) is mounted in the housing (4) extending into the hollow interior region (10) from the inner surface (11) for transferring heat from the fluid medium to the housing (4).
3. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 characterised in that a second heat exchange means (30) is mounted on the housing (4) extending outwardly therefrom from the outer surface (12) of the housing (4) for transferring heat from the housing (4).
4. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 2 or 3 characterised in that each heat exchange means (28,30) comprises a plurality of spaced apart heat exchange fins (28,30) of heat conductive material.
5. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the blower means (18,19) circulates the fluid medium in the hollow interior region (10) around the disc drive (2) between the disc drive (2) and the inner surface (11) of the housing (4).
6. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the blower means (18,19) is mounted in the hollow interior region (10) of the housing (4). 


7. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the blower means (18,19) comprises a blower fan (18).
8. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 7 characterised in that the blower fan (18) is powered by an electric motor (21).
9. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 characterised in that the electric motor (21) is mounted in the hollow interior region (10) of the housing (4).
10. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 or 9 characterised in that the blower fan (18) and electric motor (21) are provided as an integral unit.
11. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that a second vibration damping mounting means (20) is provided for mounting the blower means (18) to the housing (4).
12. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 11 characterised in that the second vibration damping mounting means (20) is mounted in the hollow interior region (10).
13. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the first vibration damping mounting means (16) is mounted in the hollow interior region (10).
14. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that each vibration damping mounting means (16,20) comprises an elastic mounting means (16,20).
15. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 14 characterised in that each elastic mounting means (16,20) comprises a resilient material.
16. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that a third heat exchange means (32) is mounted on the disc drive (2) for transferring heat from the disc drive (2) to the 


fluid medium.
17. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 16 characterised in that the third heat exchange means (32) comprises a plurality of spaced apart heat exchange fins (32) of heat conductive material.
18. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that a ribbon cable accommodating opening (14) is provided in the housing (14) extending from the outer surface (12) to the inner surface (11) for accommodating a ribbon cable into the hollow interior region (10).
19. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the housing (4) comprises a base (6), a pair of spaced apart side walls (7) extending upwardly from the base (6) joined by a pair of spaced apart end walls (8) extending upwardly from the base (6), and a top wall (9) extending between the side and end walls (7,8) to define with the side and end walls (7,8), and the base (6) the hollow interior region (10).
20. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 19 characterised in that each vibrating damping mounting means (16,20) is mounted on the base (6).
21. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 19 or 20 characterised in that the first heat exchange means (28) is mounted on the base (6).
22. Apparatus as claimed in any of Claims 19 to 21 characterised in that the ribbon cable accommodating opening (14) is formed by an elongated slot (14) in one of the end walls (8) adjacent the top wall (9).
23. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that a third vibration damping mounting means extends (35) from the outer surface (12) of the housing (4) for supporting the housing (4). 


24. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the housing (4) is of relatively high mass.
25. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the housing (4) comprises a heat conductive material.
26. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the housing (4) comprises a material having electromagnetic waves shielding properties for shielding the disc drive from external electromagnetic waves.
27. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the housing (4) comprises a material having magnetic field shielding properties for shielding the disc drive from external magnetic fields.
28. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the housing (4) is a closed housing (4).
29. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that a disc drive (2) is mounted in the hollow interior region (10) of the housing (4) on the first vibration damping mounting means (16).
30. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 29 characterised in that the disc drive (2) is a hard disc drive (2).
31. A computer comprising a computer cabinet and a disc drive (2) mounted in the computer cabinet, characterised in that the apparatus (1) according to any preceding claim is mounted within the computer cabinet, and the disc drive (2) is mounted in the hollow interior region (10) of the housing (4) of the apparatus (1) on the first vibration damping mounting means (16).
32. A method for damping the transmission of audible noise generated by a disc drive (2) of a computer or other computer 


type device, characterised in that the method comprises the steps of placing the disc drive (2) in a hollow interior region (10) of a substantially closed housing (4) with the disc drive (2) mounted on first vibration damping mounting means (16) within the hollow interior region (10), and spaced apart from an inner surface (11) of the housing (4) defining the hollow interior region (10), and circulating a fluid medium in the hollow interior region (10) of the housing (4) for transferring heat from the disc drive (2) to the housing (4). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
