<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658096</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STABILIZED CHEWABLE ANTIMICROBIAL ANIMAL FOODSTUFF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3843	A61K3844	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is an animal chew which contains one or more enzymes and substrates for the purpose of generating antimicrobial compounds upon contact with an animal's saliva. The animal chew, made of rawhide, biscuit or dried animal food is provided with an oxidoreductase enzyme and substrate, such as, for example, glucose oxidase and glucose, which produces hydrogen peroxide upon being chewed. A catalase may be provided to stabilize the system and prevent premature activation of the enzyme/substrate system. A peroxidase and halide or pseudohalide ion combination may be provided to enhance the antimicrobial effect of the invention.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MONTGOMERY ROBERT E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MONTGOMERY, ROBERT E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTGOMERY ROBERT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTGOMERY, ROBERT E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a chewable object for animals
which contains one or more enzymes and substrates for the purpose
of generating antimicrobial compounds upon contact with an
animal's saliva, in addition to containing catalase or other hydrogen
peroxide- degrading enzymes in specified amounts to stabilize the
activity of said chewable object during manufacture and storage.
More specifically, chewable and consumable compositions are herein
described which, upon being chewed, produce hydrogen peroxide or
other antimicrobial agents.A number of naturally occurring antimicrobial systems
rely upon the ability of certain oxidizing agents to disrupt metabolic
processes of bacteria, fungi and viruses. Compounds such as
hypothiocyanite (OSCN-/HOSCN), hypochlorite (OCl-, HOCl), and
hypoiodite (OI-, HOI) are known to inhibit glycolysis, penetrate
prokaryotic cell walls, and generally disrupt a wide variety of
processes crucial to the survival of lower organisms. These oxidizing 
agents are the result of the detoxification of hydrogen peroxide by
mammalian peroxidase systems, such as those found in saliva,
cervical fluid, lacrimal fluid, and leukocytes.The antimicrobial effectiveness of the aforementioned
oxidizing agents is well established in the literature and is known to
begin to occur at concentrations of about 10 - 100 micromoles per
liter. Hypothiocyanite ion (OSCN-/HOSCN) achieves antimicrobial
effectiveness at around 100 micromoles per liter, while hypoiodite
and hypochlorite ions (OI-/HOI and OCl-/HOCl, respectively) are
effective inhibitors of microorganisms at concentrations as low as 10
to 50 micromoles per liter. The limiting factor in all of the
mammalian antimicrobial peroxidase systems is usually the
availability of hydrogen peroxide.The numerous prior art attempts to activate or
supplement natural antimicrobial peroxidase systems are generally
limited to the oral care field. US 4,150,113 and US 4,178,362
(Hoogendorn, et al) describe dentifrices containing glucose oxidase
in order to react with plaque and salivary glucose to produce low
levels of hydrogen peroxide.US 4,269,822, US 4,564,519 and US 4,578,265 (Pellico, et
al.) further describe dentifrice compositions containing an
oxidoreductase enzyme, together with its specific substrate, for the
purpose of producing hydrogen peroxide or other antimicrobial
oxidizing compounds, such as hypothiocyanite ion. In each of these
prior art formulations, the oxidoreductase enzymes and substrates
are in aqueous solution and homogeneously distributed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An antimicrobial animal chew comprising a carrier
material, at least one oxidoreductase enzyme and at least

one oxidoreductase substrate, said animal chew being made
by the process comprising:


a) providing a carrier;
b) applying either of said at least one enzyme or
said at least one substrate to said carrier and

substantially drying it thereon or therein;
c) applying the other of said substrate or said
enzyme to said carrier and substantially drying it thereon;

and
d) applying a catalase to said carrier;
wherein said catalase is provided in an amount in the ratio

range of 100 Titrimetric Units of oxidoreductase to 1.0
Baker Unit of catalase, to 1.0 Titrimetric Unit of

oxidoreductase to 1.0 Baker Unit of catalase.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
oxidoreductase enzyme of step b) and the catalase of step

d) are applied together to said carrier in a single step.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
oxidoreductase enzyme of step b) and the catalase of step

d) are applied separately to said carrier.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3,
wherein said oxidoreductase enzyme is selected from glucose

oxidase, galactose oxidase, glycollate oxidase, lactate
oxidase, L-gulunolactone oxidase, L-2-oxidase, L-amino acid

oxidase, D-amino acid oxidase, monoamine oxidase,
pyridoxaminephosphate oxidase, diamine oxidase, and sulfite

oxidase.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 4, wherein said
oxidoreductase is glucose oxidase. 
An animal chew as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein said substrates are specific to the particular

oxidoreductase and are selected from D-glucose,
D-galactose, L-sorbose, ethanol, tyramine,

1, 4-diaminobutane, 6-hydroxy-L-nicotine, 6-hydroxy-D-nicotine,
2-aminophenol, glycollate, L-lactate, 2-deoxy-D-Glucose,

L-gulunolactone, L-galactonolactone,
D-mannonolactone, L-2--hydroxyisocaproate, acetaldehyde,

butyraldehyde, xanthine, D-aspartate, D-glutamate, L-amino
acids and D-amino acids.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 6, wherein said
oxidoreductase is glucose oxidase and said substrate is D-glucose.
An animal chew as claimed in any preceding claim
wherein said oxidoreductase substrate is applied to said

carrier and substantially dried thereon, and thereafter, a
mixture of said oxidoreductase enzyme, a catalase, a second

peroxidase and a halide or pseudohalide ion source capable
of serving as an oxygen acceptor for said second peroxidase

is applied to said carrier and substantially dried thereon.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 8 further
comprising providing to said carrier:


a peroxidase enzyme selected from the group
consisting of lactoperoxidase, salivary peroxidase,

chloroperoxidase, and myeloperoxidase, and
a source of halide or pseudohalide ions capable of
serving as an oxygen acceptor for said peroxidase enzyme,

wherein the ions are selected from potassium thiocyanate,
sodium thiocyanate, ammonium thiocyanate, other thiocyanate

salts, potassium iodide, other iodide salts, sodium
chloride, and other chloride salts.
An amimal chew as claimed in claim 9, wherein said
halide or pseudohalide ions are present in the carrier in a

range of 0.1 micromoles per gram of carrier to 10
micromoles per gram.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 10, wherein said
halide or pseudohalide ions are present in said carrier in

a range of 0.5 to 5 micromoles per gram of carrier.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 11, where said
halide or pseudohalide ions are present in said carrier in

the range of 1 to 2 micromoles per gram of carrier.
An animal chew as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein the catalase is derived from A. niger fermentation.
An animal chew as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein the carrier is selected from rawhide and rawhide-like

materials, animal biscuits and dry animal food.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 14, wherein the
carrier is rawhide.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 14, wherein the
carrier is a dog biscuit.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 14, wherein the
carrier is a dry animal food.
An animal chew as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein said oxidoreductase substrate is absorbed into said

animal chew in liquid form, and then dried therein, and
said oxidoreductase enzyme and a catalase are coated on the

outside of said animal chew and then dried therein. 
An animal chew as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein said oxidoreductase enzyme is present at a level of

at least about 1.0 TU of oxidoreductase enzyme per gram of
carrier material.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 19, wherein the
level of oxidoreductase enzyme activity is in the range of

5.0 to 50 TU per gram of carrier.
An animal chew as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein said substrate is present in or on the

antimicrobial animal chew at a level of at least 0.1
percent by weight of the carrier material.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 21, wherein said
substrate level is in the range from 0.5 to 10 percent by

weight of the carrier material.
An animal chew as claimed in claim 9, wherein said
peroxidase is present in the range of from 10.0 to 100 ABTS

Units of peroxidase per gram of carrier.
An animal chew as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein the step of drying said enzyme on said chew

comprises drying said chew at 45°C. for 24 hours.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
