<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653117</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VEHICLE LIGHT, WINDSHIELD WIPER CONTROL SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60Q102	B60Q102	B60Q104	B60Q104	B60S156	B60S160	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60Q	B60Q	B60Q	B60Q	B60S	B60S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60Q1	B60Q1	B60Q1	B60Q1	B60S1	B60S1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A control system for automatically turning on the headlights (and parking lights) of a vehicle has an input section that includes the ignition switch (15), the manually operated windshield wiper switch (16), and condition responsive light sensor (17) and moisture sensor (18) switches. The switches operate through a logic circuitry (12 and 13) through an output section to turn on and to keep turned on the lights when any of certain switch combinations are turned on: a) ignition (15), windshield wiper (16), light sensor (17) and moisture sensor (18); b) ignition (15), windshield wiper (16) and light sensor (17); c) ignition (15), windshield wiper (16) and moisture sensor (18); d) ignition (15) and windshield wiper (16); e) ignition (15), light sensor (17) and moisture sensor (18); f) ignition (15) and light sensor (17); or g) ignition (15) and moisture sensor (18). In the event that the windshield wiper is turned off the light level sensor (17) causes the lights to be turned off. The windshield wipers are turned on with the following switch combinations even though the manual windshield wiper switch (16) is turned off: a) ignition (15), light sensor (17) and moisture sensor (18); or b) ignition (15) and moisture sensor (18).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BENEDICT ENG CO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BENEDICT ENGINEERING CO. INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENEDICT CHARLES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUMPF DONALD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENEDICT, CHARLES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUMPF, DONALD, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VEHICLE LIGHT, WINDSHIELD WIPER CONTROL SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates to an electronic system for controlling the turning on and off of the headlights and parking lights in conjunction with the operation of the ignition switch, windshield wipers, and light sensor and moisture sensor switches.History of the Related Art The turning on of the headlights of a vehicle during poor visibility conditions is a safety measure. In some states the law requires that when the windshield wipers are turned on such as during rain conditions, the headlights must also be turned on. Systems for automatically turning on the headlights when the windshield wipers are turned on have been known in the prior art. For example in the United States patent to Carter et al. 4,656,363, a transistor circuit is employed to turn the vehicle headlights on and off when the windshield wipers are turned on and off. Similarly, the United States patent to Rosenblum 4,236,099 discloses a transistor circuit for the same purpose. In each case the operation is dependent upon the proper operation of a power transistor. Other United States patents which disclose similar or related systems are Price 3,500,119, Schultz 3,500,120, Nolin et al. 3,519,837, Vanderpoel 3,591,845, Aloisantoni 3,600,596, Glaze 3,824,405, Binegar 4,057,742, and Lesiac 4,097,839. Other United States patents disclosing wiper control headlights devices are Earle 4,301,390, Hahn 4,337,400, Kniesly et al. 3,909,619, and Papillion 4,667,129.Summary of the InventionThe present invention involves a digital logic 

gating circuit whose inputs are low voltage leads associated with the vehicle's ignition switch, windshield wiper switch, and condition responsive light sensor and moisture sensor switches. The inputs feed to logic circuitry which in turn controls output circuitry to the headlights and parking lights and windshield wipers. The output circuitry may work through various components. These include a pulse actuated mechanically latching relay; a continuous, mechanical relay; or solid state switches. The headlights and parking lights are turned on and kept on if any of the following combinations of inputs are present: a) ignition, windshield wiper, light sensor and moisture sensor; b) ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor; c) ignition, windshield wiper and moisture sensor; d) ignition, windshield wiper; e) ignition, light sensor and moisture sensor; f) ignition and light sensor; or g) ignition and moisture sensor.The light
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An automatic system for controlling the turning on of vehicle headlights when any of the following switch combinations are turned on: a) ignition, windshield wiper, light sensor; b) ignition, and windshield wiper; c) ignition and light sensor; and keeping them on as long as any of such switch combinations are on, comprising manual on-off switches for the ignition and windshield wiper and a condition responsive switch for the light sensor, a multistage digital logic circuit having a first stage which comprises a plurality of gates coupled to the outputs of said switches, at least one additional stage of gates connected to the outputs of said first stage of gates, a first relay circuit, an electronic relay switch, said relay switch having means for connecting said headlights to power supply means, said first relay circuit being alternately connectable to actuating means for said relay switch which governs the connection of said headlights to said power supply means, said power supply means connected to said first relay circuit, and control means for said first relay circuit, said multistage digital logic circuit connecting the outputs of said ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor switches to the control means for said first relay circuit.
2. The invention of Claim 1, and opto-isolator semi-conductor means between the ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor switches and the relay circuit which isolates the input voltages from the outputs of the semi-conductor means.
3. The invention of Claim 1, in which time delay means is interposed between the ignition switch and the logic circuitry to protect the logic means from transient 


voltages and to maintain a high level of voltage for a limited time after the logic circuitry of the ignition switch is turned off.
4. The invention of Claim 1, in which time delay means is interposed between the windshield wiper switch and the logic means so that the windshield wipers will appear to be continuously on during intermittent operation.
5. The invention of Claim 1, and a moisture sensor switch, said system controlling the turning on of the vehicle headlights when any of the following additional switch combinations are turned on: a) ignition, windshield wiper, light sensor and moisture sensor; b) ignition, windshield wiper, and moisture sensor; c) ignition, light sensor and moisture sensor; d) ignition and moisture sensor.
6. The invention of Claim 1, in which the relay switch is a solid state switch.
7. The invention of Claim 1, in which the relay switch is a solid state switch and in which the control means is a triac metal oxide semiconductor (TMOS).
8. The invention of Claim 1, in which the relay switch is a solid state switch and in which the control means is a gate turnoff switch (GTO).
9. The invention of Claim 1, in 'hich said logic circuitry comprises a plurality of first logic circuit means connected in parallel, said first logic circuit means producing a first signal output to said first relay circuit. 


 10. The invention of Claim 11, in which a plurality of first signal outputs are operative in series to activate said first relay circuit.
11. The invention of Claim 9, in which a plurality of first signal outputs are operative in parallel to activate said first relay circuit.
12. The invention of Claim 5, and a second relay circuit, said second relay circuit being alternately connectable to said activating means for said relay switch, said power supply means connected to said second relay circuit, control means for said second relay circuit, said logic circuitry connecting the outputs of said ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor switches to the control means for said second relay circuit, said second relay circuit operating to turn the headlights off when any of the following are turned off: a) ignition; b) windshield wiper, light sensor and moisture sensor.
13. The invention of Claim 12, in which a plurality of second signal outputs are operative in series to activate said second relay circuit.
14. An automatic system for controlling the turning on of vehicle windshield wipers when any of the following switch combinations are turned on: a) ignition, light sensor and moisture sensor; b) ignition and moisture sensor; and keeping them on as long as any of such switch combinations are on, comprising manual on-off switches for the ignition and condition responsive switches for the light sensor and moisture sensor, a multistage digital logic circuit having a first stage which comprises a plurality of gates coupled to the outputs of 


said switches, at least one additional stage of gates connected to the outputs of said first stage of gates, a first relay circuit, an electronic relay switch, said relay switch having means for connecting said windshield wipers to power supply means, said first relay circuit being alternately connectable to actuating means for said relay switch which governs the connection of said windshield wipers to said power supply means, said power supply means connected to said first relay circuit, and control means for said first relay circuit, said multistage digital logic circuit connecting the outputs of said ignition, light sensor and moisture sensor switches to the control means for said first relay circuit.
15. The invention of Claim 14, and opto-isolator semi-conductor means between the ignition, light sensor and moisture sensor switches and the relay circuit which isolates the input voltages from the outputs of the semi¬ conductors means.
16. The invention of Claim 14, in which time delay means is interposed between the ignition switches and the logic circuitry to protect the logic means from transient voltages and to maintain a high level of voltage for a limited time after the logic circuitry of the ignition switch is turned off.
17. The invention of Claim 14, in which the relay switch is a solid state switch.
18. The invention of Claim 14, in which the relay switch is a solid state switch and in which the control means is a triac metal oxide semiconductor (TMOS).
19. The invention of Claim 14, in which the relay switch is a solid state switch and in which the control 


means is a gate turnoff switch (GTO).
20. The invention of Claim 14, in which a plurality of first signal outputs are operative in series to activate said first relay circuit.
21. The invention of Claim 14, in which a plurality of first signal outputs are operative in parallel to activate said first relay circuit.
22. The invention of Claim 14, said vehicle having a manual windshield wiper switch, and a second relay circuit, said second relay circuit being alternately connectable to said activating means for said relay switch, said power supply means connected to said second relay circuit, control means for said second relay circuit, said logic circuitry having first means connecting the outputs of said ignition, windshield wiper, light sensor and moisture sensor switches to the control means for said second relay circuit, said logic circuitry having auxiliary means connecting the outputs of said ignition and said windshield wiper switch to said control means for said second relay circuit, said auxiliary means, bypassing said first connecting means to permit turning off of said windshield wipers by said windshield wiper switch.
23. An automatic system for controlling the turning on of vehicle headlights when any of the following switch combinations are turned on: a) ignition, windshield wiper, light sensor; b) ignition, and windshield wiper; c) ignition and light sensor; and keeping them on as long as any of such switch combinations are on, comprising manual on-off switches for the ignition and windshield wiper and a condition responsive switch for the light sensor, a multistage 


digital logic circuit having a first stage which comprises a plurality of gates coupled to the outputs of said switches, at least one additional stage of gates connected to the outputs of said first stage of gates, a first relay circuit, an electronic relay switch, said relay switch having means for connecting said headlights to power supply means, said first relay circuit being alternately connectable to actuating means for said relay switch which governs the connection of said headlights to said power supply means, said power supply means connected to said first relay circuit, and control means for said first relay circuit, said multistage digital logic circuit connecting the outputs of said ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor switches to the control means for said first relay circuit, said control means including pulse generator means.
24. The invention of Claim 23, and opto-isolator semi-conductor means between the ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor switches and the relay circuit which isolates the input voltages from the outputs of the semi-conductor means.
25. The invention of Claim 23, in which time delay means is interposed between the ignition switch and the logic circuitry to protect the logic means from transient voltages and to maintain a high level of voltage for a limited time after the logic circuitry of the ignition switch is turned off.
26. The invention of Claim 23, in which time delay means is interposed between the windshield wiper switch and the logic means so that the windshield wipers will appear to be continuously on during intermittent operation.
27. The invention of Claim 23, and a moisture 


sensor switch, said system controlling the turning on of the vehicle headlights when any of the following additional switch combinations are turned on: a) ignition, windshield wiper, light sensor and moisture sensor; b) ignition, windshield wiper, and moisture sensor; c) ignition, light sensor and moisture sensor; d) ignition and moisture sensor.
28. The invention of Claim 23, in which the relay switch is a solid state switch.
29. The invention of Claim 23, in which said logic circuitry comprises a plurality of first logic circuit means connected in parallel, said first logic circuit means producing a first signal output to said first relay circuit.
30. The invention of Claim 23, in which a plurality of first signal outputs are operative in series to activate said first relay circuit.
31. The invention of Claim 23, in which a plurality of first signal outputs are operative in parallel to activate said first relay circuit.
32. The invention of Claim 27, and a second relay circuit, said second relay circuit being alternately connectable to said activating means for said relay switch, said power supply means connected to said second relay circuit, control means for said second relay circuit, said logic circuitry connecting the outputs of said ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor switches to the control means for said second relay circuit, said second re3ay circuit operating to turn the headlights off when any of the following are turned off: a) ignition; 


 b) windshield wiper, light sensor and moisture sensor.
33. The invention of Claim 32, in which said logic circuitry comprises a plurality of first and a plurality of second logic circuit means, each connected in parallel, said first logic circuit means producing a first signal output to said first relay circuit and said second logic circuit means producing a second signal output to said second relay circuit.
34. The invention of Claim 32, in which a plurality of second signal outputs are operative in series to activate said second relay circuit.
35. An automatic system for controlling the turning on of vehicle headlights when any of the following switch combinations are turned on: a) ignition, windshield wiper, light sensor; b) ignition, and windshield wiper; c) ignition and light sensor; and keeping them on as long as any of such switch combinations are on, comprising manual on-off switches for the ignition and windshield wiper and a condition responsive switch for the light sensor, a multistage digital logic circuit having a first stage which comprises a plurality of gates coupled to the outputs of said switches, at least one additional stage of gates connected to the outputs of said first stage of gates, a first relay circuit, an electronic relay switch, said relay switch means having means for connecting said headlights to power supply means, said power supply means connected to said first relay circuit, and control means for said first relay circuit, said multistage digital logic circuit connecting the outputs of said ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor switches to the control means for said first relay circuit, in which the relay 


switch means is a solid state gate turnoff switch.
36. The invention of Claim 35, and opto-isolator semi-conductor means between the ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor switches and the relay circuit which isolates the input voltages from the outputs of the semi-conductor means.
37. The invention of Claim 35, in which time delay means is interposed between the ignition switch and the logic circuitry to protect the logic means from transient voltages and to maintain a high level of voltage for a limited time after the logic circuitry of the ignition switch is turned off.
38. The invention of Claim 35, in which time delay means is interposed between the windshield wiper switch and the logic means so that the windshield wipers will appear to be continuously on during intermittent operation.
39. The invention of Claim 35, and a moisture sensor switch, said system controlling the turning on of the vehicle headlights when any of the following additional switch combinations are turned on: a) ignition, windshield wiper, light sensor and moisture sensor; b) ignition, windshield wiper, and moisture sensor; c) ignition, light sensor and moisture sensor; d) ignition and moisture sensor.
40. The invention of Claim 35, in which said logic circuitry comprises a plurality of first logic circuit means connected in parallel, said first logic circuit means producing a first signal output to said first relay circuit. 


 41. The invention of Claim 40, in which a plurality of first signal outputs are operative in parallel to activate said first relay circuit.
42. The invention of Claim 39, and a second relay circuit, said second relay circuit being alternately connectable to said activating means for said relay switch means, said power supply means connected to said second relay circuit, control means for said second relay circuit, said logic circuitry connecting the outputs of said ignition, windshield wiper and light sensor switches to the control means for said second relay circuit, said second relay circuit operating to turn the headlights off when any of the following are turned off: a) ignition; b) windshield wiper, light sensor and moisture sensor.
43. The invention of Claim 42, in which said logic circuitry comprises a plurality of first and a plurality of second logic circuit means, each connected in parallel, said first logic circuit means producing a first signal output to said first relay circuit and said second logic circuit means producing a second signal output to said second relay circuit.
44. The invention of Claim 35 in which the relay switch means has means for connecting the parking lights to said power supply means.
45. The invention of Claim 39, in which the relay switch means has means for connecting the parking lights to said power supply means.
46. The invention of Claim 42, in which the relay switch means has means for connecting the parking lights to said power supply means, and in which said second 


relay circuit operates to turn off the parking lights when it operates to turn off the headlights.
47. The invention of Claim 44, in which the relay switch means has a first section connecting the headlights and a second section connecting the parking lights to said power supply means.
48. The invention of Claim 44, in which the relay switch means has a common means connecting the headlights and parking lights to said power supply means.
49. The invention of Claim 45, in which the relay switch means has a first section connecting the headlights and a second section connecting the parking lights to said power supply means.
50. The invention of Claim 45, in which the relay switch means has a common means connecting the headlights and parking lights to said power supply means.
51. The invention of Claim 46, in which the relay switch means has a first section connecting the headlights and a second section connecting the parking lights to said power supply means.
52. The invention of Claim 46, in which the relay switch means has a common means connecting the headlights and parking lights to said power supply means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
