<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658906</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D7100	B01D7162	B01D7166	C12N1100	C12N1108	G01N27327	G01N27327	H01B112	H01B112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	C12N	C12N	G01N	G01N	H01B	H01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D71	B01D71	B01D71	C12N11	C12N11	G01N27	G01N27	H01B1	H01B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film comprising 

1) a film made of a composition comprising 

a) at least one polyheteroaromatic compound or aniline in oxidized, polycationic form, 
and 
b) at least one polyanion of a film-forming thermoplastic polymer containing sulfated 
alcoholic groups 


 
and/or sulfonatalkylated groups 


 
in repeating structural units, wherein the group -(C
n
H
2n
)- is 
linear or branched C₂-C₁₂-alkylene containing 2 to 5 C-atoms in the carbon main chain, 

the alkylene being unsubstituted or substituted by C₁-C₄-alkoxy; and 
2) a protein adsorbed on said film. 
This protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film can be suitably applied as 
biosensors, bioreactor materials and immunosensors. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAPAT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAPAT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHAN GOLAM F DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WERNET WOLFGANG DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHAN, GOLAM F., DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WERNET, WOLFGANG, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a novel protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer 
film to be suitably used as sensing electrodes of biosensors, sensing electrodes of immunosensors, 
materials for bioreactors and others. Since the development of electroconductive polymers, polypyrrole, especially, has been 
recognized as an excellent material for biosensors in which a desired protein such as glucose 
oxidase is incorporated as an element to detect a substrate to be determined (see, for 
example, L.D.Couves et al., Synthetic Metals, 28(1989)C761-C768, W.Schuhmann et al., 
Biosensors & Bioelectronics, 6(1991)689-697, G.Zotti, Synthetic Metals, 
51(1992)373-382, G.Bidan, Sensors and Actuator B, 6(1992)45-56 and M.Aizawa, Analytica 
Chimica Acta, 250(1991)249-256). In a typical application of polypyrrole to biosensors, pyrrole monomers are electrolytically 
polymerized in the presence of a desired protein such as glucose oxidase or the like and if 
necessary, some other components like mediators or promotors, onto the surface of a 
suitable electroconductive support, whereby the protein is immobilized (together with the 
mediators or promotors, if added) in the formed polypyrrole film, and serves as a sensor 
with extremely high specificity when immersed in a solution containing a substance to be 
determined (see, for example, M.Aizawa, Analytica Chimica Acta, 250(1991)259-256, G. 
Zotti, Synthetic Metals, 51(1992)373-382, W.Schuhmann et al., Biosensors & Bioelectronics, 
6(1991)689-697 and L.D.Couves et al., Synthetic Metals, 28(1989)C761-C768). As another application of electroconductive polymers, it is proposed to apply an electroconductive 
polymer such as polypyrrole to immunosensors with high sensitivity which take 
advantage of the change in surface potential of a polypyrrole film to which an antigen 
is immobilized by electrochemical co-deposition, the change being caused by antigen-antibody 
reaction (see, for example, H.Uchida et al., Sensors and Materials, 2, 
3(1990)137-146). However, in spite of the excellent characteristics and performance of the above biosensors,  
 
immunosensors and bioreacter materials, they have the following drawbacks: 
a desired protein (and mediators or promoters, if necessary) must be immobilized during 
the electrolytic polymerization process of polypyrrole, which often leads to denaturation 
of the protein, resulting in the absence of the desired performance, the fabrication process is complicated and expensive, they are no more shapable after preparation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film comprising 

1) a film made of a composition comprising 

a) at least one polyheteroaromatic compound or aniline in oxidized, polycationic form, 
and 
b) at least one polyanion of a film-forming thermoplastic polymer containing sulfated alcoholic 
groups 

 
and/or sulfonatalkylated alcoholic groups 

 
in repeating structural units, wherein the group -(CnH2n)- is linear 

or branched C₂-C₁₂-alkylene containing 2 to 5 C-atoms in the carbon main chain, the alkylene 
being unsubstituted or substituted by C₁-C₄-alkoxy; and 
2) a protein adsorbed on the surface of said film. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, wherein 
the polyheteroaromatic compound is formed from 5-membered rings which contain 1 

to 3 hetero atoms selected from the group consisting of O, S and N, and the carbon atoms 
of which are unsubstituted or substituted by C₁-C₁₈-alkyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 2, wherein 
the 5-membered ring is selected from the consisting of pyrrole, thiophene, furan, 

2,2'-bipyrrole, 2,2'-bithiophene, 2,2'-bifuran, thiazole, oxazole, thiadiazole and imidazole. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 2, wherein 
the polyheteroaromatic compound has the repeating structural units of formula I 

 
wherein R₁ and R₂ are each independently of the other hydrogen or C₁-C₁₆-alkyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 2, wherein 
the polyheteroaromatic compound has the repeating structural units of formula II 

 
wherein R₃ and R₄ are each independently of the other linear or branched C₁-C₁₈-alkyl or 

C₂-C₁₈-alkoxyalkyl; or C₃-C₈-cycloalkyl, phenyl or benzyl, which may be unsubstituted or 
substituted by C₁-C₆-alkyl, C₁-C₆-alkoxy or halogen; or R₃ and R₄ together form linear 

C₁-C₆-alkylene which may be unsubstituted or substituted by C₁-C₆-alkyl, C₁-C₆-alkoxy, 
halogen, C₃-C₈-cycloalkyl, phenyl, benzyl, C₁-C₄-alkylphenyl, C₁-C₄-alkoxyphenyl, halogenphenyl, 

C₁-C₄-alkylbenzyl, C₁-C₄-alkoxybenzyl or halogenbenzyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 5, wherein 
R₃ and R₄ as alkyl are C₁-C₁₂-alkyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 6, wherein 
R₃ and R₄ are C₁-C₈-alkyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 6, wherein 
R₃ and R₄ are C₁-C₄-alkyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 5, wherein 
R₃ and R₄ as alkoxyalkyl are C₁-C₁₇-alkoxymethyl or C₁-C₁₆-alkoxyethyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 9, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ are C₁-C₁₂-alkoxymethyl or C₁-C₁₂-alkoxyethyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 9, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ are C₁-C₈-alkoxymethyl or C₁-C₇-alkoxyethyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 9, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ are C₁-C₄-alkoxymethyl or C₁-C₄-alkoxyethyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 5, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ as cycloalkyl are C₅- or C₆-cacloalkyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 5, 
wherein the substituents for cycloalkyl, phenyl and benzyl are one selected from the group 

of C₁-C₄-alkyl, C₁-C₄-alkoxy, F, Cl and Br. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 5, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ together as alkylene means C₁-C₄-alkylene. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 15, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ are C₁- or C₂-alkylene. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 15, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ as alkylene are methylene, ethylene, propylene or butylene. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 5, 
wherein the substituents for R₃ and R₄ as alkylene are one selected from the group of C₁-C₆-alkyl, 

C₁-C₆-alkoxy, cyclohexyl, phenyl and benzyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 5, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ are linear or branched C₁-C₆-alkyl or R₃ and R₄ together are C₁-C₄-alkylene 

which is unsubstituted or substituted by 1 or 2 C₁-C₆-alkyl groups or C₁-C₆-alkoxy 
groups. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 19, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ are linear or branched C₁-C₄-a
lkyl or R₃ and R₄ together are C₁- or 
C₂-alkylene. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 20, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ are C₁- or C₂-alkylene which is unsubstituted or substituted by C₁-C₆-alkyl 

or C₁-C₆-alkoxy. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 21, 
wherein R₃ and R₄ stand for a residue of formula -CHRa-CHRb-, wherein Ra and Rb are 

 
each independently of the other H or C₁-C₆-alkyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 22, 
wherein Ra and Rb are H, methyl or ethyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 5, 
wherein the structural unit of formula II corresponds to the formula 


A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein, per structural unit of the polyheteroaromatic compound, 0.1 to 0.9 structural units 

having sulfated alcoholic groups 
 

and/or sulfonatalkylated alcoholic groups 
 

are contained. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 25, 
wherein, per structural unit of the polyheteroaromatic compound, 0.1 to 0.6 structural units 

having sulfated alcoholic groups 
 

and/or sulfonatalkylated slcoholic groups 
 

are contained. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the group -(CnH2n)- is linear or branched C₃-C₈-alkylene having 3 to 5 C-atomes 

in the carbon chain. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 27, 
wherein the group -(CnH2n)- is linear C₃-C₅-alkylene. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 28, 
wherein the group -(CnH2n)- is trimethylene or tatramethylene. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the thermoplastic polymer having sulfated alcoholic groups in salt form 

 
and/or sulfonatalkylated alcoholic groups in salt form 

 
has a glass transition temperature of - 100 to 350°C measured 

by DSC-method, wherein M⊕ is an alkali metalic or ammonium cation. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the degree of polymerization of the thermoplastic polymer is 5 to 10000. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the alcoholic groups in the thermoplastic polymer are completely sulfated and/or 

sulfonatalkylated. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the ratio of free alcoholic groups to sulfated alcoholic groups 

 
and/or 

sulfonatalkylated alcoholic groups 
 

in the thermoplastic polymer is 
within the range of 50: 1 to 1 : 50. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the thermoplastic polymer contains 5 to 100 mol% of sulfated alcoholic groups 

 
and/ or sulfonatalkylated alcoholic groups 

 
wherein 

the remaining structural units are corresponding hydroxyl group-containing or hydroxyl 
group-free structural units. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the sulfated and/or sulfonatalkylated alcoholic groups are bound as secondary 

groups 
>
CH-O-SO₃⊖ or 
>
CH-O-(CnH2n)-SO₃⊖ or as tertiary groups 
 

or 
 

in the polymer backbone; or in side-chains of the polymer as primary 
groups -CH₂-O-SO₃⊖ or -CH₂-O-(CnH2n)-SO₃⊖ in the terminal position, or as secondary 

groups 
>
CH-O-SO₃⊖ or 
>
CH-O-(CnH2n)-SO₃⊖ or as tertiary groups 
 

or  
in a central position of the side chain. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the thermoplastic polymer is derived from at least one hydroxyl group-containing 

polymer selected from the group consisting of polyesters, polyesteramides, polyurethanes, 
polyamides, polycarbonates and polyimides from hydroxyl group-containing monomers; 

saponified homopolymers from vinylesters or -ethers; hydroxylated polyolefines as well as 
their copolymers with olefinic monomers; homopolyacrylates or homopolymethacrylates 

having hydroxy residues in the ester groups; polysiloxanes having hydroxyalkyl groups; 
reduced polyketones or comonomers thereof; polyesters obtained from glycidyl compounds 

and diols; polyvinyl phenol or copolymers of vinylphenol and olefinic comonomers; 
as well as copolymers of vinyl alcohol, or hydroxyalkyl-containing acrylates or methacrylates, 

or hydroxylated diolefines with ethylenically unsaturated comonomers. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 36, 
wherein the sulfated and/or sulfonatalkylated thermoplastic polymer is one selected from 

the group consisting of polyadducts of glycidyl compounds having on average more than 
one epoxide group and a diol; homo- or copolymers of hydroxyalkyl acrylates or -methacrylates; 

homo- or copolymers of butadiene, isoprene and chloroprene, whose double 
bonds are partially or completely hydroxylated; homo- or copolymers of vinylphenol; polyimides 

from hydroxylated ketotetracarboxylic acids; hydroxylated polysiloxanes; and 
polyesters, polyamides, polyurethanes or polyimides from C₄-C₁₂-alkenylene diols as well 

as -diamines which double bonds are hydroxylated. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 36, 
wherein the thermoplastic polymer is either sulfated or sulfonatalkylated. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the thermoplastic polymer is an at least partially sulfated and/ or sulfonatalkylated 

polyadduct from 

a) a glycidyl compound having on average more than one epoxide group and 
b) a diol, 
the adduct containing the groups 

 
and/or 

 
in the polymer 

 
chain, wherein the group -(CnH2n)- has the meaning given in claim 1. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 39, 
wherein the polyadduct contains 


a) 100 to 5 mol% os identical or different structural units of formula III and/or IIIa 
 

and 
b) 0 to 95 mol% of identical or different structural units of formula IV 
 

based on the polyadduct, wherein R₅ and R₆ are each independently of the other the residue 
of a diol having aliphatic or aromatic diol groups, which residue is diminished by two 

hydroxyl groups, R' is H, C₁-C₂₀-alkyl, C₁-C₂₀-acyl or aminocarbonyl which is N-substituted 
by a C₁-C₂₀-hydrocarbon group, the group -(CnH2n)- is defined as in claim 1, and c is 

0 or 1.. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 40, 
wherein R' in formula IV is H. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 40, 
wherein R₅ and R₆ represent an identical residue. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 40, 

wherein R₅ and R₆ as residues having aliphatic diol groups are linear or branched C₂-C₁₂-alkylene, 
C₃-C₈-cycloalkylene, C₁-C₄-alkylC₅-C₈-cycloalkylene, cyclohexylmethylene or 

cyclohexyldimethylene. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 40, 
wherein R₅ and R₆ represent each independently of the other a residue of formula V 

 
wherein X is a direct bond, C₁-C₄-alkylene, C₂-C₁₂-alkylidene, C₅-C₈-cycloalkylidene, 

-O-, S, SO-, -SO₂-, -CO-, -CO₂-, -N(C₁-C₄-alkyl)- or -Si(CH₃)₂-, and R₇ and R₈ are 
each independently of the other H, halogen, C₁-C₄-alkyl or C₁-C₄-alkoxy, and x is 1 or 2 

and y is 0 or 1. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 44, 
wherein X is a direct bond, methylene, ethylene, C₂-C₆-alkylidene, cyclohexylidene or 

cyclopentylidene, -O- or -S-. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 44, 
wherein R₇ and R₈ are H and y is 1. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 40, 
wherein R₅ and R₆ represent the residue 


A protein adsorbed shapable electrocondcutive polymer film according to claim 1, 
 

wherein the thermoplastic polymer is an at least partially sulfated and/or sulfonatalkylated 
polyvinyl alcohol or sulfated and/or sulfonatalkylated polyvinyl alcohol having the groups 

 
and/or 


A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 48, 
wherein the thermoplastic polymer is a sulfated and/or sulfonatalkylated polyvinyl alcohol-copolymer. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 49, 
wherein the polyvinyl alcohol-copolymer contains 


a) 90 to 5 mol% of structural units of formula VI and/or VIa 
 

and 
b) 10 to 95 mol% of identical or different structural units of formula VII 
 

wherein R₉ stands for H, C₁-C₆-alkyl, -COOR₁₂ or -COO⊖, R₁₀ means H, F, Cl, CN or 
C₁-C₆-alkyl, R₁₁ represents H, OH, R''OH, F, Cl, CN, R₁₂-O-, C₁-C₁₂-alkyl, -COO⊖, 

-COOR₁₂, -OCO-R₁₂, methylphenyl or phenyl, R₁₂ represents C₁-C₁₈-alkyl, C₅ C₇-cycloalkyl, 
(C₁-C₁₂-alkyl)-C₅-C₇-cycloalkyl, phenyl, (C₁-C₁₂-alkyl)phenyl, benzyl or (C₁-C₁₂-alkyl)benzyl, 

 
R'' is linear or branched C₂-C₁₈-alkylene or poly(C₂-C₆-oxaalkylene) having 

2 to 6 oxaalkylene units, and the group -CnH2n- is defined as in claim 1. 
A protain adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 50, 
wherein the copolymer contains 60 to 10 mol% of structural units of formula V and 40 to 

90 mol% of structural units of formula VI. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 50, 
wherein R'' as alkylene contains 2 to 12 C-atoms, and R'' as poly(oxaalkyl) contains 2 to 4 

oxaalkyl units having 2 to 4 C-atoms in the alkyl group. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 50, 
wherein R₉ is H, R₁₀ is H, F, Cl, methyl or ethyl, and R₁₁ is H, OH, F, Cl, CN, C₁-C₆-alkyl, 

C₁-C₆-alkoxy, -COO-C₁-C₆-alkyl, -OOC-C₁-C₆-alkyl or phenyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 53, 
wherein in formula V R₉ means H, R₁₀ is H or methyl, and R₁₁ is H, OH, CN, methyl, 

OCH₃ or -COOCH₃. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 50, 
wherein 20 to 60 mol% of structural units of formula VI and/or VIa, 50 to 40 mol% of 

structural units of formula -CH₂-CH₂- and 30 to 0 mol% of structural units of formula 
-CH₂-CH(OH)- are contained, wherein the sum of the mol% is 100 percent. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film accordeing to claim 1, 
wherein the thermoplastic polymer is a sulfated and/or sulfonatalkylated polymer of hydroxylated 

polybutadiene, chloroprene or polyisoprene. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 56, 
wherein the thermoplastic polymer contains 5 to 100 mol% of structural units of formula 

VIII and/or VIIIa 
 

and 95 to 0 mol% of structural units of formula IX and/or IXa 
-CH₂-CH=CH-CH₂-   (IX) 

wherein R₁₃ and R₁₄ are each independently of the other H, OH or Cl and the group 
-(CnH2n)- has the meaning given in claim 1. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 57, 
wherein 10 to 100 mol% of structural units of formula VIII and/or VIIIa and 90 to 0 mol% 

of structural units of formula IX and/or IXa are contained. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 58, 
wherein 20 to 60 mol% of structural units of formula VIII and/or VIIIa and 80 to 40 mol% 

of structural units of formula IX and/or IXa are contained. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 57, 
wherein R₁₃ is Cl or H and R₁₄ is H. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the film-forming thermoplastic polymer contains 


a) 100 to 50 mol% of identical or different structural units of formula III and/or IIIa  
and 
b) 0 to 50 mol% of identical or diffrerent structural units of formula IV 
 

based on the polyadduct, wherein R₅ and R₆ are each independently of the other a residue 
of a diol having aliphatic or aromatic diol groups, the residue being diminished by two hydroxy 

groups, R' is H, C₁-C₂₀-alkyl, C₁-C₂₀-acyl or aminocarbonyl which is N-substituted 
by a C₁-C₂₀-hydrocarbon group, the group -(CnH2n)- is defined as in claim 1, and c is 0 or 

1. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 61, 
wherein the polymer contains 60 to 100 mol% of structural units of formula III and/or IIIa 

and 40 to 0 mol% of structural units of firmula IV. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 62, 
wherein the polymer contains 60 to 90 mol% of structural units of formula III and/or IIIa 

and 40 to 10 mol% of structural units of formula IV. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 61, 
wherein R' is H. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 61, 
wherein polypyrrole in oxidized, polycationic form having structural units of formula I'  

or polythiophene in oxidized, cationic form having structural units of formula II 
 

is contained, wherein R₃ and R₄ are each independently of the other linear or branched 
C₁-C₆-alkyl or R₃ and R₄ altogether repesent methylene or the group -CHRa-CHRb-, and 

Ra and Rb are each independently of the other H, methyl or ethyl. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 65, 
wherein Ra and Rb are respectively H
. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 61, 
wherein R₅ and R₆ are each independently of the other a residue of formula V 

 
wherein X is a direct bond, C₁-C₄-alkylene, C₂-C₁₂-alkylidene, C₅-C₈-cycloallcylidene, 

-O-, -S-, -SO-, -CO-, -CO₂-, -N(C₁-C₄-alkyl)- or -Si(CH₃)₂-, R₇ and R₈ are each independently 
of the other H, halogen, C₁-C₄-alkyl or C₁-C₄-alkoxy, and x is 1 or 2 and y is 0 or 1. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 67, 
wherein X is a direct bond, methylene, ethylene, C₂-C₆-alkylidene, cycloalkylidene or 

cyclopentylidene, -O-or -S-. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 67, 
wherein R₇ and R₈ are H or methyl and y is 1. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 67, 
wherein R₅ and R₆ mean the residue 


A protein adsorbed shapable electrocondcutive polymer film according to claim 65, 
wherein the structural units of polythiophene are represented by formula 


A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the protein adsorbed on the film is one selected from the group consisting of glucoseoxidase, 

D-amino acid oxidase, L-amino acid oxidase, choline oxidase, xanthine oxidase, 
sarcosine oxidase, L-lactate oxidase, pyruvate oxidase, ascorbate oxidase, cholesterol 

oxidase, fructose dehydrogenase, sorbitol dehydrogenase, alcohol dehydrogenase, lactate 
dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, glutamate dehydrogenase, glycerol dehydrogenase, 

11B hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, nitrate reductase, oestradiol 17B dehydrogenase, 
amino acids dehydrogenase, α-chymotripsin, tripsin, papain, pepsin, subtilisin, thermoase, 

thermolysis, lipase, and any antigen and antibody. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein the film is plasma etched prior to protein adsorption. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 73, 
wherein the plasma is air plasma, nitrogen plasma, oxygen plasma, ammonium plasma or 

argon plasma. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 1, 
wherein 0.1 to 50 µg/cm² protein are adsorbed. 
A protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to claim 75, 
wherein 0.2 to 10 µg/cm² protein are adsorbed 
A process for the preparation of a protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer 
film according to claim 1, wherein a film of component 1) of claim 1 is contacted 

with an aqueous protein solution. 
A process according to claim 77, wherein the adsorption is potential-aided by applying 
voltage. 
Use of the protein adsorbed shapable electroconductive polymer film according to 
claim 1 as biosensor material, bioreactor material or immunosensor material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
