<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650626</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PSYCHOMETRIC TESTING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09B300	G09B308	G09B700	G09B702	G09B2300	G09B2328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09B3	G09B3	G09B7	G09B7	G09B23	G09B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method for measuring or monitoring throughout any predetermined period the percentage value rating of a self-assessed variable in relation to one or more test individuals, for example each individual's feeling of well-being or quality of life rating during the course of medical treatment, each test individual is supplied with a record card (10) that has a black surface (12) overprinted with a number of separate light silver coloured squares (14) composed of opaque material that can be removed selectively by scraping or scratching. At the end of each day, the test individual scratches away at least part of the opaque silver material of a relevant square (14) to expose the darker underlying area to an extent that is considered to be visually representative of how well or unwell that individual has felt on average during that day. The daily results are recorded on the silver coloured recording squares in a predetermined order and testing is continued for a predetermined period, e.g. 28 days. At the end of that time, the card (10) is processed using an image scanning device (25) connected to a computer system that processes the digitised data generated to measure the proportion or percentage amount of each silver recording square that has been removed, the output being provided in a form selectable by the user. The system described may be adapted for measuring or monitoring other intangible variables or characteristics that are quantifiable in terms of a percentage value rating determined by personal assessment of a test individual.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAUM MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANCE DAVID ROGER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANCER RESEARCH CAMPAIGN TECHNOLOGY LIMITED BAUM, MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUM MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANCE DAVID ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUM, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANCE, DAVID ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PSYCHOMETRIC TESTINGThe present invention relates to the field of psychometric testing, and it is particularly concerned with a method of and means for measuring or monitoring one or more quantifiable variables or characteristics whose values are dependent upon personal assessment.The invention may be used for various purposes, being suited generally to situations where there is a need, in a simple, reliable and convenient way, to collect and collate data, either from a particular individual or from a number of individuals, which represents a personal assessment of a rating value for one or more generally intangible but quantifiable variables or characteristics, measured in some cases in respect of one or more particular time periods. Situations where such assessment data is needed from a range or group of individuals commonly arise, for example in the area of market research or in connection with measurement or monitoring of a quality rating, for instance the quality of some particular performance. However, an especially important area, for which the invention has been initially developed, is in the field of medicine and concerns "feeling of well-being" or "quality of life" testing and measurement, especially for patients undergoing medical treatment or in clinical trials.In recent years, increasing attention has been given to the "quality of life" of patients suffering from many diseases or disabilities, especially serious and potentially fatal or chronic diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, AIDS, and arthritis for example, and the assessment and evaluation of this "quality of life" characteristic for such patients is becoming widely recognised as being a necessary and important part of evaluating the effects of medical treatment, especially in clinical trials. This subject is extensively discussed for instance by Dr. Lesley Fallowfield in a book entitled "The 

Quality of Life - The Missing Measurement in Health Care", published (1990) by Souvenir Press (E & A) Limited of London, and there is now a growing realisation that in medical care the need to avoid an unacceptable impairment of the quality of life is often just as important as considerations of the medical effectiveness of the treatment that may be given to patients. There is, therefore, a need to attempt to measure and monitor this characteristic for individual patients, especially during a course of treatment and in clinical trials, but it will be appreciated that "quality of life" is a highly subjective characteristic open to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of psychometric testing applicable to one or more test individuals for measuring or monitoring one or more intangible variables or characteristics that are quantifiable by a personal assessment thereof which is made by the or each said test individual and which can be expressed in terms of a percentage value rating, said method comprising:
(a) supplying to the or each test individual, for the particular variable or characteristic concerned, a test record card provided on one face with one or more recording elements composed of opaque material that can be readily removed, completely or partially, by selective scraping or scratching to expose a variable area of an underlying base surface of the card which has optical or light-reflecting properties differing from those of the recording elements, whereby the fractional or percentage amount of each recording element thus removed can be measured by calibrated optical reading means;
(b) arranging for the or each test individual to make an assessment of a percentage value rating to be given to the particular variable or characteristic under test and to enter or record this on his or her record card by scraping or scratching a relevant said recording element thereof to remove the fractional or percentage amount of said recording element that is considered by said test individual to be visually representative of said percentage value rating assessment; and subsequently
(c) processing the or each record card using optical reading apparatus to measure the proportion or percentage amount of each recording element that has been removed, thereby to obtain and collate the corresponding percentage value ratings for said particular variable or characteristic tested. 


2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the opaque material of the or each recording element of said test record card is in the form of an overlay film or layer applied to the respective face of the record card, by printing or other means, so as to cover over and conceal selected predefined areas of the underlying base surface of the card.
3. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the or each recording element on the record card and the underlying base surface of the card are coloured differently to provide an optically distinctive tonal contrast.
4. A method as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the or each said recording element is white or has a relatively light colour while the base surface of the record card is dark coloured or is black so as to provide an optically readable difference in reflectivity.
5. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein said test record card has a plurality or series of said recording elements that are each well defined and located accurately in predetermined positions on the face of the card.
6. A method as claimed in Claim 5, wherein the recording elements on said record card are of a regular geometric shape arranged in a grid pattern.
7. A method as claimed in Claim 5 or 6 further characterised by the fact that step (b) is repeated periodically with the test individual concerned using a different recording element on each occasion to enter or record the respective percentage value rating assessment made.
8. A method as claimed in Claim 7 wherein step (b) is 


repeated daily and the recording elements on said test record card are arranged in one or more groups of seven corresponding to a predetermined number of weeks representative of the maximum overall period over which the testing may be carried out.
9. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the or each record card used has a wafer like form with a length of 8.5cm and a breadth of 5.5cm, or length and breadth dimensions which do not differ by more than 50% from the above quoted values, i.e. a length within the range of 8.5 ± 4.25cm and a breadth within the range of 5.5 ± 2.75cm.
10. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the or each record card is read using optical reading apparatus in the form of an image scanning device connector to a computer system adapted or programmed to process the digitised image data generated and to provide an output in a form selectable by the user.
11. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, applied to "Quality of Life" measuring or monitoring of a patient or groups of patients undergoing medical treatment.
12. A method of measuring or monitoring an individual's feeling of well-being or quality of life during the course of medical treatment, as determined by a personal self- assessment made by the individual concerned, said method comprising providing the test individual with a card having on one face thereof a number of recording elements composed of opaque material printed on the underlying surface of the card and optically distinguishable from the latter, the test individual then making at regular intervals an assessment of his feeling of well-being or quality of life and recording this by scratching away a certain fraction or percentage amount of the opaque material on a relevant said recording element on the card so that the extent to which 


the opaque material is removed provides an optically readable effect representative of the value rating assessed by the individual for the preceding period, the recording elements being used successively in a predetermined order throughout the period that the test is continued, and the record card then being processed using optical reading apparatus to measure the proportion or percentage amount of each recording element that has been removed.
13. Apparatus for carrying out the method of any of the preceding claims, said apparatus comprising in combination an image scanning device connected to a computer system and one or more said test record cards.
14. A test record card for use in the method claimed in Claim 11 or 12, characterised in that there are a plurality of said recording elements arranged in one or more rows, each row containing seven elements, one for each day of the week, comprised of a scratch-removable light or silver coloured opaque material printed over a black or dark coloured underlying surface of the card. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
