<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626757</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Adiabatic dynamic logic.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K1900	H03K1900	H03K19096	H03K19096	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A novel family of adiabatic dynamic logic gates can have 
power*delay products at least an order of magnitude or more below 

that which was possible in previous families of logic gates. No 
complex circuitry or unusually configured devices are needed to 

implement this logic family. In particular, this logic family 
requires fewer devices and less area per logic gate as compared 

with ordinary CMOS logic circuitry. This is unlike previous 
reversible logic proposals which required large numbers of 

transistors per gate. This logic circuitry can operate from very 
low supply voltages and need not be optimized for a particular 

voltage. This logic does not suffer from crowbar currents 
usually found in prior circuitry such as CMOS logic. Logic 

levels are regenerated at nearly every stage unlike some previous 
schemes which reduce energy dissipation only by sacrificing logic 

levels. At each stage in a calculation, this logic recovers a 
substantial amount of the energy used to perform the calculation 

and returns it to the power supply. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICKINSON ALEXANDER G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICKINSON, ALEXANDER G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Application Serial No. [Denker 15] of John S. Denker, 
entitled Adiabatic Dynamic Noninverting Circuitry, filed on the 
same day this application is being filed. Application Serial No. [Denker 16] of John S. Denker, 
entitled Adiabatic Dynamic Precharge Boost Circuitry, filed on 
the same day this application is being filed. This invention relates to logic circuitry. More 
specifically, this invention relates to logic circuitry having 
low power consumption and simplified topology. In standard logic circuitry, such as static and dynamic CMOS 
logic, nodes are charged and discharged in a completely 
irreversible, dissipative manner, using a switch to charge a node 
to a first potential and to discharge the node to a second 
potential. It has been proposed to attach such a node to a slew 
rate limited clock which in theory gradually, adiabatically, and 
reversibly charges and discharges the node. Logic circuitry 
using this technique is currently too complicated and uses too 
many transistors so that at normal speeds of operation any power  
 
savings for each transistor may be lost by the fact that many 
more transistors are used to accomplish simple logical 
operations. In addition, it has not been possible to completely 
avoid nonadiabatic transitions in some prior designs. The total 
power consumption of the entire circuit thus may not be much less 
than that used by nonadiabatic circuitry. Applicants has developed a logic family based upon dynamic 
logic gates which are operated adiabatically without substantial 
energy dissipative transitions. Each member of the family uses a 
small number of transistors so that the reduced power consumption 
achieved through the use of adiabatic operation is not lost 
because of a need for a large number of devices which dissipate 
energy at normal speeds. In accordance with one example of the invention, an 
electronic circuit includes an input node and an output node. 
The input node carries signals varying between two potentials in 
an adiabatic fashion without substantial dissipative energy 
losses. The output node carries corresponding output signals 
varying between two potentials in a similar adiabatic fashion. 
The nature of the signals carried by the input and output nodes 
is such that they may signify at least two possible logical 
states. The electronic circuit in accordance with this example 
of the invention also has a clock node which may be connected to 
an energy source which produces a clock signal varying between  
 
two potentials in an adiabatic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An invention, comprising: 
   an input node for receiving an input signal having first and 

second logical states and involving an adiabatic transition from 
one potential to another potential; 

   an output node for producing an output signal having the 
first and second logical states and involving an adiabatic 

transition from one potential to another potential; 
   a clock node for receiving a clock signal adiabatically 

varying between first and second potentials, the clock signal 
defining a charge period during which the clock signal changes 

from the first potential to the second potential and a discharge 
period when the clock signal changes from the second potential to 

the first potential; and 
   means operative in response to said clock signal for 

discharging said output node from a rest state selectively as a 
function of the state of a signal carried by the input node and 

for thereafter recharging said output node to said rest state 
selectively as a substanti
ally exclusive function of the state of 
a signal carried by said output node; 

   the input signal being substantially prevented from making 
transitions from one potential to another potential during a 

predetermined portion of the clock signal. 
An invention, comprising: 
   an input node for receiving an input signal having first and 

second logical states and involving an adiabatic transition from 
 

one potential to another potential; 
   an output node for producing an output signal having the 

first and second logical states and involving an adiabatic 
transition from one potential to another potential; 

   a clock node for receiving a clock signal adiabatically 
varying between first and second potentials, the clock signal 

defining a charge period during which the clock signal changes 
from the first potential to the second potential and a discharge 

period when the clock signal changes from the second potential to 
the first potential; and 

   means operative in response to said clock signal for 
selectively connecting said clock node to said output node and 

discharging said output node from a rest state selectively as a 
function of the state of the input node and for thereafter 

selectively connecting said clock node to said output node to 
recharge it to said rest state selectively as a substantially 

exclusive function of the state of said output node; 
   the input signal being substantially prevented from making 

transitions from one potential to another potential during a 
predetermined portion of the clock signal. 
An apparatus, comprising: 
   an input node for receiving an input signal having one of a 

plurality of states and involving adiabatic transitions between 
the states; 

   an output node for producing an output signal having one of 
a plurality of states as a function of the state of the input 

 
signal, the output signal also involving adiabatic transitions 

between states; 
   a clock node for receiving a clock signal comprising a first 

state and a second state with a precharge transition from the 
first state to the second state at a first predetermined 

adiabatic rate of change and an evaluation transition from the 
second state to the first state at a second predetermined 

adiabatic rate of change; and 
   a means for selectively adiabatically charging the output 

node during the precharge transition of the clock signal in 
response to the state of the output signal and for selectively 

adiabatically discharging the output node in response to the 
state of the input signal during the evaluation transition; 

   the input signal being substantially prevented from making 
transitions from one state to another state during a 

predetermined portion of the clock signal. 
The circuit of claim 3, in which the means for 
selectively charging and discharging, comprises: 

   a circuit element between the input node and the output node 
which performs a logical function on the input signal to produce 

the output signal. 
The circuit of claim 4, in which the logical function is 
a NOR function. 
The circuit of claim 4, in which the logical function is 
a NAND function. 
The circuit of claim 4, in which the logical function is 
a noninverting function. 
The circuit of claim 4, in which the logical function is 
an AND function. 
The circuit of claim 4, in which the logical function is 
an OR function. 
The circuit of claim 4, in which the logical function 
is a compound logical function. 
The electronic circuit of claim 3, in which the input 
signal, the output signal, and the clock signal have controllable 

rates of change between two respective states. 
The adiabatic dynamic logic circuit of claim 3, in 
which the logic element comprises a controllable switch having a 

control terminal and first and second output terminals. 
The adiabatic dynamic logic circuit of claim 9, in 
which the clocking signal is connected to at least one of the 

first and second output terminals of the controllable switch. 
The adiabatic dynamic logic circuit of claim 3, in 
which the apparatus defines a series resistance capacitance 

circuit defining an RC time constant and the transitions are such 
that at least one of the input signal, the output signal, and the 

clocking signal changes from one state to another state in an 
amount of time at least as great as the RC time constant. 
The adiabatic dynamic logic circuit of claim 11, in 
which the first and second rates of change are each such that the 

clocking signal changes between the first and second states in an 
 

amount of time at least as great as ten times the RC time 
constant. 
An electronic circuit, comprising: 
   N input nodes for receiving input signals having one of two 

possible logic states and involving transitions between the two 
logic states; 

   at least one output node for producing output signals having 
one of the two possible logic states as a function of the states 

of the input signals; 
   a clock node for receiving clock signals comprising a 

substantially constant voltage first state and a substantially 
constant voltage second state with a precharge transition from 

the first state to the second state at a first predetermined 
adiabatic voltage rate of change and an evaluation transition 

from the second state to the first state at a second 
predetermined adiabatic voltage rate of change; and 

   a means comprising no more than N+1 controllable switches 
between the N input ports and the at least one output port for 

selectively permitting current flow between the clock node and 
the output node for selectively charging the output node during 

the precharge transition of the clock signals in response to the 
state of the output signals and for selectively preventing 

current flow between the output node and the clock node to 
selectively prevent discharge of the output node in response to a 

predetermined state of the input signal during the evaluation 
transition;

 
   the input signals being substantially prevented from making 

transitions from one state to another state during a 
predetermined a portion of the clock signals. 
An electronic circuit, comprising: 
   N input nodes for receiving input signals having one of two 

possible logic states and involving transitions between the two 
logic states; 

   at least one output node for producing output signals having 
one of the two possible logic states as a function of the state 

of the input signals; 
   a clock node for receiving clock signals comprising a 

substantially constant voltage first state and a substantially 
constant voltage second state with a precharge transition from 

the first state to the second state at a first predetermined 
adiabatic voltage rate of change and an evaluation transition 

from the second state to the first state at a second 
predetermined adiabatic voltage rate of change; and 

   a means comprising no more than N controllable switches and 
a rectifier between the N input ports and the at least one output 

port for selectively permitting current flow between the clock 
node and the output node for selectively charging the output node 

during the precharge transition of the clock signals in response 
to the state of the output signals and for selectively preventing 

current flow between the output node and the clock node to 

selectively prevent discharge of the output node in response to a 
predetermined state of the input signals during the evaluation 

 
transition; 

   the input signals being substantially prevented from making 
transitions from one state to another state during a 

predetermined portion of the clock signals. 
An adiabatic dynamic logic circuit, comprising: 
   a first logic element having a first conductivity type; 

   a second logic element having a second conductivity type in 
series with the first logic element; and 

   an energy source adiabatically clocking the first and second 
logic elements. 
An adiabatic dynamic logic circuit, comprising: 
   a switching element having a control terminal, a first 

output terminal, and a second output terminal; 
   the control terminal carrying an input signal having two 

possible logic states, a first logic state comprising a 
substantially constant level signal and a second logic state 

comprising a string of pulses, the input signal being constrained 
to change between the potential levels in an adiabatic fashion; 

   one of the first and second output terminals carrying an 
output signal having the two logic states, the output signal 

being constrained to change between potential levels in an 
adiabatic fashion; and 

   an energy source for adiabatically clocking at least one of 
the terminals of the switching element. 
An electronic circuit, comprising: 
   a transistor having a control terminal, an output terminal, 

 
and a clock terminal; 

   the control terminal of the transistor carrying an input 
signal having one of a plurality of potentials and the output 

terminal carrying an output signal having one of a plurality of 
potentials as a function of the potential of the input signal; 

   the clock terminal of the transistor carrying a clock signal 
adiabatically varying between a first state and a second state, 

the input signal being prevented from changing between the two 
potentials during predetermined portions of the clock signal; and 

   a rectification means connected between the output terminal 
and the clock terminal for selectively charging the output 

terminal in response to a signal on the output terminal and 
selectively discharging the output terminal in response to a 

signal on the control terminal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
