<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612397</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A HEAT EXCHANGER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D21C1100	D21C1110	F28D300	F28D302	F28F300	F28F312	F28F2100	F28F2100	F28F2106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D21C	D21C	F28D	F28D	F28F	F28F	F28F	F28F	F28F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D21C11	D21C11	F28D3	F28D3	F28F3	F28F3	F28F21	F28F21	F28F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A heat exchanger, evaporator made from the heat exchanger, and method of utilization thereof, take advantage of the thin yet strong and good heat exchange surface that is provided by a metal-plastic laminate. A laminate is typically either one plastic layer and a metal layer, or two plastic layers sandwiching a metal layer between them. The laminate normally has a thickness of less than about 200 mu m, for example the metal folio layer having a thickness of about 5-40  mu m and the plastic layer a thickness of about 12-25  mu m. Aluminum, cooper, and brass are good metals, while polyester and polyolefins are good plastics. Cellulose pulp mill plant liquid effluents may be passed in a falling film over the laminates to evaporate them, while steam is passed in the interior chamber between two laminates forming an evaporator.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AHLSTROEM OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
A. AHLSTROM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOEDERMAN JARMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOEDERMAN, JARMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A HEAT EXCHANGERBACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a heat exchanger, i which a new kind of an extremely thin, but yet stron heat exchange surface is utilized, and a method o evaporating an effluent from a cellulose pulp mill utilizing such a heat exchanger as a falling fil evaporator.Heat exchange devices, such as lamella heat exchangers, are conventionally manufactured of metal, e.g. of stainless steel. Lamellas have been manufactured of 1-1.5 mm thick metal plates to act as heat exchange elements, for example, in evaporators. Such a construction allows considerable pressure differences, but on the other hand it is heavy and rather expensive. If acid solutions are treated, the problem of corrosion arises, which again leads to the necessity of using special steel or titanium as the material of heat exchange surface, which considerably increases the price of the eguipment.Heat exchangers of light, corrosion-resistant and inexpensive construction have been manufactured by utilizing a thin plastic film as a heat exchange surface, whereby the heat exchange elements may, for example, be bag-like. Such heat exchangers are known, for example, from patent publications EP 34920 and DE 2511144. Plastics have, however, the disadvantage of poor heat conductivity and poor physical properties when in a thin film configuration.EP 286400 discloses a plate-type heat exchanger in which the heat exchanger element is manufactured by combining two polymer panels of the thickness of 0.12-0.7 mm under heat and pressure to form flow channels therebetween. A first surface of one of the panels is coated with a particular material at a desired channel pattern. A second 

 surface of the other panel facing the first surface i treated with a material such that, when the two surface are combined, it attaches to the first panel surface except at the flow channels. The polymer used is preferabl a polyamide,. which may be coated by a metal film to improv its heat exchange properties.According to the present invention, the above mentione problems are eliminated or minimized. A heat exchange applicable for different purposes is provided which is simple to manufacture, and the heat exchange surface of which conducts heat well, is thin and light, but yet at the same time strong.A characteristic feature of the heat exchanger in accordance with the present invention is that the heat exchange surface of the heat exchange elements is formed of a laminate , which comprises at least two layers of different
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A heat exchanger having a plate-like heat exchang element comprising a laminate of at least two layers o different materials, a metal folio layer, and a plastic layer.
2. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 1 wherein said laminate consists essentially of three layers, two plastics layers with a metal folio layer sandwiched therebetween.
3. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 1 wherein said metai-plastic laminate has a thickness of less than about 200 μm.
4. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 3 wherein said metal folio has a thickness of less than about 100 μm.
5. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 4 wherein said plastic layer has a thickness of less than about 100 μm.
6. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 3 wherein said metal folio is an aluminum folio.
7. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 6 wherein said aluminum folio has a thickness of about 5-40 μm.
8. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 6 wherein said aluminum folio has a thickness of about 9-18 μm.
9. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 3 wherein said metal folio is selected from the group consisting essentially of aluminum, brass, and copper.
10. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 9 wherein said plastic layer is selected from the group consisting essentially of polyester and polyolefins. 


 11. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 1 wherein said plastic layer is selected from the group consisting essentially of polyester and polyolefins.
12. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 11 wherein said plastics layer has a thickness of about 12-25 μm.
13. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 2 wherein each of said plastic layers has a thickness of less than about 100 μm.
14. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 13 wherein each of said plastic layers has a thickness of about 12-25 μm.
15. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 14 wherein said plastics layer has a thickness of about 12-25 μm.
16. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 15 wherein said metal folio has a thickness of about 5-40 μm.
17. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 1 wherein said metal folio has a thickness of about 5-40 μm.
18. A heat exchanger as recited in claim 1 wherein said metal folio layer and plastics layer are laminated together with adhesive.
19. An evaporator comprising first and second spaced plate-like heat exchange elements, each element comprising a laminate of a metal folio layer and a plastics layer, with a space for the transport of heat exchange fluid therebetween.
20. An evaporator as recited in claim 19 wherein the metal folio layer of each plate-like element is on the interior of said evaporator, bordering said interior passage.
21. An evaporator as recited in claim 19 further comprising 


 a third layer of plastics material, said metal folio laye sandwiched between said plastics layers.
22. An evaporator as recited in claim 19 wherein sai laminate has a thickness of less than about 200 μm.
23. An evaporator as recited in claim 22 wherein said metal folio layer is selected from the group consisting essentially of aluminum, brass, and copper.
24. An evaporator as recited in claim 23 wherein said plastics layer is selected from the group consisting essentially of polyester and polyolefins.
25. An evaporator as recited in claim 24 wherein said metal folio has a thickness of about 5-40 μm, and said plastics layer has a thickness of about 12-25 μm.
26. An evaporator as recited in claim 20 further comprising an interior corrosion resistant coating on said metal folio.
27. A method of evaporating an effluent from a cellulose pulp mill utilizing an evaporator surface comprising a metal-plastic laminate having a thickness of less than about 200 μm, comprising the steps of: a) passing pulp mill liquid effluent in a falling film over the metal-plastic laminate surface.
28. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein said step a) is further practiced by passing the pulp mill effluent in contact with the plastic layer of the metal-plastic laminate.
29. A method as recited in claim 28 comprising the further step of passing steam into contact with the metal layer of the metal-plastic laminate. 


 30. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein said laminate consists essentially of three layers, two plastics layers with a metal folio layer sandwiched therebetween.
31. A method as recited in claim 30 wherein said step a) is further practiced by passing the pulp mill effluent in contact with the plastic layer of the metal-plastic laminate.
32. A method as recited in claim 31 comprising the further step of passing steam into contact with the metal layer of the metal-plastic laminate.
33. A method of evaporating a liquid effluent utilizing an evaporator surface comprising a metal-plastic laminate having a thickness of less than about 200 μ , comprising the step of passing the liquid effluent in a falling film over the metal plastic laminate.
34. A method as recited in claim 33 wherein said step is further practiced by passing the liquid effluent in contact with the plastic layer of the metal-plastic laminate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
