<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644407</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Weight detecting device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G1952	G01G1956	H05B680	H05B680	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	G01G	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G19	G01G19	H05B6	H05B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A weight detecting device includes an article table on 
which an article to be measured, a drive motor for turning the 

article table, torque conversion means for converting weight of 
the measured article located on the article table into a load 

torque acting on the drive motor under a given proportional 
condition, load detecting device for detecting a load torque 

acting on the drive motor through the torque conversion device, 
and weight measuring device for measuring a weight of the 

measured article according to the load torque obtained by the 
load detecting device, while referring to the correlation 

between the load torque and the load. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANKYO SEIKI SEISAKUSHO KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANKYO SEIKI SEISAKUSHO KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANAOKA TOSHIKI C O K K SANKYO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAKAI KIYOSHI C O K K SANKYO S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANAOKA TOSHIKI C O K K SANKYO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAKAI KIYOSHI C O K K SANKYO S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a weight detecting 
device for electrically detecting a weight of an article under 
measurement, such as food to be cooked. This type of the weight detecting device is 
incorporated into various type of electronic devices. In an electromagnetic cooker (electronic cooker), for 
example, to secure a uniform distribution of head over food, 
food is put on an article support table or a turn table and 
exposed to in a shower of microwaves while turning the table at 
a given speed. The electromagnetic cooker of the auto-cooking type 
includes a weight detecting device. In operation, the cooker 
weighs the weight of food on the table, and selectively picks 
up an appropriate cooking program in accordance with the weight 
and kind of the food, and automatically executes the cooling 
program. Various types of weight detecting devices have been 
employed for the electromagnetic cooker. In a conventional weight detecting device, an article 
to be weighed is put on an article support table, such as a 
turn table. A load of the weighed article is converted into a  
 
corresponding quantity of displacement by means of a spring, 
for example. A distance between the electrodes of a capacitor 
is varied in accordance with the quantity of displacement, so 
that capacitance of the capacitor is varied. In another 
weight detecting device, the core in a coil is varied in 
position in accordance with the quantity of displacement, so 
that inductance of the coil is varied (Published Unexamined 
Japanese Utility Model Application No. Hei. 1-95642). In 
another weight detecting device, resistance of a resistor is 
varied in accordance with the quantity of displacement caused 
by the pressure by a load. Any of these weight detecting devices includes a 
voltage controlled type oscillator (V/F converter). The 
capacitor, the coil, or the resistor is contained as a part in 
the oscillator. The weight detecting device detects a variation 
of weight of the cooled article in the form of a variation of 
frequency, which correspond to a variation of capacitance, 
inductance, or resistance. In these weight detecting devices, the weight of the 
weighed article on the table directly acts on the rotary shaft 
of a drive motor. Accordingly, when the weighed article is put 
on a deviated location on the table, a deviated load acts to 
cause a variation of the weight of the article. An excessive 
load causes a permanent strain in the spring. As a result, a 
weight detection accuracy is degraded.  A synchronous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A weight detecting device comprising: 
   an article table on which an article to be measured; 

   a drive motor for turning the article table; 
   torque conversion means for converting weight of the 

measured article located on the article table into a load 
torque acting on the drive motor under a given proportional 

condition; 
   load detecting means for detecting a load torque acting 

on the drive motor through the torque conversion means; and 
   weight measuring means for measuring a weight of the 

measured article according to the load torque obtained by the 
load detecting means, while referring to the correlation 

between the load torque and the load. 
The weight detecting device according to claim 1, 
further comprising a torque conversion rate adjusting mechanism 

for changing a proportional condition when the weight is 
converted to a load torque. 
An electromagnetic cooker with the weight detecting 
device according to claim 2, in which the article table is a 

turn table is rotatable about a shaft while supporting an 
article to be cooked or the measured article thereon, 

   the torque conversion means is rollers allowing the 
turn table to be turned, and

 
   the torque conversion rate adjusting mechanism is a 

slide mechanism for moving the rollers in the radial direction 
with respect to the shaft of the turn table. 
The electromagnetic cooker with the weight detecting 
device according to claim 3, in which a plurality of rollers 

are radially extended from the turn table shaft and arrayed 

equidistantly spaced from one another, and the slide mechanism 
includes an interlocking mechanism for moving the rollers in 

the radial direction in an interlocking manner. 
The weight detecting device according to claim 1, in 
which the load detecting means consists of a load detecting 

coil disposed near a drive coil for the drive motor. 
The weight detecting device according to claim 5, in 
which the load detecting coil is disposed so as to cross an 

alternating magnetic field developed by the stator of the drive 
motor and another alternating magnetic field developed by the 

rotor. 
The weight detecting device according to claim 5, in 
which the weight detecting means includes a circuit for 

rectifying an output signal of the load detecting coil in the 
load detecting means and smoothing the rectified signal. 
The weight detecting device according to claim 5, in 
which the weight detecting means includes a circuit for 

converting a variation of the rectified and smoothed voltage 
signal into a variation of the frequency. 
The weight detecting device according to claim 1, in 
which the drive motor includes a synchronous motor. 
A load detecting device comprising: 
   load detecting means for detecting a load of a 

synchronous motor of which the rotor is rotated in synchronism 
with an alternating magnetic field developed by the rotor, 

through an interactive action of an alternating magnetic field 
developed by a drive coil of a stator and the alternating 

magnetic field by the rotor, 
   wherein the load detecting means including a detecting 

coil disposed so as to cross the alternating magnetic field 
developed from the stator and the alternating magnetic field 

developed by the rotor. 
The load detecting device using the synchronous motor 
according to claim 10, in which the load detecting means 

includes a circuit for rectifying an output signal of the 
detecting coil and for smoothing the rectified signal. 
The load detecting device using the synchronous motor 
according to claim 11, in which the load detecting means 

includes a circuit for converting a variation of the rectified 
and smoothed voltage signal into a variation of the frequency. 
The load detecting device using the synchronous motor 
according to claim 12, in which the voltage-frequency 

converting circuit includes a CR self-oscillation circuit in 
which the trigger voltages are DC signals, and 

   further comprising: 
   means for proportioning the voltage of a power source 

for the oscillator to the voltage of a drive power source for 
driving the synchronous motor. 
The load detecting device using the synchronous motor 
according to claim 10, in which the synchronous motor includes 

means for compensating for a temperature error in the output 
signal of the detecting coil by using a temperature 

compensation coil wound so as to neutralize the inducing 
currents by the alternating magnetic fields by the drive coil 

and the rotor, and the temperature error compensating means is 
disposed adjacent to the detecting coil. 
A load measuring device comprising: 
   a synchronous motor;

 
   voltage/current measuring means for measuring a voltage 

applied to a winding a the synchronous motor and a current 
flowing through the winding; 

   power factor calculating means for calculating an 
effective power by multiplying the voltage and the current, and 

an apparent power by multiplying an effective value of the 
voltage and an effective value of the current, and for 

calculating a power factor by calculating the ratio of the 
effective power and the apparent power; and 

   load detecting means for converting the power factor 
calculated by the calculating means to a load of the 

synchronous motor, by utilizing the correlation between the 
load and the power factor so as to measure a magnitude of the 

load of the synchronous motor in accordance with the magnitude 
of the power factor. 
The load measuring device according to claim 15, 
further comprising: 

   resistance measuring means for measuring resistance of 
the winding of the synchronous motor; 

   power factor compensating means for temperature 
compensating for the power factor obtained by the calculation 

by using the measured resistance of the winding; and 
   load detecting means for converting the compensated 

power factor to a load of the synchronous motor, by utilizing 
the correlation between the load and the power factor so as to 

 
measure a magnitude of the load of the synchronous motor in 

accordance with the magnitude of the power factor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
