<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636886</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A calibrator or control composition for an IgM serology assay
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3396	G01N3368	G01N3396	G01N3368	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is described a positive calibrator/control composition for use 
in assays for the detection of antibodies to infectious disease agents. The 

composition includes a composite antibody of a nonspecific IgM 
immunoglobulin moiety covalently linked to a specific, non-IgM antibody 

moiety. Also described is an assay method which utilizes the positive 
calibrator or control composition. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEHRING DIAGNOSTICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEHRING DIAGNOSTICS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMMOND RUSSELL ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WONG T PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMMOND, RUSSELL ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WONG, T. PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a positive calibrator/control composition for
IgM serology assays and to an IgM serology assay using the positive
calibrator/control composition.Assays for infectious diseases require both negative and positive
calibrator and/or control compositions. The negative calibrators typically
consist of human sera which are known not to include any of the
antibodies of interest. The positive calibrator compositions typically are
prepared by spiking the negative calibrators with known amounts of the
antibodies of interest which are obtained from human patients. The
positive control compositions typically are prepared by spiking the
negative calibrators with amounts of the antibodies which are equal to or
different from those which are used in the calibrator compositions.It is well known that the first immune response to an infectious
disease agent in an individual is the production of IgM antibodies.
However, the IgM immune response occurs only for a very short period of
time, e.g., for a few weeks to a few months. The IgG immune response
follows and goes on for a relatively long period of time, e.g., a number of
years.Since the first immune response is the production of IgM
antibodies, and because IgM antibodies are short-lived, assays for these
antibodies are important since such assays can provide an early indication
of a recent infection in a patient. However, because of the short duration
of the IgM response and the fact that the infectious disease in a patient
may not be discovered until the IgM response has ended, it is difficult to 
obtain a sufficient supply of IgM antibodies from individuals to use in
positive calibrator/control compositions for assays for the infectious
disease. Further, the procedure for doing so is labor intensive, very
lengthy and very costly.
One proposed solution has been to use non-human IgM antibodies as positive
control in an assay as described in WO89/10980.It would be advantageous to have an unlimited supply of antibodies
of consistent quality which can be used in the positive calibrator/control
compositions for IgM serology assays. Accordingly, it is an object of this
invention to provide a positive calibrator/control composition for use in IgM
serology assays.
WO 92/01472 describes in one aspect a recombinant chimeric
mulitvalent immunoglobulins having multiple antigen binding domains.
It is also an object of the invention to provide an IgM
serology assay which utilizes the positive calibrator/control compositions
according to the invention.These
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A positive calibrator or control composition for an IgM
serology assay comprising a solution of a composite antibody of a

nonspecific IgM immunoglobulin moiety covalently bound to a specific,
non-IgM antibody moiety, said specific, non-IgM antibody moiety being

directed against a specific infectious disease agent.
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 1 wherein said nonspecific IgM immunoglobulin moiety is from a

human nonspecific IgM immunoglobulin.
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 1 wherein said specific, non-IgM antibody moiety is from a non-human

IgG antibody.
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 1 wherein said composite antibody comprises a human nonspecific

IgM immunoglobulin moiety covalently linked to a specific IgG antibody
moiety.
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 1 wherein said specific, non-IgM antibody moiety is from a

monoclonal antibody.
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 1 wherein said nonspecific IgM immunoglobin moiety is from the

IgM whole immunoglobulin or from the Fc region thereof. 
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 1 wherein said specific, non-IgM antibody moiety is from the whole

antibody or from the F(ab')
2
 segment thereof.
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 1 wherein said specific, non-IgM antibody moiety is from an

antibody selected from the group consisting of HIV antibodies, HTLV
antibodies, cytomegalovirus antibodies, toxoplasma antibodies, rubella

antibodies, herpes antibodies, lyme disease antibodies and hepatitis
antibodies.
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 1 wherein said composite antibody is made by reacting a

nonspecific IgM immunoglobulin and a specific non-IgM antibody at a
molar ratio of from about 1:1 to about 1:5.
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 9 wherein said composite antibody is made by reacting a

nonspecific IgM immunoglobulin and a specific non-IgM antibody at a
molar ratio of about 1:2.
The positive calibrator or control composition as defined in
claim 1 and further including at least one additional composite antibody of

a nonspecific IgM immunoglobulin covalently bound to a specific non-IgM
antibody moiety directed against a specific infectious disease agent,

wherein each specific non-IgM antibody moiety of each said composite
antibody is directed against a different specific infectious disease agent. 
A method for carrying out an assay with a positive calibrator
or control composition for the presence of IgM antibodies to an infectious

disease comprising the steps of:

(a) applying to a solid carrier (i) a positive calibrator or
control composition which comprises composite antibodies, said

composite antibodies comprising a nonspecific IgM immunoglobulin
moiety covalently bound to a specific, non-IgM, antibody directed against

a specific infectious disease agent, and (ii) a labeled detector material

said solid carrier having immobilized thereto a binding
material which binds to said composite antibodies and wherein the

detector material of said labeled detector material binds to said composite
antibodies

whereby there is formed a ternary complex of said
immobilized binding material, said composite antibodies and said labeled

detector material;
(b) removing free labeled detector material from said solid
carrier; and
(c) obtaining a readout signal by detecting the bound or
free labeled detector material.
The method as defined in claim 12 wherein said binding
material immobilized to said solid carrier binds to the nonspecific IgM

immunoglobulin moiety of said composite antibodies and said detector
material of said labeled detector material binds to said specific, non-IgM

antibody moiety of said composite antibodies.
The method as defined in claim 12 wherein said binding
material immobilized to said solid carrier binds to said specific, non-IgM

antibody moiety of said composite antibodies and said detector material of 
said labeled detector material binds to said nonspecific IgM

immunoglobulin moiety of said composite antibodies.
The method as defined in claim 12 wherein step (a)
comprises applying said positive calibrator or control composition to said

solid carrier, incubating said solid carrier and then applying said labeled
detector material to said solid carrier.
The method as defined in claim 12 wherein step (a)
comprises combining said positive calibrator or control composition with a

solution of said labeled detector material, incubating the mixture and then
applying said mixture to said solid carrier.
The method as defined in claim 12 wherein the label of said
labeled detector material is a member of the group consisting of

fluorescent materials, radioactive materials and enzymes.
The method as defined in claim 12 wherein said label is an
enzyme and step (b) comprises applying to said solid carrier a solution of

substrate material for said enzyme.
A method for determining a reference signal cutoff value for
an assay for the presence of antibodies to an infectious disease agent

comprising the steps of:

(a) applying to a solid carrier (i) a positive calibrator or
control composition which comprises composite antibodies, said

composite antibodies comprising a nonspecific IgM immunoglobulin
moiety covalently bound to a specific, non-IgM, antibody directed against

a specific infectious disease agent, and (ii) a labeled detector material
 
said solid carrier having immobilized thereto a binding

material which binds to said composite antibodies and wherein the
detector material of said labeled detector material binds to said composite

antibodies

whereby there is formed a ternary complex of said
immobilized binding material, said composite antibodies and said labeled

detector material;
(b) removing free labeled detector material from said solid

carrier;
(c) obtaining a readout signal by detecting the bound or
free labeled detector material; and
(d) utilizing said readout signal in the determination of a
reference signal cutoff value.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
