<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646827</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Exterior display device structure with a display-cover as part of stand hinged to a main body
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G06F116	G02F113	G06F116	H04N564	H04N564	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G06F	G02F	G06F	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G06F1	G02F1	G06F1	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is provided an exterior structure which can 
enhance operability of display devices, reduce the number 

of parts, shorten time for assembly of products, and 
improve its productivity, and yet which allows reduction in 

cost, reduction in weight of products, and moreover which 
can prevent loss of a display-section cover and the like. 

A display section (7) is present on a first surface of a 
main body (31), and a display-section cover (30) is 

provided on a second surface adjacent to the first surface. 
The display-section cover (30) is made up of a generally 

rectangular hinge plate (5) attached in a hinge fashion 
with one edge of the hinge plate (5) parallel to the first 

surface, and a display lid (3) having such a shape as to be 
able to cover a display section (7) of the first surface 

and being attached in a hinge fashion to the other edge of 
the hinge plate (5) opposite to the one edge. A support 

plate (8) is attached in a hinge fashion with one edge 
thereof parallel to the second surface to a third surface 

of the main body (31) opposite to the first surface. The 
display lid (3) is provided with slots (4, 4') capable of 

captively holding the support plate (8). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an assembly of a display device and an exterior
structure for said display device in accordance with the precharacterizing part
of the independent claim 1. An assembly of a display device and an exterior
structure therefore of that kind is known from US-A-5,128,829. In this known
assembly the hinge itself serves together with the display section cover when
the latter is moved to the bottom side of the display device as a stand for the
housing, wherein the intermediate flap of the hinge serves as a generally
upright support rack supporting and elevating the upper edge of the housing.
Therefore, the intermediate flap of the hinge of the known assembly is relatively
broad and therefore the top face of the body of the housing needs to have a
recess for receiving the intermediate flap of the hinge when the display device
is closed. Further, as the width of the intermediate flap of the hinge is
relatively broad, the size of the display device is enlarged in a state where the
cover with the hinge lies aside of the main body in the same plane as the
bottom part thereof.In small-sized, portable display devices having a display section such as an
LCD (liquid crystal display) panel on one surface of the main body (i. e.,
information processing apparatus and the like having a display section), if the
body is laid down in use with a full keyboard connected thereto, the user would
posture to look into the display section, resulting in poor operability and
therefore less progress in the work. Also, such a posture may cause the
physical fatigue of the operator. Thus, in 
order that the operator can view the display section in a
correct posture, it is often the case that a stand is
provided to support the main body obliquely to the desk.
Further, the LCD display surface or the tablet surface is
subject to flaws, dusts, heat, and the like and, if the
display device is dropped, shocks applied may cause the
surfaces to be damaged. For these reasons, a cover for
protecting the display section is provided.Conventionally, for example, portable pen-input
personal computers are provided with a stand 103 and a
display-section cover 104, as shown in Figs. 18A to 18E.
The stand 103, as shown in Figs. 18A and 18B, is a plate-shaped
one attached to the rear side of a main body 101 via
a hinge 105. The stand 103, which is of the so-called
fold-down type, is tilted to a position along the rear side
of the main body for storage and transport. Meanwhile, for
use of the device, the stand 103 is rotated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An assembly of a display device and an exterior structure for said
display device which comprises a display section (7) for displaying an image on

a first surface of a main body (31) of a generally box shape, wherein the
exterior structure comprises:


a display-section cover (30) which comprises a generally rectangular
hinge plate (5) attached in a hinge fashion to a surface of the main body (31)

with one edge of the hinge plate (5) parallel to the first surface, and a display
lid (3) attached in a hinge fashion to the other edge of the hinge plate (5)

opposite to the one edge of the hinge plate (5),

   
characterized in that

   the one edge of the hinge plate (5) is attached to a second surface of the
main body (31) adjacent to the first surface, and

   the exterior structure further comprises:

a support plate (8) having a generally rectangular shape and being
attached in a hinge fashion to a third surface opposite to the first surface of

the main body (31) with one edge of the support plate (8) parallel to the second
surface; and
the display lid (3) comprises an engaging portion (4, 4') arranged to
captively hold the other edge of the support plate (8) opposite to the one

edge.
The assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein

   the one edge of the hinge plate (5) is attached substantially within the
second surface of the main body (31) at a generally center portion with respect

to a direction vertical to the first surface, and

   the distance between the one edge and the other edge of the hinge plate (5) is
set to substantially half the size of the second surface of the main body (31) in

the direction vertical to the first surface of the main body (31).
The assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein

   the engaging portion (4, 4') of the display lid (3) is at least a slot (4, 4')
formed in parallel to the other edge of the hinge plate (5).
The assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein

   the second surface of the main body (31) is a surface on the lower or
upper side of the first surface. 
The assembly as claimed in claim 3, wherein

   the slot (4, 4') of the display lid (3) is provided in a plural number with a
spacing from one another.
The assembly as claimed in claim 3, wherein

   the slot (44) of the display lid (43) is penetrating through the display lid
(43) and an inner surface of the slot farther from the hinge plate is curved in a

convex shape in cross section inward of the slot (44); and

   an end of the other edge side of the support plate (48) is curved in a
concave shape in cross section so as to fit the inner surface of the slot (44).
The assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein

   a lock mechanism for captively holding the display lid (3) is provided on
the first surface or a third surface of the main body (31) opposite to the first

surface or both the first and third surfaces of the main body (31).
The assembly as claimed in claim 7, wherein

   the lock mechanism is provided on the first surface of the main body (31)
and is provided at a position on one side of the first surface opposite to the

second surface side with respect to the display section (7), the lock mechanism
comprising a lock (6) slidable toward the display section (7) along the first

surface and an elastic member (15) for biasing the lock (6) toward the display
section (7).
The assembly as claimed in claim 7, wherein

   the lock mechanism is provided on the third surface of the main body
(31) and is provided on a peripheral portion of an inner area of the third

surface, with which the display lid (3) will be brought into contact, the lock
mechanism including a plate-shaped projection (10) being separated from the

surface of the inner area and projecting into the inner area by a specified
extent.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
