<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611476</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND DEVICE FOR DIFFUSING PERFUMES THAT ACCURATELY CORRESPOND TO EVENTS OR SCENES DURING CINEMATOGRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS AND THE LIKE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63J500	A63J500	A61L912	A61L912	A63J2500	A63J9900	A63J2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63J	A63J	A61L	A61L	A63J	A63J	A63J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63J5	A63J5	A61L9	A61L9	A63J25	A63J99	A63J25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for intensifying sensorial perception of visual and/or acoustic representations, in particular in cinemas, theaters, concert and conference halls, as well as during slide or video shows, television and radio broadcasts, and the like, has an arrangement for individually storing and diffusing various perfumes and an associated arrangement for controlling the diffusion and supply of determined perfumes according to determined visual and/or acoustic events. The perfume storage and diffusion arrangement has several different perfume reservoirs that may be selectively made available by means of a perfume supply selector arrangement.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WITTEK GOETZ ULRICH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WITTEK, GOETZ-ULRICH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITTEK GOETZ-ULRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITTEK, GOETZ-ULRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Process for intensifying the sensorial perception of 
visual and/or acoustic presentations, wherein an audience 

is supplied in synchronism with the presentation of 
specific visual and/or acoustic events or scenes with 

matching scents, characterized in that, in order to 
minimize the overall amount of scent-carrying air 

discharged at the spectator, miniaturized single conduits 
(37) are used and less than 1 liter of air per second is 

emitted. 
Process according to claim 1, characterized in that 
between 0.3 and 0.00001 l/sec, in particular between 0.3 

and 0.005 l/sec, of air is emitted. 
Process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the respective scents are individually supplied from a 

scent reservoir in response to at least one selection 
signal. 
Process according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the intensity of supplied scents is 

adjusted to the individual events or presentations. 
Process according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the change of supplied scents is 

effected with the intensity thereof decreasing or 
increasing with time. 
Process according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the respective scents are supplied  

 
to and/or withdrawn from the audience separately or in 

groups. 
Process according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that supplied scents are withdrawn during 

and/or after the associated events of the presentation. 
Process according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the scents are supplied in the form 

of a scent-enriched scent/air mixture stream enriched with 
ingredients of very low specific gravity so that the 

emerging scent/air mixture is lighter than the ambient 
air. 
Process according to claim 8, characterized in that the 
ingredient of very low density used to enrich the 

scent/air mixture stream is helium. 
Process according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the scent-enriched scent/air mixture 

stream is discharged at a temperature which is 3 to 5 
degrees higher than the ambient temperature. 
Process of one of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that a rotary whirling motion progressing in the direction 

of flow is imparted on the emerging scent/air mixture to 
thus form a directional flow channel over a predetermined 

length after discharge. 
Device for carrying out a process according to any one of 
claims 1 to 11 with one or more associated arrangements 

for controlling the discharge and supply of scents 
depending on specific visual and/or acoustic events, 

characterized in that, in order to minimize the amount of 
air discharged at the spectator, miniaturized single  

 
conduits (37) are provided and less than 1 l/sec of air is 

discharged. 
Device according to claim 12, characterized in that the 
inner diameter of the single conduits (37) is 3 to 4 mm. 
Device according to claim 12, characterized in that the 
supplied air in a scent helix is intensively enriched with 

scents. 
Device according to claim 12, characterized in that a 
scent-technical control is effected by means of a scent 

analyzer. 
Device according to claim 12, characterized in that scent 
carriers (10) are adjusted such that in normal operation, 

e.g., already at a 70% opening degree of a scent intensity 
controlling means (33) they discharge the full scent. 
Device according to claim 12 or 13, characterized by an 
arrangement for individually storing and releasing 

different scents and an associated means for controlling 
specific scent discharges and supplies (13) -- hereinafter 

referred to as scent roll controlling means -- depending 
on specific visual and/or acoustic events. 
Device of claim 17, characterized in that an electronic 
amplifyier loop is incorporated in the scent roll 

controlling means (13). 
Device of claim 18, characterized in that the scent 
storing and releasing arrangement comprises a plurality of 

different scent reservoirs which may be selectively made 
available by a selecting means for the scent supply.  

 
Device according to claim 19, characterized in that the 
scents are stored in releasable solid or liquid form and 

can be released into a passing air flow by way of contact. 
Device according to claim 19, characterized in that the 
scents are stored in the form of gas or in the form of a 

fluid or aerosol and are releasable under pressure. 
Device according to one of claims 19 to 21, characterized 
in that the scents are stored in at least one scent switch 

box (7, 14a), a scent disc (5) or a scent roll 
arrangement. 
Device according to one of claims 18 to 22, characterized 
in that the scent storing and releasing arrangement 

comprises a scent intensity controlling means. 
Device according to any one of claims 18 to 23, 
characterized in that the scent storing and releasing 

arrangement comprises a spiral-shaped conduit system 
including inlet and outlet control elements and an 

associated by-pass conduit for introducing the respective 
scent into an air flow. 
Device according to claim 24, characterized in that the 
spiral-shaped conduit system is provided as scent helix. 
Device according to one of claims 17 to 25, characterized 
in that the scent storing and releasing arrangement 

comprises at least two contact surfaces for air flow 
portions for introducing the respective scent into an air 

flow. 
Device according to one of claims 17 to 26, characterized 
in that the scent storing and releasing arrangement is  

 
designed as scent mixer for several basic scen
t components 
provided in scent mixing rolls activatable by single air 

flows. 
Device according to one of claims 17 to 27, characterized 
in that the scent storing and releasing arrangement is 

provided as a mobile unit, in particular in connection 
with scent discs (57) or a scent mixer. 
Device according to claim 28, characterized in that 
sequence of contacts with the scent mixing rolls is 

determined as a function of the scent intensity thereof so 
that the strongest scent component is contacted last, and 

the scent mixer comprises a blower to generate the air 
flow. 
Device according to one of claims 19 to 29, characterized 
in that the scent reservoirs are protected against scent 

loss by openable sealing means and/or by temperature-dependent 
scent release. 
Device according to one of claims 17 to 30, characterized 
in that the arrangement for activating the release and 

supply of individual scents comprises a detecting means 
for individual scent control signals in synchronism with 

respective events. 
Device according to claim 31, characterized in that the 
detecting means is designed for receiving optical and/or 

electric scent control signals containing encoded 
information on the type of scent and/or age of scent 

reservoirs and/or frequency of use of the scent reservoir 
and on the duration of scent supply.  

 
Device according to claim 32, characterized in that the 
scent control signals further contain information on the 

scent intensity, the beginning and end of scent supply, 
and the change of scents. 
Device according to claims 31 to 33, characterized in that 
encoded film tracks or event-coupled signal transmitters 

are provided as scent control signals. 
Device according to one of claims 31 to 34, characterized 
in that the arrangement for activating the release and 

supply of individual scents comprises a source of 
compressed air connected to the arrangement for 

individually storing and releasing different scents and to 
a subsequent scent distribution system. 
Device according to claim 35, characterized in that the 
scent distribution system comprises controllable scent 

outlets for groups of chairs and/or individual chairs. 
Device according to one of claims 35 or 36, characterized 
in that a scent withdrawal system for individual chairs 

and/or groups of chairs is associated with the scent 
distribution system. 
Device according to one of claims 35 to 37, characterized 
in that the scent distribution system comprises conduits 

whose lengths and diameters are adjusted to the 
distribution situation. 
Device according to claim 38, characterized in that the 
conduits are designed as twin conduits (37,56) with supply 

and return conduits for adjusting the scent intensity 
individually at each chair.  

 
Device according to one of claims 35 to 39, characterized 
in that, due to the arrangement for activating the release 

of specific scents, the scent distribution system can be 
filled prior to the associated events with selected scents 

to be released directly in coordination with the 
respective events. 
Device according to one of claims 17 to 40, characterized 
in that helical elements, in particular small helically 

arranged ducts, are provided to generate a directional 
rotating whirling stream of emerging scent/air mixture in 

the area of the outlet openings of an outlet means. 
Device according to claim 41, characterized in that two 
outlet openings are arranged in each outlet means such 

that the two rotating scent/air mixture streams perform 
rotary motions in opposite directions and sustain each 

other in said rotary motions in order to additionally 
generate a tangential directional scent/air mixture 

stream. 
Device according to one of claims 36 to 42, characterized 
in that the scent outlets of the groups of chairs and/or 

individual chairs are pivotably mounted for adjusting the 
direction of discharge of the scent/air mixture stream. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
