<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633506</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Scanning exposure apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F720	G03F720	G03F7207	G03F7207	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a projection exposure apparatus for 
transferring a pattern formed in a transfer area on a 

mask (12) onto a photosensitive substrate by a scanning 
exposure system, there is an illuminating 

optical system for illuminating the 
transfer area of the mask through a rectangular 

aperture (44a) in a field stop (44) which is almost 
conjugate with the pattern surface of the mask and, conjugate with the 

pattern surface of the mask, there are 
light intercepting members (38,39) defining an aperture of which 

the width is variable in the direction of the relative 
scanning of the mask and the photosensitive substrate (5) 

for shielding at least a part of an illumination area 
on the mask which is defined by the rectangular 

aperture in the field stop from the light; there are also 
members (40A,40B) for driving the 

light intercepting members (38,39) so as to change the width of 
the variable aperture in operative association with the 

change in the position of the illumination area on the 
transfer area of the mask as the mark is scanned. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an exposure apparatus
used in the lithography process for manufacturing, for
example, semiconductor devices, liquid crystal display
devices, thin film magnetic heads or the like, and
particularly to a scanning exposure apparatus in which
a mask (or a reticle) and a photosensitive substrate
are moved in synchronism with each other to thereby
expose the pattern of the mask on the photosensitive
substrate.Now, in the photolithography process for the
manufacture of semiconductor devices, use is made of a
projection exposure apparatus in which the pattern of a
mask or a reticle (hereinafter generically referred to
as the reticle) is transferred onto a semiconductor
wafer having a photosensitive material (photoresist)
applied thereto through a projection optical system.
Recently, in order to meet the tendency of
semiconductor devices toward bulkiness and minuteness,
it has been desired to accomplish the enlargement of
the image field of the projection optical system and an
improvement in resolution. However, it is very
difficult in design and manufacture to realize both of 
the higher resolution and wider field of the projection
optical system. So, attention has been paid to a
scanning type exposure apparatus in which, as
disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 4,747,678,
U.S. Patent No. 4,924,257 and U.S. Patent No.
5,194,893, only a localized area on a reticle is
illuminated and the reticle and a wafer are moved in
synchronism with each other to thereby transfer the
pattern of the reticle onto the wafer. The scanning
type exposure apparatus, even if the image field of the
projection optical system thereof is small, can
transfer a pattern image of a large area onto the wafer
and moreover can improve the resolution of the
projection optical system relatively easily.Now, in the scanning type exposure apparatus, the
reticle is scanned relative to an illumination area
defined by a field stop (reticle blind). Accordingly,
during the start and termination of the scanning, even
the outside of the pattern area on the reticle is
illuminated and therefore, an unnecessary pattern may
be transferred onto the wafer. To prevent the transfer
of the unnecessary pattern, it would occur to mind to
increase the width of a light intercepting zone which
defines the pattern area, but in such case, the area of
the pattern area on the reticle would become small, and
this is against the desire to make the area of the
transfer pattern large. Also, in a case where only one 
of two circuit patterns on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A scanning exposure apparatus provided with a projection optical
system (8, 113) for projecting an image of a pattern formed on a mask (12, R)

onto a substrate (5, W), a scanning device (22A, 22B, 47) for moving said
mask and said substrate synchronously in respective scanning directions,

wherein said scanning directions are substantially perpendicular to the optical
axis of the projection optical system, and an illuminating optical system for

applying illuminating light to said mask, the apparatus comprising:

a field stop, an aperture of which is disposed apart from a plane
conjugate with a pattern surface of said mask, and which defines an

illumination area (46) of the illuminating light on said mask;
a light intercepting member (38, 39, 107) which is arranged to shield
at least a part of the illumination area (46) of the illuminating light on the

mask; and
a member for driving (40A, 40B, 111) said intercepting member in
operative association with a change in the position of said illumination area

on the transfer area of said mask which is changed by said relative scanning.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein when the numerical
aperture of said substrate side of said projection optical system is NA
W
, the
coherence factor of said illuminating optical system is σ, the projecting

magnification of said projection optical system is M
RW
, the magnification of
an optical system disposed between the plane 

conjugate with the pattern surface of said mask near
the disposition plane of said field stop and the

pattern surface of said mask is M
BR
 and allowable
minimum value of the radius of blur, on said

substrate, of the light emitted from a point on the
disposition plane of said field stop is ΔDmin, the

interval Δz between the disposition plane of said
field stop and the plane conjugate with the pattern

surface of said mask in the direction of an optical
axis of said illuminating optical system satisfies

the following relation:

|Δz| ≥ ΔDmin/ [M
BR
•M
RW
•tan{arcsin(M
BR
•M
RW
•NA
W
•σ)}].
An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein said illuminating optical system includes a

pulse light source (31) generating pulse light as
said illuminating light.
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein
said pulse light source is an excimer laser source.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said driving device is arranged to move the

intercepting member in a driving direction
corresponding to the scanning direction of said

mask, and wherein said light intercepting member is
a variable field stop in which a width of an

aperture for passing said illuminating light
therethrough in the driving direction is variable.
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein
said variable field stop has two light intercepting

plates (38y, 39y, 107A, 107B) movable in the driving 

direction, and said driving device drives said two
light intercepting plates to thereby vary the width

of the aperture in the driving direction.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the aperture in said field stop (42) is set to a

shape conforming to a distribution of an integrated
exposure amount in a direction perpendicular to the

scanning direction.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said field stop is formed by applying light

intercepting film onto a light transmitting
substrate.
An apparatus according to claim 1, further
comprising:


a first optical member (56) for changing an
intensity distribution of the illuminating light on

a plane which is in Fourier transform relationship
with a pattern surface of said mask; and wherein a

shape of the aperture of the field stop is varied in
conformity with a change in said intensity

distribution on the plane.
An apparatus according to any preceding
claim, wherein said light intercepting member is

disposed in a plane conjugate with a pattern surface
of said mask.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said field stop (52) has a plurality of apertures

whose shapes are different from each other. 
An apparatus according to claim 11,
wherein the shapes of said plurality of apertures of

the field stop are different from each other at
their edges which define said illumination area in

the scanning direction of said mask.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said field stop has a substantially rectangular

aperture.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said light intercepting member has a first plate for

defining the illumination area in the scanning
direction of said mask and a second plate for

defining the illumination area in a direction
perpendicular to the scanning direction of said

mask, and wherein said first plate is disposed in a
plane conjugate with a pattern surface of said mask

and said second plate is disposed apart from the
plane conjugate with the pattern surface.
An apparatus according to claim 1, further
comprising:


a first optical member (56) which changes an
illuminating method by the illuminating light for

said mask, and wherein a shape of the aperture of
the field stop is varied in conformity with a change

in said illuminating method.
An apparatus according to claim 15,
wherein said illuminating method includes a modified

illuminating method. 
An apparatus according to claim 15,
wherein a width of the aperture of the field stop is

varied in conformity with the change in said
illuminating method.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
a width of the aperture of said field stop in a

first direction corresponding to the scanning
direction of said mask varies depending on the

position with respect to a second direction which is
perpendicular to said first direction.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
