<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634937</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VACCINES CONTAINING NON-IONIC SURFACTANT VESICLES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K14005	A61K900	A61K9127	A61K3900	C07K700	C07K14435	A61K3939	C07K723	A61K9127	A61K3900	A61K900	C07K1445	C07K1412	A61K908	A61K3939	A61K908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	A61K	C07K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	A61K9	A61K9	A61K39	C07K7	C07K14	A61K39	C07K7	A61K9	A61K39	A61K9	C07K14	C07K14	A61K9	A61K39	A61K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Non-ionic surfactant vesicles (NSIV) with entrapped antigen act as potent immunological adjuvants and can produce antibody titres of the same order of magnitude as those using Freund's Complete Adjuvant. The invention provides vaccines comprising such vesicles. Preferably non-ionic surfactants are glycerol esters particularly 1-monopalmitoyl glycerol. The vesicles may be administered by injection or via the mucosal route, oral administration being preferred.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROTEUS MOLECULAR DESIGN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROTEUS MOLECULAR DESIGN LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALEXANDER JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREWER JAMES MACDONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALEXANDER, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREWER, JAMES MACDONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns improvements in or relating 
to vaccines and more particularly relates to a novel 
adjuvant for use e.g. in vaccines containing synthetic 
antigens. Many successful human and veterinary vaccines 
employ attenuated living pathogens. However, recent 
studies with a whole range of pathogenic infections have 
identified potentially protective, species-specific 
antigens which can be produced in bulk using recombinant 
DNA technology and improved culturing, harvesting and 
purifying techniques. It is also now feasible to 
produce wholly synthetic peptide antigens which mimic 
significant epitopes of a natural antigen. Subunit 
vaccines are vaccines which contain only certain 
antigenic parts of the pathogen ie. can include 
antigenic proteins or individual peptide epitopes. 
Suitable peptides may be designed by computer modelling 
techniques. Such synthetic antigens have many potential 
advantages, including purity, stability, a high level of 
protection, specificity and a guaranteed lack of any 
pathogenic properties as are sometimes seen with 
vaccines containing attenuated pathogens. Unfortunately, antigens of low molecular weight, 
whether made by chemical synthesis or by recombinant 
means, exhibit an inherently low antigenicity; in 
general, they are weak stimulators of the immune 
response. Even after conjugation to a carrier protein 
such as purified protein derivative of tuberculin (PPD) 
their immunogenicity is often inadequate to elicit an 
adequate response. This problem can be overcome by the use of 
adjuvants, but such adjuvants introduce further 
difficulties. The only adjuvant currently licensed for 
use in man is aluminium hydroxide. However aluminium 
hydroxide is not considered to be an adequate adjuvant  
 
for all antigens as it does not boost cell-mediated 
immunity (CMI), an essential property if a vaccine is to 
be successful against intracellular pathogens such as 
Leishmania and Toxoplasma. Freund's Complete Adjuvant 
(FCA) does stimulate cellular immunity but is unsuitable 
for human or veterinary use as it promotes granuloma 
formation, adhesions, and other toxic side effects. FCA 
also produces a local inflammatory reaction which can 
persist for months. There is an urgent need for new 
non-toxic adjuvants which promote cell-mediated immunity 
(CMI), preferably to a level comparable with that seen 
with FCA. Indeed, such adjuvants will be essential if 
the full potential of subunit vaccines is to be 
realised. We have now discovered that non-ionic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vaccine comprising at least one antigen entrapped 
in non-ionic surfactant vesicles, wherein said antigen 

alone elicits a weak immune response. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 1 wherein the antigen 
is a peptide. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 2 wherein the peptide 
is of synthetic or recombinant origin. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 3 wherein the peptide 
contains from 8 to 50 amino acid units. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 4 wherein the peptide 
contains from 10 to 20 amino acid units. 
A vaccine as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 5 
wherein the peptide is linked to a carrier. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 1 wherein the antigen 
is selected from antigens of the protozoan 
Toxoplasma 
gondii
 and luteinising hormone release hormone and its 
analogues of formula pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Tyr-X-Leu-Arg-Pro-Gly-Y-Z 

wherein X represents Gly or a D-amino acid, Y 
represents one or more amino acid residues, which may be 

the same or different, and Z represents Cys or Tyr, such 
that the solution conformation of said analogue is 

substantially similar to that of native LHRH. 
A vaccine as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims wherein said non-ionic surfactant comprises a 

glycerol ester. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 8 wherein said 
glycerol ester is a glycerol monoester comprising C
12
-C
20
  
alkanoyl or alkenoyl moieties. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 9 wherein the 
glycerol ester is 1-monopalmitoyl glycerol. 
A vaccine as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 

wherein the vesicles comprise ethers based on glycerol 
or a lower aliphatic glycol. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 11 wherein the ethers 
are glycerol monoethers or monoethers based on lower 

aliphatic glycols comprising C
12
-C
20
 alkanyl or alkenyl 
moieties. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 12 wherein the 
monoethers comprise up to 5 glycol units. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 12 wherein the 
glycerol ether is 1-monocetyl glycerol ether or the 

lower aliphatic glycol ether is diglycol cetyl ether. 
A vaccine as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims wherein the vesicles comprise charge-producing 

amphiphilic molecules. 
A vaccine as claimed in claim 15 wherein the 
charge-producing amphiphilic molecule contains an acidic 

group selected from carboxylate, phosphate or sulphate. 
A vaccine as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in a form suitable for subcutaneous, 

intramuscular or intradermal administration. 
A vaccine as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16 
in a form suitable for mucosal administration. 
A vaccine as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16  
 

in a form suitable for oral administration. 
A vaccine comprising at least one antigen entrapped 
in non-ionic surfactant vesicles, said vaccine being in 

a form suitable for oral administration. 
A vaccine comprising at least one antigen entrapped 
in non-ionic surfactant vesicles, said vaccine being in 

a form suitable for mucosal administration. 
A method for preparing a vaccine comprising 
entrapping at least one antigen in non-ionic surfactant 

vesicles, wherein said antigen alone elicits a weak 
immune response. 
A method of formulating an antigen as an orally-active 
vaccine comprising entrapping said antigen in 

non-ionic surfactant vesicles. 
A method as claimed in claim 22 or claim 23 wherein 
the vaccine is as defined in any one of claims 1 to 21. 
A method of formulating at least one antigen to 
stimulate antibody production via the Th1 T lymphocyte 

pathway comprising entrapping said at least one antigen 
in non-ionic surfactant vesicles. 
A method for potentiating the immunogenicity of at 
least one antigen to a level at least equal to that 

obtained by the use of Freund's Complete Adjuvant 
comprising entrapping said at least one antigen in non-ionic 

surfactant vesicles. 
A method as claimed in claim 25 or claim 26 wherein 
said antigen is as defined in any one of claims 1 to 7 

and said vesicles are as defined in any one of claims 8 
to 16.  

 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 27 
wherein the antigen is entrapped within preformed 

vesicles. 
Non-ionic surfactant vesicles having at least one 
antigen entrapped therein for the stimulation of cell-mediated 

and/or humoral immunity, wherein said antigen 
alone elicits a weak immune response. 
Non-ionic surfactant vesicles as claimed in claim 
29 for use as an orally administrable immunological 

adjuvant. 
Non-ionic surfactant vesicles as claimed in claim 
29 or claim 30 wherein the antigen is as defined in any 

one of claims 1 to 7. 
Non-ionic surfactant vesicles as claimed in claim 
30 or claim 31 wherein the vesicles comprise ester-linked 

surfactant molecules. 
Use of at least one antigen entrapped in non-ionic 
surfactant vesicles in the manufacture of a product for 

use in potentiating the immunological response to said 
at least one antigen in a mammalian or non-mammalian 

subject. 
Use of at least one antigen entrapped in non-ionic 
surfactant vesicles in the manufacture of a product for 

use in stimulating cell mediated and/or humoral immunity 
in response to said at least one antigen in a mammalian 

or non-mammalian subject. 
Use of at least one antigen entrapped in non-ionic 
surfactant vesicles in the manufacture of a product for 

use in stimulating antibody production via the Th1 T 
lymphocyte pathway in response to said at least one  

 
antigen in a mammalian or non-mammalian subject. 
Use of at least one antigen entrapped in non-ionic 
surfactant vesicles in the manufacture of a vaccine in a 

form suitable for oral administration. 
Use of at least one antigen entrapped in non-ionic 
surfactant vesicles in the manufacture of a vaccine in a 

form suitable for mucosal administration. 
Use as claimed in any one of claims 33 to 37 
wherein said subject is mammalian. 
Use as claimed in any one of claims 33 to 38 
wherein said antigen is as defined in any one of claims 

1 to 7 and said vesicles are as defined in any one of 
claims 8 to 16. 
An orally administrable vaccine comprising at least 
one antigen entrapped in non-ionic surfactant vesicles 

in the form of a powder, tablet, syrup, capsule or 
granule. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
