<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636336</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vacuum cleaner with silencing device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47L900	A47L900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47L	A47L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47L9	A47L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A silencing device for a vacuum cleaner. In a primary embodiment, 
the silencing device includes dampers (41,42) for absorbing operational 

vibration of a suction motor (1). The operational noises of the suction motor 
(1) are intercepted and suppressed by a middle case (30), a lower case (10), 

a bottom case (50) and a top case (20). The exhaust noises caused by exhaust 
air flow are repeatedly absorbed and suppressed by a plurality of exhaust ports 

(I - VIII). The exhaust air flow is also dispersed so as to suppress the exhaust 
noises. In the primary embodiment, the noises generated by both the suction 

motor (1) and the exhaust air flow are effectively suppressed to desired low 
levels. In a second embodiment, the silencing device comprises a noise 

absorber (61) for absorbing and suppressing both suction noises caused by 
suction air flow and operational noises of the suction motor (1). The silencing 

device also has a cover (62) for covering and supporting the front surface of 

the noise absorber (61). The back of the noise absorber is supported by a 
rear supporter (63). In the second embodiment, the noises generated by both 

the suction motor (1) and the suction air flow during suction of dirt-laden air 
by the suction motor (1) are effectively suppressed to desired low levels. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOI JONG-SU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM TAE-SIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOI, JONG-SU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM, TAE-SIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to a silencing
device of a vacuum cleaner for effectively suppressing
noises of the vacuum cleaner such as caused by a
suction motor, suction air flow and exhaust air flow and,
more particularly, to an improved structure in such a
silencing device of the vacuum cleaner for improving the
noise suppressing effect.In the prior art, there have been proposed and
widely used several types of silencing devices for vacuum
cleaners.For example, Japanese U.M. Publication No. Sho.
62-45631 (applied on Oct. 23, 1981 and published on
Dec. 7, 1987) discloses a silencing device for a vacuum
cleaner which is shown in Figure 1 of the accompanying
drawings.As shown in Figure 1, the conventional silencing
device for a vacuum cleaner comprises a suction motor
2' provided in a cleaner casing 1'. In Figure 1, the
exhaust port provided on the back of the casing 1' for
exhausting the purified air to the outside is designated
by the numeral 3' - The suction motor 2' for generating
suction force communicates with the exhaust port 3'
through both an air path 4' and an exhaust silencer 5'.
The exhaust silencer 5' defines an exhaust path 6'
therein. In the above silencing device, the exhaust path
6' of the exhaust silencer 5' is slangy connected to the
air path 4' at an obtuse angle. With the slant connection
between the exhaust path 6' and the air path 4' of the
casing 1', it is possible to suppress the turbulence noise
caused by the exhaust air flow having already passed
the suction motor 2'. In the above silencing device, the
turbulence noise is partly absorbed and suppressed by
a noise absorbing material 7'.However, the above silencing device for a vacuum
cleaner, while partly absorbing and suppressing the
exhaust noise caused by the exhaust air flow having
passed the suction motor 2', nevertheless has a problem
that the exhaust air flow should pass through a relatively
short path and be exhausted to the outside of the
casing 1' from only one exhaust port 3' of the casing 1',
so that it is impossible to achieve the desired noise
absorbing and suppressing effect.The conventional silencing device has no means for
suppressing the suction noise caused by the suction
motor 2' so that it cannot help letting the suction noise
emit to the outside of the casing 1'. Furthermore, the
conventional silencing device cannot effectively absorb
and suppress the noise caused by the exhaust air flow
of the suction motor 2'. In this regard, a vacuum cleaner
equipped with the above silencing device cannot
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vacuum cleaner comprising :

damping means (41,42) for absorbing operational
vibration of a suction motor (1) of the

cleaner;
noise intercepting means (30,10,50,20) for
intercepting operational noises generated by

said suction motor;
noise absorbing and suppressing means (A-E)
for guiding

exhaust air flow along first and second separated routes while absorbing and suppressing
exhaust noises caused by the exhaust air

flow having already passed through said suction
motor; and
noise dispersing means (I - VIII) for dispersing
said exhaust air flow,

wherein
a plurality of exhaust paths (a-g) are provided wherein

a first portion of exhaust air flows along a first
route (a, c, d, e) of exhaust paths to be exhausted from the

cleaner via a first exhaust port (VIII) of the
noise dispersing means and a second portion

of exhaust air flows along a second route (b, f,
g) of exhaust paths to be exhausted from the cleaner via a second

exhaust port (V) of the noise dispersing
means of the device

and characterized in that said vacuum cleaner
comprises a top case, a lower case (10) mounted to the top case (20), a bottom case (50) mounted

to the lower case (10) and a middle case (30) disposed in said lower case (10), said suction motor
(1) being disposed in said middle case (30),

the noise absorbing and suppressing
means comprising a first cavity

(18') being provided in the lower
case (10) in order to form an exhaust

path in cooperation with both the
bottom case (50) and the middle case (30) and absorbing and

suppressing the noise caused by the
exhaust air flow, the lower case

(10) also including second and
third cavities (18'', 18''') cooperating

with the top case (20) so as to
define an exhaust path and to absorb and suppress the noises caused by the exhaust air flow, the first route separating from the second route

where a first part of the exhaust air flow is discharged to the outside of the middle case (30)
through a cover part (31) of the middle case and a remaining part of the exhaust air flow is

discharged to the outside of the middle case (30) through a rear part (38) of the middle case (30),
said first and second routes thereafter flowing the first and remaining parts of the exhaust air

flow separately from one another to be exhausted via the first exhaust port (VIII) and the second
exhaust port (V) respectively.
The cleaner according to Claim 1, wherein said
exhaust path means includes a first exhaust path

(A) for preliminarily absorbing and suppressing the
exhaust noises while guiding said exhaust air flow,

said first exhaust path (A) being defined between
said suction motor (1) and the cover part (31) of the

middle case (30), said middle case (30) receiving
the suction motor (1) therein.   
The cleaner according to Claim 2, further comprising
a second exhaust path (B) for secondarily

absorbing and suppressing the exhaust noises
while guiding the exhaust air flow already passed

through said first exhaust path (A), said second
exhaust path (B) being defined between the cover

(11) of the lower case (10) and said cover part (31) of
the middle case (30), said lower case (10) receiving

said middle case (30) therein.
The cleaner according to Claim 3, further comprising
a third exhaust path (C) for thirdly absorbing and

suppressing the exhaust noises while guiding the
exhaust air flow already passed through both the

second exhaust path (B) and an exhaust port (III) of
said middle case (30), said third exhaust path (C)

being defined between the bottom case (50) and an
outer cover (35) of said middle case (30).
The cleaner according to any of Claims 1 to 4,
wherein said exhaust path means includes a fourth

exhaust path (D) defined between the second cavity
of the lower case (10) and the top case (20).
The cleaner according to any of Claims 1 to 5,
wherein said exhaust path means includes a fifth

exhaust path (E) defined between the third cavity of a
lower case (10) and the top case (20).
The cleaner according to any of the preceding
Claims, wherein said noise dispersing means (I -

VIII) comprises:

said first exhaust port (VIII) and said second
exhaust port (V), which are provided with

respective noise absorbing filters; and
a plurality of further exhaust ports (I, II, III, IV,

VI, VII) for dispersing and suppressing the
exhaust noises while passing the exhaust air

flow therethrough.
The cleaner according to any of the preceding
Claims, wherein said noise intercepting means

(30,10,50,20) comprises:

the middle case (30) preliminarily intercepting
the operational noises of the suction motor (1);
the lower case (10) and the bottom case (50), said
lower (10) and bottom (50) cases secondarily

intercepting the noises already intercepted by
the middle case (30); and
the top case (20) thirdly intercepting the noises
already intercepted by both lower (10) and bottom

cases (50), thus to suppress emission of
the noises to the outside of the cleaner.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
