<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638177</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODULATING A LIGHT BEAM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B518	G02B518	G02B2600	G02B2608	G02B2608	G02B2600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G02B26	G02B26	G02B26	G02B26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modulator (10) for modulating incident rays of light, the modulator having several equally spaced beam elements (18), each having a light reflective planar surface. The beam elements are arranged and supported (12) parallel to each other, with their reflective surfaces parallel. During operation, the elements remain parallel, but the modulator moves the beams so that the perpendicular spacing of their reflective surfaces changes between two configurations. In both configurations, the spacing equals m/4 times the wavelength of incident light. In the first configuration, m equals an even whole number or zero, and the modulator acts to reflect the incident rays of light as a plane mirror. In the second configuration, m equals an odd number and the modulator diffracts the incident rays as they are reflected.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY
<
BR
>
OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOOM DAVID M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDEJAS FRANCISCO S A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOLGAARD OLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOOM, DAVID, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDEJAS, FRANCISCO, S., A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOLGAARD, OLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for
modulating a light beam and more particularly to the use
of a reflective, deformable diffraction grating for
performing such modulation.Devices which modulate a light beam, e.g. by altering
the amplitude, frequency or phase of the light, find a
number of applications. An example of such a device is a
spatial light modulator (SLM) which is an electronically
or optically controlled device which consists of one or
two-dimensional reconfigurable patterns of pixel elements,
each of which can individually modulate the amplitude,
phase or polarization of an optical wavefront.These devices have been extensively developed,
particularly for applications in the areas of optical
processing and computing. They can perform a variety of
functions such as: analog multiplication and addition,
signal conversion (electrical-to-optical, incoherent-to-coherent,
amplification, etc.), nonlinear operations and
short term storage. Utilizing these functions, SLMs have
seen many different applications from display technology
to optical signal processing. For example, SLMs have been
used as optical correlators (e.g., pattern recognition
devices, programmable holograms), optical matrix
processors (e.g., matrix multipliers, optical cross-bar
switches with broadcast capabilities, optical neural
networks, radar beam forming), digital optical
architectures (e.g., highly parallel optical computers)
and displays.The requirements for SLM technology depend strongly
on the application in mind: for example, a display
requires low bandwidth but a high dynamic range while 
optical computers benefit from high response times but do
not require such high dynamic ranges. Generally, systems
designers require SLMs with characteristics such as: high
resolution, high speed (kHz frame rates), good gray scale,
high contrast ratio or modulation depth, optical flatness,
VLSI compatible, easy handling capability and low cost.
To date, no one SLM design can satisfy all the above
requirements. As a result, different types of SLMs have
been developed for different applications, often resulting
in trade-offs.Texas Instruments, for instance, has developed a
"Deformable Mirror Device (DMD)" that utilizes an
electromechanical means of deflecting an optical beam.
The mechanical motions needed for the operation of the DMD
are relatively large and, as a result, the bandwidths are
limited to tens of kilohertz. This device, however, gives
good contrast ratios and high-resolution and is,
furthermore, compatible with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A modulator for modulating an incident beam of light,
the modulator comprising:


a plurality of equally spaced apart elongated elements
(18; 32, 34), each including a light reflective planar surface

(22; 38), the elements (18; 32, 34) being arranged in a grating
pattern (10) parallel to each other and with the light reflective

surfaces (22; 38) of the elements lying in one or more parallel
planes;
means (20; 36) for supporting the elements in relation
to one another; and
means for moving a predetermined first set of elements
(18; 34) relative to a predetermined second set of the elements

(32) between a first modulator configuration wherein said
first and second sets act to reflect the incident beam of light

(26) as a plane mirror, and a second modulator configuration
wherein said first and second sets diffract the incident beam

of light (26) as it is reflected from the surfaces of the
elements (18; 32, 34).
The modulator according to claim 1, wherein the
reflective surfaces of adjacent elements (18; 32, 34) lie within

planes separated by a distance equal to m/4 times a particular
wavelength of the incident beam of light, wherein m = an even

whole number or zero when the elements (18; 32, 34) are in the
first configuration and m = an odd whole number when the elements

(18; 32, 34) are in the second configuration. 
The modulator according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said
means for moving the elements operates to displace the first

set of elements (18; 34) in a direction normal to said planes.
The modulator according to claim 3, wherein alternate
elements (32, 34) are fixed relative to the supporting means

(36).
The modulator according to claim 1, wherein the means
for moving the first set of elements (18; 34) comprises means

for applying an electrostatic force to the first set of elements
(18; 34).
The modulator according to claim 5, wherein the
reflective surfaces are formed by metallic layers (22; 38)

deposited on the upper surfaces of said elements (18; 32, 34).
The modulator according to claim 6, wherein the means
for applying electrostatic force includes a voltage supply

coupled to the metallic layers (22; 38).
The modulator according to claim 2, wherein the
reflective surfaces of the plurality of elements (18; 32, 34)

are equal in dimensions and substantially rectangular in plan view.
The modulator according to claim 3, wherein the
elements (18; 32, 34) are deformable and resilient.
The modulator according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the spacing between each of the elements (18; 32, 34)

is substantially equal to the transverse width of each of the
elements. 
The modulator according to claim 10, wherein the

spacing between the planar reflective surfaces of said first set of elements and the
planar reflective surfaces of said second set of elements of the unmoved grating is

equal to one-half of a predetermined wavelength of the beam of incident light.
The modulator according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the means for moving the first set of elements (34)

comprises means for applying an electrostatic force between
the first (34) and second (32) set of elongated elements.
The modulator according to claim 12, wherein the
thickness of each element is equal to one-half the spacing

between the reflective surfaces of the first (18; 34) and second
(32) set of elongated elements.
The modulator according to any of claims 1 - 13,
wherein all elongated elements (32, 34) are arranged in one

common plane when in said modulator configuration acting as
a plane mirror.
The modulator according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein said first set of elements (18; 34) has a hysteretic

characteristic such that following application of a first
electrostatic force thereto to move it into said second configuration,

a second electrostatic force of lesser magnitude than
that of said first electrostatic force can be used to hold said

first set of elements (18; 34) in said second configuration.
The modulator according to claim 1, further comprising
a third set of elements and a fourth set of elements.
The modulator according to claim 9 or claim 14, wherein
an incident beam of light directed normal to said light reflective 

surfaces is reflected back along the incident beam path
when said grating (10) is in one position corresponding to the first configuration and said incident

beam of light is angularly diffracted relative to said incident
beam path when said grating (10) is moved to another position

corresponding to said second configuration.
The modulator according to any of the preceding claims,
further comprising ridges below the elements for reducing the contact area between

the elements (18; 32, 34) and the substrate (16; 36) for
preventing sticking.
The modulator according to claim 18, wherein the
elements are equally sized and equally

spaced apart parallel rectangular elements (18; 32, 34) having
an underside and wherein said ridges are positioned between the underside of

the elements (18; 32, 34) and the substrate (16; 36).
A light modulating device including an array of
individual light modulators for modulating an incident beam

of light to generate an image, each pixel of which has a
chromatic and/or luminous characteristic corresponding to a

physical characteristic of a corresponding modulator in the
array, wherein at least one modulator comprises a modulator

according to any of the preceding claims.
The device according to claim 20, wherein at least
three modulation components are provided which each comprise

a modulator according to any of claims 1 through 19, each said
modulation component being designed to diffract a different

color into an optical system when illuminated with a beam of
white light. 
A method of modulating a beam of light, the method
comprising:


causing the beam to impinge upon a plurality of equally
spaced apart elements (18; 32, 34), each including an elongated,

light reflective planar surface, the elements (18; 32, 34) being
arranged in a grating pattern parallel to each other and with

the light reflective surfaces of the elements (18; 32, 34) being
parallel to each other; and
moving a predetermined first set of the elements (18;
34) relative to a predetermined second set (32) of the elements

between a first modulator configuration wherein the incident
beam of light is reflected as by a plane mirror, and a second

modulator configuration wherein the incident beam of light is
diffracted as it is reflected from the elements (18; 32, 34).
The method according to claim 22, wherein the second
configuration the said some of the elements (18; 34) are moved

to positions wherein the spacing between the planes of the
reflective surfaces of adjacent elements is equal to m/4 times

a particular wavelength of the incident beam of light, wherein
m = an even whole number or zero when the elements are in the

first configuration and m = an odd whole number when the elements
(18; 32, 34) are in the second configuration.
The method according to claim 23, wherein the thickness
of each element (18; 32, 34) is equal to one-half the spacing

between the planes of the adjacent reflective surfaces when
in said first configuration. 
The method according to claim 24, wherein the said
some of the elements (18; 32) are caused to move relative to

the other elements (34) by applying electrostatic forces to
said some of the elements.
A modulator for modulating an incident beam of light,
the modulator (10) comprising a plurality of elements arranged

to act in concert to modulate the rays by means of diffraction,
said modulator including:


a plurality of equally spaced apart elongated elements
(48, 48') each including a light reflective planar surface,

the elements (48, 48') being arranged parallel to each other
and with the light reflective surface of the elongated elements

(48, 48') being parallel to each other;
means (50) for supporting the elongated elements (48,
48') in relation to one another; and
means (50) for moving the elongated elements (48,
48') relative to one another between a first modulator configuration

(48) wherein the modulator acts to reflect the incident
rays of light as plane mirror, and a second modulator configuration

(48') wherein the elongated elements (48') are arranged
in a grating pattern for diffracting the incident rays of light

as they are reflected therefrom.
The modulator according to claim 26, wherein the light
reflective surfaces of the elongated elements (48, 48') are parallel

to each other in both the first and the second configuration.
The modulator according to claim 27, wherein the
perpendicular spacing (d) between the reflective surfaces of

adjacent elongated elements (48, 48') is equal to m/4 times a
predetermined wavelength of the incident rays of light, wherein m = an 

even whole number or zero when the elongated elements (48, 48')
are in the first configuration and m = an odd number when the

elongated elements (48, 48') are in the second configuration.
The modulator according to claim 28, wherein the means
(50) for moving the elongated elements (48, 48') operates to

rotate the elongated elements (48, 48') when moving them relative
to one another.
A modulator as recited in claim 29, wherein alternate
elongated elements (48, 48') are fixed relative to the support

means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
