<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623626</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Automated allyl deprotection in solid-phase synthesis
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K100	B01J2344	B01J3128	B01J3126	C07K1113	C40B6014	B01J3116	C07B6100	C40B4004	C07K106	B01J1900	C07K112	C07B6100	C40B6014	B01J1900	B01J2344	C40B4010	B01J3124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	B01J	B01J	B01J	C07K	C40B	B01J	C07B	C40B	C07K	B01J	C07K	C07B	C40B	B01J	B01J	C40B	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K1	B01J23	B01J31	B01J31	C07K1	C40B60	B01J31	C07B61	C40B40	C07K1	B01J19	C07K1	C07B61	C40B60	B01J19	B01J23	C40B40	B01J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for removing an allyl protecting group from 
an allyl-protected derivative of a biologically relevant 

amino acid is disclosed. One relevant aspect of the 

method is the use of soluble organometallic catalyst, 
such as an organopalladium catalyst. Preferably, soluble 

tetrakistriphenylphosphine palladium (0) is used. The 
allyl deprotection method now disclosed is suitable for 

use on an instrument for automated peptide synthesis. 
Methods of preparing the soluble organometallic catalyst 

are also disclosed, as are soluble catalyst compositions. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Over the past quarter-century, techniques have been
developed and refined for the organic synthesis of
diverse molecules of biological relevance. In
particular, sophisticated methods have been developed for
peptide synthesis. These methods have made possible the
chemical synthesis of naturally-occurring peptides of
interest for research or therapeutic purposes. In
addition, many peptide structures have been synthesized
for which there is no known naturally-occurring
counterpart. It is now possible to synthetically prepare
branched or cyclic peptides, or peptides in which one or
more amino acid residues are glycosylated, sulfated,
phosphorylated or otherwise derivatized. The state of
the peptide synthetic art is reviewed in Barany et al.
(1987), 30 INT. J. PEPT. PROT. RES. 705-739 and Fields et
al. (1992), in SYNTHETIC PEPTIDES: A USER'S GUIDE, 77-183
(Grant, ed.).For many years, peptide structures were synthesized
manually, a laborious process which required significant
levels of expertise and was vulnerable to introduced
error. Recently, instruments have been developed for
automated peptide synthesis, an advance which
significantly expands the range and variety of peptide
structures that can be made. Automation allows for the
preparation of peptides on a larger scale than could
previously be attempted. Automated peptide synthesis
instrumentation and software have greatly expanded the
accessibility of peptide synthesis to academic and
industrial investigators in fields beyond organic
synthesis and protein chemistry. Synthesized peptide
structures are now used as tools in such diverse fields 
as nutrition, microbiology, immunology, physiology and
medicine.With the increasing sophistication and variety of
peptide synthetic techniques that have been reported,
however, there has been an increasing awareness of the
many limitations and undesired side-reactions that may be
provoked. Many of these are idiosyncratic to a
particular synthetic reagent or type of amino acid
derivative, and effectively limit the range of conditions
and combinations in which such reagents can be used.
Many reagent- and amino acid-specific undesired side-reactions
are also reviewed in Barany et al. (1987), Id.
at 727-730.Many additional and unexpected limitations and
undesired side-reactions have been encountered by those
adapting manual peptide synthetic techniques for use on
instruments for automated peptide synthesis. Efforts to
adapt existing methods of peptide synthesis for use in an
automated setting, and to develop new methods
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for removing an allyl protecting group from
an allyl-protected derivative of a biologically

relevant amino acid, comprising the steps of:

a) providing a soluble organopalladium catalyst;
said catalyst being provided under inert atmosphere

in a solvent comprising an organic acid and an acceptor;
b) contacting said catalyst with the allyl-protected
amino acid derivative;
c) incubating the allyl-protected amino acid with
said catalyst for a sufficient period of time

for the allyl protecting group to be
catalytically removed from the amino acid

derivative, such that an allyl-deprotected
amino acid derivative is obtained; and
d) separating the allyl-deprotected amino acid
derivative from the catalyst.
A method of Claim 1 wherein the soluble
organopalladium catalyst is an organopalladium (0)

catalyst.
A method of Claim 2 wherein the soluble
organopalladium catalyst is

tetrakistriphenylphosphine palladium (0).
A method of Claim 1 wherein the soluble
organopalladium catalyst is

tetrakistriphenylphosphine palladium (0), and
wherein steps (a)-(c) are carried out in an inert

atmosphere. 
A method of Claim 1 wherein the solvent is
chloroform, methylene chloride or benzene.
A method of Claim 1 wherein the organic acid is
formic acid, acetic acid or propionic acid.
A method of Claim 1 wherein the acceptor is
dimedone, N-methylaniline, N-N'-dimethylbarituic

acid, morpholine or N-methylmorpholine.
A method of Claim 1 wherein the soluble
organopalladium catalyst is

tetrakistriphenylphosphine palladium (0), said
catalyst being provided in a solvent comprising

acetic acid and N-methylmorpholine in chloroform,
said soluble catalyst being provided in an inert

atmosphere.
A method of Claim 8 wherein said solvent comprises
about 5% acetic acid and about 2.5% N-methylmorpholine

in chloroform.
A method for removing an allyl protecting group from
the allyl-protected derivative of a biologically

relevant amino acid, comprising the steps of:

a) providing a soluble tetrakistriphenylphosphine
palladium (0) catalyst, said catalyst being

provided in a solvent comprising acetic acid
and N-methylmorpholine in chloroform, said

catalyst further being provided under an inert
atmosphere;
b) contacting said catalyst with the allyl-protected
amino acid derivative under an inert

atmosphere; 
c) incubating the allyl-protected amino acid
derivative with said catalyst under an inert

atmosphere for a sufficient period of time for
the allyl protecting group to be catalytically

removed from the amino acid derivative, such
that an allyl-deprotected amino acid derivative

is obtained; and
d) separating the allyl-deprotected amino acid
derivative from the catalyst.
A method of Claim 10 wherein said solvent comprises
about 5% acetic acid and about 2.5% N-methylmorpholine

in chloroform.
A method of Claim 10 wherein the allyl-protected
derivative of a biologically relevant amino acid is

a derivative of alanine, arginine, asparagine,
aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamine, glutamic acid,

glycine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine,
methionine, ornithine, phenylananine, proline,

serine, threonine, tryptophan, tyrosine or valine.
A method of Claim 12 wherein the N
α
 functional group
of said allyl-protected derivative of a biologically

relevant amino acid is protected by an allyl group.
A method of Claim 12 wherein the allyl-protected
derivative of said biologically relevant amino acid

is further protected by a 
tert
-butyl, 
tert
-butyloxycarbonyl, 
tert
-amyloxycarbonyl,
adamantanyloxycarbonyl, 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl,

2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-propyloxycarbonyl,
dithiasuccinoyl, biphenylylisopropyloxycarbonyl, 

2,2,5,7,8-pentamethylchroman-6-sulfonyl
or phenylisopropyloxycarbonyl group.
A method of Claim 10 wherein the allyl-protected
derivative of a biologically relevant amino acid is

a derivative of arginine, asparagine, aspartic acid,
cysteine, glutamine, glutamic acid, histidine,

lysine, methionine, ornithine, serine, threonine, or
tyrosine, the side-chain functional group of which

is protected by an allyl protecting group, and the
N
α
 functional group of which is protected by a 
tert
-butyl,

tert
-butyloxycarbonyl, 
tert
-amyloxycarbonyl,
adamantanyloxycarbonyl, 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl,

2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-propyloxycarbonyl,
dithiasuccinoyl,

biphenylylisopropyloxycarbonyl, 2,2,5,7,8-pentamethyl-chroman-6-sulfonyl
or

phenylisopropyloxycarbonyl group.
A method of Claim 10 wherein the allyl-protected
derivative of a biologically relevant amino
 acid is
a side-chain sulfated, glycosylated, phosphorylated,

iodinated, alkylated, or lipidated derivative of
arginine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine,

glutamine, glutamic acid, histidine, lysine,
methionine, ornithine, serine, threonine or

tyrosine, wherein said modified amino acid side-chain
is protected by an allyl protecting group,

further wherein the N
α
 functional group of said
amino acid derivative is protected by a 
tert
-butyl,

tert
-butyloxycarbonyl, 
tert
-amyloxycarbonyl,
adamantanyl-oxycarbonyl, 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl,

2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-propyloxy-carbonyl,
dithiasuccinoyl, 

biphenylylisopropyloxycarbonyl, 2,2,5,7,8-pentamethylchroman-6-sulfonyl
or phenylisopropyloxycarbonyl

group.
A method of Claim 10 wherein the allyl-protected
derivative of a biologically relevant amino acid is

attached to a solid support.
A method of Claim 17 wherein the N
α
 functional group
of said allyl-protected derivative of a biologically

relevant amino acid is protected by an allyl group,
said allyl group mediating attachment of the

protected amino acid derivative to the solid
support.
A method of Claim 17 wherein the solid support is a
polyethylene glycol-polystyrene graft copolymer

support or a polystyrene support.
A method of Claim 17 wherein the allyl-protected
derivative of a biologically relevant amino acid is

attached to a solid support through a 5-(4-(9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl)-aminomethyl-3,5-dimethoxyphenoxy)valeric
acid, 5-[(9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl)aminoxanthen-2-oxy]
valeric
acid or p-alkoxybenzyl alcohol linker or

handle.
A method of Claim 17 wherein the allyl-protected
derivative of a biologically relevant amino acid is

present in a synthesized peptide formed of
biologically relevant amino acid residues linked

together by peptide bonds. 
A method of Claim 10 wherein the allyl-protected
derivative of a biologically relevant amino acid is

present in a synthesized peptide formed of
biologically relevant amino acid residues linked

together by peptide bonds, said peptide being
attached to a polyethylene glycol-polystyrene graft

copolymer support through a 5-(4-(9-fluorenylmethyloxy-carbonyl)aminomethyl-3,5-dimethoxy-phenoxy)valeric
acid handle or linker,

said peptide having been formed from biologically
relevant amino acid derivatives, the N
α
 functional
groups of which were protected by 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl

groups or allyl groups.
A method of preparing a soluble organopalladium
catalyst, comprising the steps of:


a) providing a solid organopalladium compound;
b) providing a solvent having therein an organic
acid and an acceptor;
c) contacting the solvent with a source of inert
gas, whereby inert conditions are established

in the solvent;
d) combining the solid organopalladium compound
with the solvent under an atmosphere of inert

gas, such that a mixture is formed; and
e) incubating the mixture under an atmosphere of
inert gas for a sufficient period of time for

the solid organopalladium compound to be
dissolved in the solvent, thereby forming a

soluble organopalladium catalyst.
A method of Claim 23 wherein the organopalladium
compound is an organopalladium (0) compound. 
A method of Claim 23 wherein the organopalladium
compound is tetrakistriphenylphosphine palladium

(0).
A method of Claim 23 wherein the organic acid is
formic acid, acetic acid or propionic acid.
A method of Claim 23 wherein the acceptor is
dimedone, N-methylaniline, N-N'-dimethylbarituic

acid, morpholine or N-methylmorpholine.
A method of Claim 23 wherein the organic acid is
acetic acid and the acceptor is N-methylmorpholine.
A method of Claim 23 wherein the organopalladium
compound is tetrakistriphenylphosphine palladium (0)

and the solvent is chloroform, said solvent
including about 5% acetic acid and about 2.5% N-methylmorpholine.
A composition including an organopalladium compound
dissolved, under an inert atmosphere, in a solvent,

said solvent including an organic acid and an
acceptor.
A composition of Claim 30 including an
organopalladium (0) compound.
A composition of Claim 30 including
tetrakistriphenyl-phosphine palladium (0).
A composition of Claim 30 wherein the solvent is
choloroform, methylene chloride or benzene. 
A composition of Claim 30 wherein the organic acid
is formic acid, acetic acid or propionic acid.
A composition of Claim 30 wherein the acceptor is
dimedone, N-methylaniline, N-N'-dimethylbarituic

acid, morpholine or N-methylmorpholine.
A composition of Claim 30 including
tetrakistriphenyl-phosphine palladium (0) dissolved,

under an inert atmosphere, in a chloroform solvent,
said solvent further including acetic acid and N-methylmorpholine.
A composition of Claim 30 wherein said chloroform
solvent includes about 5% acetic acid and about 2.5%

N-methyl-morpholine.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
