<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640747</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Boiler system pH/phosphate program control method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3318	F22D1100	F22B3752	G05D2102	G01N3318	F22D1100	F22B3700	C23F1108	G05D2100	C02F500	F22B3756	C23F1118	C02F504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	F22D	F22B	G05D	G01N	F22D	F22B	C23F	G05D	C02F	F22B	C23F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	F22D11	F22B37	G05D21	G01N33	F22D11	F22B37	C23F11	G05D21	C02F5	F22B37	C23F11	C02F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pH/phosphate program in a boiler water system is controlled by: (1) determining the 
feed rate of the phosphate to the boiler by adding to a phosphate-feed stream containing the 

phosphate feeding to the boiler a phosphate-feed tracer in known proportion to the phosphate, 
determining the concentration of the phosphate-feed tracer in the phosphate-feed stream and 

correlating the phosphate-feed tracer concentration to the concentration of the phosphate; (2) 
determining the boiler cycles value by adding an inert blowdown tracer to the boiler water at a 

known rate and determining the concentration of the blowdown tracer in the blowdown; (3) 
determining the blowdown pH value; (4) providing the data defining at least the phosphate-feed 

rate value, the boiler cycles value, and the blowdown pH value to a control center; (5) 
optionally maintaining the alkalinity source feed rate constant or providing the data defining the 

alkalinity source feed rate to the control center; wherein the control center directs at least one 
responsive adjustment of the phosphate feed to the boiler, the alkalinity source feed to the boiler, 

and/or the blowdown rate when a sodium to phosphate mole ratio in the boiler water strays from 
the target mole ratio, wherein the responsive adjustment directed by the control center changes 

the sodium to phosphate mole ratio in the boiler water in the direction of regaining the target 
sodium to phosphate mole ratio in the boiler water. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NALCO CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NALCO CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AVALLONE STANLEY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EISNER IAN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWEE ROGER W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBB JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AVALLONE, STANLEY C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EISNER, IAN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWEE, ROGER W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBB, JOHN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is in the technical field of internal boiler chemical treatment 
program controls, and in particular the control of pH/phosphate treatment programs. A boiler is a vessel in which water is vaporized into steam by the application of heat, 
typically on a continuous basis. The steam generated is most often used either as a direct or 
indirect heat transfer medium and/or to generate electric power. High pressure and/or high 
capacity boilers generally are water-tube boilers in which water is circulated within tubes and the 
applied heat (combustion products such as flame and hot combustion gases) flows across the 
outside of the tubes. Some of these water tubes may comprise the walls of the furnace in which 
the heat-generating combustion occurs. A boiler is a dynamic water system. Essentially pure H2O leaves the boiler as steam. 
Water also leaves the boiler as blowdown. The water lost from the boiler as steam or blowdown 
is replenished with boiler feedwater.  
 A boiler's internal surfaces are metallic heat transfer surfaces. The formation of scale 
deposits on, and the corrosion of, these internal surfaces are undesirable phenomena in any type 
of boiler. Measures taken against scale deposits and/or corrosion depend on the characteristics of 
the boiler and the boiler feedwater. The preventative measures are generally the purification of 
the feedwater, internal chemical treatment(s) of the water and the discharge of impurities in the 
blowdown. The major remedial measure is costly downtime for the cleaning of the internal 
surfaces. Scale deposition decreases heat transfer rates and promotes corrosion and overheating 
of these surfaces, and thus control of scale deposition is the primary objective of internal 
chemical treatment programs such as phosphate residual programs (with and without polymer 
and/or dispersants), all-polymer treatment programs, chelation programs and coagulation 
(carbonate) programs. These treatment programs provide preferential precipitation and/or 
solubilization/dispersion of calcium species and magnesium species. Some boilers require the use of feedwater having a high degree of purity to ensure high 
operational reliability. The impurities or chemical species that might be present in boiler 
feedwater are removed with the use of demineralizers, mixed bed polishers or other techniques in 
order to purify the feedwater prior to introduction into the boiler. The purity standards allow a 
maximum feedwater hardness of only 0.1 ppm or less. Such boilers are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of controlling a pH/phosphate program in a boiler water system wherein 
steam is generated from boiler water within a boiler and said steam is discharged from said 

boiler, said boiler water contains impurities and the concentration of said impurities in said boiler 
water is reduced by discharging fractions of said boiler water as blowdown, feedwater is fed to 

said boiler to replenish said water discharged from said boiler as steam and blowdown, wherein 
said boiler has a concentration cycle value which is the value of the average concentration ("C
F
") 
of an inert component in said blowdown at steady state divided by its concentration ("C
I
") in said 
feedwater, and phosphate and optionally an alkalinity source are fed to said boiler in 

amounts to attempt to provide a sodium to phosphate mole ratio in said boiler water within a 
target mole ratio range that is bounded by known PO
4
/pH coordinates on a plot of 
orthophosphate concentration versus pH of a pH/phosphate program, comprising: 


(1) determining the feed rate of said phosphate to said boiler by adding to a 
phosphate-feed stream containing said phosphate feeding to said boiler a phosphate-feed tracer in 

known proportion to said phosphate, determining the concentration of said phosphate-feed tracer 
in said phosphate-feed stream and correlating said phosphate-feed tracer concentration to said 

concentration of said phosphate;  
 
(2) determining said boiler cycles value by adding an inert blowdown tracer to said 
boiler water at a known rate and determining said concentration of said blowdown tracer in said 

blowdown; 
(3) determining the blowdown pH value; 
(4) optionally determining the feed rate of said alkalinity source to said boiler by 
sampling a alkalinity source-feed stream containing said alkalinity source feeding to said boiler 

and determining the concentration of said alkalinity source in said alkalinity source-feed stream; 
(5) providing the data defining at least said phosphate-feed rate value, said boiler cycles 
value, and said blowdown pH value to a control center; 
(6) optionally maintaining said alkalinity source feed rate constant or providing the data 
defining said alkalinity source feed rate to said control center; 
wherein said control center directs at least one responsive adjustment of said phosphate 
feed to said boiler, said alkalinity source feed to said boiler, and/or said blowdown rate when a 

sodium to phosphate mole ratio in said boiler water strays from said target mole ratio, 
wherein said responsive adjustment directed by said control center changes said sodium 
to phosphate mole ratio in said boiler water in the direction of regaining said target sodium to 

phosphate mole ratio in said boiler water. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said phosphate is fed to said feedwater stream by a 
phosphate pump upstream of said boiler and said phosphate-feed stream is said feedwater stream 

downstream of said phosphate pump. 
The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein a solitary tracer is both said 
phosphate-feed tracer and said blowdown tracer. 
The method of Claim 3 wherein said solitary tracer is also a feedwater tracer and the 
concentration of said solitary tracer in said feedwater stream is correlated to the feed rate of said 

feedwater to said boiler. 
The method of any of claims 1 - 4 wherein said 
phosphate-feed tracer is a fluorescent tracer and 

said concentration of said phosphate-feed tracer in said phosphate-feed stream is substantially 
continuously monitored on-line by sensing the fluorescent characteristic of said phosphate-feed 

tracer in said phosphate-feed stream.  
 
The method of any of claims 1 - 5 wherein said blowdown 
tracer is a fluorescent tracer and said 

boiler cycles is substantially continuously monitored on-line by sensing the fluorescent 
characteristic of said blowdown tracer in said blowdown. 
The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said phosphate-feed tracer and said 
blowdown tracer are distinct chemical species. 
The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said phosphate-feed tracer 
and said blowdown tracer are each fluorescent tracers and are distinct chemical species, 


wherein said phosphate-feed tracer and said blowdown tracer are each detected and 
quantified in a single feedwater and/or blowdown fraction by concurrent fluorescence analyses, 

and 
wherein sufficiently separated wavelengths of radiation are used to excite each of said 
phosphate-feed tracer and said blowdown tracer in said single fraction and the fluorescent 

emissions of said phosphate-feed tracer and said blowdown tracer are observed and measured at 
sufficiently separated emission wavelengths for said concurrent analysis. 
The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said phosphate-feed tracer and said 
blowdown tracer are distinct chemical species, 


wherein said phosphate-feed tracer and said blowdown tracer are each detected and 
quantified in a single feedwater and/or blowdown fraction by concurrent analyses, and 
wherein said concurrent analyses each employ a distinct concentration calibration curve 
for each respective distinct tracer. 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 9 wherein at least one 
of said phosphate-feed tracer and said blowdown tracer is a 

sulfonated naphthalene or a water-soluble salt thereof. 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 10 wherein at least 
one of said phosphate-feed tracer and said 

blowdown tracer is a water-soluble salts of 2-naphthalene sulfonic acid or 1,5-naphthalene 
disulfonic acid. 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 11 wherein at least 
one of said phosphate-feed tracer and said 

blowdown tracer is a sulfonated derivative of pyrene.  
 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 12 wherein at least 
one of said phosphate-feed tracer and said 

blowdown tracer is a 1,3,6,8-pyrene tetrasulfonic acid or water-soluble salt thereof. 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 13 wherein at least 
one of said phosphate-feed tracer and said 

blowdown tracer is a component of a formulated phosphate product wherein said formulated 
phosphate product optionally contains at least one boiler additive other than phosphate. 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 3 wherein a solitary 
tracer is employed as an inert tracer to 

function as the phosphate-feed tracer, as a feedwater tracer, and as the blowdown tracer for boiler 
cycles determination purposes. 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 15 wherein a 
feedwater-tracer is added to said boiler in said feedwater, 


wherein said feedwater tracer and said phosphate-feed tracer are the same tracer or 
different tracers, and 
wherein at least one of said phosphate-feed tracer and said feedwater tracer is an active 
tracer that is a corrosion inhibitor. 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 16 wherein a 
feedwater-tracer is added to said boiler in said feedwater, 


wherein said feedwater tracer and said phosphate-feed tracer are the same tracer or 
different tracers, and 
wherein at least one of said phosphate-feed tracer and said feedwater tracer is an active 
tracer that is an aromatic azole. 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 17 wherein said 
phosphate-feed tracer is an inert tracer that is 

added to the water of said boiler system in an amount at least sufficient to provide a 
concentration of said inert tracer in the blowdown at steady state of at least about 0.1 ppm. 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 18 wherein at least 
one of said phosphate-feed tracer and said 

blowdown tracer is a fluorescent tracer and said fluorescent tracer is quantified to provide said 
phosphate feed rate value and/or said boiler cycles value by a combination of high-pressure 

liquid chromatography to separate said fluorescent tracer from a fluid matrix and fluorescence 
analyses of said fluorescent tracer.  

 
The method of any of Claims 1 - 19 wherein said 
phosphate-feed tracer is an active tracer, 


wherein said active tracer provides a performance benefit to said boiler water system 
downstream of the point at which said phosphate feed rate value is determined, and 
wherein said phosphate-feed tracer is added to said boiler in at least in the amount 
effective to provide said performance benefit and at least in the amount effective for said 

determination of said phosphate feed rate value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
