<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631147</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Eddy current test method and apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2702	G01N2702	G01N2772	G01N2772	G01R2702	G01R2702	G01R3128	G01R3128	H01L2166	H01L2166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01R27	G01R27	G01R31	G01R31	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for performing 
conductance measurements on a sample using an eddy 

current probe, without the need for measurement or 
knowledge of the separation between probe and sample. 

The probe comprises sense and drive coils mounted in 
close proximity to each other (or a single coil which 

functions as both a sense and drive coil), circuitry 
for producing AC voltage in the drive coil, and a 

meter for measuring in-phase and quadrature 
components of induced voltage in the sense coil. 

Look-up table data can be generated for use in 
subsequent measurements on samples of unknown 

conductance by performing eddy current measurements 
on samples having different known conductances to 

generate reference lift-off curves, processing the 
reference lift-off curves to determine a conductance 

function relating each known conductance to a 
location along a selected curve, and storing 

conductance values determined by the conductance 
function for different points on the selected curve 

as the look-up table data. An unknown sample 
conductance can then be determined by generating a 

lift-off curve from voltage measurements at different 
probe separations from the sample, determining a new 

intersection voltage pair representing the 
intersection of the lift-off curve with the selected 

curve, and determining the unknown conductance as a 
look-up table value indexed by the new intersection 

voltage pair. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROMETRIX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROMETRIX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMAN KURT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALLORY CHESTER L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMAN, KURT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALLORY, CHESTER L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to methods and apparatus 
for performing eddy current testing and processing 
eddy current test data, and for measuring the 
conductance or conductivity of a sample (such as a 
semiconductor wafer). For a variety of commercially significant 
purposes it is desirable to perform nondestructive 
tests to measure the electrical conductance, 
conductivity, or resistivity of a sample. For example, during semiconductor product 
manufacturing, there is a need to measure the 
conductivity of various conductive thin films on 
semiconductor wafers and integrated circuits in a 
nondestructive manner. Also during semiconductor 
product manufacturing, it is useful to perform stress 
measurements on semiconductor wafers and integrated 
circuits in a nondestructive manner. It is well known that such measurements can be 
obtained by eddy current testing. One conventional 
apparatus for performing eddy current testing on a 
sample is described in U.S. Patent 4,000,458, issued 
December 28, 1976. Another is described in 
Jeanneret, et al., "Inductive Conductance 
Measurements in Two-Dimensional Superconducting 
Systems," Applied Phys. Lett. 55 (22), pp. 2336-2338 
(November 27, 1989). The Jeanneret, et al., 
apparatus employs two coils, both positioned above 
the sample: a drive coil (of radius 2.05 mm), and an 
astatically wound receiver coil (having radius 1.2 
mm) coaxially mounted within the drive coil. The  
 
receiver coil has a first section (wound with right-handed 
helical geometry) and a second section (wound 
with left-handed helical geometry). The lower end of 
the drive coil is positioned at a first known 
distance (0.3 mm) above the sample, and the lower end 
of the lower section of the receiver coil is 
positioned at a second known distance above the 
sample, where the second distance is much (e.g., an 
order of magnitude) smaller than the first distance. 
As the drive coil is driven by an AC voltage source 
(at a frequency of 70 kHz), the in-phase and 
quadrature components of the voltage at the receiver 
coil are measured by "conventional lock-in techniques 
or by an ac mutual-inductance bridge." The resulting 
voltage data can be processed (with data indicating 
the coils' distance from the sample) to determine the 
sample's complex conductance. Several conventional techniques for processing 
in-phase and quadrature voltage data obtained during 
eddy current testing are described in the 
Nondestructive Testing Handbook, Second Edition, 
edited by R. C. McMaster, American Society
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for measuring conductance of a 
sample using an eddy current probe comprising a drive 

coil and a sense coil, including the steps of: 

(a) with the eddy current probe at a first 

separation from the sample, and with an AC voltage in 
the drive coil, measuring an induced voltage pair 

comprising in-phase and quadrature components of an 
induced AC voltage in the sense coil; 
(b) performing N repetitions of step (a), where 
N is a positive integer, with the eddy current probe 

at a different separation from the sample during each 
of said repetitions; and 
(c) processing the induced voltage pairs 
obtained in steps (a) and (b) to generate a lift-off 

curve, determining an intersection voltage pair 
representing intersection of the lift-off curve with 

a selected curve, and determining the conductance of 
the sample from a conductance function relating 

conductance with location along the selected curve. 
The method of claim 1, also including the 
steps of: 


(d) for each of several eddy current probe 
separations from a first reference sample of known 

conductance, and with an AC voltage in the drive 
coil, measuring an induced voltage pair comprising 

in-phase and quadrature components of an induced AC 
voltage in the sense coil, and processing said 

induced voltage pairs to generate a reference lift-off 
curve; 
(e) repeating step (d) for each of a number of 
different reference samples of known conductance; and 
(f) processing the reference lift-off curves 
generated during steps (d) and (e) to determine 

reference intersection voltage pairs representing 
intersections of the reference lift-off curves with 

the selected curve, and generating the conductance 
function from said reference intersection voltage 

pairs. 
The method of claim 2, wherein the selected 
curve is a circular arc. 
The method of claim 2, wherein the lift-off 
curve and the intersection voltage pair are 

determined by polar coordinates in an R,ϑ space. 
The method of claim 4, wherein the selected 
curve is a line in said R,ϑ space. 
The method of claim 2, also including the 
steps of: 

   storing look-up table data, comprising 
conductance values determined by the conductance 

function for each of a number of different points on 
the selected curve, in indexed memory locations. 
The method of claim 6, wherein step (c) 
includes the steps of determining the conductance of 

the sample by retrieving one of the conductance 
values from a memory location indexed by said 

intersection voltage pair. 
The method of claim 6, wherein step (c) 
includes the steps of determining the conductance of 

the sample by: 
(g) retrieving two of the conductance values 
from memory locations indexed by index voltage pairs 

most closely matching said intersection voltage pair; 
and 
(h) interpolating between the two conductance 
values retrieved during step (g) to determine said 

conductance of the sample. 
The method of claim 2, also including the 
step of storing software for implementing the 

conductance function, and wherein step (c) includes 
the step of: 

   accessing the software to apply the conductance 
function to the intersection voltage pair, thereby 

generating a signal indicative of the conductance of 
the sample. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the AC 
voltage in the drive coil has a frequency greater 

than one MHz. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the sample 
is a portion of a semiconductor wafer. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the sample 
is a portion of an integrated circuit. 
The method of claim 1, wherein N is 
substantially equal to twenty-five. 
An apparatus for measuring conductance of a 
sample having a surface, including: 

   an eddy current probe comprising a housing, a 
drive coil mounted within the housing, and a sense 

 
coil mounted in close proximity to the drive coil in 

the housing; 
   means for changing the separation between the 

eddy current probe and the surface of the sample; 
   means for producing AC voltage in the drive 

coil; 
   means for measuring an induced voltage pair 

resulting from said AC voltage in the drive coil at 
each of a number of different eddy current probe 

separations from the sample, wherein each said 
induced voltage pair comprises an in-phase component 

and a quadrature component of an induced AC voltage 
in the sense coil; and 

   a processor programmed with software for 
processing each said induced voltage pair to generate 

a lift-off curve, determining an intersection voltage 
pair representing intersection of the lift-off curve 

with a selected curve, and determining the 
conductance of the sample from a conductance function 

relating conductance with location along the selected 
curve. 
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the 
drive coil is mounted coaxially with the sense coil. 
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the 
means for producing the AC voltage in the drive coil 

produces said AC voltage in the drive coil with a 
selected frequency in the range from about 100 KHz to 

at least about 100 MHz. 
The apparatus of claim 14, also including a 
memory connected with the processor, and wherein the 

processor is programmed with software for performing 
the following operations: 
(a) for each of several eddy current probe 
separations from a first reference sample of known 

conductance, and in response to said AC voltage in 
the drive coil, receiving an induced voltage pair 

comprising in-phase and quadrature components of an 
induced AC voltage in the sense coil, and processing 

said induced voltage pairs to generate a reference 
lift-off curve; 
(b) repeating step (a) for each of a number of 
different reference samples of known conductance; and 
(c) processing the reference lift-off curves 
generated during steps (a) and (b) to determine 

reference intersection voltage pairs representing 
intersections of the reference lift-off curves with 

the selected curve, and generating the conductance 
function from said reference intersection voltage 

pairs. 
The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the 
selected curve is a circular arc. 
The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the 
processor is also programmed with software for 

performing the following operations: 
   storing look-up table data in indexed memory 

locations in the memory, said look-up table data 
comprising conductance values determined by the 

conductance function for each of a number of 
different points on the selected curve. 
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the 
processor is also programmed with software for 

performing the following operations: 
   determining the conductance of the sample by 

retrieving one of the conductance values from a 
 

memory location of the memory indexed by said 
intersection voltage pair. 
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the 
processor is programmed with software for determining 

the conductivity of the sample by: 

(d) retrieving two of the conductance values 
from memory locations of the memory indexed by index 

voltage pairs most closely matching said intersection 

voltage pair; and 
(e) interpolating between the two conductance 
values retrieved during step (d) to determine said 

conductance of the sample. 
The apparatus of claim 14, also including: 
   means for translating the eddy current probe 

parallel to the surface of the sample between 
measurement points along a scan path on the surface 

of the sample. 
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the eddy 
current probe also includes an outer housing, and 

wherein the means for changing the separation between 
the eddy current probe and the surface of the sample 

is a linear actuator means connected to the outer 
housing for translating the drive coil and the sense 

coil relative to outer housing in a direction normal 
to the surface, while constraining motion of the 

drive coil and the sense coil in directions parallel 
to the surface. 
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the eddy 
current probe also includes an outer housing made of 

material having high magnetic susceptibility, to 
 

provide magnetic shielding for the drive coil and the 
sense coil. 
The apparatus of claim 24, also including: 
   a probe arm fixedly attached to outer housing; 

and 
   a linear actuator engaged with the probe arm, 

for translating said probe arm and the outer housing 
together as a unit in a direction normal to the 

surface. 
The apparatus of claim 14, also including: 
   sample temperature measurement means, including 

a sensor mounted in thermal contact with the sample. 
The apparatus of claim 26, also including: 
   a sample stage for supporting the sample, 

wherein the sensor is a serpentine wire mounted to 
the sample stage in a position so as to be in thermal 

contact with the sample. 
The apparatus of claim 27, also including: 
   a means for controlling temperature of the 

sample. 
A method for measuring conductance of a 
sample using an eddy current probe comprising a coil, 

including the steps of: 

(a) with the eddy current probe at a first 
separation from the sample, and with an AC voltage in 

the coil, measuring an induced voltage pair 
comprising in-phase and quadrature components of an 

induced AC voltage in the coil; 
(b) performing N repetitions of step (a), where 
N is a positive integer, with the eddy current probe 

 
at a different separation from the sample during each 

of said repetitions; and 
(c) processing the induced voltage pairs 
obtained in steps (a) and (b) to generate a lift-off 

curve, determining an intersection voltage pair 
representing intersection of the lift-off curve with 

a selected curve, and determining the conductance of 
the sample from a conductance function relating 

conductance with location along the selected curve. 
An apparatus for measuring conductance of a 
sample having a surface, including: 

   an eddy current probe comprising a housing and a 
coil mounted within the housing; 

   means for changing the separation between the 
eddy current probe and the surface of the sample; 

   means for producing AC voltage in the coil; 
   means for measuring an induced voltage pair 

resulting from said AC voltage in the coil at each of 
a number of different eddy current probe separations 

from the sample, wherein each said induced voltage 
pair comprises an in-phase component and a quadrature 

component of an induced AC voltage in the coil; and 
   a processor programmed with software for 

processing each said induced voltage pair to generate 
a lift-off curve, determining an intersection voltage 

pair representing intersection of the lift-off curve 
with a selected curve, and determining the 

conductance of the sample from a conductance function 
relating conductance with location along the selected 

curve. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
