<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642107</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods and apparatus for the making of electronic article surveillance tags and improved electronic article surveillance tags produced thereby
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B1324	G08B1324	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B13	G08B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improvement in a method for the manufacture of 
electronic surveillance tags by providing a continuous web of 

electrically insulative material, applying to opposed surfaces 
of the electrically insulative material web a succession of 

first and second electrically conductive coils and applying to 
the succession of first electrically conductive coils a normally 

electrically insulative deactivation structure extending across 
the first coil succession and convertible to be electrically 

conductive, the improvement comprising the step of providing an 
electrostatic charge drain in electrically conductive relation 

with each of the first electrically conductive coils 
substantially throughout the manufacture of the tags. The new 

step may be practiced by providing an elongate electrically 
conductive member across the succession of first electrically 

conductive coils in electrical continuity therewith. 
Alternatively, the step may be practiced by configuring the 

succession of first coils integrally with the electrostatic 
charge drain. In either case, the drain is removed in a final 

stage of tag manufacture. Other improvements are also set 
forth. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSORMATIC ELECTRONICS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSORMATIC ELECTRONICS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENGE S EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENGE, S. EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to electronic article
surveillance (EAS) and pertains more particularly to providing
improved methods and apparatus for the making of EAS tags and
improved tags resulting therefrom.The genesis of the subject invention resides in a continuing
effort to improve extant EAS tags (also called EAS labels) and tag
production practices such as are set forth in various commonly-assigned
prior art patents, for example, patent No. 5,006,856.Tags of the '856 patent comprise spiral coils disposed in
generally facing relationship on opposed sides of a dielectric
layer, with the coils interconnected in an area outside of the
dielectric layer. A resonant circuit is accordingly provided and
is enclosed within electrically insulative outer covering members.In use, a tag is attached to an article to be monitored as
against fraudulent activity, and if the article is carried to an
exit of the surveillance zone, such as the exit of a store, an
alarm condition attends incidence of energy on the tag of frequency
equal to the resonant frequency of the tag.Tags having facility for "deactivation" are likewise shown in
the '856 patent and discussed also in detail below. The
deactivation structure may comprise an electrically conductive 
member astride the turns of one of the spiral coils and isolated
therefrom by an intervening layer of material which is normally
electrically insulative but, on incidence of high energy on the
tag, i.e., in excess of that required for causing alarming
resonance, converts to electrically conductive character. On that
event, the conductive member with the converted layer short-circuits
the spiral coil. The deactivation normally precludes the
tag from again resonating and typically takes place at a checkout
counter, from which the article with tag therewith can freely pass
from the surveillance zone.As has been recognized in the past, electrostatic charge
buildup on individual tags can cause undesirable tag deactivation
by effecting conversion of the convertable layer. Such charge
buildup can occur in the course of tag production and further in
the course of printing on the tags. As is discussed also in detail
below, tags are produced in a continuous sequence, with the
deactivator structure applied continuously in the sequence, i.e.,
as a deactivator web providing electrical connection of the series
of tags in the course of being produced. While the continuous
deactivator web can function as a drain to prevent static discharge
from deactivating the labels during the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the manufacture of deactivatable electronic article
surveillance tags (19) by performing the steps of providing a continuous

web (56) of electrically insulative material, applying to opposed
surfaces of said electrically insulative material web a

succession of first and second electrically conductive coils and
applying to said succession of first electrically conductive

coils (25, 26) a normally electrically insulative deactivation structure
(113T, 114T) extending across the first coil succession and convertible to be

electrically conductive, characterized by performing the step of
providing an electrically grounded electrostatic charge drain (601) in electrically

conductive relation with each of said first electrically
conductive coils substantially throughout the manufacture of

said tags.
The invention claimed in claim 10 wherein said step of
providing an electrostatic charge drain is practiced by

providing an elongate electrically conductive member across said
succession of first electrically conductive coils in electrical

continuity therewith and by electrically grounding said elongate
electrically conductive member.
The invention claimed in claim 2 wherein said elongate
electrically conductive member and said deactivation structure

are disposed on a common side of said succession of first
electrically conductive coils in mutually spaced relation

transversely thereof. 
The invention claimed in claim 3, wherein said elongate
electrically conductive member is disposed along a transverse

margin of said succession of first electrically conductive
coils.
The invention claimed in claim 4 wherein said
deactivation structure is disposed generally centrally of said

succession of first electrically conductive coils.
The invention claimed in claim 10 including the further
step of removing said electrostatic charge drain from said tags

in a final stage of manufacture thereof.
The invention claimed in claim 5 including the further
step of removing said elongate electrically conductive member

from said succession of first electrically conductive coils in
a final stage of manufacture of said tags.
The invention claimed in claim 10 wherein said succession
of first electrically conductive coils is provided by the use of

a continuous web of electrically conductive material cut to form
said succession of first electrically conductive coils and

wherein said electrostatic charge drain is formed also from said
continuous web of electrically conductive material.
The invention claimed in claim 8 including the further
step of removing said electrostatic charge drain by cutting the

same from succession of first electrically conductive coils in
a final stage of manufacture of said tags. 
The invention claimed in claim 1 wherein the deactivation
structure is in the form of a continuous deactivation web including

a first further step of rendering the deactivation web
discontinuous between successive of said first electrically

conductive coils and a second further step of removing said
electrostatic charge drain from said tags, said first further step

being practiced at an early stage of tag manufacture and said
second further step being practiced at a final stage of tag

manufacture. 
The invention claimed in claim 10 wherein said step of
rendering said deactivator web discontinuous is practiced by

removing portions thereof without attendant removal of portions
of said insulative material web in registry with the removed

deactivator web portions.
The invention claimed in claim 10 wherein said step of
providing said insulative material web with said electrostatic

charge drain web is practiced by laminating said electrostatic
drain web to said insulative material web and wherein said

electrostatic charge drain web is selected to be of dimension
substantially lesser than the transverse expanse of said

insulative material web.
The invention claimed in claim 12 wherein said 
electrostatic charge drain web is configured as a marginal

portion of said succession of said first electrically conductive
coils. 
The invention claimed in claim 10 wherein said first
further step is practiced prior to the step of applying to

opposed surfaces of said electrically insulative material web
a succession of first and second electrically conductive coils.
The invention claimed in claim 14 wherein said step of
rendering said deactivation structure web discontinuous is

practiced by removing portions thereof without attendant removal
of portions of said web of electrically insulative material in

registry with said removed deactivation structure web portions.
The invention claimed in claim 15 wherein said step of
removing portions of said deactivation structure web is 

practiced by making transverse cuts therethrough lengthwise in
excess of a transverse dimension of said deactivation structure

web, said cuts not extending longitudinally of said deactivation
structure web.
The invention claimed in claim 16, wherein said cuts
extend also into but not through said web of electrically

insulative material.
The invention claimed in claim 10 wherein said
first further step is practiced by vacuum app
aratus.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
