<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633556</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reusable bolt seal.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16G1100	F16G1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16G	F16G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16G11	F16G11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self locking rod seal includes a plurality of stamped 
sheet metal tapered frustro-conical segments (26,28) which mate in a 

tapered frustro-conical bore (18) of a steel housing (12). The 
segments (26,28) are identical and include a projection (56,62) 

upstanding 
from a recess in each of two opposing shoulders. The 

projections (56,62) are received in the recess formed in an opposing 
shoulder of the other segment. The recesses receive the 

projections (56,62) of the different segments in interengaging 
relation so that axial displacement of one segment requires 

axial displacement of the other segment. A spring (30) urges the 
segments against the tapered bore of the housing. The 

segments in one embodiment have cantilevered radially 
resilient fingers which grip a rod in the bore thereof when 

the rod is slid in one direction and which release the rod 
when the rod is slid in the opposite direction. The rod (32) has 

a flag (36) at one end which with the seal lock a hasp 
therebetween. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROOKS CO E J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.J. BROOKS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DREISBACH RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGOPOLOUS GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DREISBACH, RICHARD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGOPOLOUS, GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to reusable cable seals for 
locking a cable or bolt rod thereto. Of interest is commonly owned copending application 
Serial No. 065 471 filed May 21, 1993 entitled Cable Seal 
in the name of the present inventors. Cable seals are in wide use and comprise a 
self-adjusting cable gripping unit which automatically 
adapts itself to gripping a stranded cable. In such use, a  
 
cable is typically formed with a swaged flag at one end to 
form an integral head member for the cable end. The other 
end of the cable is free. The cable free end is slipped or 
otherwise passed through an opening of a structure to be 
locked, for example, two hasps of a lock arrangement or 
other arrangement in doors, walls and the like for securing 
two elements together. After the cable is slipped through the hasps or other 
lock arrangement, the cable gripping unit receives the free 
end of the cable and the cable is slid through the unit 
which has a bore therein including a cable gripping 
structure comprising segments within the bore which spread 
apart and slide over the cable as the unit is slid along the 
cable. When the unit reaches a desirable position adjacent 
to the hasp or other structure to which the cable is to be 
locked the unit is left in place at that location. Any 
attempt to remove the unit by sliding the unit in a reverse 
direction along the cable is precluded by the gripping 
structure within the unit bore. If the gripping structure 
is attempted to be displaced in the reverse direction by 
displacing the cable, the cable is gripped by the gripping 
structure as the cable is displaced and the gripping 
structure wedges against the cable and unit housing locking 
the cable thereto. The gripping unit housing and the flag 
at opposing ends of the cable lock the cable and the hasp 
together.  In U.S. Patent 3,852,850 for example, a cable gripping 
unit is disclosed. This unit includes a helical spring, a 
cable receiving cup and a gripping member comprising a jaw 
retaining member and jaw segments. A shell formed of metal 
has a bore terminating in a cable accommodating opening and 
a cylindrical portion terminating in a reduced diameter 
opening providing an inwardly projecting annular shoulder. 
The gripping member and jaw segments are received in the 
bore. The gripping member is urged toward a reduced end of 
the opening of the gripping unit shell. The jaw retaining 
member is formed of an elastic material with the jaw 
segments held in slots in the retaining member. A spring 
urges
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for locking a cylinder thereto comprising: 
   a housing having a longitudinally extending bore 

therethrough for receiving said cylinder, said bore having a 
tapered portion forming a frustro-conical surface of 

revolution having a distal end and a relatively wider 
proximal end; 

   a first element comprising a hollow frustro-conical 
segment axially extending between a first smaller diameter 

and a second larger diameter at respective opposing ends, 
said element having an external surface dimensioned to be 

received in a first direction and axially wedged in said 
bore tapered portion with said first end adjacent to and 

facing said distal bore end, said element having opposing 
shoulders axially extending between said first and second 

ends, a first projection upstanding a given axial extent 
from one of said shoulders at a given axial location and a 

recess in the other of said shoulders at said given axial 
location of at least said given axial extent; 

   a second element which is identical to the first 
element is dimensioned to form a segmented tapered 

frustro-conical arrangement with the projections and 
recesses in interengaged relation wherein the projection of 

one element is received in the recess of the other element, 
 

said arrangement having a hollow core for receiving said 
cylinder therethrough; and 

   spring means in said bore for urging the elements in 
said first direction against said surface for causing the 

elements to grip and lock the cylinder in response to the 
cylinder being pulled through said bore in the first 

direction and release the cylinder in response to the 
cylinder being pulled in a direction opposite the first 

direction relative to said housing. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said elements comprise 
stamped sheet metal. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the elements each include 
at least one slot axially extending from said first end 

forming said first end into a plurality of radially 
resilient fingers. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the elements each have a 
projection upstanding from each of said shoulders, said 

recess being formed in each of said shoulders, said recess 
being arranged to receive the projection of the other 

element. 
The device of claim 4 wherein said projections on the 
shoulders of an element are of different axial extents. 
A device for locking an elongated cylinder thereto 
comprising: 

   a housing having a longitudinally extending bore for 
receiving said cylinder therethrough, said bore having a 

tapered surface portion; 
   a segmented hollow frustro-conical cylinder clamp 

member comprising a plurality of separate spaced elements of 
similar construction dimensioned to mate with and be 

received in said tapered portion in a first direction toward 
said surface for wedging against said surface in response to 

axial displacement in said first direction, a first of said 
elements comprising a hollow frustro-conical segment axially 

extending between a first smaller diameter and a second 
larger diameter at respective opposing ends, said first 

element having opposing shoulders axially extending between 
said opposing ends, a first projection upstanding a given 

axial extent from one of said shoulders at a given axial 
location and a recess in the other of said shoulders at said 

given axial location of at least said given axial extent; 
   a second of said plurality of elements dimensioned to 

form said segmented clamp member with said first element 
with the projections and recesses of the first and second 

elements in interengaged relation wherein the projection of 
one element
 is received in the recess of the other element, 
 

said member having a hollow core for receiving said cylinder 
therethrough; and 

   a spring in said bore for urging the elements of said 
member in said first direction against said surface for 

causing the elements to grip and lock the cylinder in 
response to the cylinder being displaced through said bore 

in the first direction and for releasing the cylinder in 
response to the cylinder displacement in a direction 

opposite the first direction. 
The device of claim 6 wherein the member is stamped 
sheet metal formed from a flat sheet material. 
The device of claim 6 wherein the housing is steel. 
The device of claim 6 wherein said elements are each 
approximately one half of a right circular frustro-cone. 
The device of claim 6 wherein the elements are formed 
with a plurality of cantilevered radially resilient fingers 

at said smaller ends. 
The device of claim 6 wherein the projection has an 
axial extent of at least about one half the axial extent of 

that element, said recess having an axially extent of 
 

greater than half the axial extent of that element wherein 
the projection of one element and the recess of the other 

element interengaged therewith are related so that one 
element may not substantially axial displace relative to the 

other element. 
The device of claim 6 wherein the interengagement of 
the projections and recesses of the elements is such that 

axial displacement of one element causes axial displacement 
of the other element. 
The device of claim 6 wherein said cylinder is steel of 
circular cross section. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
