<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614197</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tensile member for communication and/or power cables and manufacturing process of the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D07B100	H01B717	D07B116	G02B644	H01B7285	H01B722	H01B718	G02B644	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D07B	H01B	D07B	G02B	H01B	H01B	H01B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D07B1	H01B7	D07B1	G02B6	H01B7	H01B7	H01B7	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A communication cable (10) comprises optical fibres (24) and/or 
metal conductors (20) for the transmission of information, and 

a tensile member, the tensile member comprising a steel strand 
and synthetic material. The steel strand has a modulus of elasticity 

of at least 140 000 N/mm². The steel strand comprises a 
core wire (12) and one layer of layer wires (14) surrounding 

the core wire. A contact is provided between the layer wires 
and the core wire. The interstices between the layer wires and 

the core wire are filled with a first synthetic material (13) 
having a melting-point above 150 °C. The steel strand is 

covered by a layer of a second synthetic material (16). The 
filling with the first synthetic material and the covering by 

a layer of a second synthetic material is such that watertightness 
is obtained in the longitudinal direction of the tensile 

member. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a communication cable which
comprises optical fibres and/or metal conductors for the
transmission of information and a tensile member.
The tensile member is preferably located in the center of the
cable. The optical fibres and/or the metal conductors such as
copper wires are arranged around the center of the cable. The
optical fibres may be present in a tight buffer coating or,
more commonly, in a loose polyethylene jacket.In order to be suitable as a tensile member for communication
cables, a number of different severe requirements must be met.
The tensile member must be flexible, must be hundred per cent
watertight and, although it must have a determined elastic
elongation, its elongation must not exceed a predetermined
value, since otherwise the metal conductors or the optical
fibres could be put under a tensile strain, which is to be
avoided. The tensile member is further required to withstand
compressive forces and to be of low cost.The prior art provides a die-formed steel strand as a tensile
member for communication cables. A die-formed steel strand
comprises a core wire and a layer of layer wires which have
been plastically compressed by means of a die. This plastical
compressing is done in order to obtain a high tensile modulus.
The drawback, however, is that longitudinal capillarities
remain between the plastically deformed layer wires and the
core wire. As a consequence, watertightness is not guaranteed
in the longitudinal direction of the steel strand.
A prior art solution has tried to overcome the problem of
watertightness by injecting bitumen during the twisting process
of the individual steel wires. This solution has the drawback
that if the steel strand is heated prior to an extrusion
process in order to enhance the adhesion of the steel strand to 
the extruded synthetic material, the bitumen melts and at least
part of the bitumen gets lost before extrusion, which results
in uncomplete filled capillarities and in a dirty work floor.
Complete watertightness is not guaranteed in this case. Non-heating
of the steel strand prior to extrusion, holds the
bitumen in the steel strand but decreases the adhesion of the
steel strand to the extruded synthetic material. It goes
without saying that loss of adhesion between the steel strand
and the synthetic material is at the expense of the watertightness
again.It is an object of the present invention to avoid the drawbacks
of the prior art.
It is an object of the present invention to provide for a
communication cable,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tensile member for communication cables,

the tensile member comprising a single steel strand and a
first and second synthetic material, the first synthetic

material having a melting point above 150°C, 
the steel strand having a modulus of elasticity of at least
140.000 N/mm
2
,
the steel strand comprising a core wire (12) and at least one
layer of layer wires (14) surrounding the core wire,


the interstices between the layer wires and the core
wire being filled with said first synthetic material,
the steel strand being covered by a layer (16) of the second
synthetic material,
the filling with the first synthetic material and the
covering by the layer of a second synthetic material being

such that watertightness is obtained in the longitudinal
direction of the tensile member.
A tensile member according to claim 1 wherein

the first synthetic material is equal to the second synthetic
material.
A tensile member according to claim 2 wherein

the first synthetic material is a polyamide or a polyester.
A tensile member according to claim 1 wherein

the first synthetic material is different from the second
synthetic material.
A tensile member according to claim 4 wherein

the first synthetic material is a hot melt polymer and the
second synthetic material is a polyamide or a polyester.
A tensile member according to claim 4 wherein

the first synthetic material is a polyamide and the second
synthetic material is a polyethylene.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

the first synthetic material has a melt viscosity ranging
from 50 to 200 Pa.s.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims

the tensile member further comprising a second layer (15) of a
third synthetic material.
A tensile member according to claim 8 wherein

the third synthetic material is a polyethylene.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

at least one layer wire (14) has a steel to steel contact with
the core wire (12).
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

the diameter of the core wire (12) and of the layer wires (14) ranges
from 0.50 to 2.0 mm.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

only one layer of layer wires (14) has been provided and the
layer wires have an openness of at least three per cent.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

the steel strand has one layer of six layer wires (14).
A tensile member according to claim 13 wherein

the ratio core wire diameter to layer wire diameter ranges
from 1.02 to 1.30.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

the twist pitch of the steel strand is greater than twenty
times the core wire diameter.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

at least some of the wires of the steel strand are covered
with up to 2.5 g/m
2
 of phosphate.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

the breaking load of the steel strand is at least 5000 N.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

the tensile strength of the steel strand is at least
1400 N/mm
2
.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

the tensile member has an elastic elongation which is
smaller than 1.5 per cent.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

the tensile member has a total elongation at fracture which
is smaller than 2.8 per cent.
A tensile member according to any of the preceding claims wherein

the tensile member is free of residual torsions.
A method of manufacture a tensile member for communication
cables watertight in its longitudinal direction, said method

comprising :

providing a steel wire (12) as core wire for the tensile
member ;
providing one layer of layer wires (14) around the core wire (12)
such that a steel strand with a modulus of elasticity of at

least 140 000 N/mm
2
 is obtained ;
filling any interstices (13) between the core wire and the
layer wires in the steel strand with a first synthetic

material, said first synthetic material having a melting
point above 150°C ;
covering the thus filled steel strand with a second
synthetic material.
A method of manufacturing a tensile member for communication
cables, said method comprising :


providing a steel wire (12) as a core wire for the tensile
member ; 
covering said core wire with a first synthetic material,
said first synthetic material having a melting point above

150°C ;
providing one layer of layer wires (14) around the thus coated
core wire in order to obtain a strand ;
covering the thus obtained strand with a second synthetic
material.
A method according to claim 23

wherein the strand is preheated in order to soften said
first synthetic material prior to the cov
ering of the strand
with the second synthetic material.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
