<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619576</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for manufacturing an optical recording medium
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C16507	C23C1650	G11B726	G11B1100	G11B11105	G11B726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	G11B7	G11B11	G11B11	G11B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a process for 
manufacturing an optical recording medium comprising a 

substrate and a laminate of a recording film and an 
inorganic dielectric film thereon, and the optical 

recording medium. The process comprises forming the 
inorganic dielectric film by using a helicon wave plasma 

CVD method. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for
manufacturing an optical recording medium. More specifically, it
relates to a process for manufacturing an optical recording
medium of the type cpmprising a substrate and an inorganic
dielectric film thereon.In recent years, recording medium which have a
large recording capacity and which are capable of
transferring data at a high speed have been demanded as
memories for computers and memories for image
information. In order to meet this demand, as the
recording media, for example, magnetooptical recording
medium and phase change type recording medium have been
vigorously developed as optical recording media in which
recording and reproduction are made by the use of laser
beams.That is, in the magnetooptical recording medium,
the recording and reproduction of information are made
by the utilization of characteristics (a magnetic force
effect) that when a deflected laser beam is hit against
the surface of a recording layer containing a magnetic 
material, the rotational direction of the deflected
surface of the reflected laser beam depends upon the
direction of the magnetization of the magnetic material.On the other hand, in the phase change type
recording medium, the recording and reproduction of
information are made by the utilization of a reversible
phase transition between an amorphous state and a
crystalline state generated at the time of the
irradiation of a recording layer containing, e.g., Te
with a laser beam, and by the utilization of mutually
different optical characteristics of the recording layer
in these states.In order for each of these optical recording medium
to obtain a read signal having a larger C/N ratio, for
example, an inorganic dielectric film can be interposed
between a recording film and a substrate to amplify the
read signal by the use of an optical interference effect
(an enhancement effect). In addition, as shown in Fig.
4A, a recording film 41 can be sandwiched between
inorganic dielectric films 42 and 43 to amplify the read
beam and to protect the recording film 41.Moreover, in order to further heighten the
interference effect, as shown in Fig. 4B, there is
also known a constitution in which a reflective layer 44
is mounted on the inorganic dielectric film 43.As such an inorganic dielectric film, there has
been used, for example, a thin film of Si3N4, SiC, SiO, 
SiO2, amorphous Si (a-Si), AlN, Al2O3, TiO2, Ta2O5 or ZnS.In this connection, performances of the
magnetooptical recording medium or the phase change type
optical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium comprising a substrate (10) and a

laminate of a recording film (41) and at least one
inorganic dielectric film (42) thereon,


said process comprising the step of forming the
inorganic dielectric film (42) using a plasma CVD method,
the process being characterised in that the plasma
CVD method is a helicon wave plasma CVD method.
The process according to claim 1, wherein said
helicon wave plasma CVD method comprises the steps of:


arranging the substrate (10) in a process container
(24) so that the surface of the substrate (10) crosses

an axis at right angles, the process chamber (24) being
adjacent to a plasma generating container;
introducing at least one of a reaction gas and a
raw material gas into the plasma generating container

(21); and
generating a high-frequency electric field and a
magnetic field along said axis in the plasma generating

container (21) to convert the gas in the plasma
generating container (21) into a plasma.
The process according to claim 2, wherein said
high-frequency electric field is generated by an antenna

(22) provided around the plasma generating container 
(21).
The process according to claim 2, wherein the
frequency of said high-frequency electric field is in the

range of 10 to 30 MHz.
The process according to claim 2, wherein the
strength (G) of said magnetic field is in the range

0
<
G≤0.05 Tesla (0
<
G≤500 gauss) in the central portion of
the plasma generating container (21).
The process according to claim 2, wherein the
strength (G) of said magnetic field is in the range

0
<
G≤.04 Tesla (0
<
G≤200 gauss) in the central portion of
the plasma generating container (21).
The process according to claim 2, wherein the
strength (G) of said magnetic field is within the range

.001
<
G≤.01 Tesla (10
<
G≤100 gauss) in the central portion
of the plasma generating container (21).
The process according to claim 2, wherein said
magnetic field is generated by a coil (23) provided

around the plasma generating container (21).
The process according to claim 3, wherein said
antenna (22) is constituted by separate loops surrounding 

the plasma generating container.
The process according to claim 9, wherein the
space between the loops of said antenna (22) is in the

range 100 to 500 mm.
The process according to claim 10, wherein the
space between the loops of said antenna (22) is in the

range 100 to 250 mm.
The process according to any one of claims 9
to 11, wherein a high-frequency current is caused to flow

through the loops in mutually reverse directions.
The process according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said inorganic dielectric film

(42) is an Si-based semiconductor film.
The process according to claim 13, wherein said
inorganic dielectric film (42) containing an Si-based

semiconductor is formed by the use of at least one raw
material gas selected from the group consisting of

inorganic silanes, organic silanes and halosilanes.
The process according to any one of claims 1
to 12, wherein said inorganic dielectric film (42) is an

Si-based compound film. 
The process according to claim 15, wherein said
inorganic dielectric film (42) containing the Si-based

semiconductor is formed by the use of at least one raw

material gas selected from the group consisting of
inorganic silanes, organic silanes and halosilanes, and

a reaction gas.
The process according to any one of claims 1
to 12, wherein said inorganic dielectric film (42) is a

metallic compound film.
The process according to claim 17, wherein said
inorganic dielectric film (42) containing a metallic

compound is formed by the use of at least one raw
material gas selected from the group consisting of

organic metals and halogenated metals, and a reaction
gas.
The process according to any claim dependent
on claim 2, wherein said reaction gas is introduced into

the plasma generating container (21) and the raw material
gas is introduced into the process container (24).
The process according to any claim dependent
on claim 2, wherein the formation of a film is carried

out by generating a magnetic field in the vicinity of the
inside wall of the process container (24). 
The process according to claim 20, wherein said
magnetic field is generated by permanent magnets (61)

mounted on the outside wall of the process container
(24).
The process according to claim 21, wherein said
magnets (61) are arranged so that the same poles extend

in the direction of said axis of the process container
(24) and so that different poles alternate along the

periphery of the process container (24).
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to any one of claims 1 to 22,

wherein said recording film (41) contains at least one
of a rare earth element and a transition metal.
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to claim 23, wherein said

recording film (41) comprises at least one amorphous
magnetic recording film containing a rare earth element

and a transition metal.
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to claim 24, wherein the

recording film (41) is a laminate of a plurality of
amorphous magnetic films. 
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to any one of claims 1 to 22,

wherein said recording film (41) contains a chalcogenide
element.
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to any one of the preceding

claims, wherein the medium includes a reflective layer
(44).
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to claim 1, wherein the

laminate comprises in order, an inorganic dielectric film
(42), the recording film (41), and a further inorganic

dielectric film (43).
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to claim 1, wherein the

laminate comprises in order, an inorganic dielectric film
(42), the recording film (41), a further inorganic

dielectric film (43) and a reflective layer (44).
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to claim 28 or 29, wherein the

inorganic dielectric film (42) between the substrate and
the recording film (43) has a thickness of between 10 and 150 mm (100

and 1500 Å). 
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to claim 27 or 28, wherein the

inorganic dielectric film (44) on the recording film (43)
has a thickness of between 10 and 100 nm (100 and 1000 Å).
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to any one of claims 1 and 27

to 29, the process further comprising the step of forming
on the laminate a protective layer.
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to claim 32, wherein the

protective layer forming step includes applying a
photosensitive resin onto the laminate so that the

protective layer has a predetermined thickness; and
curing the photosensitive resin applied on the laminate.
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to claim 32, wherein the

protective layer forming step includes adhering a
previously formed resin sheet on the laminate with an

adhesive.
The process for manufacturing an optical
recording medium according to any one of claims 32 to 34,

wherein the protective layer has a thickness of between
10 and 30 µm.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
