<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636877</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Glow discharge analytical instrument
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2167	G01N2762	G01N2162	G01N2168	G01N2762	H01J4910	H01J4910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N27	G01N21	G01N21	G01N27	H01J49	H01J49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A non-conductive isolator (10) for supporting a 
sample (137) to be analyzed by radio frequency energy 

induced glow discharge techniques has a conductive ring 
(19) for coupling a source of radio frequency energy to 

the same surface of the sample which is in direct contact 
with the induced glow discharge. An adapter kit for 

converting a direct current glow discharge analysis 
apparatus to a radio frequency energy induced flow 

discharge is described as well as the method of analysing 
non-conductive and conductive samples using a source of 

RF energy coupled to the same sample surface being 
analyzed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LECO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LECO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASPER TED JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITCHELL JOEL CARLTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASPER, TED JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITCHELL, JOEL CARLTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Commercial glow discharge atomic emission and mass
spectrometer systems are generally limited to the
analysis of conductive solid samples. In an attempt to
develop glow discharge techniques for the analysis of
non-conductive samples, research efforts have been made
in the use of radio frequency powered sources for
generating the glow discharge; see, for example,
US-A-5006706, US-A-5086226, US-A-5028133 and US-A-3543077. The systems
described in all of these specifications rely on coupling
the RF power through the sample, the sample is analyzed
on one side and the RF power is applied to the opposite
side. This method of analysis is limited in that the
analytical signals will vary with elemental concentration
(the desired relationship) and also with sample thickness
(not a desired factor). This latter factor is due to the
efficiency with which the RF power can be coupled to the
analytical zone (portion of the sample that will be
analyzed). This factor becomes important when attempting
to compare analytical signals from different samples
(which may not have the same thickness) . As a result,
the method is limited to samples of the same thickness or
degraded analytical results are obtained from samples of
differing thicknesses.The invention is set out in the independent claims
and preferred features are included in the dependent
claims.Broadly speaking, in application of the present
invention, an RF powered glow discharge source applies
the RF power to the same side of the sample upon which
the analytical zone is located. Thus, the thickness of
a sample no longer affects the analytical signal.
Therefore, samples of any thickness may be analyzed
freely. The invention may be carried into practice in
various ways but two constructions will now be described
by way of example together with their mode of operation
and with reference to the accompanying drawings, in
which:
Fig. 1 is a plan view of the non-conductive isolator
showing the electrical contact ring;Fig. 2 is a sectional view of Fig. 1 taken along the
plane II-II; Fig. 3 is a plan view of a cathode with internal
water cooling; Fig. 4 is an exploded sectional view showing
isolator spaced from a cathode taken along plane IV-IV in
Fig. 3; Fig. 5 is a schematic sectional view of a prior art
DC glow discharge source with cross-hatching omitted for
clarity; Fig. 6 is a schematic sectional view of the RF glow
discharge source of the present invention with cross-hatching
omitted for clarity;Fig. 7 is a schematic view of the apparatus of Fig.
6 with a vacuum
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for use in the analysis of non-conductive samples
by glow discharge technique comprising: a chamber for containing an ionizable gas;

an anode (75) disposed in said chamber, said anode having an aperture (77) therein: a
cathode (85) spaced from said anode, said cathode having an aperture (87) therein in

alignment with said aperture (77) in said anode and forming with said aperture in said
anode an axial passage (11); a non-conductive isolator (10,210) abutting said cathode for

holding a sample (137) to be analyzed in line with said axial passage through said
anode and cathode; an electrical contact member (19,219) on said isolator for contacting a

side of a sample facing said axial passage; and a source of radio frequency energy for
applying radio frequency energy to said electrical contact and to a sample in contact

therewith for producing ions of an ionizable gas which will tend to move through said
axial passage to contact the surface of a sample in contact with said electrical contact

member.
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said electrical contact member (19) is
substantially shielded by said isolator (10) from gas ions in said axial passage.
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said electrical contact
member (19) comprises an electrically conductive planar ring disposed on a surface of

said non-conductive isolator, the ring preferably having a raised annular sample
contacting portion (21) bounding an aperture in said ring.
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said non-conductive isolator has an
aperture for alignment with said axial passage in said anode and cathode and an

annular groove (15) spaced from and surrounding said aperture for receiving and
supporting an elastic sealing member (17) for forming a gas-tight seal with a surface

of said cathode.
Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said cathode has a first surface spaced 
from said anode and a second surface (107) on the opposite side of said cathode with

an annular groove (109) therein surrounding said aperture in said cathode and said
isolator has a raised circular portion (35) for interlocking with said annular groove in

said second cathode surface for aligning said aperture in said isolator with said
aperture in said cathode.
Apparatus according to claim 4 or claim 5 wherein said isolator has a raised
annular edge (13) bounding said aperture in said isolator which edge is spaced from

and surrounding said annular raised portion of said conductive ring (19) for forming a
groove for receiving and supporting an elastic sealing member (17) used to form a gas-tight

seal with a surface of a sample.
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, in which: the cathode (85) has a
circular groove (109) in the face (107) of said cathode member remote from said

anode member (75), said groove surrounding the aperture (87) in said cathode
member; an insulating member (91) is disposed between and electrically separates said

anode member and said cathode member, said insulating member having a projecting
tubular portion (93) defining an aperture in said insulating member, said projecting

tubular portion extending through said aperture in said cathode member covering all
but an annular portion of the wall defining said aperture in said cathode member; the

electrical contact member (19) is on the surface of the isolator remote from said
cathode member; and a tubular anode insert member (153) is added for attachment to

said anode member and extending through said aperture in said insulating member and
through said aperture in said isolator to a location closely adjacent to the exposed

surface of said isolator.
Apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said aperture in said anode member
(75) is threaded and said anode insert member (153) is threaded for threaded

attachment to said anode member. 
A method for the analysis of a non-conductive sample (137) by a radio
frequency current induced glow discharge comprising: providing a glow discharge

apparatus having an anode (75) and a cathode (85) with aligned apertures therein;
attaching a non-conductive isolator (10,210) with an aperture therein to said cathode with

the aperture in said isolator aligned with the apertures through said anode and cathode;
providing an electrical contact member (19,219) on the side of said isolator remote from

said cathode; affixing the surface of a sample (137) to be analyzed to said electrical
contact member and so as to close said aperture in said isolator with the same surface

of said sample; generating a glow discharge adjacent to the surface of said sample in
electrical contact with said contact member; and analysing said glow discharge by

viewing through said aperture in said anode and cathode.
A method according to claim 9 which includes applying a vacuum source (158)
to the vicinity of said glow discharge to remove sputtered sample material to provide a

clean sample surface for analysis.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
