<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616946</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Label hanger magazine, and device for attaching labels to same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65C700	B65C700	G09F308	G09F314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65C	B65C	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65C7	B65C7	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a label hanger magazine (1) of which 
the 

entire is integrally molded from an elastic plastic material, 
comprising a 

plurality of label hangers (6) connected between two parallel common 
supports (2,3) by 

means of a plurality of joint pieces (4,5). Each of the label hangers 
consists of a 

filament (7) having bar-like portions (8,9) formed at both end portions 
thereof and 

perpendicular to the common supports, the filament and joint pieces 
being in 

line with each other while the bar-like portions at both the end 
portions of the 

label hanger are so formed as to be separable from their respective 
associated 

joint pieces by a label attaching device (10) having a guide needle (11) 
which is to be 

pierced through a fabric and label or the like, the label (20) being 
attached to each 

label hanger with the guide needle (11) of the label attaching device 
inserted 

through the label when the bar-like portion (9) at one end portion of 
the label 

hanger is separated from the joint piece by the device, and the label 
hanger 

with the label being fixed to the fabric or the like with the guide 
needle of the 

device pierced through the fabric when the bar-like portion (8) at the 
other end of 

the label hanger is separated from the joint piece by the device. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIYAMOTO TAMOTSU
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIYAMOTO, TAMOTSU
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAMOTO TAMOTSU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAMOTO, TAMOTSU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a label hanger magazine consisting of a 
plurality of label hangers, assembled together, for fixing price tags, hangtags, 
manufacturer nameplates, trademark tags, etc. (will be generically referred to 
as "label" hereinbelow) to fabrics and other similar goods, and to a device for 
automatically attaching such a label to each label hanger included in the label 
hanger magazine. Heretofore, various label hanger magazines and label attaching devices 
have been proposed. Typical ones are known from the disclosure in the U.S. 
Pat. No. 867,409 filed on January 6, 1978 (will be referred to as "conventional 
example A" hereafter), U.S. Pat. No. 3,652,004 (as "conventional example B") 
and U.S. Pat. No. 3,924,788 ("conventional example C"). Generally, a conventional filament-type label hanger made of a 
thermoplastic material, such as polypropylene, nylon or the like, of which the 
molecular orientation is adjusted by elongation, consists, as shown in Fig. 34, 
of an anchoring body 200 formed at one end of the filament and which is to be 
pierced through a fabric or the like, and a wide spatula or button 201 formed at 
the other end. When the anchoring body 200 is pierced through a fabric, for 
example, a label is attached to the anchoring body 200. Once the label hanger is 
thus pierced, the label will not be disengaged from the fabric. As shown in Figs. 35 through 37, a label hanger 100 in the conventional 
example A consists of a thin rod 101, label 102 connected to the first end of the 
thin rod 101, crossbar 103 connected to the second end of the thin rod 101, and a 
gate 104. The gates 104 of the label hangers 100 are connected to a runner 105, 
so that the label hangers 100 are connected together to form a label hanger  
 
magazine. The thin rod 101 has formed at the first end thereof a nipple 106 to 
which a taper thin rod head 107 is connected by means of another thin rod 108. 
The thin rod head 107 has a base 109 which is designed larger in sectional area 
than the thin rod 101. The label 102 has a thin rod catcher comprising a thin 
rod receiving sleeve 111 having formed therein a thin rod receiving hole 110 
dimensioned to receive the thin rod 108 but of which the diameter is smaller 
than that of the base 109 of the thin rod head 107, and a head receiving 
concavity 112 which receives and cooperates with the thin rod head 107. When 
the taper thin rod head 107 is inserted into the head receiving concavity 112 
through the thin rod receiving hole 110, it can be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A label hanger magazine of which the entire is integrally molded 
from an elastic plastic material, comprising: 

   a plurality of label hangers connected between two parallel common 
supports by means of a plurality of joint pieces, the label hanger consisting of a 

filament having bar-like portions formed at both end portions thereof and 
perpendicular to the common supports; 

   the filament and joint pieces being in line with each other while the bar-like 
portions at both the end portions of the label hanger are so formed as to be 

separable from their respective associated joint pieces by a label attaching 
device having a guide needle which is to be pierced through a fabric and label 

or the like; 
   the label being attached to each label hanger with the guide needle of the 

label attaching device inserted through the label when the bar-like portion at 
one end portion of the label hanger is separated from the joint piece by the 

device; and 
   the label hanger with the label being fixed to the fabric or the like with 

the guide needle of the device pierced through the fabric when the bar-like 
portion at the other end of the label hanger is separated from the joint piece 

by the device. 
A label hanger magazine according to Claim 1, wherein the 
filaments of label hangers are connected at the adjacent longitudinal 

intermediate portions thereof to each other by means of thinned portions which 
are easily separable. 
A label hanger magazine according to Claim 1, wherein a 
filament portion of the filament of each label hanger, extending in one 

direction from the longitudinal intermediate point of the filament, is designed 
thick while a filament portion extending from the other direction and on which 

a label is to be attached is made thin. 
A label hanger magazine according to Claim 1, wherein the 
filament of each label hanger has formed at the longitudinal intermediate 

point thereof a swollen portion thicker than the filament. 
A device for attaching labels to a label hanger magazine, 
comprising: 

   a main body; 
   a hollow guide needle; 

   a label case having an opening and in which a plurality of labels each 
having a fitting hole formed therein is accommodated as stacked; 

   a support mechanism which receives and supports labels one by one 
from the opening of the label case and positions the supported label so that the 

the fitting hole in the label faces the guide needle, the support mechanism 
being reciprocally movable between a position where it faces the opening of the 

label case and a position where it faces the guide needle; 
   a positioning mechanism provided at the base of the guide needle to 

provide a passage for the common support of the label hanger magazine 
formed by an assembly of label hangers each having a bar-like portion formed 

at either end portion of a filament and connected between two parallel common 
supports by means of a plurality of joint pieces and also to bring the bar-like 

portions at the other end portions of the label hanger one by one into alignment 
with the slot of the guide needle; 

   a push-out pin provided to be inserted from the base end side while the 
end portion of the guide needle is inserted through the fitting hole in the label, 

push the bar-like portion at one of the end portions of the label hanger into the 
slot of the guide needle and separate it from the joint piece and to bring the 

separated bar-like portion and a part of the filament to the rear side of the 
fitting hole in the label; and 

   a feeding mechanism adapted to bring the other bar-like portions of the 
label hanger magazine one by one into alignment with the slot of the guide 

 
needle, whereby, after the one bar-like portion and a part of the filament are 

positioned by the push-out pin at the rear side of the fitting hole in the label, the 
push-out pin is returned to its initial position and the guide needle is extracted 

from the fitting hole and the label is attached to one of the label hangers 
included in the label hanger magazine. 
A device according to Claim 5, wherein the support mechanism is 
provided with a suction unit which, when put into operation, attracts a label. 
A device according to Claim 5, adapted for use with a label hanger 
magazine in which the filaments of label hangers are connected at the 

adjacent longitudinal intermediate portions thereof to each other by means of 
thinned portions which are easily separable. 
A device according to Claim 5, adapted for use with a label hanger 
magazine in which a filament portion of the filament of each label hanger, 

extending in one direction from the longitudinal intermediate point of the 
filament, is designed thick while a filament portion extending from the other 

direction and on which a label is to be attached is made thin. 
A device according to Claim 5, adapted for use with a label hanger 
magazine in which the filament of each label hanger has formed at the 

longitudinal intermediate point thereof a swollen portion thicker than the 
filament. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
