<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619567</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Oven temperature condition sensing method and apparatus for a domestic appliance.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24C708	F24C708	G08C2500	G08C2502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24C	F24C	G08C	G08C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24C7	F24C7	G08C25	G08C25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is a cooking appliance or an 
electronic control for a cooking appliance and method of 

controlling the same. A remote control unit having a built-in 
temperature sensor, positional switch and low-battery detection 

circuit is in two-way intermittent wireless communication with 
the appliance control unit of the present invention. The 

appliance control unit includes a switch means for controlling 
the heating elements of the cooking appliance wherein the switch 

means for each heating element includes two power switches 
connected in series and coupled with a redundancy detection 

circuit for the detection of a failure of one of the two power 
switches. Two-way communication between the two control units of 

the present invention is constantly monitored to ensure proper 
operation of the cooking appliance and to provide a mechanism to 

report errors to the user or to shut down the cooking appliance, 
as appropriate, soon after an error is detected. Mechanisms are 

also provided whereby the wireless communication means of the 
control units may be diagnosed to ensure the control units are 

properly communicating with each other. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHIRLPOOL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLOTZBACH PATRICK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLING RONALD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUENER JEROME D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLOTZBACH, PATRICK J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLING, RONALD W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUENER, JEROME D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the control of a domestic 
appliance and, in particular, to a remote control system for the 
control of a cooking appliance. Traditionally, controls for the operation of a cooking 
appliance such as controls for the heating elements of a cooktop 
surface as found on an electric range have been located either on 
the cooktop surface or on a surface which extends vertically from 
the rear or front of the cooktop surface. Each of these 
locations have caused problems for either the consumer or the 
manufacturer. Selectors, such as buttons or knobs, located on the cooktop 
surface are susceptible to the collection of dust, food particles 
and grease thereon and are often subjected to intense heat from 
the proximately located heating elements. Usually, such 
cooktop-positioned controls are readily accessible and visible to 
the operator, but, undesirably, may also be accessible to small 
children. Furthermore, such controls detract from the space 
available on the cooktop surface for the heating elements and 
cause the area around the controls to be difficult to clean. Many manufacturers of electric ranges place the heating 
element control selectors on a surface extending vertically from 
the rear of the cooktop surface. This allows the cooktop surface 
to be used solely for the heating elements and makes the 
selectors much less accessible to children. Such selectors are 
also susceptible to collecting dusts, grease and food particles, 
but due to their vertical orientation, may be less effected than  
 
are cooktop surface positioned controls. However, these rear 
controls pose additional hazards for the operator as the 
individual may incur burns or the individual's clothing may be 
scorched or set on fire when reaching over hot heating elements 
or over spattering or steaming foods located on the cooktop in 
order to adjust the controls. Furthermore, rear controls and 
displays are difficult for some operators to see and the vertical 
orientation imposes difficulty for some in interpreting the 
displays or the position of selectors. Detached control panels for cooktop surfaces have been 
developed in which the control panel is installed in a countertop 
proximate the cooktop surface and communicates via wiring to the 
cooktop surface. Although detached control panels are easy to 
see and allow the cooktop surface to be used solely for the 
heating elements, installation of the detached control panel 
decreases available countertop surface, is limited by the length 
of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic control for use with a cooking appliance, 
comprising: 

   a control unit adapted to be located remote from said 
cooking appliance, said control unit having 

   sensor means for sensing a predefined environmental 
condition, and 

   warning means operatively connected to said sensor 
means whereby, in the event said sensor means senses said 

predefined environmental condition, said warning means generates 
a warning signal. 
The electronic control of claim 1 wherein said sensor 
means comprises a temperature sensor and said predefined 

environmental condition comprises a high temperature condition. 
The electronic control of claim 1 wherein said warning 
means comprises an audible alarm. 
The electronic control of claim 1 wherein said warning 
means comprises a visual display. 
The electronic control of claim 1 wherein said sensor 
means comprises a gravity switch and said predefined 

environmental condition comprises a substantially vertical 
orientation of said control unit. 
An electronic control for use with a cooking appliance, 
comprising: 

   a control unit adapted to be located remote from said 
cooking appliance, said control unit having 

   a power supply, 
   switch means operatively connected to said power supply 

for connecting and disconnecting power from said control unit, 
and

 
   sensor means for sensing a predefined orientation of 

said control unit, said sensor means operatively connected to 
said switch means, whereby sensing of said predefined orientation 

of said control unit by said sensor means causes said switch 
means to disconnect power from said control unit. 
A cooking appliance, comprising: 
   an electronic control, said electronic control having 

   a control unit adapted to be located remote from said 
cooking appliance, said control unit having 

   sensor means for sensing a predefined environmental 
condition, and 

   warning means operatively connected to said sensor 
means, whereby in the event that said sensor means senses said 

predefined environmental condition, said warning means generates 
a warning signal. 
A cooking appliance, comprising: 
   an electronic control, said electronic control having 

   a control unit adapted to be located remote from said 
cooking appliance, said control unit having 

   a power supply, 
   switch means operatively connected to said power supply 

for connecting and disconnecting power from said control unit, 
and 

   sensor means for sensing a predefined orientation of 
said control unit, said sensor means operatively connected to 

said switch means, whereby sensing of said predefined orientation 
of said control unit by said sensor means causes said switch 

means to disconnect power from said control unit. 
The cooking appliance of claim 8 wherein said control 
unit further comprises processor means operatively connected to 

said sensor means for generating an error code in the event said 
 

sensor means senses said predefined orientation of said control 
unit and transmitter means for transmitting an output signal 

which may include said error code, and wherein said cooking 
appliance further comprises: 

   receiver means for receiving said output signal from 
said control unit; 

   a heating element; and 
   element switch means for activating and deactivating 

said heating element, said element switch means operatively 
connected to said receiver means and said heating element, 

   whereby said element switch means deactivates said 
heating element when said receiver means receives an output 

signal including said error code. 
A method for controlling a cooking appliance, said 
cooking appliance comprising a control unit adapted to be located 

remote from said cooking appliance, said control unit having 
sensor means for sensing a predefined environmental condition and 

warning means operatively connected to said sensor means, said 
method comprising the steps of: 

   sensing the predefined environmental condition; and 
   generating a warning signal upon the occurrence of said 

predefined environmental condition. 
The method of claim 10 wherein said sensor means 
comprises a gravity switch and said predefined environmental 

condition comprises a substantially vertical orientation of said 
control unit, wherein said control unit further comprises 

processor means operatively connected to said sensor mean for 
generating an error code in the event said sensor means senses 

said predefined orientation of said control unit and transmitter 
means for transmitting an output signal which may include said 

error code, and wherein said cooking appliance further comprises 
 

receiver means for receiving said output signal from said control 
unit, a heating element, and element switch means for activating 

and deactivating said heating element, said element switch means 
operatively connected to said receiver means and said heating 

element, said method further comprising the steps of: 
   transmitting an output signal including said error code 

from said transmitter means to said receiver means; 
   deactivating said heating element. 
The method of claim 11 wherein said control unit 
further comprises a power supply, switch means operatively 

connected to said power supply for connecting and disconnecting 
power from said control unit, said switch means operatively 

connected to said power supply and to said sensor means, said 
method further comprising the step of: 

   disconnecting power from said control. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
