<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640967</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Synchronizing mark detecting apparatus and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2010	H04L704	H04L704	G11B2014	G11B2014	G11B2012	G11B2010	G11B2730	G11B2730	G11B2012	G11B2018	G11B2018	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	H04L	H04L	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B20	H04L7	H04L7	G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	G11B27	G11B27	G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A synchronizing pattern detecting apparatus 
includes a pattern matching device (1-9), pulse generating 

device (11-19), delay device (21-29) and determination device (30-32). 
The pattern matching device (1-9) samples synchronizing patterns 

with an asynchronous clock to determine whether the 
synchronizing patterns match with predetermined 

patterns. The pulse generating device (11-19) generates a 
plurality of pulse signals having predetermined widths 

in accordance with the synchronizing patterns when the 
pattern matching device determines successful pattern 

matching. The delay device (21-29) delays the plurality of 
pulse signals output from the pulse generating device 

to substantially match timings of the pulse signals 
with each other. The determination device (30-32) synthesizes 

output signals from the delay device to determine a 
degree of matching of the synchronizing patterns from a 

synthesis result. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATOMURA SEIICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATOMURA, SEIICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a synchronizing
mark detecting apparatus for detecting a synchronizing
mark of a recording medium and an information
reproducing apparatus for reproducing digital
information of a recording medium.Fig. 1 is a view showing the sector format of a
130-mm or 90-mm rewritable optical disk complying with
the ISO standards. Fig. 2 is a view showing an example
of the patterns of the start sector mark (SM) of this
sector format. The recording area of an optical disk
is divided into a plurality of sectors, as shown in
Fig. 1. A predetermined synchronizing mark (sector
mark) is provided at the start of each sector to
recognize the start of the sector. The sector mark
patterns in Fig. 2 are well known by the ISO standards
or the like, and a detailed description thereof will be
omitted. Such a sector mark indicates the start of the
sector. If the sector mark cannot be detected, the
recording, erasing, reproducing, or seek operation cannot
be performed in this sector. For this reason, the
sector mark must be always accurately detected. Fig. 3 is a circuit diagram showing a sector mark
detection circuit described in the technical report of
the ISO standards of a 130-mm write once optical disk.
Fig. 4 is a view showing the operation of the sector
mark detection circuit. This sector mark detecting
method is simple and reliable and known as a most
generally used method. This method will be simply
described below. 5T marks and 3T marks are detected at
five positions in a reproduction signal read from the
optical disk. The detection results are added. If
marks are detected at three or more of the five
positions, the pattern is recognized as a sector mark
in accordance with the majority logic, and an SM
detection signal is output.The values of the sector mark patterns in Fig. 4
are 1/2 those of the patterns shown in Fig. 2. This is
because the length of T in Fig. 4 is twice that in
Fig. 2. That is, matching of the sector mark patterns
in Fig. 4 is performed at a period twice that of the
normal recording clock. For this reason, some margin
can be ensured with respect to a frequency error and a
phase error, as will be described later.As a method of increasing the recording density of
a disk-like recording medium, the ZCAV (Zoned Constant
Angular Velocity) method is known. In the ZCAV method,
the recording area of a recording disk is radially
divided into a plurality of zones, and data is recorded 
at the same recording frequency in one zone. In an
outer zone, information is recorded or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A synchronizing mark detecting apparatus comprising:

pattern matching means (1-9; 36, 37) for sampling
binary data of a synchronizing mark pattern with an

asynchronous clock to determine whether mark and space
lengths of said synchronizing mark pattern match with one

or more of a plurality of predetermined patterns;
pulse generating means (11-19) for generating pulse
signals, each pulse signal having a predetermined width

and corresponding with the case when said pattern
matching means determines that the mark and space lengths

of said synchronizing mark pattern match with a
respective one of said predetermined patterns;
delay means (21-29) for delaying pulse signals
output from said pulse generating means to substantially

synchronize said pulse signals with each other; and
determination means (30-32) for synthesizing output
signals from said delay means (21-29) to determine a

degree of matching of the synchronizing mark patterns
from a synthesis result, said pul
se generating means (11-19;
36, 37) being operative to generate a pulse having

a width dependent on the delay amount produced by the
delay means (21-29) so as to allow for a frequency error

of the asynchronous clock.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said 
pattern matching means (1-9; 36, 37) has a shift register

(33) for shifting the binary data of the synchronizing
mark patterns with the asynchronous clock, the shift

register (33) having a predetermined number of idle
terminals (Q11, Q12) for allowing a frequency error of

the asynchronous clock.
An information reproducing apparatus having a
synchronizing mark detecting apparatus according to claim

1 or claim 2, for reproducing information from a disk-like
recording medium (101) having a recording area

divided into a plurality of zones, in which information
is reproduced at a different clock frequency in

correspondence with each zone, wherein, when an
information read position is to be shifted to a different

zone, the synchronizing mark detecting apparatus (107)
is arranged to detect a synchronizing mark in the

different zone while the clock frequency is switched to
a frequency corresponding to the different zone.
An information reproducing apparatus for receiving
transmission signals and reproducing information

representative of the transmission signals, the apparatus
comprising a synchronizing mark detecting apparatus

according to claim 1 or claim 2, and a clock generating
means (105) for generating reference clock signals having

different frequencies in correspondence with a plurality 
of transmission frequencies, synchronizing mark detection

means (107) for counting the reference clock signals to
detect a synchronizing mark in a transmission signal, and

reproduction means for determining a reproduction
position of the transmission signal on the basis of the

detected synchronizing mark and reproducing transmitted
information with the reference clock signal, comprising:


means for counting (113) the reference clock signal
to detect an interval between synchronizing mark

detection signals detected by the synchronizing mark
detection means; and
means for determining (114) whether the detected
interval falls within a predetermined reference range to

switch the frequency of the reference clock signal of the
clock generating means on the basis of a determination

result.
A synchronizing mark detecting method comprising the
steps of:


sampling binary data of synchronizing mark patterns
with an asynchronous clock to determine whether mark and

space lengths of said synchronising mark patterns match
with one or more of a plurality of predetermined

patterns;
generating pulse signals, each pulse signal having
a predetermined width and corresponding with one of said

predetermined patterns, when it is determined that mark 
and space lengths match with corresponding ones of said

predetermined patterns;
delaying the generated pulse signals to
substantially synchronise said pulse signals with each

other; and
synthesizing the delayed signals to determine a
degree of matching of the synchronizing mark patterns

from a synthesis result, wherein the step of generating
pulse signals includes generating a pulse signal having

a width dependent on the delay amount by which said
signal is adjusted by the delaying step so as to allow

for a frequency error of the asynchronous clock.
A synchronizing mark detecting method according to
claim 5, comprising the steps of generating reference

clock signals having different frequencies in
correspondence with a plurality of transmission

frequencies, counting the reference clock signals to
detect a synchronizing mark in a transmission signal,

determining a reproduction position of the transmission
signal on the basis of the detected synchronizing mark,

and reproducing transmitted information in accordance
with the reference clock signal, comprising the steps of:


counting the reference clock signals to detect an
interval between synchronizing mark detection signals

detected by synchronizing mark detection means; and
determining whether the detected interval falls 
within a predetermined reference range to switch the

frequency of the reference clock signals of a clock
generating means on the basis of a determination result.
An information reproducing method for reproducing
information from a recording area of a disk-like

recording medium divided into a plurality of zones,
including the steps of reproducing information at a

different clock frequency in correspondence with each
zone and, when an information read position is to be

shifted to a different zone, detecting a synchronising
mark in the different zone by means of the method of

claim 5 or claim 6 while the clock frequency is switched
to a frequency corresponding to the different zone.
A computer program product programmed with machine
readable instructions for causing an apparatus to perform

a method according to at least one of claims 5 to 7.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
