<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638327</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rapidly exchangeable coronary catheter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2902	A61M2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	A61M29	A61M29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rapidly exchangeable balloon dilatation catheter for 
accessing the coronary arteries of a human comprising: 

an elongate wire-like shaft having proximal and distal ends 
and including a proximal tubular member formed from 

hypotubing (28). The shaft has sufficient column strength 
to enable it to be advanced through a patient's vasculature 

to the coronary arteries and the proximal tubular member has 
a lumen (36) extending through it. 
A distal tubular member (32) is secured to the distal region 
of the shaft and is sufficiently flexible to access the 

coronary arteries but itself has insufficient column 
strength for such access without additional support. The 

distal tubular member (32) has an inflation lumen (40) 
extending longitudinally therein and a proximal end in fluid 

communication with the lumen (36) of the hypotubing, the 
inflation lumen (40) being in communication with a balloon 

inflation port (42). The distal tubular member (32) also 
includes a longitudinally extending guidewire lumen (44) to 

receive a guidewire (12) and distal and proximal ports 
(33,46), the guidewire lumen (44) extending from the distal 

region of the shaft to the distal end of the catheter and 
over a distance such that when a guidewire (12) is 

positioned through the guidewire lumen (44), the column 
strength of the distal tubular member (32) is increased, the  

 
guidewire and the shaft together supplying support along the 

length of the catheter. An inflatable, relatively inelastic 
balloon (34) is mounted on the distal tubular member (32) 

with its distal end (54) sealingly attached to the distal 
end of the distal tubular member (32) and its interior in 

fluid communication with the inflation lumen (40) through 
the inflation port (42). 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARD INC C R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
C.R. BARD, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENGER CHRISTINE D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENGER, CHRISTINE D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to balloon dilatation catheters and 
particularly to such catheters as are used in percutaneous 
transluminal coronary angioplasty. Dilatation catheters, and particularly, those used for 
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), 
typically include an elongate flexible shaft of the order of 
150 cm long having a dilatation balloon mounted to the 
distal end of the shaft and an inflation lumen extending 
longitudinally within the shaft from is proximal end to the 
interior of the balloon so that the balloon may be inflated 
and deflated. Typically, such PTCA catheters also are 
provided with a full length guidewire lumen that is open at 
the distal tip of the shaft at a distal outlet opening. The 
proximal end of the guidewire lumen is open at the proximal 
end of the catheter. The guidewire lumen receives a 
guidewire which, when the guidewire and catheter are placed 
within a patient's artery, can be manipulated to guide the 
wire and catheter to the desired branch of the patient's 
arteries. Typically, the balloon dilatation catheter and guidewire are 
guided to the entrance to the coronary arteries by a 
previously placed guide catheter. The guide catheter  
 
commonly is percutaneously inserted into the patient's 
femoral artery and is advanced along the aorta toward the 
heart. The guide catheter typically is provided with a 
preshaped distal tip adapted to remain at the coronary 
ostium leading to the coronary artery. Once placed, the 
guide catheter provides direct, quick access to the entrance 
to the coronary arteries. It is common during a PTCA procedure for the physician to 
exchange the balloon catheter for another catheter, for 
example, if it is desired to change balloon sizes. This may 
occur, for example, if the physician initially performed a 
partial dilatation with a small diameter balloon and then 
wished to further dilate the patient's artery by using a 
catheter having a larger balloon. Such a catheter exchange 
may be accomplished in several ways. In one technique, the 
conventional guidewire which may be approximately 175 cm 
long is removed from the in situ balloon catheter and is 
replaced with a longer exchange wire, typically about 300 cm 
long. The length of the exchange wire that extends out of 
the patient is greater than the length of the balloon 
catheter thus providing a means by which the guidewire may 
be grasped at all times to prevent inadvertent withdrawal of 
the guidewire as the catheter is withdrawn. Once the 
catheter is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rapidly exchangeable balloon dilatation catheter for 
accessing the coronary arteries of a human comprising: 

an elongate wire-like shaft having proximal and distal ends 
and including a proximal tubular member formed from 

hypotubing (28), the shaft having sufficient column strength 
to enable it to be advanced through a patient's vasculature 

to the coronary arteries, the proximal tubular member having 
a lumen (36) extending therethrough; 

a distal tubular member (32) secured to the distal region of 
the shaft and sufficiently flexible to access the coronary 

arteries but itself having insufficient column strength for 
such access without additional support, the distal tubular 

member (32) having an inflation lumen (40) extending 
longitudinally therein and having a proximal end in fluid 

communication with the lumen (36) of the hypotubing, the 
inflation lumen (40) being in communication with a balloon 

inflation port (42); 
the distal tubular member (32) including a longitudinally 

extending guidewire lumen (44) receptive to a guidewire (12) 
and having a distal port (33) and a proximal port (46), the 

guidewire lumen (44) extending from the distal region of the 
shaft to the distal end of the catheter and over a distance 

sufficient, when a guidewire (12) is positioned through the 
guidewire lumen, to increase the column strength of the 

 
distal tubular member (32), the guidewire and the shaft 

together supplying support along the length of the catheter; 
and 

an inflatable, relatively inelastic balloon (34) mounted on 
the distal tubular member (32) having a distal end (54) 

sealingly attached to the distal end of the distal tubular 
member (32) and an interior in fluid communication with the 

inflation lumen (40) through the inflation port (42). 
A balloon dilatation catheter as claimed in claim 1 
characterised in that the elongate wire-like shaft is of 

smaller diameter than the distal tubular member (32). 
A catheter for accessing the coronary arteries in a 
human comprising: 

an elongate proximal segment including a relatively stiff 
tube (28); 

a relatively flexible elongate plastic distal tubular member 
(32) mounted to the distal end of the proximal segment, the 

plastic member being more flexible than the proximal segment 
and having a guidewire lumen (44) formed therethrough, the 

guidewire lumen having a proximal opening (46) in the region 
of the juncture of the plastic member and the proximal 

segment and having a distal opening (33) at its distal end 
whereby when a guidewire is contained within the lumen, the 

catheter will have continuous longitudinal support from its 
 

proximal end to its distal tip; and 
means carried by the distal end of the plastic distal 

tubular member (32) for performing a procedure in a coronary 
artery. 
A catheter as defined in claim 3 characterised in that 
the means for performing a procedure in an artery comprises 

a dilatation balloon (34) and where the proximal segment and 
the plastic distal tubular member (32) have an inflation 

lumen communicating the interior of the balloon with the 
proximal end of the catheter. 
A catheter as defined in claim 3 or claim 4 
characterised in that the plastic segment is between 35 to 

45 cm long. 
A catheter as claimed in any preceding claim 
characterised by a guidewire (12) extending through the 

guidewire lumen. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
