<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615136</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic transponder tuning procedure
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1382	G06K1907	G01S1375	G06K1907	G01S1300	G01S740	G01S740	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G06K	G01S	G06K	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G06K19	G01S13	G06K19	G01S13	G01S7	G01S7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is disclosed herein for tuning a responder unit (12). The 
method comprises the steps of storing energy in a responder unit energy 

accumulator (136) in a contactless fashion by RF energy transmitted from the 
interrogator unit (10) to the responder unit (12), and exciting within the 

responder unit (12) an RF carrier wave. The method further comprises the 
steps of transmitting the RF carrier wave in a first response from the 

responder unit (12) to the interrogator unit (10) and measuring within the 
interrogator unit (10) the received signal strength of the RF carrier wave of 

the first response. In further accordance with the invention tuning data may 
be transmitted to the responder unit (12) by sending at least one RF 

programming sequence from the interrogator unit (10) to the responder unit 
(12). The responder unit (12) upon receiving the RF programming sequence 

from the interrogator unit (10) would preferably modify an internally stored 
frequency setting within a memory (244) of the responder unit (12) in 

response to the first set of data. Other devices, systems and methods are also 
disclosed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS DEUTSCHLAND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS DEUTSCHLAND GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUERMANN JOSEF H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUERMANN, JOSEF H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The following coassigned patent application EP-A-0 600 374 forms prior art under Art. 54 (3-4) EPC for the purpose of assessing novelty only.This invention relates to a method of communicating between an interrogator
unit and a responder as defined in the precharacterizing part of claim 1. It also
relates to a transponder arrangement as defined in claim 19.
The interrogator unit of this arrangement is operable to derive
tuning data from the responder unit and thereupon may initiate electronic
tuning of the responder unit's resonant frequency.There is a great need for devices or apparatuses which make it
possible to identify or detect as regards their presence at a predetermined
location objects which are provided with such devices or apparatuses in
contactless manner and over a certain distance. An additional need exists to
be able to change the resonant frequency with which such devices respond to
such inquiries. An additional need exists to be able to tune the resonant
circuit of the responder unit to match that of the interrogator unit, such as in
the case the two units originally were matched in frequency and the resonant
frequency of the responder unit has drifted or because of detuning due to
environmental effects. Heretofore, in this field, radio-frequency identification (RF-ID)
transponders are permanently tuned to a resonant frequency at the factory.
Certain environmental considerations such as presence of a para-magnetic or
dia-magnetic material which lowers the inductance of an antenna and tunes
it to a higher frequency (e.g. if the transponder is close to copper or
aluminum). Other conditions might cause a change in the resonant
frequency such as the ambient temperature or aging of the components. In
the application of a small wireless transponder, it is desirable for any
post-factory tuning to not require bulky electro-mechanical components as
mechanically-variable capacitors or mechanically-variable inductors.In US-A-4 480 178 a transponder arrangement is disclosed in
which a tuning procedure for tuning a personal data card
(transponder) from a reader (interrogator) is used. The
tuning does not go on inside the personal data card, but
rather, the tuning goes on inside the reader. The tuning of
the personal data card due to environmental effects cannot
be corrected in this transponder system.According to the present invention there is provided a method and
apparatus as defined in the claims.The needs outlined in the background of the invention can be met with
the inventive concept disclosed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of communicating between an interrogator unit
(10) having a first resonant circuit and a responder unit

(12) having a second resonant circuit (130), said method
comprising the steps of storing energy in a responder unit

energy accumulator (136) in a contactless fashion by RF
energy transmitted from said interrogation unit (10), to

said responder unit (12), exciting within the resonant
circuit of said responder unit (12) an RF carrier wave,

measuring a signal strength of said RF carrier wave, and
characterized in that said interrogator unit (10) adjusts

the resonant frequency of the resonant circuit of said
responder unit (12) responsive to said signal strength

measurement.
The method of claim 1, characterized in that, said signal
strength of said RF carrier wave is measured by a pick-up

coil (70) which is loosely coupled to said second resonant
circuit of said responder unit (12).
The method of claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the
step of transmitting said RF carrier wave is a first

response from said responder unit (12) to said interrogator
unit transmission. 
The method of any preceding claim characterized in that
said method further comprises said step of performing the

measurement of the signal strength within said interrogator
unit (10).
The method of claim 4 characterized in that the step of
adjusting the resonant frequency of said one of said

resonant circuits responsive to said signal strength
measurement is by transmitting at least one RF programming

sequence from said interrogation unit (10) to said responder
unit (12).
The method of claim 5 characterized in that said method
further comprises the step of receiving at said responder

unit (12) a first set of data transmitted by said RF
programming sequence from said interrogator unit (10).
The method of claim 6 characterized in that said method
of further comprises the step of modifying an internally

stored frequency setting within said responder unit (12) in
response to said first set of data.
The method of any preceding claim characterized in that
said RF carrier wave is generated by a parallel LC oscillator

(130) having at least one parallel inductor (132) and
at least one parallel capacitor (134).
The method of claim 8 characterized in that said method
further comprises the step of modifying the frequency of

said RF carrier wave in accordance with said internally
stored frequency setting by selectively changing the

capacitance of said LC oscillator (130).
The method of claim 9, characterized in that said
capacitance of said LC oscillator (130) is selectively

changed by connecting and disconnecting one of at least
two parallel capacitors (240). 
The method of any preceding claim characterized in that
said method further comprises the step of storing the

received signal strength subsequent said measuring step.
The method of claim 6, or any claims 7 - 11 in that they
depend from claim 6, characterized in that said method

further comprises the step of sending a second set of data
transmitted by another RF programming sequence from said

interrogator unit (10).
The method of claim 12 characterized in that said method
further comprises the step of modifying the frequency of

said RF carrier wave in accordance with said second set of
data.
The method of claim 12 or claim 13 characterized in that
said method further comprises the step of transmitting said

RF carrier wave in a second response from said responder
unit to said interrogator unit (10).
The method of claim 14 characterized in that said method
further comprises the step of measuring within said interrogator

unit (10) the received signal strength of said RF
carrier wave of said second response.
The method of claim 16 characterized in that said method
further comprises the step of comparing a received signal

strength with said measured signal strength.
A transponder arrangement characterized in that said
transponder arrangement comprises


a) an interrogator unit (10) which transmits at least
one RF programming sequence containing tuning data followed

by at least one RF interrogation pulse, said interrogator
unit (10) comprising;


i) a transmitter which transmits said
interrogation pulse and said RF programming sequence, 
ii) a receiver for receiving a wireless response
from a responder unit (12),
iii) a detection circuit for detecting the
strength of a carrier wave generated by said responder unit,
iv) a control circuit (18) for analyzing the
detected strength of said carrier wave and for determining

if a new set of tuning data for another RF programming
sequence needs to be computed; and
b) a responder unit (12) which upon receipt of said RF
interrogation pulse transmits read data stored therein back

to the interrogator (10) in the form of said wireless
response, said responder unit (12) comprising


i) a responder unit reception circuit for
receiving said tuning data transmitted by said RF

programming sequence from said interrogator unit (10),
ii) a memory suitable for having memory data
therein modified by said 
tuning data received by said
reception circuit,
iii) a responder unit energy accumulator (136)
which stores energy contained in the RF interrogation pulse,
iv) a responder unit RF carrier wave generator
having a resonant frequency, and
v) a tuning circuit which modifies the resonant
frequency of said RF carrier wave generator in accordance

with said memory data.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
