<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641296</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR DEGRADING ORGANIC MATTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F334	C02F312	C02F328	C02F330	C02F328	C02F312	C12P500	C02F330	C12P502	C02F334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C12P	C02F	C12P	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F3	C02F3	C02F3	C02F3	C02F3	C02F3	C12P5	C02F3	C12P5	C02F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cyclical process for degrading waste organic matter to gaseous products and substantially zero volume of solid matter by subjecting the waste alternately and cyclically to stages of mesophilic and thermophilic digestion in which the organisms from one stage are inactivated and become a substrate for the organisms in the next stage, this inactivation resulting from a temperature shift. At the end of the cycle, solids are collected and returned to the first microbial digestion stage for recycling together with a fresh input of waste.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PIRTFERM LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PIRTFERM LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIRT STANLEY JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIRT, STANLEY, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for 
degrading organic matter and in particular to a process 
for degradation of sewage into gaseous products. Microbiological degradation, either aerobic or 
anaerobic, is the preferred means to purify waste 
organic matter, for example sewage or effluents from 
industry. A major drawback of this technology is the 
production of 'sludge' which is a suspension of solid 
material, probably for the most part, microbial biomass 
which degrades the organic matter and, in the process, 
grows in quantity. The yield of sludge volatile 
suspended solids (VSS) can exceed 0.4 kg per kg chemical 
oxygen demand (COD) under aerobic conditions and up to a 
half of that amount under anaerobic conditions. Sludge 
is routinely disposed of by dumping on land or at sea. 
Now, because of the adverse environmental effects 
dumping the sludge is increasingly banned. Hence there 
is an urgent need for new technology for sludge 
disposal. We have now developed a cyclical degradation 
process comprising low temperature (mesophilic) and high 
temperature (thermophilic) steps wherein the resulting 
suspended solids resulting from each stage are 
susceptible to digestion in, and form a metabolic 
substrate for, the following stage when the two process 
steps are operated alternately and cyclically whereby it 
is possible to degrade the organic matter completely to 
gaseous products and thereby avoid the production of 
solid effluent. A New York sewage works (Journal WPCF, Vol. 57, No. 
2, pages 116-121) has proposed a sewage disposal system 
in which two chemostats are connected in series, one 
being run under thermophilic conditions and the other  
 
under mesophilic conditions, a part of the solid 
effluent being recycled. There was no suggestion, 
however, that it would be possible to achieve total 
biocombustion and a large part of the solid effluent had 
to be disposed of at sea. Similarly USP 4582607 describes a similar system 
which is advocated for producing activated sludge in a 
form capable of efficient sedimentation and, again, 
there is no suggestion that the biomass could be totally 
degraded. According to the present invention, we provide a 
cyclical method of degrading organic matter, wherein 
said organic matter in aqueous suspension and/or 
solution is subjected alternately to thermophilic 
digestion at 60-105°C and mesophilic digestion at 10-50°C, 
said method operating as an alternating cycle of 
thermophilic and mesophilic stages, said cycle 
comprising at least four
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cyclical method of degrading organic matter, 
wherein said organic matter in aqueous suspension and/or 

solution is subjected alternately to thermophilic 
digestion at 60-105°C and mesophilic digestion at 10-50°C, 

said method operating as an alternating cycle of 
thermophilic and mesophilic stages, said cycle 

comprising at least four stages, at least two 
thermophilic and at least two mesophilic, commencing 

with a thermophilic stage and ending with a mesophilic 
stage, the said cycle including recycling of solid 

matter from the final mesophilic stage of the cycle to 
the first thermophilic stage with input of fresh organic 

matter to the said first stage, whereby in the 
thermophilic stage said organic matter and any 

mesophilic microorganisms present are at least partly 
digested and whereby in said mesophilic stage said 

organic matter and any thermophilic microorganisms 
present are at least partly digested, and whereby cyclic 

treatment is continued until the organic material is 
substantially completely converted into gaseous 

degradation products. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein in the 
mesophilic stage any thermophilic microorganisms are 

inactivated and in the thermophilic stage any mesophilic 
microorganisms are inactivated, said inactivation being 

effected by means of the shift in temperature. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein 
the digestion stages are carried out in fermentor tanks 

and wherein means are provided for passing the material 
between the said tanks. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims wherein one cycle of said method comprises four  

 
stages two mesophilic stages and two thermophilic stages 

operating alternately. 
A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the separate 
stage
s are carried out in separate tanks. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims wherein at the end of the cycle, the material is 

passed to a sedimentation device and the suspended 
solids thereby collected are passed to the first 

digestion stage for initiation of a further cycle with 
fresh organic matter. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims wherein each stage is operated in plug flow mode, 

with recycling of at least part of the material within 
each individual stage. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 
wherein each stage is operated in batch mode and where 

the culture contents from each stage are partially 
passaged to the next stage retaining a fraction to form 

an inoculum for the next culture of that type in the 
cycle. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said method 
is carried out in a single reaction vessel in which the 

temperature is successively altered, and appropriate 
microorganisms added as an inoculum for each of the 

separate stages and where at the end of the cycle the 
supernatant is removed and fresh organic matter added to 

the remaining solids to initiate the next degradation 
cycle. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the cycle 
comprises 4 stages, each operated in the form of a 

completely mixed chemostat type continuous culture.  
 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims operated in aerobic fashion. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 in 
which the mesophilic stage is carried out in anaerobic 

fashion whereby biomethanation of the organic matter is 
achieved. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims wherein said organic matter is wastewater sludge, 

agricultural crop residues, farm animal wastes, 
industrial wastes, municipal and solid waste, sewage 

sludge or biodegradable plastic waste. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims wherein the temperature shift between the two 

stages is at least 20°C. 
An apparatus for degrading organic matter in stages 
according to claim 1 comprising an assembly of tanks 

wherein the outlet means of one or more first-stage 
tanks are connected to the inlet means of one or more 

second-stage tanks, the outlet means of one or more 
second stage tanks are connected to the inlet means of 

one or more third stage tanks, and the outlet means of 
said one or more third stage tanks are connected to the 

inlet means of one or more fourth stage tanks, and 
wherein means are provided for recycling of effluent 

from the outlet means of the final stage tank(s) to the 
inlet means of the first-stage tank(s), each of said 

tanks being provided additionally with means for 
recycling material from its outlet to its inlet and with 

means for independently controlling the temperature 
therein. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein in each 
stage the tanks are arranged in series.  

 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein in each 
stage the tanks are arranged in parallel. 
An apparatus for degrading organic matter in stages 
according to claim 1 comprising a reaction tank, culture 

tanks for maintenance, separately, of mesophilic and 
thermophilic organisms and means for delivery of said 

microorganisms to the reaction tank, means being 
provided to alternate the temperature in the reaction 

tank from a temperature suitable for growth of 
mesophilic organisms and inactivation of thermophilic 

microorganisms to a temperature suitable for growth of 
thermophilic microorganism and inactivation of 

mesophilic organisms. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
