<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621777</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SOLID BODIES CONTAINING ACTIVE SUBSTANCES AND A STRUCTURE CONSISTING OF HYDROPHILIC MACROMOLECULES, PLUS A METHOD OF PRODUCING SUCH BODIES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61Q1900	A61K830	A61K896	A61K926	A61K916	A61K865	A61K864	A61K920	A61K4742	A61K920	A61K916	A61K926	A61K4742	A61K897	A61Q1900	A61K804	A61K804	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61Q	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61Q	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61Q19	A61K8	A61K8	A61K9	A61K9	A61K8	A61K8	A61K9	A61K47	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K47	A61K8	A61Q19	A61K8	A61K8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention concerns precisely meterable moulded bodies, for instance granules or pellets, containing hydrophilic macromolecules, active substances and, optionally, other pharmaceutically acceptable structure-forming agents and auxiliaries, the active substance being dissolved in, suspended in or emulsified with a matrix. The invention also concerns a method for producing such moulded bodies, the method being particularly cost-effective and environmentally acceptable, and the use of the moulded bodies as drugs in which bio-availability, storability and compatability are increased. In addition, the moulded bodies described, or mixtures of them, are also useful in preparing intermediates or end-products for use in pharmaceutics, cosmetics, diagnosis, analysis or dietary health care.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALFATEC PHARMA GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALFATEC-PHARMA GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREIDENREICH JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHICK URSULA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WERRY JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WUNDERLICH JENS-CHRISTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREIDENREICH, JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHICK, URSULA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WERRY, JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WUNDERLICH, JENS-CHRISTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Process for the production of pellets comprising 
at least one active compound having poor absorbability in 

vivo, characterized in that 


a) a matrix former made of hydrophilic macromolecules 
selected from the group consisting of:
 
collagen, gelatin, fractionated gelatin, collagen 

hydrolysates, gelatin derivatives, vegetable proteins, 
vegetable protein hydrolysates and elastin 

hydrolysates is dissolved in an aqueous or aqueous-organic 
solvent, 
b) the active compound is dispersed and 
c) the mixture of dissolved matrix former and dispersed 
active compound obtained is added in drop form to an 

intensely cold inert liquefied gas and pellets are 
thus formed, and 
d) the pellets thus formed are dried by evaporating or 
subliming the solvent in a customary manner. 
Process according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the mixture is added in drop form to liquid nitrogen. 
Process according to Claim 1 and/or Claim 2, 
characterized in that 


a) a matrix former, selected from the group consisting 
of: gelatin, fractionated gelatin, collagen hydrolysate, 

gelatin derivatives; and mixtures thereof; is 
dissolved in a solvent, 
b) a dihydropyridine derivative having a particle size 
which is as small as possible is dispersed in the 
solution, 
c) the dispersion of matrix former and dihydropyridine  

 
derivative is added in drop form to liquid nitrogen 

and pellets are thus formed, and 
d) the pellets thus formed are dried by evaporating or 
subliming the solvent in a customary manner. 
Process according to one of Claims 1 - 3, characterized 
in that drops in an approximately uniform predetermined 

shape are prepared from the dispersion by means 
of a metering system. 
Process according to one of Claims 1 - 4, characterized 
in that the pellets are freeze-dried. 
Process according to one of Claims 1 - 5, characterized 
in that the dispersion of active compound and 

matrix former is mixed with an additional matrix former 
selected from the group consisting of:
 
albumins, agar-agar, gum arabic, pectins, tragacanth, 

xanthan, natural and modified starches, dextrans, dextrins, 
maltodextrin, chitosan, alginates, cellulose 

derivatives, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone. 
polyacrylic acid and polymers of methacrylic acid and 

methacrylic acid esters, cellulose acetate phthalate, 
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate, azo-crosslinked 

polymethacrylates and polyurethane-sugar copolymers, a 
suitable sugar component in particular being oligomeric 

galactomannans or galactomannan derivatives which are 
then crosslinked with aliphatic diisocyanates, galactomannan 

derivatives such as ethyl- or acetylgalactomannans, 
polysaccharides crosslinked with adipic acid, 

lipophilic substances such as degradable mono-, di- and 
triglycerides, erodible fatty alcohols; and mixtures 

thereof. 
Process according to one of Claims 1 - 6, characterized 
in that softening agents and flavour corrigents, 

selected from the group consisting of:
 
glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, 

triacetin, sorbitol, sorbitan mixtures, glucose syrup, 
and mixtures thereof,
 
are added to the mixture of matrix former and active 

compound. 
Process according to one of Claims 1 - 7, characterized  
 

in that, as matrix former, gelatin having a 
maximum in the molecular weight distribution above 10
5
 D 
is mixed with the active compound at a maximum of 70°C. 
Process according to one of Claims 1 - 8, characterized 
in that the active compound is initially present 

in dissolved, emulsified, suspended, microencapsulated, 
nanoencapsulated, microemulsified or finely disperse form 

or in a form conjugated to the hydrophilic macromolecule. 
Process according to Claim 1 and/or Claim 3, 
characterized in that, as solvent, water is employed. 
Pellet comprising active compound,
 
characterized by
 
a dispersion of at least one active compound or active 

compound mixture having poor absorbability in vivo in a 
matrix which essentially comprises a matrix former made 

of hydrophilic macromolecules which were selected from 
the group consisting of:
 
collagen, gelatin, fractionated gelatin, collagen 

hydrolysates, gelatin derivatives, vegetable proteins, 
vegetable protein hydrolysates, elastin hydrolysates, and 

mixtures thereof, which can be prepared by the process 
according to one of Claims 1 - 10. 
Pellet according to Claim 11, characterized in 
that the hydrophilic macromolecule is a thermoreversible 

sol-gel former. 
Pellet according to Claim 11 and/or Claim 12, 
characterized in that the matrix contains an additional 

matrix former selected from the group consisting of: 
albumin, agar-agar, gum arabic, pectins, tragacanth, 

xanthan, natural and modified starches, dextrans, 
dextrins, maltodextrin, chitosan, alginates, cellulose 

derivatives, dextran, sugar, glycine, lactose, mannitol, 
polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyacrylic acid, polymers of 

methacrylic acid, polymers of methacrylic acid esters, 
cellulose acetate phthalate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose 

phthalate, azo-crosslinked polymethacrylates and 
polyurethane-sugar copolymers, a suitable sugar component 

in particular being oligomeric galactomannans or galactomannan 
derivatives which are then crosslinked with  

 
aliphatic diisocyanates, galactomannan derivatives such 

as ethyl- or acetylgalactomannans, polysaccharides 
crosslinked with adipic acid, lipophilic substances such 

as degradable mono-, di- and triglycerides, erodible 
fatty alcohols; and mixtures thereof. 
Pellet according to Claim 13, characterized in 
that the active compound is a dihydropyridine derivative 

and the matrix former comprises hydrophilic 
macromolecules selected from the group consisting of:
 
gelatin, fractionated gelatin, a gelatin derivative, 

collagen hydrolysate, or mixtures thereof; and the 
additional matrix former is selected from the group 

consisting of: dextran, sugar, glycine, lactose, 
sorbitol, mannitol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, and mixtures 

thereof. 
Pellet according to one of Claims 11 - 14, 
characterized in that the content in the matrix of 

additional matrix formers is less than approximately 50% 
by weight. 
Pellet according to Claim 11, characterized by a 
pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary or excipient for 

the matrix. 
Pellet according to Claim 11, characterized in 
that it is present as an essentially symmetrical solid or 

aggregate or as a micropellet. 
Pellet according to Claim 11, characterized in 
that it is present as a lyophilizate. 
Pellet according to Claim 11, characterized in 
that
 
it is rapidly dissolving; and in that
 
the matrix comprises a hydrophilic macromolecule selected 

from the group consisting of:
 
vegetable proteins, vegetable protein hydrolysates, 

elastin hydrolysates, collagen hydrolysates, cold water-soluble 
gelatins, gelatin derivatives; having a maximum 

in the molecular weight distribution below 10
5
 D. 
Pellet according to Claim 11, characterized in 
that the matrix contains softening agents and flavour 

corrigents selected from the group consisting of:  
 

glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, 
tr
iacetin, sorbitol, sorbitan mixtures, glucose syrup; 
and mixtures thereof. 
Pellet according to one of Claims 12-20, characterized 
in that the sol-gel former is a gelatin having a 

maximum in the molecular weight distribution above 10
5
 D. 
Pellet according to Claim 11, characterized in 
that the active compound is selected from the group 

consisting of:
 
pharmaceutical substances of synthetic or natural origin, 

cosmetics, prophylactics (healthcare), enzymes, micro-organisms. 
Pellet according to Claim 22, characterized in 
that the active compound is a dihydropyridine derivative. 
Pellet according to Claim 23, characterized in 
that the dihydropyridine derivative is selected from the 

group consisting of: nifedipine, nitrendipine or nisoldipine. 
Pellet according to Claim 22, characterized in 
that the active compound is present in dissolved, suspended, 

finely disperse, emulsified or microemulsified 
form or in the form of liposomes. 
Pellet according to one of Claims 22-25, characterized 
in that the active compound is present as a 

conjugate with the hydrophilic macromolecule. 
Pellet having controlled release according to one 
of Claims 11-26, characterized in that the matrix has a 

melting range of between approximately 35°C and 40°C. 
Pellet having controlled release according to 
Claim 27, characterized in that the matrix is present 

crosslinked with a pharmaceutically acceptable hardening 
agent, selected from the group consisting of: aldoses and 

citral. 
Pellet having controlled release according to 
Claim 27 and/or Claim 28, characterized in that the 

shaped article contains an additional hydrophilic 
macromolecule as a matrix former or film coating, which 

is selected from the group consisting of: alginates, 
alginate-calcium phosphates, pectins, agar-agar, poly- and  

 
methacrylic acid derivatives, cellulose derivatives, 

cellulose acetate phthalate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose 
phthalate, azo-crosslinked polymethacrylates, 

polyurethane-sugar copolymers, a suitable sugar component 
in particular being oligomeric galactomannans or galactomannan 

derivatives which are then crosslinked with 
aliphatic diisocyanates, galactomannan derivatives such 

as ethyl- or acetylgalactomannans, polysaccharides 
crosslinked with adipic acid, lipophilic substances such 

as degradable mono-, di- and triglycerides, and erodible 
fatty alcohols. 
Pellet according to Claim 22, characterized in 
that the matrix is present in coated form. 
Use of the pellet according to Claim 11 for the 
production of a cosmetic preparation. 
Use of the pellet according to Claim 11 for the 
production of a preparation which is selected from the 

group consisting of:
 
pharmaceutical, diagnostic and analytical preparations. 
Use of the pellet according to Claim 11 for the 
production of a preparation which is selected from the 

group consisting of:
 
nasal, buccal, oral and peroral therapeutics. 
Pharmaceutical preparation, comprising pellets 
according to Claim 11. 
Cosmetic preparation, comprising pellets according 
to Claim 11. 
Foodstuff preparation (healthcare), comprising 
pellets according to Claim 11. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
