<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618526</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for multi-level navigable video environment.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	G06F1730	G09B500	G09B506	G11B27031	G11B27034	G11B2734	G11B2734	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G09B	G09B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G09B5	G09B5	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for generation of multi-level navigable video environments is 
disclosed. Generation of the virtual realities is accomplished by a video monitor, a 

touch screen, a CPU, and a compact disc storage device. The storage device contains 
pre-generated audio and visual data. The visual data includes a plurality of digitized 

photographic images stored as a plurality of frames of a visual track. The frames may 
be selectively accessed by a user through the touch screen to provide the user the 

ability to navigate through a navigable video environment. Further, while the user is 
within the navigable video environment a second-level of a navigable video 

environment is accessible. The data for generation of the second-level of video 
environment is also stored within the storage device and is also pre-generated. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US WEST ADVANCED TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US WEST ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN BENJAMIN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN, BENJAMIN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to computer generated interactive navigable 
video environments, and more particularly, user controlled navigable video 
environments having at least a second-level navigable video environment. In the development of computer based tools, one significant concern is the 
interface between the computer and the human user, i.e. the "man-machine" interface. 
Early computer man-machine interfaces were entirely character based, which required 
a user to type in the individual commands that made the computer perform such tasks 
as opening a document, storing a document, deleting a document, etc. Character 
based interfaces require a user to have a high degree of computer literacy in order to 
use each command properly and as such are non-intuitive and unforgiving in that each 
command must be typed according to the proper syntax, without a mistake, before the 
command will be executed by the computer. The MS-DOS® operating system by 
Microsoft is an example of such a character based man-machine interface. A significant advance over the character based interface was the icon based 
interface, which provided a symbol on the screen of the computer to represent a 
particular action or application. In a typical icon based interface, a number of icons 
are displayed on a computer screen. A user performs a task, such as executing a 
program, by selecting the icon with an input or pointing device, for example, with a 
computer mouse. After selecting the icon with the mouse, a window typically appears 
on the screen. The user then uses the program by typing in the window. If the user  
 
wishes to execute another program, another icon is selected, which in turn opens 
another window on the screen. The use of a computer mouse greatly facilitated the 
icon based interface, as well as reducing the use of a keyboard. The Windows® 
operating system by Microsoft is an example of such an icon based man-machine 
interface. The most recent advance in man-machine interface is the use of touch screens. 
A touch screen allows a user to directly control a program through direct contact, 
either by finger or stylus, with the computer screen. The direct interaction provided 
by a touch screen eliminates the need for a mouse. Thus, the use of touch screens 
provides the user with an extremely desirable man-machine interface. A detailed 
description of touch screen technology is provided in U.S. Patent No. 4,897,511 to 
Itaya et al. Another advance in computer technology is the provision of multi-media 
pres
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for providing a multi-level navigable video environment 
to a user, said apparatus including: 


(a) a video monitor for displaying video images; 
(b) user input means; 
(c) data storage means containing pre-generated data in a data 
structure, said data structure including a plurality of tracks, said plurality of tracks 

including a parent movie track for generation of a parent video environment, said 
parent movie track containing an ordered sequence of video images stored as a 

sequence of parent movie frames on said parent movie track, certain of said parent 
movie frames including at least one child movie region, said plurality of tracks further 

including a child movie track for generation of a child movie video environment, said 
child movie track containing an ordered sequence of video images stored as a 

sequence of child movie frames on a child movie track, said child movie track 
associated with and for display within said child movie region of said certain of said 

parent movie frames of said parent movie track; and 
(d) a CPU coupled to said video monitor, said user input means, and 
said data storage means, said CPU programmed to: 


(i) monitor said user input means for parent movie input from 
said user indicative of a desire to navigate through said parent video environment and, 

if said parent movie input is received, displaying another parent movie frame from said 
parent movie track on said monitor in accordance with the specific parent movie 

input; and 
(ii) monitor said user input means for input from said user 
indicative of a desire to navigate through said child movie video environment and, if 

said child movie input is received, displaying a child movie frame from said child 
movie track on said monitor in accordance with the specific child movie input. 
The computer system of Claim 1 wherein said data structure further 
includes a template track comprised of a plurality of template frames, each of said 

template frames associated with a different parent movie frame of the parent movie 
track, each of said frames of said template track detailing said child-movie region of 

the associated frame of the parent movie track. 
The apparatus of Claim 2, further including means for automatically 
determining the size and location of said child movie region of said parent movie 

frame currently being displayed on said monitor and displaying said child movie frame 
within said child movie region. 
The computer system of Claim 1, further including a speaker coupled 
to said CPU and for providing an audio signal in conjunction with said frames 

displayed by said video monitor. 
The apparatus of Claim 4, wherein said user input means is a touch 
screen, said touch screen providing an output to said CPU indicative of the precise 

location of the point of contact on said touch screen. 
The computer system of Claim 5 wherein said data storage means is a 
compact disk. 
A method of generating a multi-level navigable video environment on a 
video monitor, said multi-level navigable video environment responsive to user input 

from a user, said user input provided via a user input means, said method comprising 
the steps of: 


(a) storing data in a data storage device in a predetermined data 
structure, said data structure including at least one data track including a parent movie 

track for generation of a parent video environment, said parent movie track containing 
an ordered sequence of video images stored as a sequence of parent movie frames on 

said parent movie track, certain of said parent movie frames including at least one 
child movie region, said data tracks further including a child movie track for 

generation of a child movie video environment, said child movie track containing an 
ordered sequence of video images stored as a sequence of child movie frames on a 

child movie track, said child movie track associated with and for display within said 
child movie region of said certain of said parent movie frames of said parent movie 

track; 
(b) monitoring said user input means for parent movie input from said 
user indicative of a desire to navigate through said parent video environment and, if 

said parent movie input is received, displaying another parent movie frame from said 
parent movie track on said monitor in accordance with the specific parent movie 

input; and 
(c) monitoring said user input means for input from said user indicative 
of a desire to navigate through said child movie video environment and, if said child 

movie input is received, displaying a child movie frame from said child movie track on 
said monitor in accordance with the specific child movie input. 
The method of Claim 7, further including the step of determining the 
size, shape and location of said child movie region of said parent movie frame 

currently being displayed on said monitor and automatically sizing said child movie 
frame to be displayed within said child movie region. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
