<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633867</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPLITTING OF NON-METALLIC MATERIALS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B3309	B23K26073	B26F316	B26F300	B23K2600	B28D100	B26F306	B23K2640	B26F306	B28D100	B26F300	B23K2600	C03B3300	C03B3302	B23K2606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	B23K	B26F	B26F	B23K	B28D	B26F	B23K	B26F	B28D	B26F	B23K	C03B	C03B	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B33	B23K26	B26F3	B26F3	B23K26	B28D1	B26F3	B23K26	B26F3	B28D1	B26F3	B23K26	C03B33	C03B33	B23K26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of cutting non-metallic materials, specifically glass, resides in the heating of the material by an incident beam of radiation being effected to a temperature short of its softening point, with the rate of relative displacement of the beam and of the material, and the region of the heated zone which is locally cooled being selected to form a blind crack in the material. The method provides for increasing substantially the cutting speed and accuracy, and also for controlling the depth, shape and angle of the cut face formed by the crack. The method can be employed in the automotive industry for making glass windows and mirrors, in the electronics industry for making precision backings and substrates for LED indicator panels and masks, magnetic and optomagnetic disks, in watch-making for making protective glasses, in the aircraft and space industry for making structural optics components, in construction and architecture for dimensional pattern-cutting of glass, including its integration in the glass manufacturing technology, and also in other fields of production and technologies where precision articles of non-metallic materials are made.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FONON TECHNOLOGY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FONON TECHNOLOGY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDRATENKO VLADIMIR STEPANOVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDRATENKO, VLADIMIR STEPANOVITCH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the splitting of bodies of 
brittle non-metallic material, such as glass. It is known to work bodies of glass or other brittle non-metallic 
material by removing material therefrom by 
abrasion or scribing, using diamond or tungsten carbide 
tools. Such processes involve the expenditure of much 
time and skill, because they are basically manual. GB-A-1 254 120 and DE-B-1 244 346 discloses a method of 
splitting bodies of glass or like material into two parts 
by a thermal shock process produced by intense local 
heating of the body by means of an incident beam of 
coherent radiation, and abstraction of heat from the heat-affected 
zone in order to produce thermal shock, which 
causes a crack to extend through the thickness of the body. In this method the surface of a piece of plate glass is 
heated by a laser beam of radiation at 10.6 µm 
wavelength. Some of the beam energy is reflected, while 
most of it is absorbed and released as heat in a thin 
surface layer, as thick as one wavelength. The  
 
compressive stress produced in the heated layer does not 
result, however, in the splitting of the glass. Further 
propagation of heat into the body of the glass is by 
thermal conduction. The splitting of the plate glass 
occurs as a considerable volume of the glass is heated 
up, and the thermally-induced stresses exceed its tensile 
strength. When a crack starts to form, the point of 
incidence of the laser beam is already displaced from the 
edge of the glass. Thus the evolution and propagation of 
the crack lags behind the movement of the laser spot. 
The rate of thermal splitting of the glass is rather low, 
and could not be increased by increasing the laser beam 
power, because as soon as this power exceeds a certain 
level, the glass becomes overheated, which is manifested 
by the formation of longitudinal and transverse 
microcracks along the line of heating. The rate of thermal splitting is in inverse proportional 
to the square of the thickness of the glass to be cut. 
The thermal splitting rate has also been found to be 
dependent on the dimensions of the initial glass plate or 
sheet. The greater the size of the initial plate, the 
lower is the thermal splitting rate, resulting in a 
failure to split thermally a glass blank of a size 
exceeding 500 by 300 mm. Apart from the low splitting speed, thermal splitting by 
means of a through-going crack would not provide 
adequately-high cutting accuracy, for the following 
reason. The thermal crack starts at the edge of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of separating two portions of a body (1) of 
brittle non-metallic material from each other by 

forming a blind crack (4) extending into the body 
from a surface thereof, and in a desired direction 

along the surface, including the steps of: 

effecting relative movement between the body and a 
target area (2) of the surface at which a beam of 

radiation is incident on the surface along the 
intended direction of the crack, and controlling the 

energy of the beam so that it heats the surface to a 
temperature below the softening point of the 

material, characterised in that a stream of fluid 
coolant is directed at an area (3) of the heated 

surface which is on the intended line of crack and 
which is displaced behind the heated target area by 

a chosen distance (1), and that the rate of relative 
movement between the target area and the body (1), 

the energy of the heating beam, the distance (1) and 
the thermophysical properties, quantity and 

conditions of supply of the coolant to the heated 
zone are all selected so as to achieve a blind crack 

(4) of a specified depth. 
The method as claimed in Claim 1, in which the rate 
of relative displacement of the beam and the body 

satisfies the equation: 

V = k. a(b + l)/δ 
 
where 


V
is the rate of relative displacement 
of the beam spot and of the material; 
k
is a proportionality factor dependent 
on the thermophysical properties of 

the material and the beam power  
 

density; 
a
is the transverse size of the heat 
beam spot on the material surface; 
b
is the longitudinal size of the heat 
beam spot on the material surface; 
l
is the distance from the rear edge of 
the heat beam spot to the front edge 

of the cooling zone, and 
δ
is the depth of the blind crack. 
The method as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, including 
making the target area non-circular in shape, the 

target area having a longer direction along the 
crack line than normal to it. 
The method as claimed in Claim 3, in which the 
target area is substantially elliptical in shape. 
The method as claimed in any preceding claim, in 
which at least the volume of the body containing and 

bordering the intended line of the crack is 
preheated. 
The method as claimed in Claim 5, in which the body 
is preheated to a chosen temperature related to the 

desired depth of the crack. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, in which 
the body is heated, after the crack has been formed, 

along the line of the crack and to an extent 
sufficient to cause the depth of the crack to 

increase further. 
The method as claimed in Claim 7, in which the post  
 

heating is effected by means of a second beam of 
radiation impinging on the same surface and moved 

relatively to the body along a path coincident with, 
or parallel to, the crack. 
The method as claimed in any preceding claim, in 
which the part of the body surface at which the 

first beam is initially incident is spaced inwardly 
from the borders of the body. 
The method as claimed in Claim 9, in which the path 
of the first beam traces out a closed curve on the 

body surface, and in which, when the target area of 
the beam is non-circular, the direction of the major 

axis of the target area is kept at a constant 
orientation to the tangent at the point on the curve 

which lies at the centre of the target area. 
A method as claimed in Claim 10, in which the major 
axis is coincident with, or parallel to, the said 

tangent. 
The method as claimed in Claim 10, in which the 
major axis extends at a fixed angle to the said 

tangent. 
The method as claimed in any preceding claim, in 
which, when the path of the intended crack is to 

form a closed curve, the surface of the body is 
scored along an incremental part of the path, with 

the depth of the score being different at opposite 
ends thereof, and in which the first beam of 

radiation is initially directed at that part of the 
score which is of greater depth.  

 
The method as claimed in claim 13, including making 
the score line with a sharp body of hard material 

which is able to gouge out material from the surface 
of the body to a predetermined depth. 
The method as claimed in Claim 4, or any claim 
dependent therefrom, in which the beam is of 

coherent radiation and the target area is of 
elliptical shape, the size of the target area 

satisfying the condition of maintaining the beam 
power density over the area within the range of (0.3 

to 20.0) x 10
6
 W.m
-2
, with the following proportions 
being observed: 


a = (0.2 to 2.0) h, 
b = (1.0 to 10.0) h, 
 
where 


a and b
are, respectively, the lengths 
of the minor and major axes of 

the ellipse, and 
h
is the thickness of the 
material. 
The method as claimed in Claim 6 or any claim 
dependent therefrom, in which the cutting operation 

is preceded by preheating the body to a temperature 
satisfying the condition: 


T = (0.4 to 1.0) ΔT, 
 
where 


ΔT
is the thermal resistance of the body 
material to cooling. 
The method as claimed in Claim 8 or any claim  
 

dependent therefrom, in which, when cutting along a 
curvilinear outline with relatively small curvature 

radii, the reheating is performed with the second 
beam being offset from the centre toward the border 

of the curvilinear outline. 
The method as claimed in Claim 12 or any claim 
dependent therefrom, in which, in order to produce 

articles with a decorative raised-pattern edge face, 
the major axis of the target area is at an angle () 

of a 3 to 45° to the said tangent. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
