<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657847</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for printing characters and method thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F312	G06K1502	B41J530	G09G524	B41J530	G06K1502	G06F312	G09G524	G06T1120	G06T1120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06K	B41J	G09G	B41J	G06K	G06F	G09G	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06K15	B41J5	G09G5	B41J5	G06K15	G06F3	G09G5	G06T11	G06T11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A printing apparatus is disclosed which has a printing 
mechanism for printing characters onto a printing medium, such 

as a tape. Font data for defining each character is stored in 
a storage device of the printing apparatus. A processor is 

coupled to the storage device and is operable to generate 
pixel data for printing from the stored font data. The font 

data for each character is stored with an identifier which 
identifies an algorithm for recreating the characters from a 

plurality of algorithms. 
In this way, the required amount of storage space for the 
character can be minimised while nevertheless retaining a good 

print quality for each character. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESSELTE NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESSELTE N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER MATHEW RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON-BELL IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER, MATHEW RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON-BELL, IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a printing apparatus and
method of printing characters.The invention is particularly but not exclusively applicable
to the printing apparatus which are known as label printers.
These apparatus have a printing mechanism formed by a thermal
printhead cooperating with a platen. An ink ribbon and a
printing tape extend in overlap between the thermal printhead
and the platen, and the printing tape is moved past the
thermal printhead during printing. The printhead comprises a
column of printing elements each of which can be separately
activated to print a column of pixels on the printing tape
widthwise of the tape. Known printing apparatus include an
input device for entering characters to be printed, for
example a keyboard, a display such as a liquid crystal display
(LCD) to enable a user to see the characters that he has
entered and to thereby formulate a message to be printed on a
label and a cutting mechanism for cutting off a portion of the
printed tape after use to form a label. The printing tape has
a peelable backing layer so that it can be used as a label by
removing the peelable backing layer and securing the image
receiving layer to an article by the remaining adhesive on its
rear. The printing apparatus accommodates a cassette housing
printing tape and an ink ribbon or, alternatively, two
cassettes housing respectively printing tape and ink ribbon.
Printing apparatus of this type are known and are disclosed
for example in European Patent Applications Nos. 91310665.4
and 93303971.1 (EP-A-0 487 313 and EP-A-0 573 187).One restriction which is imposed on printing apparatus of this
type is that they are normally intended to be portable and are
therefore small. This imposes a limitation on the amount of
memory which is available within the printing apparatus.
These printing apparatus are controlled by a microprocessor 
chip. It is advantageous if the memory space which is made
available on the microprocessor chip is sufficient to store
all of the necessary font data and program code for running.
the printing apparatus. This is discussed in our earlier
Application PCT/GB91/02126 (WO-A-92 09438). This requires that font data
which is stored to define the characters to be printed is
stored in compressed form. There are many ways in which
compression of font data can occur. However, any compression
technique which works well for some characters often does not
work well for others and can, in some cases, actually increase
the amount of memory required to store the

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A printing apparatus comprising:

printing means (4) for printing characters onto a
printing medium;
storage means (6) for storing font data defining
characters to be printed, the font data enabling the

character to be recreated according to a predetermined
algorithm; and
processing means (2) coupled to the storage means (6)
and to the printing means (4) for generating pixel data

defining a character selected for printing;

   characterised in that the storage means holds with the
font data for each of said characters an identifier

(ID1; ID1, ID2) which identifies said predetermined algorithm
from a plurality of algorithms including a plurality of

different recreation algorithms each of which is for
recreation of a given character from compressed font

data defining that character, and the processing means is
operable to generate said pixel data defining said selected

character according to said predetermined algorithm
identified by the identifier.
A printing apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said
plurality of different recreation algorithms comprise

different decompression algorithms corresponding to different
compression algorithms for recreating a full size character

from font data defining the character in compressed form
according to its corresponding compression algorithm.
A printing apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein
the recreation algorithms for recreating the characters

are stored in the storage means (6).
A printing apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the
recreation algorithms include a run length code algorithm,

a repeated pattern code algorithm and a mirror image code 
algorithm.
A printing apparatus according to any preceding claim
wherein the processing means (2) is operable to recreate a

reduced size character from font data defining a full size
character, according to a common recreation algorithm which

uses one of a plurality of pixel masks to reduce a selected
plurality of pixels of the full size character to a reduced number, wherein the pixel

mask is selected from the plurality of pixel masks
according to the stored identifier (ID2).
A printing apparatus according to claim 5 when
dependent upon claim 2 wherein font data for a character is

stored with a first identifier (ID1) identifying one of said
decompression algorithms as said predetermined algorithm and

a second identifier (ID2) identifying the pixel mask to be used
with said common recreation algorithm for producing a

reduced size character.
A printing apparatus according to any preceding claim
wherein the printing means comprises a thermal printhead

and a cooperative platen.
A printing apparatus according to any preceding claim
wherein the printing medium is a printing tape with a

peelable backing layer.
A printing apparatus according to any preceding claim
which accommodates one or more cassettes housing said

printing medium.
A printing apparatus according to any preceding claim
which includes cutting means for cutting off a portion of

the printing medium to provide a label.
A printing apparatus according to any preceding claim
which comprises selection means (10) for selecting 

characters to be printed.
A method of printing characters comprising the steps
of:


storing font data defining characters to be printed,
the font data enabling the character to be recreated for

printing according to a predetermined algorithm;
selecting a character to be printed;
processing the font data for the selected character
according to the predetermined algorithm to generate pixel

data; and
supplying the resultant pixel data to a printing means
for printing on a printing medium;

   characterised in that the font data for each character
is stored with an identifier (ID1; ID1, ID2) which identifies said

predetermined algorithm from a plurality of algorithms
including a plurality of different decompression algorithms

each of which is for recreation of a given character
from compressed font data defining that character, and in

that the step of processing the font data comprises
processing the font data according to the algorithm

identified by the identifier to generate said pixel data
for printing.
A method of printing characters according to claim 12

wherein said plurality of different decompression
algorithms comprises recreation algorithms corresponding to

different compression algorithms, for recreating a full size
character from font data defining the character in

compressed form according to its corresponding compression
algorithm.
A method of printing characters according to claim 12
or 13 wherein the step of processing the font data for the

selected character further comprises generating pixel data defining
a reduced size character from font data defining a full size

character, according to a common recreation algorithm which 
uses one of a plurality of pixel masks to reduce a selected

plurality of pixels of the full size character to a reduced number, wherein the pixel
mask is selected from a plurality of pixel masks according

to the stored identifier (ID2).
A method according to claim 14 when dependent upon
claim 13 wherein the step of storing font data includes the

step of storing with said font data for a character a first
identifier (ID1) identifying one of said decompression algorithms as

said predetermined algorithm and a second identifier (ID2)
identifying the pixel mask to be used with said common

recreation algorithm for producing a reduced size
character.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
