<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630737</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sheet of plastic material, process for its manufacture and device for the application of the said process.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4700	B29C4700	B29C5902	B29C5902	B29C5904	B29C5904	B29D700	B29D701	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29D	B29D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C47	B29C47	B29C59	B29C59	B29C59	B29C59	B29D7	B29D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a sheet of plastic 
material. According to the invention, the surface of at 

least one of its sides (101) has a miniature corrugation 
or micro-corrugation (2, 3). A further object of the 

invention is a process for the manufacture of the said 
sheet (1) by means of a pair of rolling cylinders (4, 5) 

with completely smooth rolling surfaces, in which the 
first rolling cylinder (4), on the side of the sheet (1) 

which is to be provided with the micro-corrugation (2, 
3), known as the rolling and corrugating cylinder, is 

driven at a speed slightly greater than that of the 
opposing second rolling cylinder (4). For the application 

of the said process, the invention proposes a device 
comprising at least two rolling cylinders (4, 5) with 

completely smooth rolling surfaces, each being driven 
independently of the other by separa
te drive units (M4, 
M5) provided with means (304, 305) of continuous, independent 

regulation of the speed of rotation of the 
cylinders, on the basis of and with means (305) of 

controlling the ratio of the said speeds. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NESPAK SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NESPAK S.P.A. SOCIETA GENERALE PER L'IMBALLAGGIO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONCOMPAGNI CESARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONCOMPAGNI, CESARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a sheet of plastic 
material. In particular, it relates to thermodeformable 
sheets of plastic material which are used as the starting 
materials for the manufacture of products, particularly 
containers, packaging, tubs, or the like. The object of the invention is the production of 
a sheet of plastic material of the type described 
initially which, as a result of extremely simple and 
economical arrangements, has on at least one of its sides 
a surface which can be more easily gripped and is less 
slippery in all cases in which greater friction is 
required. The invention achieves the said object with a 
sheet of plastic material of the type described initially 
in which the surface of at least one of its sides has a 
miniature corrugation or micro-corrugation. Preferably the miniature corrugation or micro-corrugation 
will have an amplitude, in other words the 
distance between the bottoms of the depressions and the 
peaks of the projections of the micro-corrugations, of 
between 200 and 300 µm. The micro-corrugations form a sequence of depressions 
and projections which are parallel to each other 
and have a development which is curvilinear and/or 
corrugated in a basically irregular way transversely with 
respect to their longitudinal extension (longitudinal 
corrugations). The longitudinal corrugation may be long 
or relatively short. The amplitude of the longitudinal 
corrugations exceeds the distance between two minima or 
two maxima, known as the pitch, of the micro-corrugations, 
by a factor which is at least twice the said 
distance. The opposite side of the sheet of plastic 
material may, instead, be completely smooth.  As a result of the micro-corrugations, the sheet 
of plastic material can be gripped and retained more 
securely. This is particularly advantageous in packaging 
containers which are made using the said micro-corrugated 
sheet, for example by thermoforming or similar processes. 
In this case, the outer surface of the said packaging 
containers consists of the side of the sheet provided 
with the micro-corrugations. The packaging container can 
therefore be handled, either manually or mechanically, 
with a more secure grip and can be held effectively by 
exerting smaller forces against the walls of the container. 
This enables the containers to be made with 
thinner sheets, while at the same time avoiding special 
shapes, for imparting greater rigidity, which make the 
moulds more complex and expensive, without running the 
risk of deformation, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Sheet of plastic material, characterized in that 
the surface of at least one of its sides (101) has a 

miniature corrugation or micro-corrugation (2, 3). 
Sheet according to Claim 1, characterized in that 

it consists of thermodeformable plastic material. 
Sheet according to Claim 1 or 2, characterized in 
that the miniature corrugation or micro-corrugation has 

an amplitude (A), in other words the distance between the 
bottoms of the depressions (2) and the peaks of the 

projections (3) of the micro-corrugations, of between 200 
and 300 µm. 
Sheet according to Claim 3, characterized in that 
the pitch (P) of the micro-corrugation, in other words 

the distance between two successive peaks of the projections 
(3) or between two successive minima of the depressions 

(2), is between 1 and 1.5 mm. 
Sheet according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the overall thickness (S) 

of the sheet, including the mean distance between the 
bottoms of the depressions (2) and the peaks of the 

projections (3), is between 450 and 950 µm. 
Sheet according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the micro-corrugations form 

a sequence of depressions (2) and projections (3) which 
are parallel to each other and have a development which 

is curvilinear and/or corrugated in a basically irregular 
way transversely with respect to their longitudinal 

extension (longitudinal corrugations). 
Sheet according to Claim 6, characterized in that 
the longitudinal corrugation may be long or relatively 

short and in that its amplitude exceeds the pitch (P) of 
the micro-corrugations (2, 3) by a factor which is at 

least twice the said pitch. 
Sheet according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the side (201) of the sheet 

(1) opposite the side (101) provided with micro-corrugations 
(2, 3) may be completely smooth. 
Packaging container, particularly for food 
products, especially for agricultural products, characterized 

in that it consists of a sheet of thermoplastic 
material (1) according to one or more of the preceding 

claims, the outer surface of the said container consisting 
of the surface of the side (101) of the sheet (1) 

provided with the micro-corrugation (2, 3). 
Process for the manufacture of the sheet of 
plastic material according to one or more of the preceding 

claims and provided with a micro-corrugation (2, 3) 
on only one of its sides (101), characterized in that the 

sheet (1) is produced by the rolling of heated plastic 
material between at least two rolling cylinders (4, 5) 

with completely smooth rolling surfaces, rotating in 
opposite directions and pressed against each other with 

the normal pressure for rolling processes, the first 
rolling cylinder (4), on the side of the sheet (1) which 

is to be provided with the micro-corrugation (2, 3), 
known as the rolling and corrugating cylinder, being 

driven at a speed slightly greater than that of the 
opposing second rolling cylinder (4), while the sequence 

of depressions (2) and projections (3) of the micro-corrugation 
extends basically transversely with respect 

to the direction of rolling of the sheet (1). 
Process according to Claim 10, characterized in 
that the ratio of the speed of the first rolling and 

corrugating cylinder (4) to that of the second rolling 
cylinder (5) is between 102% and 110%, and preferably 

between 104% and 106%. 
Process according to Claim 10 or 11, characterized 
in that the sheet of plastic material (1) may be fed 

to the pair of rolling cylinders (4, 5) directly from an 
extrusion point (7), for example from what is known as a 

die. 
Device for the application of the manufacture 
process according to one or more of the preceding Claims 

10 to 12, characterized in that it comprises: 

a rolling unit with at least two rolling cylinders 
(4, 5), one above the other and parallel to each other 

 
and capable of being pressed to a suitable degree against 

each other by compression means, and having completely 
smooth outer peripheral rolling surfaces; 
an independent rotary drive unit (M4, M5) for each 
rolling cylinder (4, 5), for the rotary drive in opposite 

directions of the two rolling cylinders (4, 5); 
means (304, 305) of continuous, independent regulation 
of the speed of rotation of the two rolling cylinders. 
Device according to Claim 13, characterized in 
that it also comprises: 


means (8) of setting and displaying the speeds of 
rotation of the rolling cylinders (4, 5); 
means of measuring the actual speed of rotation of 
each rolling cylinder (4, 5); 
means (304, 305) of regulating by feedback the 
actual driving speeds of the rolling cylinders (4, 5) to 

match the preset nominal speed (8). 
Device according to Claim 13 or 14, characterized 
in that it comprises means (304, 305) of correlating and 

comparing the speeds of the two rolling cylinders (3, 4) 
and of correcting the preset speed ratio of the two 

rolling cylinders (4, 5), operating particularly by 
feedback. 
Device according to one or more of the preceding 
Claims 13 to 15, characterized in that the rotary drive 

means consist of electric motors (M4, M5) connected 
dynamically to the associated cylinder (4, 5) by means of 

a reduction unit (104, 105) and a transmission (104, 105) 
and each controlled by a separate controller (304, 305). 
Device according to Claim 16, characterized in 
that the means of correcting the ratio of the drive 

speeds of the two rolling cylinders (4, 5) consist of the 
controller (305) of one of the said cylinders (5), 

preferably that of the lower rolling cylinder (5), the 
said controller (305) also governs the controller (304) 

of the upper rolling cylinder (4), known as the rolling 
and corrugating cylinder, to control the ratio of the 

speeds of the two cylinders (4, 5). 
Device according to one or more of the preceding 
Claims 13 to 17, characterized in that the electric 

motors (M4, M5) are of the type known as brushless 
motors. 
Device according to one or more of the preceding 
Claims 13 to 18, characterized in that it has an additional 

extraction cylinder (6) orientated parallel to the 
rolling cylinders (4, 5) and located in alignment with 

and under the lower rolling cylinder (5), the said 
extraction cylinder (6) also being driven independently 

of the others by means of a drive unit (M6, 106, 206) 
controlled by a similar controller (306) governed by the 

controller (305) of the lower rolling cylinder (5). 
Device according to one or more of the preceding 
Claims 13 to 19, characterized in that it has an extrusion 

point (7) located upstream of the rolling cylinders 
(4, 5). 
Device according to one or more of the preceding 
Claims 13 to 20, characterized in that it has three 

parallel and counter-rotating rolling cylinders which are 
vertically aligned with each other and of which the upper 

and lower rolling cylinders are supported so that they 
may be pressed against the intermediate rolling cylinder, 

the sheet being made to pass between the upper rolling 
cylinder and the intermediate cylinder and then in the 

opposite direction between the intermediate and the lower 
cylinder, each rolling cylinder being driven in rotation 

independently of the other two. 
Device according to one or more of the preceding 
Claims 13 to 21, characterized in that the rolling 

cylinders (4, 5) may be cooled, particularly with cooling 
water. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
