<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646047</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ETCH-RESISTANT COATING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05D724	B05D724	C08J324	C08J324	C09D13300	C09D13300	C09D13304	C09D13304	C09D13314	C09D13314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05D	B05D	C08J	C08J	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05D7	B05D7	C08J3	C08J3	C09D133	C09D133	C09D133	C09D133	C09D133	C09D133	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A coating composition comprises a polymer which is comprised of the residue of a sterically-hindered monomer. The presence of this sterically-hindered monomer results in the production of a coating which is resistant to environmental etching.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BASF CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BASF CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUDDE ANNA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREEN MARVIN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAUGAL JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTAGNE MARK R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHRBOM WALTER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUDDE ANNA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREEN MARVIN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAUGAL JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTAGNE MARK R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHRBOM WALTER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ETCH-RESISTANT COATING BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a polymer and a composition suitable for producing a cured coating resistant to environmental etch, a process for making the composition, a process for coating the substrate with the composition, and to a substrate having a coating which is resistant to environmental etching. More particularly, the present invention utilizes polymers produced from one or more sterically-hindered monomers which are capable of copolymerizing under the reaction conditions employed.The use of addition polymers such as acrylic polymers in coatings formulations, particularly in topcoats for the automotive market, has been widespread. One of the primary requirements of such a coating for the automotive market is that it be durable. That is, the coating must resist degradation due to environmental elements which it comes into comes into contact with, such as sunlight, gasoline, and environmental fallout such as dew, rain, or particulate matter of any kind. It has been recognized that prior art coating compositions are deficient in their ability to withstand degradation from elements which have generally and unanalytically been lumped together in the category of "environmental" causes of degradation. This sort of degradation has 

 manifested itself in an etching or pitting of the coating's surface, and has resulted in the necessity of the automotive manufacturers to repair the coatings under warranty claims. However, in spite of the recognized deficiencies of prior art polymers and coating compositions, as well as the economic penalty of such deficiencies, a long felt need for such a polymer for producing a cured topcoat resistant to environmental etch has heretofore gone unsatisfied. The present invention provides a process of coating a substrate suitable for producing cured coatings resistant to environmental etch. In general, the coating composition comprises a sterically-hindered monomer which is an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic ester and an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer having a functional site capable of undergoing crosslinking after the resin is formed. The amount of the sterically-hindered monomer reacted may range from about 20 to 80 weight percent, based on the total weight of the polymer. The theoretical Tg (i.e., glass transition temperature) of the polymer may range from about 10°C to about 70βC. This polymer may be utilized in forming a coating composition along with other reactive components.BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 We claim:
1. A process for coating a substrate, the process comprising the steps of: A. making a coating composition which comprises a polymer, wherein from about 75 weight percent to about 100 weight percent of the polymer consists of a residue of a sterically-hindered monomer and a residue of an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer, wherein the sterically-hindered monomer is at least one monomer selected from the group consisting of: i. a first sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the first monomer is an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic ester, ii. a second sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the second monomer is a vinyl monomer, wherein the sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue is present in an amount of from 0 to about 50 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer, and wherein the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer has a functional site capable of undergoing crosslinking after forming the polymer,
B. applying the coating composition to a substrate so that an uncured coating is formed, an C. curing the uncured coating, whereby a cured coatingis formed. 


2. A process as described in claim 1, wherein from about 90 weight percent to about 100 weight percent of the polymer consists of the residue of the sterically- hindered monomer and the residue of the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer.
3. A process as described in claim 2 wherein the sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue is present in an amount of from 0 to about 25 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer.
4. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the polymer comprises at least 35 weight percent of a total amount of reactive components present in the coating composition.
5. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the polymer comprises at least 50 weight percent of a total amount of reactive components present in the coating composition.
6. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the polymer comprises at least 75 weight percent of a total amount of reactive components present in the coating composition.
7. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the polymer comprises from about 35 to about 85 weight percent of a total amount of reactive components present in the coating composition. 


 8. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the polymer comprises from about 50 to about 80 weight percent of a total amount of reactive components present in the coating composition.
9. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the polymer comprises from about 55 to about 80 weight percent of a total amount of reactive components present in the coating composition.
10. A process as described in claim 3 wherein at least 95 weight percent of the polymer consists of the residue of at least two monomers selected from the group consisting of the first sterically-hindered monomer, the second sterically-hindered monomer, and the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer.
11. A process as described in claim 3, wherein from about 20 to about 80 weight percent of the polymer consists of the residue of at least one monomer selected from the group consisting of the first sterically- hindered monomer and the second sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the amount of the second sterically- hindered monomer residue is from 0 weight percent to about 50 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer. 


12. A process as described in claim 11 wherein the amount of the second sterically-hindered monomer residue is from 0 weight percent to about 25 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer.
13. A process as described in claim 3, wherein from about 25 to about 70 weight percent of the polymer consists of the residue of at least one monomer selected from the group consisting of the first sterically- hindered monomer and the second sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the amount of the sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue is from 0 weight percent to about 25 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer.
14. A process as described in claim 3, wherein from about 30 to about 65 weight percent of the polymer consists of the residue of at least one monomer selected from the group consisting of the first sterically- hindered monomer and the second sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the amount of the sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue is from 0 weight percent to about 25 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer.
15. A process as described in claim 3, wherein the first sterically-hindered monomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of an aliphatic branched acyclic ester of acrylic acid, and aliphatic 


 branched acyclic ester of methacrylic acid, a cyclic ester of acrylic acid, and a cyclic ester of methacrylic acid.
16. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the functional site which is present on the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises at least one functionality selected from the group consisting of hydroxyl, isocyanate, oxirane, carboxylic acid, and carboxylic acid anhydride.
17. A process as set forth in claim 3 wherein the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl methacrylate, hydroxybutyl acrylate, hydroxybutyl methacrylate, glycidyl acrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, isocyantoethyl methacrylate, acryloxypropionic acid, mixtures of polyacrylic acids, mixtures of polymethacrylic acids, meta-isopropenyl-α,α- dimethylbenzyl isocyanate, and maleic anhydride.
18. A process as set forth in claim 3 wherein the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, glycidyl methacrylate. 


hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, and hydroxypropyl methacrylate.
19. A process as described in claim 3, wherein the first sterically-hindered monomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of isobornyl methacrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, tert-butyl methacrylate, 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate, and mixtures of branched decyl methacry1ates.
20. A process as described in claim 3, wherein the second sterically-hindered monomer is styrene.
21. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the residue of the sterically-hindered monomer comprises both:
A. a first acrylate, wherein the first acrylate is a sterically-hindered aliphatic ester of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, wherein the first acrylate is present in the polymer in an amount of from about 5 weight percent to about 50 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer,
B. a second acrylate, wherein the second acrylate is a sterically-hindered ester of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid different from the first acrylate, wherein the second acrylate is present in the polymer 


 in an amount of from about 5 weight percent to about 75 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer, and wherein the residue of the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises a functional site capable of undergoing corsslinking after forming the polymer, and wherein the comonomer residue is an ester of acrylic and methacrylic acid, and wherein the comonomer is present in an amount of from about 20 weight percent to about 50 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer.
22. A process as set forth in claim 21 wherein the first acrylate comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of cyclohexyl methacrylate, tert-butyl methacrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate, and isobornyl methacrylate.
23. A process as set forth in claim 21 wherein the second acrylate comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate and mixtures of branched decyl methacrylates.
24. A process as set forth in claim 21 wherein the second acrylate is present in an amount of from about 25 weight percent to about 45 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer. 


25. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the polymer has a theoretical T
g
 of from about 10°C to about 70°C.
26. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the polymer has a theoretical T
g
 of from about 25"C to about 60°C.
27. A process as described in claim 3 wherein the polymer has a theoretical T
g
 of from about 17 "C to about
46°C.
28. A method of reducing the susceptibility of a cured coating to environmental etching, the method comprising reacting a sufficient amount of a polymer with other reactive components in a coating composition to be cured during curing of the coating, wherein the polymer comprises the residues of:
A. a sufficient amount of a sterically-hindered monomer, and
B. a sufficient amount of an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer which has functional sites capable of undergoing crosslinking after forming the polymer, wherein the amount of any sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue present is from 0 weight percent to about 50 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer, and wherein the amounts are sufficient to reduce the 


 susceptibility of the cured coating formed therefrom to environmental etching.
29. A method as described in claim 28 wherein the amount of any sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue present is from 0 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
30. A method as set forth in claim 29 wherein the polymer has a theoretical T
g
 of from about 10"C to about
70
β
C.
31. A method described in claim 29 wherein from about 20 to about 80 weight percent of the polymer consists of the residue of a sterically-hindered monomer.
32. A coating composition, the composition comprising a polymer, wherein from about 75 weight percent to about 100 weight percent of the polymer consists of a residue of a sterically-hindered monomer and a residue of an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer, wherein the sterically-hindered monomer is at least one monomer selected from the group consisting of: i. a first sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the first monomer is an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic ester, ii. a second sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the second monomer is a vinyl monomer, and wherein the 


sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue is present in an amount of from 0 to about 50 weight percent based on the weight of the polymer, and wherein the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer has a functional site capable of undergoing crosslinking after forming the polymer.
33. A coating composition as described in claim 32, wherein from about 90 weight percent to about 100 weight percent of the polymer consists of the residue of the sterically-hindered monomer and the residue of the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer.
34. A coating composition as described in claim 33 wherein the sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue is present in an amount of from 0 to about 25 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer.
35. A coating composition as described in claim 34, wherein the composition further comprises a crosslinker capable of reacting with the functional sites of the polymer.
36. A coating composition as described in claim 34, wherein the coating composition is present in the form of an uncured coating on a substrate.
37. A coating composition as described in claim 34, 


 wherein the first sterically-hindered monomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of an aliphatic branched acyclic ester of acrylic acid, and aliphatic branched acyclic ester of methacrylic acid, a cyclic ester of acrylic acid, and a cyclic ester of methacrylic acid.
38. A coating composition as described in claim 34 wherein the functional site which is present on the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises at least one functionality selected from the group consisting of hydroxyl, isocyanate, oxirane, carboxylic acid, and carboxylic acid anhydride.
39. A coating composition as set forth in claim 34 wherein the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl methacrylate, hydroxybutyl acrylate, hydroxybutyl methacrylate, glicidyl acrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, isocyantoethyl methacrylate, acryloxypropionic acid, mixtures of polyacrylic acids, mixtures of polymethacrylic acids, meta-isopropenyl-α, a- dimethylbenzyl isocyanate, and maleic anhydride. 


40. A coating composition as set forth in claim 34 wherein the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, glycidyl methacrylate, hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, and hydroxypropyl methacrylate.
41. A coating composition as described in claim 34, wherein the first sterically-hindered monomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of isobornyl methacrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, tert-butyl methacrylate, 2- ethylhexyl methacrylate, and mixtures of branched decyl methacrylates.
42. A coating composition as described in claim 34, wherein the second sterically-hindered monomer is styrene.
43. A coating composition as described in claim 34 wherein the residue of the sterically-hindered monomer comprises both:
A. a first acrylate, wherein the first acrylate is a sterically-hindered aliphatic ester of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, wherein the first acrylate is present in the polymer in an amount of from about 5 weight percent to about 50 weight percent, based on 


 the weight of the polymer,
B. a second acrylate, wherein the second acrylate is a sterically-hindered ester of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid different from the first acrylate, wherein the second acrylate is present in the polymer in an amount of from about 5 weight percent to about 75 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer, and wherein the residue of the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises a functional site capable of undergoing crosslinking after forming the polymer, and wherein the comonomer residue is an ester of acrylic and methacrylic acid, and wherein the comonomer is present in an amount of from about 20 weight percent to about 50 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer.
44. A coating composition as set forth in claim 34 wherein the first acrylate comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of cyclohexyl methacrylate, tert-butyl methacrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate, and isobornyl methacrylate.
45. A coating composition as set forth in claim 34 wherein the second acrylate comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate and mixtures of branched decyl methacrylates. 


46. A process for making a coating composition, the process comprising the steps of:
A. making a polymer wherein from about 75 weight percent to about 100 weight percent of the polymer consists of a residue of a sterically-hindered monomer and a residue of an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer, wherein the sterically-hindered monomer is at least one monomer selected from the group consisting of: i. a first sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the first monomer is an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic ester, ii. a second sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the second monomer is a vinyl monomer, wherein the sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue is present in an amount of from 0 to about 50 weight percent, based on the weight of the polymer, and wherein the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer has a functional site capable of undergoing crosslinking after forming the polymer, B. combining the polymer with at least one member selected from the group consisting of a crosslinker, an additional crosslinkable polymer, a catalyst, an organic solvent, and a uv-light stabilizer.
47. A process as described in claim 46, wherein from about 90 weight percent to about 100 weight percent of the polymer consists of the residue of the sterically- 


 hindered monomer and the residue of the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer.
48. A process as described in claim 47 wherein the sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue is present in an amount of from 0 to about 25 weight percent.
49. A coated article comprising a substrate having a cured coating thereon, wherein the cured coating comprises a sufficient amount of a residue of a sterically hindered monomer and a residue of an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer, wherein the amounts of the residue of the monomer and the residue of the comonomer are sufficient to produce a coating exhibiting enhanced environmental etch resistance, and wherein any sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue in the coating is present in an amount of from 0 weight percent to about 50 weight percent, based on a total of the weight of the sterically hindered monomer residue and the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer residue, which are present in the coating.
50. A coated article as described in claim 49, wherein any sterically-hindered vinyl monomer residue in the coating is present in an amount of from 0 weight percent to about 25 weight percent. 



51. A coated article as described in claim 50, wherein the residue of the sterically hindered monomer is present in an amount of from about 90 weight percent to about 100 weight percent, based on a total of the weight of the sterically hindered monomer residue and the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer residue which are present in the coating, and wherein the residue of the sterically hindered monomer is at least one residue which is selected from the group consisting of: i. residues of a first sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the first monomer is an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic ester, ii. residues of a second sterically-hindered monomer, wherein the second monomer is a vinyl monomer.
52. A coated article as described in claim 51, wherein the first residue of the sterically-hindered monomer comprises at least one residue selected from the group consisting of residues of: an aliphatic branched acyclic ester of acrylic acid, an aliphatic branched acyclic ester of methacrylic acid, a cyclic ester of acrylic acid, and a cyclic ester of methacrylic acid.
53. A coated article as set forth in claim 51 wherein the residue of the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises at least one residue selected from the group consisting of residues of: acrylic acid, methacrylic 


 acid, hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl methacrylate, hydroxybutyl acrylate, hydroxybutyl methacrylate, glycidyl acrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, isocyantoethyl methacrylate, acryloxypropionic acid, mixtures of polyacrylic acids, mixtures of polymethacrylic acids, meta-isopropenyl-α,α-dimethylbenzyl isocyanate, and maleic anhydride.
54. A coated article as set forth in claim 51 wherein the residue of the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises at least one residue selected from the group consisting of residues of: acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, glycidyl methacrylate, hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, and hydroxypropyl methacrylate.
55. A coated article as described in claim 51, wherein the residue of the first sterically-hindered monomer comprises at least one residue selected from the group consisting of residues of: isobornyl methacrylate, 
■
tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, tert-butyl methacrylate, 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate, and mixtures of branched decyl methacrylates.
56. A coated article as described in claim 51, wherein the residue of the second sterically-hindered monomer is 


a styrene residue.
57. A coated article as described in claim 51 wherein the residue of the sterically-hindered monomer comprises: A. a first acrylate residue, wherein the first acrylate residue is a residue of a sterically-hindered aliphatic ester of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, wherein the first acrylate residue is present in the coating in an amount of from about 5 weight percent to about 50 weight percent, based on a combined weight of the residues of sterically-hindered monomers and residues of ethylenically unsaturated comonomers,
B. a second acrylate residue, wherein the second acrylate residue is a residue of a sterically-hindered ester of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid which is different from the residue of the first acrylate, and wherein the residue of the second acrylate is present in the coating in an amount of from about 5 weight percent to about 75 weight percent, based on the combined weight of the residues of sterically-hindered monomers and residues of ethylenically unsaturated comonomers, and wherein the residue of the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer is present in the coating in an amount of from about 20 weight percent to about 50 weight percent, based on the combined weight of the residues of sterically- hindered monomers and residues of ethylenically unsaturated comonomers, which are present in the coating. 


 58. A process as set forth in claim 57 wherein the residue of the first acrylate comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of residues of: cyclohexyl methacrylate, tert-butyl methacrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate, and isobornyl methacrylat .
59. A process as set forth in claim 57 wherein the residue of the second acrylate comprises at least one residue selected from the group consisting of residues of: 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate and mixtures of branched decyl methacrylates. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
