<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614566</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIPLE PLAY COMPACT DISK PLAYER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1730	G11B1730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B17	G11B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-play compact disk player (10) having a magazine (21) holding a plurality of discrete programmed compact disks (40). The magazine (21) remains stationary and a housing in the player (10) is rotated with an arm (98) movable to pick up a preselected one of the disks (40) and move the same to a playing area for playing the same. The player (10) can receive thereon a plurality of stacked magazines (21), each magazine (21) holding a plurality of compact disks (40).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LANGMAN KIRK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LANGMAN, KIRK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGMAN KIRK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGMAN, KIRK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTIPLE PLAY COMPACT DISK PLAYERBackground of the Invention Field of the InventionThe invention relates to compact disk players; and, more particularly, to a multi-play compact disk player having stackable magazines thereon, each holding a plurality of compact disks thereon.Description of the Prior ArtIn recent years, the field of audio equipment has embraced digital audio playback systems which utilize pulse code modulation technology for playing back sounds recorded on compact disks. Such disks, referred to as CDs, used in such digital audio disk systems are made from resin and having a metal film on at least one surface with pits or depressions formed therein. These pits or depressions reflect light and are read by an optical pickup incorporating a semiconductor laser while the CD rotates.Due to their increased popularity it has been suggested to provide a CD player adapted to play a plurality of CDs. In U.S. Patent No. 4,734,898, for example, an autochanger type CD player is disclosed. However, in this changer, the CDs are stacked vertically and complicated mechanism is used to transport the vertically stacked CDs to a playing area, then return the same after playing. The capacity of the tray holding the disks is also limited. In U.S. Patent No. 4,737,945, a multi-disk player is disclosed wherein the CDs are stacked horizontally in a magazine insertible in the player. Although different magazines can be inserted into the player, they can be inserted only one at a time and each magazine only holds a small number of 

 CDs, such as three. The mechanism for withdrawing these CDs from the magazine and transporting the same to a playing area is also quite complicated and physically clamps the CD. Other similar prior art players have similar deficiencies and are quite expensive and complicated. Thus, such high cost does not allow such players to be competitive in one's home except for ''high end" users.There is thus a need for an inexpensive and easy- to-use multi-play CD player which is programmable, can stack a plurality of magazines holding a plurality of CDs, and which uses a simple system for withdrawing the CD from a storage in a magazine and returning it to the magazine after playing the same. The owner of such a player can insert a plurality of CDs in a magazine, store the same and need never physically touch the stored CD again. This will increase the life of the CD.Summary of the Invention It is an object of this invention to provide an improved inexpensive multi-play CD player.It is a further
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IK THE CLAIMS I claim:
1. A multi-compact disk player comprising: compact disk playing means; a magazine adapted to hold a plurality of compact disks, said magazine having spacing means interiorly thereof for maintaining a plurality of compact disks therein spaced from one another and slanted from the horizontal so that, when a plurality of compact disks are disposed within said magazine, said spacing means maintains said compact disks both spaced from adjacent compact disks while exposing an upper surface of said slanted compact disks; said magazine having an open central area with said spacing means disposed in a circular array about said open central area and said playing means being disposed within said open central area; rotating means for selectively rotating said playing means into position for pick-up and return of a compact disk in a selected position in the magazine; compact disk pick-up and release means associated with said playing means adapted to move when rotated into a selected position from a first position adjacent to said magazine and proximate the exposed surface of a compact disk when placed in said magazine to a second position adjacent said playing means and adapted to pick-up a compact disc in the magazine in its first position and move it to and release it for positioning for playing by the playing means in its second position, and to pick-up a compact disc in its second position and move it to and release it in its place in the magazine.
2. In the player of claim 1 further comprising a main housing and wherein said compact disk playing means is within said main housing. 


 3. In the player of claim 2 wherein said magazine is removably secured to said housing.
4. In the player of claim 1 wherein said compact disk playing means has a turntable portion for receiving a compact disk when moved to said second position and said turntable portion is slanted at the same angle to the horizontal as said spacing means.
5. In the player of claim 4 wherein said spacing means and said turntable portion are slanted at an angle of about 25° with respect to the horizontal.
6. In the player of claim 4 wherein said compact disk playing means has a cover and including means for selectively moving said cover between a raised and a lowered position said cover being connected to said playing means and having a compact disk retaining portion adapted to engage a compact disk disposed in said turntable portion and retain said compact disk playably in position on a rotatable hub when said cover is moved to a lowered position adjacent said turntable portion and said compact disk retaining portion is slanted at the same angle to the horizontal as said turntable portion when said cover is lowered.
7. In the player of claim 6 wherein said compact disk retaining portion, said spacing means and said turntable portion are slanted at an angle of about 25° with respect to the horizontal.
8. In the player of claim 6 wherein the cover moving means includes a solenoid mounted on said playing means having a solenoid arm with a terminal end movable within a slot mounted in said cover and the cover is pivotally connected to the playing means for pivotal movement between the raised and lowered positions.
9. In the player of claim 1 wherein said compact disk pick up and release means includes a compact disk pick up pad carried by said arm at one end thereof, a vacuum means 


 coupled to said pad for selectively creating a vacuum at said pad to adhere a compact disk thereto by vacuum until said vacuum is released to pick up a compact disk and for releasing the vacuum to release the compact disk. 10. In the player of claim 9 wherein said pad is moved along said arm by a motor actuated gearing mechanism.
11. In the player of claim 9 wherein said pad has resilient surface for contacting a compact disk and is apertured at said surface for vacuum pick up of a compact disk and is shaped to contact a substantial portion of said exposed upper surface.
12. In the player of claim 3 wherein said playing means is vertically movable within said housing and within the open area of said magazine. 13. In the player of claim 3 wherein said magazine is detachably secured to said housing by a plurality of releasable fasteners extending between said magazine and said housing.
14. In the player of claim 13 wherein a second magazine is detachably secured to and on top of said first mentioned magazine, and including releasable fasteners for screwing said second magazine in place.
15. In the player of claim 14 wherein said playing means is vertically movable within said housing and within the open areas of said first and second magazines.
16. In the player of claim 15 wherein said playing means is vertically movable by a motor driven vertical worm screw mounted at one end in said housing and at the other end in a block in which said screw is threaded fixed to a subhousing mounted within said housing between said playback means and a centrally mounted cavity within said housing.
17. In the player of claim 16 wherein said subhousing is keyed to said housing for non-rotating vertical movement with respect to said housing. 


 18. In the player of claim 17 wherein said worm screw includes a first portion threaded into said block and second portion removably secured to said first portion having the one end of said screw mounted in said housing. 19. In the player of claim 14 wherein said playing means is vertically movable by a motor driven vertical worm screw mounted at one end in said housing and at the other end in a block in which said screw is threaded fixed to a subhousing mounted within said housing between said playback means and a centrally mounted cavity within said housing.
20. In the player of claim 19 wherein said subhousing is keyed to said housing for non-rotating vertical movement with respect to said housing.
21. In the player of claim 1 wherein said spacing means includes a plurality of spaced slanted partitions disposed in a circular array within said magazine.
22. In the player of claim 21 wherein said spacing means includes said magazine having a bottom wall with a plurality of abutment shoulders disposed at spaced locations on a circular array on said bottom wall, each of said abutment shoulders being spaced from a respective partition a distance sufficient to accommodate a slanted compact disk therebetween.
23. A method for storing and playing compact disks comprising: arranging compact disks in a circular array slanted from horizontal to expose an upper surface of said compact disks; disposing the circular array around a compact disk player; selectively picking up a compact disk in the array by contact of a pick up and release means with the exposed upper surface and moving said compact disk to and releasing it into playing position in the compact disk player; 


 replacing said compact disk when no longer desired in the compact disk player by picking it up by contact with the exposed upper surface and moving it back to the position in the array. 24. The method of claim 23 further wherein the compact disk is picked up by providing a vacuum means movable between a pick-up position at the array and a playing position at the player and rotating the vacuum means to a selected position to pick up a selected compact disc in the array and to replace a compact disk in its position in the array. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
