<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648356</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WORKFLOW SERVER FOR MEDICAL RECORDS IMAGING AND TRACKING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1900	G06F1900	G06Q1000	G06Q1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06Q	G06Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F19	G06F19	G06Q10	G06Q10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A computer system with a workflow server that provides for automatic and prioritized assignment of work involving processing of medical information records (202) to particular resources in a hospital. When medical records are no longer needed, it may be written by the file server on to optical disk (230). A page table (28) may also receive data on medical records (202) via MIS integration block (290). Documents are accessed via the file server at coding/abstracting workstation (214) or via work-station (216). A plurality of such workstations may be attached to the file server to perform chart coding/abstracting and chart deficiency completion. Documents may also be accessed at print station (218) and printed on printer (260).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIRST DATA HEALTH SERVICE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIRST DATA HEALTH SERVICE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILHELM RICHARD K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILHELM RICHARD K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 WORKFLOW SERVER FOR MEDICAL RECORDS IMAGING AND TRACKING SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Maintaining patient medical records, whether for an individual doctor or for the entire medical staff of a major hospital, presents many complications, which may be grouped broadly into three categories.First, pertinent information for any one patient may come from an array of sources, including physical and medical history information provided by the patient, radiology reports, clinical and anatomical pathology reports, EKG readouts, physician orders, nursing notes, care plans, and insurance providers. Second, upon discharge, a patient's medical record data is typically reviewed extensively. This includes reviews of the physician's attestation, of documentation of the treatment process, of all charts to ensure that they are complete, and of procedures and notes to be abstracted. If data is incomplete, payment organizations such as insurers may deny claims made by a health care provider.Third, any number of parties require access to patient information, including hospitals, clinics, attorneys, regulatory agencies, courts, whoever pays the bills, and naturally the patients themselves. Keeping track of requests for access from these varied sources is quite burdensome.Most medical record systems in use today are either paper-based or make use of computer systems only to a limited extent. Optical imaging systems have been used to scan printed documents into a computer system for storage, retrieval, viewing, and printing, but these systems do not provide the management functions needed to deal effectively with 

the myriad tasks described above. Health care providers are finding that existing systems and methods of managing medical records are not meeting demands placed upon them. In particular, two administrative bottlenecks in the use of such systems are the coding/abstracting of medical records and the assigning of deficient medical records (e.g., missing data or signatures) to proper personnel for completion. Existing systems typically store documents in a database on a file server to which a plurality of client workstations are attached. Standard database functions may be used in such systems to establish workflow assignments. But such a database-centered approach to workflow has disadvantages. Because databases are not specifically structured to accommodate the types of transactions required for workflow processing, using standard database functions to carry out such transactions would be inefficient, resulting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer system for storing and tracking medical information records comprising: means for storing data in a run-time memory; means for storing data regarding the medical information records in a relational database; means for loading the data regarding the medical information records into the run-time memory; means for running one or more application programs, each of which performs one or more operations on the data regarding the medical information records; means for identifying when data constituting a predefined set of data has been added to the database; means for forming one or more first subsets of said predefined set of data, each subset being formed according to predefined first subset criteria; means for forming one or more second subsets of each of said one or more subsets, each second subset being formed according to predefined second subset criteria for a specific application program; workqueue routing means, responsive to a request from one of the application programs, for routing each first subset, according to predefined workqueue routing criteria, to a workqueue for one of the application programs, and for routing each second subset, according to predefined workqueue routing criteria, to a workqueue for the application program whose 


 predefined second subset criteria were used to form the second subset; and resource assigning means for assigning each first subset and second subset, according to predefined resource assigning criteria, to a resource for one workqueue, whereby a user identified to the system as a particular resource running a particular application program is allowed access only to those first subsets or second subsets assigned to that particular resource for that resource's associated workqueue for the particular application program that is running.
2. A computer system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising means for storing configuration data regarding the application programs, the workqueues for each application program, the resources for each workqueue, the predefined first and second subset criteria, the predefined workqueue routing criteria, and the predefined resource assigning criteria.
3. A computer system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said means for storing configuration data comprises a run-time configuration file.
4. A computer system for storing and tracking medical information records comprising: means for storing data regarding the medical information records in a relational database; 


 means for running one or more application programs, each of which performs one or more operations on data in said database; means for identifying when data constituting a predefined set of data has been added to the database; means for forming one or more subsets of said predefined set of data, each subset being formed according to predefined subset criteria; workqueue routing means for routing each subset, according to predefined workqueue routing criteria, to a workqueue for one of the application programs; and resource assigning means for assigning each subset, according to predefined resource assigning criteria, to a resource for one workqueue, whereby a user identified to the system as a particular resource running a particular application program is allowed access only to those subsets assigned to that particular resource for that resource's associated workqueue for the particular application program that is running.
5. A computer system as claimed in claim 4 further comprising means for storing configuration data regarding the application programs, the workqueues for each application program, the resources for each workqueue, the predefined subset criteria, the predefined workqueue routing criteria, and the predefined resource assigning criteria. 


 6. A computer system as claimed in claim 5 wherein said means for storing configuration data comprises a run-time configuration file.
7. A method for storing and tracking medical information records on a computer system comprising the steps of: storing data regarding the medical information records in a relational database; identifying when data constituting a predefined set of data has been added to the database; loading the data regarding the medical information records into a run-time memory in response to a request to load the data from the database; forming one or more first subsets of said predefined set of data, each subset being formed according to predefined first subset criteria; forming one or more second subsets of said one or more subsets, each second subset being formed according to predefined second subset criteria for a specific one of one or more application programs that can run on the system, each of which performs one or more operations on data in said database; routing each first subset in response to a request from one of the application programs, according to predefined workqueue routing criteria, to a workqueue for one of the application programs, and routing each second subset, according to predefined workqueue routing criteria, to a workqueue for the application 


 program whose predefined second subset criteria were used to form the second subset; and assigning each first subset and second subset, according to predefined resource assigning criteria, to a resource for one workqueue, whereby a user identified to the system as a particular resource running a particular application program is allowed access only to those first subsets or second subsets assigned to that particular resource for that resource's associated workqueue for the particular application program that is running.
8. A method as claimed in claim 7 further comprising the step of storing on a storage medium configuration data regarding the application programs, the workqueues for each application program, the resources for each workqueue, the predefined subset criteria, the predefined workqueue routing criteria, and the predefined resource assigning criteria.
9. A computer system as claimed in claim 8 wherein said step of storing configuration data comprises storing the configuration data in a run-time configuration file.
10. A method for storing and tracking medical information records on a computer system comprising the steps of: storing data regarding the medical information records in a relational database; 


 identifying when data constituting a predefined set of data has been added to the database; forming one or more subsets of said predefined set of data, each subset being formed according to predefined subset criteria; routing each subset, according to predefined workqueue routing criteria, to a workqueue for one of the application programs; and assigning each subset, according to predefined resource assigning criteria, to a resource for one workqueue, whereby a user identified to the system as a particular resource running a particular application program is allowed access only to those subsets assigned to that particular resource for that resource's associated workqueue for the particular application program that is running.
11. A method as claimed in claim 10 further comprising the step of storing on a storage medium configuration data regarding the application programs, the workqueues for each application program, the resources for each workqueue, the predefined subset criteria, the predefined workqueue routing criteria, and the predefined resource assigning criteria.
12. A computer system as claimed in claim 11 wherein said step of storing configuration data comprises storing the configuration data in a run-time configuration file. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
