<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611056</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mailer with reply envelope
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D2706	B65D2706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D27	B65D27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mailer type business form is formed from an 
intermediate made using a first large quadrate sheet of paper 

(10) and a second much smaller quadrate sheet (25). A fold 
line (17) divides the intermediate into first and second 

equal size panels (18, 19), the second panel having a cut out 
window (20) and the first panel having the second sheet 

placed over a portion thereof to form a return envelope (38). 
A reply address (31) is printed on the second sheet at a 

portion thereof in alignment with the cut out window when the 
first sheet if V-folded about the fold line. A repositional 

adhesive label (32) is applied over the reply address (31), 
and the mailer is sealed with adhesive (40) along the edges 

of the second panel (19). The mailer is manufactured with a 
minimum number of operations in a relatively simple manner. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOORE BUSINESS FORMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOORE BUSINESS FORMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOCH MARK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUERWINE DEAN N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOCH, MARK D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUERWINE, DEAN N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Mailers are a popular type of business form. It is 
often desirable for a mailer to be able to convey a great 
deal of confidential information, while providing a reply 
envelope to allow the recipient of the mailer to mail 
order forms, questionnaires, or like documents back to the 
original sender of the mailer. US-A-4,706,877 shows a particular 
type of mailer that is constructed with a built in return 
envelope that is very easy to use. The built in return 
envelope includes a repositional label which covers a 
reply address on the reply envelope part of the mailer. 
The repositional label has the outgoing addressee 
information printed thereon and is visible through a 
window in a covering ply. Once the mailer is opened by 
the recipient, the repositional label can be removed from 
its position covering the reply address and placed on the 
return address portion of the reply envelope. While the mailer of US-A-4,706,877 is 
advantageous, it has a few drawbacks thereto, and is 
constructed in a manner that is not as simple as desired. 
The mailer of US-A-4,706,877 uses sheets that are 
run from the same size press so that two continuous webs 
are glued together to form a return envelope, which must 
be of a predetermined size. In contrast to such a 
construction, according to the present invention the 
return envelope can be of various sizes, and is made of a 
second sheet of paper having dimensions much less than one 
of the panels of a first sheet of paper, so as to minimize 
paper waste. The mailer produced according to the 
invention also is easier to open because there is only a 
small portion where there are three plies, rather than 
three plies all around all three openable sides as in the US-A-4,706,877 
construction. Also, the mailer according to the  
 
present invention allows more room for internal indicia, 
and may be produced merely using a press, "85" machine, 
and Labelaire™ machine, that is not requiring a collator 
such as is typically utilized in the construction of a 
mailer such as in US-A-4,706,877. The invention comprises an intermediate for forming a 
mailer, a mailer so formed, and a method of manufacture of 
a mailer. The mailer that is produced according to the 
present invention has a large amount of interior space for 
printing of confidential information, is easy to open, and 
provides an easy to use return envelope. According to one aspect of the present invention an 
intermediate for a mailer type business form is provided. 
The intermediate comprises the following
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An intermediate for a mailer type business form, 
comprising: 


a first generally quadrate sheet of paper (10) having 
parallel first and second edges (13, 14), and parallel third 

and fourth edges (15, 16) perpendicular to the first and 
second edges; 
a fold line (17) substantially bisecting said third 
and fourth edges and parallel to said first and second edges, 

defining first and second panels (18, 19); 
a cut out window (20) provided in said second 
panel; 
a reply envelope forming quadrate second sheet (25) 
having dimensions substantially less than the dimensions of 

said first sheet; 
a first adhesive pattern (27) connecting said second 
sheet to said first sheet, first panel (18) to form a reply 

envelope (38); 
reply address indicia (31) printed on said second 
sheet at a portion thereof in alignment with said cut out 

window when said first sheet is folded about said fold line; 
a repositional adhesive label (32) applied to said 
second sheet covering said reply address (31), and having an 

outgoing address (33) thereon; 
a second adhesive pattern (40) for connecting said 
first panel to said second panel along the edges thereof when 

folded about said fold line (17); and 
lines of weakness (41 - 45) formed in said first and 
second panels adjacent said edges of said first sheet for 

allowing ready opening of a mailer formed by folding about 
said fold line and adhesive attachment by said second 

adhesive. 
A mailer type business form comprising an 
intermediate according to claim 1 in which the first sheet is 

V-folded about the fold line to produce a mailer.  
 
An intermediate or mailer as recited in claim 1 or 
claim 2 characterised in that said reply address indicia (31) 

is readable in a line, said readable line being parallel to 
said fold line (17). 
An intermediate or mailer as recited in any of claims 
1 to 3 characterised by a third adhesive pattern (46) 

connecting said second sheet to said first sheet along said 
first edge (13) of said first sheet, and detachable from said 

reply envelope when said first and second panels (18, 19) are 
detached at said lines of weakness (41 - 45). 
An intermediate or mailer as recited in any of claims 
1 to 4 characterised in that said return envelope includes a 

flap (55), and further comprising a fourth pattern of 
adhesive (56) formed on said flap. 
An intermediate or mailer as recited in any of claims 
1 to 5 characterised in that wherein said first adhesive 

pattern (27) has a U-configuration oriented, with respect to 
said reply address indicia (31), so as to provide 

an open top of said reply envelope.  
 
An intermediate or mailer as recited in any of claims 
1 to 6 characterised in that said second adhesive pattern 

(40) comprises a U-configuration being provided adjacent said 
third and fourth edges in at least one of said panels, and 

adjacent either said second or first edge. 
An intermediate or mailer as recited in any of claims 
1 to 7 characterised in that said second adhesive pattern 

comprises heat seal adhesive disposed adjacent said second 

edge, and adjacent said third and fourth edges on said second 
panel. 
An intermediate or mailer as recited in any of claims 
1 to 8 characterised in that said second sheet (25) has 

approximately two-thirds the area of said first panel (18). 
An intermediate or mailer as recited in any of claims 
1 to 9 characterised by perforations (36) disposed adjacent 

said fold line (17) in said first panel (18), between said 
second sheet/reply envelope (25) and said fold line (17). 
A method of forming a mailer type business form with 
a built in reply envelope, utilizing a first sheet of paper 

having first quadrate dimensions of first and second panels 
thereof, and a second sheet of paper having second quadrate 

dimensions much less than the first dimensions, comprising 
the steps of: 


(a) forming a fold line in the first sheet to define 
first and second panels, and forming a die cut window in the 

second panel; 
(b) applying an adhesive pattern to the first panel 
of the first sheet for forming a reply envelope; 
(c) printing a reply address on a second sheet; 
(d) applying the second sheet to the first sheet in 
registry with the reply envelope adhesive to form a reply 

envelope in the first panel, having dimensions substantially 
less than the first panel; 
(e) forming perforations in the first and second 
panels;  

 
(f) applying adhesive for connection of the first 
and second panels together adjacent the edges thereof; 
(g) blowing on a repositional adhesive label to 
cover the printed reply address on the second sheet; and 
(h) folding the first sheet about the fold line so 
that the cut out window is over the repositional adhesive 

label, and so that the adhesive connecting the panels 
together is activated to form a final mailer. 
A method as recited in claim 11 comprising the 
further step of opening the mailer by tearing along the 

perforations; removing the reply envelope from the first 
panel; removing the repositonal label from its position 

covering the reply address, and placing it on a return 
address portion of the reply envelope; stuffing the reply 

envelope; sealing the reply envelope; and returning the reply 
envelope to the reply addressee. 
A method as recited in claim 12 comprising the 
further step of, upon receipt of the reply envelope removing 

the repositional label therefrom, and applying the 
repositional label to a package and sending the package to 

the original outgoing addressee of the mailer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
