<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614647</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Instruments for performing arthroscopic spinal surgery.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1728	A61B1728	A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B1734	A61B1734	A61B1756	A61B1756	A61F230	A61F230	A61F236	A61F236	A61F246	A61F246	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for performing an arthroscopic spinal 
laminectomy or similar surgical procedure includes a plurality of 

cannulas which are individually inserted, in a predetermined 
sequence, into predetermined areas of a patient's spinal column. 

The first inserted cannula (78) has a tissue manipulating surface (20) 
thereon 

which is used to create a working space adjacent a predetermined 
area of the patient's spinal column. A viewing device is inserted 

through this cannula and the fluid used in association therewith is 
used to maintain the working space. The second and third cannulas (88) 

are larger in size and are working cannulas in that they provide 
passageways for instruments used in the surgical procedure. The 

second and third cannulas are utilised by the surgeon to 
sequentially remove a portion of the ligaments flavum necessary to 

expose the desired area of the patient's spinal bone and, if 
necessary, to remove any portion of bone necessary to expose the 

nerve and disc area. The nerves are then moved and the 
sequestered portion of the disc is removed, all utilising the cannulas 

as passageways to perform the surgical procedure. In addition to a 
cannula which has a tissue manipulatin
g surface thereon, the 
invention includes a rongeur having a cross section shaped to pass 

through a cannula and with a suction connection therefor so that 
whatever body tissue and/or bone fragments are cut by the rongeur 

may be removed by suction through the passageways created by 
the cannula. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW RICHARDS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW RICHARDS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and instruments to perform 
an arthroscopic spinal procedure and, more specifically, a 
laminectomy, although the techniques and instruments disclosed 
are also useful in performing spinal fusions. It is the present practice in performing laminectomies on the 
spine, whether in the cervical, thoracic, or lumbar regions, to follow 
a procedure in which there is some dissection of muscle and tissue 
by the surgeon. Although every attempt is made to minimise such 
dissection, the fact remains that it is necessary and it is a major 
factor in determining rehabilitation time for the patient which can 
range anywhere from six weeks to three months. The present invention is specifically directed to applying the 
arthroscopic surgical techniques used on knees and shoulders to 
spinal surgery and, more specifically, to laminectomies. By utilising 
arthroscopic techniques, muscle dissection is maintained at an 
absolute minimum and in many instances there may be no such 
dissection and the only invasion of the body will be the three small 
stab wounds necessary to insert the cannulas which provide the 
passageways for the procedure. The utilisation of arthroscopic 
concepts in spinal surgery requires instruments not heretofore 
available. Specifically, a cannula is utilised which has a tissue 
manipulating or moving edge thereon which is used to create a 
space for subsequently used instruments. Also, since all of the 
surgical steps must be performed by utilising cannulas as 
instrument passageways, it was necessary to develop new 
instrumentation which would pass through cannulas and yet still 
perform the necessary tissue and bone removal, nerve movement, 
and the final retraction of the herniated portion of the disc. US Patent No.4,545,374 describes a method and instruments 
for performing a percutaneous lumbar diskectomy. In this patent the 
lumbar region of the spinal column is accessed by laterally inserting 
a cannula through the patient's side. This technique has minimum  
 
utilisation and will not permit the removal of approximately 80 
percent of herniated discs in which the disc is sequestered and for 
that reason it has not been utilised to any substantial extent in 
performing spinal laminectomies. The present invention relates to a method and instruments for 
arthroscopically accessing a predetermined area of a patient's 
spinal column and for subsequently performing desired surgical 
procedures thereon. Another purpose of the invention is to provide a cannula
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cannula for performing an arthroscopic spinal surgical 
procedure comprising a tubular body member having an interior 

instrument passage and a tissue manipulating surface at the end 
thereof which will be inserted into a patient's body to an area 

adjacent the spinal column, said tissue manipulating surface 
extending radially outwardly from said tubular body member. 
A cannula according to claim 1 further characterised in that 
said tissue manipulating surface has an arcuate sharp end. 
A cannula according to claim 2 further characterised in that 
said arcuate sharp end has exterior portions extending outwardly 

from opposite sides of said tubular body. 
A cannula according to claim 2 further characterised in that 
said arcuate sharp end is at the termination of a gradually outwardly 

curved portion which extends radially outwardly from said tubular 
body member. 
A cannula according to claim 4 further characterised in that 
said tubular body member terminates rearwardly of said arcuate 

sharp end. 
An instrument for use in an arthroscopic spinal surgical 
procedure to both sever and remove pieces of tissue and/or bone by 

suction, including a body having a suction connection at one end 
thereof, a handle member attached to said body proximate said 

suction connection, said body having a rongeur cutting element at 
the opposite end thereof, and a suction passage between said 

suction connection and said rongeur cutting element, a sleeve 
coaxially mounted on said body for axial movement relative at one 

end thereof which cooperates with said body rongeur cutting 
element, a second handle member connected to said sleeve and 

pivotally connected to said first handle member for causing 
movement of said sleeve, the exterior of said sleeve through a major 

portion of its length having a size and shape to pass through a 
 

cannula for positioning within a working space adjacent a patient's 
spinal column. 
An instrument according to claim 6 further characterised in 
that said first handle member has a platform thereon, with said body 

member being attached to and supported by said platform. 
An instrument according to claim 6 further characterised in 
that said axially movable sleeve has an enlarged portion which is 

movably connected to said second handle. 
An instrument according to claim 6 further characterised in 
that said sleeve has a circular cross section. 
An instrument according to claim 6 further characterised in 
that said suction passage is radially offset from the axis of said 

body. 
Apparatus for use in performing an arthroscopic spinal 
surgical procedure including a cannula having a body member with 

an internal generally cylindrical bore, a rongeur having a generally 
cylindrical cross section of a size to pass through said cannula, said 

rongeur having relatively movable cutting elements and a pair of 
pivotal handles for effecting relative movement of said cutting 

elements. 
The apparatus according to claim 11 further characterised in 
that said cutting elements are relatively axially movable, 
The apparatus according to claim 11 further characterised in 
that said rongeur includes a suction connection and a suction 

passage connecting said suction connection and said movable 
cutting elements for removal of tissue and/or bone severed thereby. 
A method for arthroscopically accessing a predetermined 
area of a patient's spinal column including the steps of: 

   inserting a first cannula into a predetermined position relative 
to a patient's spine,

 
   inserting fluid utilising viewing means through said first 

cannula, moving muscle and/or tissue through manipulation of the 
first cannula to create a working space and utilising the fluid 

associated with the viewing means to maintain the working space, 
   inserting a second cannula into a predetermined position 

relative to the first cannula, 
   inserting a cutting instrument through the second cannula 

and into the working space to incise the ligamentum flavum adjacent 
the working space to expose bone in the predetermined area of the 

patient's spine, 
   inserting a third cannula into a predetermined position 

relative to the first and second cannulas, and thereafter conducting 
a surgical procedure on the spinal column by manipulating 

instruments through said second and third cannulas. 
A method according to claim 14 wherein said first cannula 
has an outwardly directed tissue moving surface at one end thereof. 
A method according to claim 15 further characterised in that 
said cannula tissue moving surface extends radially from one end of 

said cannula. 
A method according to claim 14 further characterised in that 
the predetermined area of the patient's spinal column is in the 

lumbar region. 
A method according to claim 14 further characterised in that 
the surgical procedure performed through the use of the inserted 

cannulas is a laminectomy. 
A method of performing an arthroscopic laminectomy in a 
predetermined area of a patient's spinal column including the steps 

of: 
   inserting a first cannula having a tissue manipulating surface 

thereon into a predetermined position relative to a patient's spine, 
   inserting a fluid utilising viewing means through said first 

cannula,
 

   moving muscle and tissue through manipulation of the first 
cannula and its tissue manipulating surface to create a working 

space adjacent the spinal column and utilising the fluid associated 
with the viewing means to maintain the working space, 

   inserting a second cannula into a predetermined position 
relative to the first cannula, 

   inserting a cutting instrument through the second cannula 
and into the working space to incise the ligamentum flavum adjacent 

the working space, 
   inserting a cutting/suction instrument through the second 

cannula and into the working space to remove a portion of the 
ligamentum flavum sufficient to expose the nerve and disc area of 

the spinal column, 
   inserting a nerve moving instrument through the second 

cannula and into the working space to move sufficient nerves to 
expose the spinal column disc area, 

   inserting a third cannula into a predetermined position 
relative to the first and second cannulas, and 

   inserting a grasping instrument through the third cannula to 
grasp and remove a herniated portion of the spinal disc. 
A method according to claim 19 further characterised in that 
the tissue manipulating surface on the first cannula is at the interior 

end thereof and extends radially outwardly from the first cannula. 
A method according to claim 20 further characterised in that 
the first cannula tissue manipulating surface has a sharp curved end 

thereon which is wider than the body of the cannula and extends 
radially outwardly from the body of the cannula. 
A method according to claim 19 further characterised in that 
the cutting/suction instrument inserted through the second cannula 

has a rongeur cutting means thereon. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
