<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633767</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND COMPOSITIONS FOR ENHANCING WHITE BLOOD CELL FUNCTIONING ON A MUCOSAL OR CUTANEOUS SURFACE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K900	A61K900	A61K4508	A61K3314	A61K4500	A61K3314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K45	A61K33	A61K45	A61K33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method for enhancing white blood cell functioning and metabolism on a mucosal surface of a mammal. The present invention also relates to a method for treating or preventing a condition in a mammal caused by the presence of a disease-causing agent on a mucosal surface or a cutaneous surface wherein the disease-causing agent can be diminished by the actions of the white blood cells. The present invention yet also relates to a method for healing a wound of a mucosal or cutaneous surface. The present invention also relates to compositions for use in such methods.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYTOLOGICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYTOLOGICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDY MICHAEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDY, MICHAEL, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method
for enhancing white blood cell functioning and
metabolism on a mucosal surface of a mammal. The
present invention also relates to a method for
treating or preventing a condition in a mammal caused
by the presence of a disease-causing agent on a
mucosal surface or a cutaneous surface wherein the
disease-causing agent can be diminished by the actions
of the white blood cells. The present invention yet
also relates to a method for healing a wound of a
mucosal or cutaneous surface. The present invention
also relates to compositions for use in such methods.Mammals have systems that provide to cells
an energy source, chemical nutrients, a proper
extracellular pH, a natural osmotic environment
(osmolality), a favorable fluid environment with
respect to viscosity and a balanced ionic environment.
This is accomplished through the production and
circulation of fluids and, thereby, permits the cells
to perform their intended function.The primary fluid in mammals is blood.
Blood carries nutrients and essential chemicals,
oxygen and carbon dioxide, helps to regulate body
temperature and pH, carries cellular waste products
away from the cells and transports water to and from
cells.In addition to blood, other fluids
participate in maintaining the physical and chemical
environment of individual cells. These fluids include 
lymph, intestinal fluid, cerebrospinal fluid and
mucus.Epithelial membranes cover virtually the
entire body surface of mammals. Epithelial membranes
onto which mucus is secreted are called mucosal
surfaces. Mucus is a clear, viscid secretion
containing water, inorganic salts, the protein mucin
and other components. Epithelial membranes that are
not mucosal surfaces are cutaneous surfaces.The epithelial membranes consist of
epithelial cells. Also, white blood cells
(leukocytes), which have left the blood, are present
on or near mucosal surfaces and epithelial membranes.
The white blood cells include neutrophils,
macrophages, lymphocytes, lymphocyte derived cells
such as natural killer cells, and eosinophils and
basophils. In addition, in the case of wounds, cells
that are not blood cells, called fibroblasts, move
into the area of the epithelial membrane that has been
wounded.The white blood cells, which are the
cellular components of the immune system, are involved
in maintaining a healthy state on mucosal surfaces and
combatting those disease-causing agents that can be
diminished by the actions of white blood cells on such
surfaces. In addition, white blood
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Use of a composition comprising :

(a) an energy source for white blood cells ;
(b) a source of cations to provide a cation selected
from the group consisting of sodium, potassium,

magnesium, calcium and mixtures thereof ; and
(c) a source of anions to provide an anion selected
from the group consisting of chloride, sulfate,

phosphate, bicarbonate, and mixtures thereof ;

wherein the pH of said composition is from about 4 to
about 10 and the osmolality of said composition is from

about 140 mOsm/kg to about 2,000 mOsm/kg ; in the
manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing a

condition in a mammal caused by the presence of a disease
causing agent on a mucosal surface or a cutaneous surface

wherein said disease causing agent can be diminished by
the actions of the white blood cells of a mammal

comprising contacting the mucosal surface or the
cutaneous surface of a mammal in need of said treatment

or prevention with the proviso that said mucosal surface
is not the oral cavity.
Use according to claim 1 characterized in that said
mammal is a human.
Use according to claim 2 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is selected from the group consisting of

conjunctiva, the mucosa of the inner surface of an
eyelid, nasal mucosa, paranasal sinus mucosa, vaginal

mucosa, urinary bladder mucosa, urethral mucosa, ano-rectal 
mucosa, cervical mucosa, tracheal mucosa and

bronchial mucosa.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that surface
is the conjunctiva and said condition is selected from

the group consisting of allergic conjunctivitis,
nonspecific conjunctival irritation and inflammation and

dry eye syndromes.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is the mucosa of the inner surface of the

eyelid and said condition is selected from the group
consisting of allergic conjunctivitis, nonspecific

conjunctival irritation and inflammation and dry eye
syndromes.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is the nasal mucosa and said condition is

selected from the group consisting of irritation and
inflammation due to a common cold, influenza, upper

respiratory infections, hayfever, respiratory allergies
and environmental irritants.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is the paranasal mucosal surface and said

condition is selected from the group consisting of acute
and chronic sinusitis, irritation and inflammation due to

a common cold, influenza, upper respiratory infections,
hayfever, respiratory allergies and environmental

irritants.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is the vaginal mucosa and said condition

is selected from the group consisting of fungal
infections, viral infections, bacterial infections,

protozoal infections, chlamydial infections, radiation 
vaginitis, dryness secondary to systemic chemotherapy for

cancer, irritation secondary to systemic chemotherapy for
cancer, inflammation secondary to systemic chemotherapy

for cancer, dryness secondary to use of antidepressant
medication, irritation secondary to use of antidepressant

medication and inflammation secondary to use of
antidepressant medication.
Use according to claim 8 characterized in that said
condition is selected from the group consisting of


Candida
 vulvovaginitis, herpes simplex virus infections,
herpes zoster virus infections and human papillomavirus

infections.
Use according to claim 9 characterized in that said
vaginitis is 
Candida
 vulvovaginitis.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is the urethral mucosa and said condition

is radiation urechritis.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is the ano-rectal mucosa and said

condition is selected from the group consisting of viral
infections, fungal infections, inflammations of

hemorrhoids, anal pruritis and radiation proctitis.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is the cervical mucosa and said condition

is selected from the group consisting of viral
infections, fungal infections, protozal infections,

chlamydial infections, nonspecific cervicitis and
hemorrhagic infections.
Use according to claim 13 characterized in that said
condition is selected from the group consisting of human 

papillomavirus infections and herpes simplex virus
infections.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is the urinary bladder mucosa and said

condition is radiation cystitis.
Use according to claim 3 characterized in that said
mucosal surface is the bronchial mucosa or tracheal

mucosa and said condition is selected from the group
consisting of irritation or inflammation secondary to

chronic tracheo-bronchitis, asthmatic tracheo-bronchitis
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Use according to anyone of the preceding claims
characterized in that said energy source is selected from

the group consisting of D-glucose, glucose-6-phosphate,
fructose-6-phosohate, D-mannose, D-galactose, D-fructose,

maltose, lactose, sucrose, glycogen, starch, fatty acids,
neutral fats, pyruvic acid, lactic acid, acetic acid,

citric acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
thereof, and mixture thereof.
Use according to anyone of the preceding claims
characterized in that said source of cations is selected

from the group consisting of sodium chloride, potassium
chloride, magnesium sulfate, calcium chloride and

mixtures thereof and the source of anions is selected
from the group consisting of sodium chloride, potassium

chloride, calcium chloride, potassium phosphates, sodium
bicarbonate, magnesium sulfate heptahydrate and mixtures

thereof.
Use according to anyone of the preceding claims
characterized in that said composition further comprises

a buffer system comprising from about 0.4 to about 4.7 
percent by weight of a bicarbonate, from about 0.5 to

about 9 percent by weight of a phosphate, from about 0.05
to about 0.1 percent by weight of citric acid and from

about 1.0 to about 2.0 percent by weight of acetic acid.
Use according to anyone of the preceding claims
characterized in that said osmolality is from about 675

mOsm/kg to about 825 mOsm/kg.
Use according to anyone of the preceding claims
characterized in that said composition further comprises

a water-soluble polymer having a molecular weight of from
about 2,000 to about 4,000,000 daltons.
Use according to claim 2 characterized in that said
cutaneous surface is skin and said condition is selected

from the group consisting of herpes zoster virus
infections, varicella zoster virus infections, cutaneous


Candidiasis
 and human papillomavirus infections.
Use according to claim 1 characterized in that said
cutaneous surface is the vulva and said condition is

selected from the group consisting of chronic
vulvovestibulitis, herpes simplex virus infections,

heroes zoster virus infections, varicella zoster virus
infections and human papillomavirus infections.
Use of a composition comprising :

(a) an energy source for white blood cells ;
(b) a source of cations to provide a cation selected
from the group consisti
ng of sodium, potassium,
magnesium, calcium and mixtures thereof ; and 
(c) a source of anions to provide an anion selected
from the group consisting of chloride, sulfate,

phosphate, bicarbonate and mixtures thereof ;

wherein the pH of said composition is from about 4 to
about 10 and the osmolality of said composition is from

about 140 mOsm/kg to about 2,000 mOsm/kg in the
manufacture of a medicament for healing a wound of a

mucosal or cutaneous, surface of a mammal comprising contacting the
mucosal surface or the cutaneous surface of a mammal in

need of said healing.
Use according to claim 24 characterized in that said
mammal is a human.
A composition comprising :

(a) a source of cations to provide a cation selected
from the group consisting of magnesium, calcium

and mixtures thereof ;
(b) a source of anions to provide an anion selected
from the group consisting of phosphate,

bicarbonate and mixtures thereof ;
(c) a chelating agent capable of contributing to the
stabilization of said composition ; and
(d) a cellulose ether polymer ;

wherein the molar ratio of said chelating agent to the
total numbers of moles of said calcium cations plus said

magnesium cations is such that said composition results
in no greater than about a 10% by weight decrease in the

calcium plus magnesium concentration in said composition
after four weeks of storage at 42°C when the composition 

is formulated as an aqueous solution to have a pH of
about 4 and an osmolality of about 140 mOsm/kg.
Composition according to claim 26 characterized in
that said chelating agent is selected from the group

consisting of citric acid, EDTA, saccharic acid, NTA,
HEEDTA, EDDHA, EGTA, DTPA, DCTA, N,N-bishydroxyethylglycine,

HIMDA and salts thereof.
Composition according to claim 27 characterized in
that said chelator is citric acid or a salt thereof and

said molar ratio is about 2.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
