<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647716</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vector comprising viral gene transcribed by ARN polymerase III
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K14005	C07K14075	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The subject of the present invention is a recombinant vector comprising a cassette for transcription by RNA polymerase III, which cassette consists of a viral gene transcribed by RNA polymerase III into which an oligonucleotide DNA fragment has been inserted between or outside the boxes A and B constituting the said viral gene promoter. The subject of the present invention is also a process for the intracellular production of an RNA fragment in vitro or in vivo in which eukaryotic cells containing RNA polymerase III are transfected or infected with a vector according to the invention containing, as oligonucleotides, a DNA fragment corresponding to the reverse transcript of the said RNA and in that the eukaryotic cells thus transfected or infected are cultured in an appropriate culture medium. Finally, the present invention also relates to the use of the vectors as medicinal product.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Recombinant DNA vector containing a cassette for
transcription by RNA polymerase III, consisting of the

adenovirus VA I gene transcribed by RNA polymerase III,
into which an oligonucleotide, a DNA fragment, has been

inserted into the region ranging from nucleotides 10694
to 10730 of said VA1 gene of adenovirus 2 represented

in Figure 1, or in place of the region ranging from
nucleotides 10694 to 10730, said region being deleted.
Vector according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that

said oligonucleotide is inserted into the region
ranging from nucleotides 10702 to 10728 of said

adenovirus 2 VA1 gene represented in Figure 1, or in
place of said region ranging from nucleotides 10702 to

10728, said region being deleted, and the gene being
referred to as VA delta IV.
Vector according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in
that
 the oligonucleotide is inserted at nucleotide
10711 of the adenovirus 2 VA-1 gene represented in

Figure 1.
Vector according to one of the preceding claims,

characterized in that
 the vector is a replicative
plasmid or episomal vector or viral vector.
Vector according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that
 the vector is an episomal vector
carrying the origin of replication of the Epstein-Barr

virus (oriP), and also the coding sequences for the
EBNA 1 protein.
Vector according to one of the preceding claims,

characterized in that
 it contains several identical or
different virus genes transcribed by RNA polymerase

III, into which an identical or different
oligonucleotide has been inserted outside the boxes A

and B in each of said viral genes.
Vector according to one of the preceding claims,

characterized in that
 the oligonucleotide contains from
15 to 40 nucleotides, preferably 15 to 25.
Vector according to one of the preceding claims,

characterized in that
 the adenoviral gene is a gene
which has been inactivated, by deletion or mutation, as

regards inhibition of interferon action.
Vector according to one of the preceding claims,

characterized in that
 the oligonucleotide is inserted
within the region responsible for the activity of

inhibition of interferon action.
Vector according to one of the preceding claims,

characterized in that
 it is a defective recombinant
adenovirus.
RNA retroviral vector, 
characterized in that
 it
contains the RNA transcript of the transcription

cassette according to one of Claims 1 to 9.
Cells infected or transfected with a vector
according to one of Claims 1 to 11.
Method for the intracellular production of an RNA
fragment in vitro, in which eukaryotic cells containing 

RNA polymerase III are transfected or infected with a
vector according to one of Claims 1 to 11, containing

as oligonucleotides a DNA fragment corresponding to the
reverse transcript of said RNA, and the eukaryotic

cells thus transfected or infected are cultured in a
suitable culture medium.
Method for blocking the expression of a gene
ex vivo using a vector according to one of Claims 1

to 11, in which said oligonucleotide is transcribed to
an antisense or ribozymal RNA molecule which hybridizes

with and/or cleaves the messenger RNA of said gene.
Method for the treatment of cells 
ex vivo
 using a
vector according to one of Claims 1 to 11.
As a medicinal product, a vector according to one
of Claims 1 to 11, which can be used, in particular, as

an antiviral, antitumour, antibiotic or antiparasitic
agent, or in any pathology in which a gene is

abnormally expressed, either by mutation or through
deregulation.
As a medicinal product according to Claim 16, a
vector according to one of Claims 1 to 11, in which the

oligonucleotide is transcribed to an "antisense" RNA
molecule or a ribozymal RNA molecule which blocks the

expression of a gene involved in a pathology, by
hybridizing with and, where appropriate, cleaving its

messenger RNA of cellular, viral, bacterial or
parasitic origin.
As a medicinal product according to Claim 16
or 17, a vector consisting of a defective viral vector

such as an adenovirus or a defective retroviral vector
such as a murine retrovirus.
As a medicinal product for the treatment of AIDS,
according to one of Claims 16 to 18, a vector according 

to one of Claims 1 to 11, containing antisense
sequences, in particular anti-rev or anti-tat

sequences, as oligonucleotides.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
