<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634756</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Metal oxide resistor, power resistor, and power circuit breaker
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01C700	H01C1142	C04B35628	C04B35626	H01C700	H01C114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01C	H01C	C04B	C04B	H01C	H01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01C7	H01C1	C04B35	C04B35	H01C7	H01C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A metal oxide resistor (11) for suppressing variations 
in resistivity in use in an atmosphere at a high 

temperature or humidity is disclosed. Such a metal 
oxide resistor (11) includes a sintered body (12) in 

which carbon particles having an average grain size of 
1 µm or less exist in the grain boundaries of metal 

oxide particles in an amount of 0.05 to 3 wt%, and electrodes 
(13) formed on at least two opposing surfaces of 

the sintered body (12). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a metal oxide
resistor; a power resistor suitable as a fixed resistor,
a variable resistor, and a resistor array, which are
used in a high-voltage unit or a charge/discharge unit
of a bulk capacitor or the like; and a power circuit
breaker having the power resistor as a closing
resistor.Generally, the resistor materials are roughly classified
into metallic resistor materials, metal oxide
resistor materials, and non-metallic resistor materials.
Of these materials, the metal oxide resistor materials
have heat resistances and energy breakdowns for absorbing
a high electrical energy, which are higher than
those of other materials.Typical metal oxide resistors are disclosed in Jpn.
Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication Nos. 58-139401 and
59-217668.Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication No. 58-139401
describes a carbon grain dispersion ceramic resistor
having a sintered body obtained by dispersing a conductive
carbon powder in an insulating aluminum oxide crystal
and sintering them by a clay. This sintered body of
the resistor contains 1.5 to 2.0 wt% of the carbon
powder.Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication No. 59-217668
describes another carbon grain dispersion ceramic 
resistor having a sintered body. This sintered body is
obtained as follows. A carbon powder and a binder are
added to an insulating inorganic material consisting of
aluminum oxide, mullite, and a calcined clay. They are
mixed, kneaded, and heat-treated to coat the particles
of the insulating inorganic material with carbon. The
carbon-coated particles are sintered as a starting
material, thereby obtaining the sintered body. The
sintered body of the resistor contains 1.5 to 5 wt% of a
fine carbon powder having a size of 0.1 µm or less.Generally, when a carbon powder is added to an
aluminum oxide powder, the sintering properties of the
aluminum oxide are degraded. In the carbon grain
dispersion ceramic resistors described in the above
patent applications, since the carbon powder is added to
the aluminum oxide powder, the sintering properties of
the aluminum oxide are impaired. For this reason, in
the above-described carbon grain dispersion ceramic
resistors, after the carbon powder is added to the
aluminum oxide powder, the clay is added to compensate
for the sintering properties of the aluminum oxide.
However, the added clay only serves to bind the aluminum
oxide powder and the carbon powder. For example, a sintered
body sintered by a clay has a sectional structure,
as schematically shown in FIG. 1. In this sintered
body, as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A metal oxide resistor (11) comprising:

a sintered body (12) in which carbon particles having
an average grain size of not more than 1 µm exist at triple

points (23) of a grain boundary of metal oxide particles in an
amount of 0.05 to 3 wt%; wherein the sintered body has a

relative density of not less than 93%; and
electrodes (13) formed on at least two opposing
surfaces of said sintered body.
A resistor according to claim 1, characterized in
that the metal oxide is a material selected from the group

consisting of aluminum oxide, zirconium oxide, titanium
oxide, magnesium oxide, zinc oxide, mullite, zircon,

forsterite, steatite, spinel, and cordierite.
A resistor according to claim 1, characterized in
that the metal oxide particles have an average grain size of

not more than 5 µm.
A resistor according to claim 1, characterized in
that the carbon particles have an average grain size of 0.01

to 0.5 µm.
A power resistor (3) comprising:

a sintered body (32) in which carbon particles having
an average grain size of not more than 1 µm exist at triple

points (23) of a grain boundary of metal oxide particles in an
amount of 0.05 to 0.8 wt%, wherein the sintered body has a

relative density of not less than 93%; and
electrodes (33) formed on at least two opposing
surfaces of said sintered body.
A power resistor according to claim 5, characterized
in that the metal oxide is aluminum oxide or a composite

oxide containing aluminum.
A power resistor according to claim 5, characterized
in that the metal oxide particles have an average grain size

of not more than 5 µm.
A power resistor according to claim 5, characterized
in that the carbon particles have an average grain size of

0.01 to 0.5 µm.
A power resistor according to claim 5, characterized
in that the carbon particles exist in an amorphous or glass

state in the grain boundary of the metal oxide particles.
A power resistor according to claim 5, characterized
in that the carbon particles are converted into

graphite near the grain boundary of the metal oxide
particles.
A power resistor according to claim 5, characterized
in that the electrodes (33) consist of one material

selected from the group consisting of carbides of metals,
Hf, Nb, Ta and Ti, and TiN.
A power resistor according to claim 5, characterized
in that the sintered body (35) has a disk-like shape,

and the electrodes (36) are formed on two circular surfaces
of the sintered body (35).
A power resistor according to claim 5, characterized
in that the sintered body (32) has an annular disk-like

shape, and the electrodes (33) are formed on two annular
surfaces of the sintered body (32). 
A power resistor according to claim 5, characterized
in that an outer peripheral surface of the sintered

body (32) excluding the electrodes (33) is covered with an
insulating layer (34).
A resistor according to claim 14, characterized in
that the insulating layer (34) consists of glass.
A power circuit breaker (41) comprising:

main switching means (43) arranged on a current path;
auxiliary switching means (44) connected to the current
path parallelly with respect to the main switching means

(43) and turned on before the main switching means (43) is
turned on; and
a closing resistor unit (45) connected in series with
the auxiliary switching means (44) and incorporating a

resistor (50) having a sintered body (32) and electrodes
(33) formed on two opposing surfaces of the sintered body

(32), the sintered body (32) having a structure in which
carbon particles having an average grain size of not more

than 1 µm exist at triple points (23) of a grain boundary of
metal oxide particles in an amount of 0.05 to 0.8 wt%,

wherein the sintered body has a relative density of not less
than 93%.
A breaker according to claim 16, characterized in
that the metal oxide particles in the sintered body (32) are

aluminum oxide particles or composite oxide particles
containing aluminum.
A breaker according to claim 16, characterized in
that the metal oxide particles in the sintered body (32)

have an average grain size of not more than 5 µm. 
A breaker according to claim 16, characterized in
that the carbon particles in the sintered body (32) have an

average grain size of 0.01 to 0.5 µm.
A breaker according to claim 16, characterized in
that the carbon particles in the sintered body (32) exist in

an amorphous or glass state near the grain boundary of the
metal oxide particles.
A breaker according to claim 16, characterized in
that the carbon particles in the sintered body (32) are

converted into graphite near the grain boundary of the metal
oxide particles.
A breaker according to claim 16, characterized in
that the sintered body has a disk-like shape, and the

electrodes are formed on two circular surfaces of the
sintered body.
A breaker according to claim 16, characterized in
that the sintered body (32) has an annular disk-like shape,

and the electrodes (33) are formed on two annular surfaces
of the sintered body (32).
A breaker according to claim 16, characterized in
that the electrodes (33) consist of one material selected

from the group consisting of carbides of metals, Hf, Nb, Ta
and Ti, and TiN.
A breaker according to claim 16, characterized in
that the an outer peripheral surface of the sintered body

(32) excluding the electrodes (33) is covered with an
insulating layer (34).
A breaker according to claim 25, characterized in
that the insulating layer (34) consists of glass.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
