<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618626</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Josephson junction device of oxide superconductor having low noise level at liquid nitrogen temperature.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L3922	H01L3922	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L39	H01L39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a Josephson junction device comprises two superconducting 
electrodes formed of an oxide superconductor and connected through a 

Josephson junction, a temperature dependent noise of the Josephson 
junction becomes the minimum at a liquid nitrogen temperature. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUGAI HIROKAZU C O ITAMI WORK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUGAI, HIROKAZU, C/O ITAMI WORK OF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a Josephson junction device of an 
oxide superconductor having low noise level at liquid nitrogen 
temperature, and more specifically to a Josephson junction device of an 
oxide superconductor having a weak link of a Josephson junction 
consisting of a grain boundary between two single crystal oxide 
superconductor regions having low noise level at liquid nitrogen 
temperature. A Josephson junction device is one of superconducting devices 
comprising two superconducting electrode connected through a Josephson 
junction. The Josephson junction device can be realized in various 
structures. Among the various structures, the most preferable structure 
in practice is a tunnel type Josephson junction device realized by a thin 
non-superconductor layer sandwiched between a pair of superconducting 
electrodes. However, a point contact type Josephson junction device, a 
micro bridge type Josephson junction device and a variable thickness 
bridge type Josephson junction device composed of a pair of  
 
superconductor electrodes which are weakly linked to each other also 
exhibit Josephson effect. The Josephson junction device is expected to be applied to a high 
speed switching element and a high sensitive sensor due to its 
characteristics. In particular, by using high critical temperature oxide 
superconductors, recently advanced in study, for superconducting 
electrodes, it is possible to manufacture Josephson junction devices which 
operate under liquid nitrogen cooling. These Josephson junction devices have fine structures so that fine 
processings are necessary to manufacture the Josephson junction devices. 
For example, in order to manufacture a tunnel type Josephson junction 
device, a first superconductor thin film, a non-superconductor thin film 
and a second superconductor thin film are stacked on a substrate in the 
named order. The thickness of the non-superconductor layer of the tunnel type 
Josephson junction device is determined by the coherence length of the 
superconductor. In general, the thickness of the non-superconductor 
layer of the tunnel type Josephson junction device must be within a few 
times of the coherence length of the superconductor. In case of using an 
oxide superconductor for the superconducting electrodes, a thickness of a 
non-superconductor layer must be about a few nanometers, because oxide 
superconductor materials have very short coherence length. However, the superconductor layers and the non-superconductor 
layer of the tunnel type
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A Josephson junction device comprising two superconducting 
electrodes formed of an oxide superconductor and connected through a 

Josephson junction wherein a temperature dependent noise of the 
Josephson junction becomes the minimum at a liquid nitrogen 

temperature. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 1, wherein a 
temperature and frequency dependent noise of the Josephson junction 

becomes the minimum at a liquid nitrogen temperature. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 2, wherein a 
temperature and frequency dependent noise at 10 Hz of the Josephson 

junction becomes the minimum at a liquid nitrogen temperature. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 1, wherein a 
critical temperature of the oxide superconductor is lowered from the 

highest critical temperature so that the temperature dependent noise of the 
Josephson junction becomes the minimum at a liquid nitrogen 

temperature. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 4, wherein a 
temperature and frequency dependent noise of the Josephson junction 

becomes the minimum at a liquid nitrogen temperature. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 5, wherein a 
temperature and frequency dependent noise at 10 Hz of the Josephson 

junction becomes the minimum at a liquid nitrogen temperature. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 4, wherein the 
Josephson junction device is formed of an oxide superconductor thin film 

comprising two single crystal regions having different crystal 
orientations, which constitute the superconducting electrodes and a grain 

boundary between the two single crystal regions which constitutes a weak 
link of the Josephson junction. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 7, wherein the 
Josephson junction device comprises a bicrystal substrate of 

misorientation angle of 37° and the oxide superconductor thin film is 
formed on the substrate, which inherits the misorientation angle so as to 

include two single crystal regions which constitutes the superconducting 
electrodes and a grain boundary between the two single crystal regions 

which constitutes a weak link of the Josephson junction. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 8 or 24, wherein the 
oxide superconductor includes less amount of oxygen than a composition 

of the highest critical temperature. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 9, wherein the 
oxide superconductor is Y₁Ba₂Cu₃O7-y (0.3
<
 y 
<
0.5). 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in claim 8 or 24, wherein the 
oxide superconductor includes an impurity. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 11, wherein the 
oxide superconductor forms a solid solution with the impurity. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 12, wherein the 
solid solution of the oxide superconductor is (Y, Pr)₁Ba₂Cu₃O7-x 

(0
<
 x 
<
0.3). 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 13, wherein a ratio 
of Pr/Y is 0.05. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 11, wherein the 
impurity is added by ion implantation. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 15, wherein the 
implanting ion is selected from Ti ion, Fe ion, Co ion and Ni ion. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 16, wherein the 
dose ranges 1 × 10¹⁷ to 1 × 10²⁰ /cm². 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 7, wherein the 
grain boundary of the oxide superconductor thin film is positioned at a 

narrow portion. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 18, wherein the 
narrow portion of the oxide superconductor thin film has a width of 5 µm 

and a length of 10 µm. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the 
oxi
de superconductor is formed of a high-Tc (high critical temperature) 
oxide superconductor, particularly, formed of a high-Tc copper-oxide 

type compound oxide superconductor.. 
A Josephson junction device claimed in Claim 20, wherein the oxide 
superconductor is formed of an oxide superconductor material selected 

from the group consisting of a Y-Ba-Cu-O type compound oxide 
superconductor material, a Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O type compound oxide 

superconductor material, and a Tl-Ba-Ca-Cu-O type compound oxide 
superconductor material. 
A Josephson junction device claimed in Claim 1, wherein the 
substrate is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of a 

MgO (100) substrate, a SrTiO₃ (110) substrate and an yttrium stabilized 
zirconia (YSZ) substrate. 
A Josephson junction device comprising a bicrystal substrate of 
misorientation angle of 45° and an oxide superconductor thin film 

deposited on the bicrystal substrate, which inherits the bicrystal structure 
of the bicrystal substrate so as to include two single crystal regions of 

misorientation angle of 45° which constitutes the superconducting 
electrodes and a grain boundary between the two single crystal regions 

 
which constitutes a weak link of the Josephson junction so that a 

temperature dependent noise of the Josephson junction becomes the 
minimum at a liquid nitrogen temperature. 
A Josephson junction device as claimed in Claim 7, wherein the 
Josephson juntion device comprises a bicrystal substrate of misorientation 

angle ϑ, where 20°≦ ϑ 
<
 40° and the oxide superconductor thin film is 
formed on the substrate, which inherits the misorientation angle so as to 

include said two single crystal regions and grain boundary. 
A Josephson junction device comprising a bicrystal substrate of 
misorientation angle ϑ, where 40°≦ ϑ ≦ 45°, and on oxide supersonductor 

thin film deposited on the bicrystal substrate, which inherits the 
bicrystal structure of the bicrystal substrate so as to include two single 

crystal regions of misorientation angle ϑ which constitute superconducting 
electrodes and a grain boundary between the two single crystal regions 

which constitutes a weak link of the Josephson junction so that a 
temperature dependent noise of the Josephson junction becomes the minimum 

at a liquid nitrogen temperature. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
