<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617156</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Iron for carrying out ironing both on damp and on dried clothes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06F7508	D06F7510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06F	D06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06F75	D06F75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air-jet iron comprises a casing (2), to the lower 
part of which a heated ironing plate (3) designed to 

slide on an article to be ironed is engaged. A 
compressor (8) housed within the casing (2) or, 

alternatively, in a feeding unit (20) physically 
separated from the casing, draws air from the 

surrounding environment and sends it at a predetermined 
pressure to first outflow nozzles (7) distributed in the 

ironing plate (3). In the iron (1) or feeding unit (20) 
steam is produced which is subsequently sent to second 

outflow nozzles (18) formed in the ironing plate (3) as 
well. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECNICHE SAMMARINESI C T S COS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COSTRUZIONI TECNICHE SAMMARINESI - C.T.S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAN COSTANZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAN, COSTANZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an iron for carrying 
out ironing both on damp and on completely dried cloths, 
of the type comprising: an ironing plate provided with a 
substantially flat lower surface designed to act on a 
cloth to be ironed; a heating element carried by the 
ironing plate at the upper part thereof and designed to 
provide the necessary heat for heating the ironing 
plate; a casing engaged to the upper part of the ironing 
plate so as to house the heating element and define a 
handgrip means for the user. It is known that in order to carry out an efficient 
ironing action on a cloth, irons of the steam type are 
presently used. These steam irons conventionally 
comprise a ironing metal plate designed to slide on the 
article to be ironed, and a casing associated with the 
upper part of the plate and defining the iron handgrip. Usually, the plate is heated by a heating element 
operatively connected to a thermostat to be operated by 
the user for regulating the plate temperature depending 
on the nature of the cloths to be ironed. The ironing 
plate is also provided with a plurality of steam 
delivery nozzles, steam being fundamentally generated 
following two different modalities depending on the type 
of iron involved. More particularly, in a first steam iron of known type a 
tank is provided which is housed within the casing and 
over the ironing plate. Generally installed on the tank 
bottom is a delivery valve regulating the outflow of the 
water contained in the tank to a well formed on the 
plate. The water present in the well and heated by the 
heating element is then converted to steam which is 
ejected through the delivery nozzles formed on the  
 
plate. In a second steam iron of known type provision is made 
for the use of a boiler physically separated from the 
iron proper and capable of generating large amounts of 
high pressure steam. In this case, a flexible hose 
brings the boiler into fluid communication with a 
distribution chamber disposed over the ironing plate and 
communicating with the surrounding atmosphere through 
said delivery nozzles. Also associated with the boiler 
is a solenoid shutoff valve operable by the user to 
selectively enable and inhibit the steam supply. The foregoing being stated it is noted that, for the 
purpose of carrying out ironing, an iron performs two 
operations: on the one hand, it ejects steam for heating 
and damping the cloths to be ironed and, on the other 
hand, by virtue of the particular conformation of the 
plate, presses
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An iron for carrying out ironing on both damp and 
dried cloths, comprising: 


an ironing plate (3) provided with a substantially 
flat lower surface (3a) designed to act on a cloth to be 

ironed; 
a heating element (4) carried by the ironing plate (3) 
at the upper part thereof and designed to provide the 

necessary heat for heating the ironing plate; and 
a casing (2) engaged to the upper part of the ironing 
plate (3) so as to house the heating element and define 

a handgrip means (2a) for the user, 
characterized in that it further comprises compressed-air 

feeding means (6) for conveying air at a 
predetermined pressure to one series of outflow nozzles 

(7) distributed in the ironing plate (3) and opening 
onto the cloth to be ironed. 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said compressed air feeding means (6) comprises: 


at least one air compressor (8) housed within the 
casing (2); 
at least one admission duct (8) bringing the 
compressor (8) into fluid communication with an air 

intake (10) formed in the casing (2); 
at least one dispensing duct (12a) defined within the 
casing (2) on the ironing plate (3) and communicating 

with the surrounding atmosphere through said series of 
first outflow nozzles (7); and 
at least one delivery duct (12) bringing the 
compressor into fluid communication with the dispensing 

duct (12a). 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said compressed air feeding means (6) comprises: 


a feeding unit (20) physically separated from said 
casing (2); 
at least one air compressor (8) housed within the 
feeding unit (20); 
at least one admission duct (9) bringing the 
compressor (8) into fluid communication with an air 

intake (10) arranged in the feeding unit (20); 
at least one dispensing duct (12a) defined within the 
casing (2) on the ironing plate (3) and communicating 

with the external environment through said series of 
first outflow nozzles (7); and 
at least one flexible delivery hose (21) bringing the 
compressor (8) into fluid communication with said 

dispensing duct (12a). 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
provision is also made for steam feeding means (14) 

comprising: 

a tank housed within the casing (2) over the ironing 
plate (3) and designed to hold a given amount of water; 
a delivery valve (15) engaged to the lower part of the 
tank for adjusting the water flow coming out of the tank 

itself; 
a distribution chamber (16) formed over the ironing 
plate (3) at a position below the delivery valve (15) 

and designed to receive water from the delivery valve 
itself; and 
a series of second outflow nozzles (18) distributed in 
the ironing plate (3) for bringing the distribution 

chamber (16) into fluid communication with the 
surrounding atmosphere. 
An iron according to claim 3, characterized in that 
it further comprises steam feeding means (14) 

comprising: 

a steam boiler (22) housed within the feeding unit 
(20); 
a steam distributing chamber (16) formed over the 
ironing plate (3); 
at least one second flexible delivery hose (23) 
 

bringing the steam boiler (22) into fluid communication 
with said steam distributing chamber (16); 
a series of second outflow nozzles (18), distributed 
in the ironing plate (3), which bring the steam 

distributing chamber (16) into fluid communication with 
the surrounding atmosphere; and 
a shutoff solenoid valve (24) operatively interposed 
between said boiler (22) and second flexible delivery 

hose (23) for selectively opening and closing the steam 
flow coming out of the boiler itself. 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the firdt outflow nozzles (7) are distributed in the 

ironing plate (3) following a first ideal curve (13) 
defined by two symmetrically disposed arcs converging 

towards a front area of the ironing plate. 
An iron according to claim 6, characterized in that 
provision is also made for steam feeding means (14) 

comprising second outflow nozzles (18) distributed in 
the ironing plate (3) following a second ideal curve 

(19) defined by two symmetrically disposed arcs 
converging towards a front area of the ironing plate. 
An iron according to claim 7, characterized in that 
said first ideal curve (13) is located close to a 

perimetric edge of the ironing plate (3) and envelops 
said second ideal curve (19). 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said compressed air feeding means (6) comprises a 

compressor (8) provided with impeller, of the axial 
type. 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said compressed air feeding means (6) comprises a 

compressor (8) provided with an impeller, of the 
centrifugal type. 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said compressed air feeding means (6) comprises a 

positive displacement piston compressor. 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said compressed air feeding means (6) comprises a 

positive displacement diaphragm compressor. 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said compressed air feeding means (6) comprises a 

positive displacement rotary compressor having fixed 
chambers. 
An iron according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said compressed air feeding means (6) comprises a 

positive displacement rotary compressor having rotating 
chambers. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
