<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651497</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pulse width modulated power supply.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05F110	G05F1567	H02H900	H02H900	H02M324	H02M3335	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05F	G05F	H02H	H02H	H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05F1	G05F1	H02H9	H02H9	H02M3	H02M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pulse width modulated power supply comprises a power 
transformer having a primary winding, a secondary winding and 

means for coupling one end of the primary winding to a DC power 
supply. A semiconductor switch is coupled to the other end of 

the primary winding to control power through the primary 
winding. A rectifier is connected across the secondary winding 

to rectify current induced in the secondary winding, and 
supplies the rectified current to an output capacitor to 

develop a DC output voltage. A control circuit controls the 
duty cycle of the switch based on charging time of a first, 

relatively small capacitor during start up. The resultant 
voltage is compared to a reference voltage and when the voltage 

across the first capacitor just exceeds the reference voltage, 
the switch is turned off. Because the first capacitor is 

relatively small, the charging time is short and widths of 
pulses through the primary winding are relatively short during 

start up. This reduces heating of the switch and chance of 
failure during start up. The control circuit controls the duty 

cycle of the switch based on charging time of the first 
capacitor and a second, relatively large capacitor in parallel 

afterwards such that widths of pulses through the primary 
winding are relatively long and the power supply can supply 

operating current to the load. During overload conditions, the 
control circuit again controls the duty cycle of the switch 

based on the charging time of the first, relatively small 
capacitor to reduce output power and thereby prevent damage to 

the power supply and load. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALIK RANDHIR SINGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALIK, RANDHIR SINGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to pulse width modulated power 
supplies, and deals more particularly with a pulse width 
modulated power supply having circuitry to protect a switch 
which pulse width modulates input voltage to a power train 
transformer. A standard pulse width modulated power supply comprises a power 
train transformer having primary and secondary windings. One 
end of the primary winding is connected to a DC voltage source 
and the other end is connected to a semiconductor switch. The 
switch is repeatedly turned on and off to develop an AC voltage 
across the primary winding. A half or full wave rectifier 
bridge is connected across the secondary winding and charges an 
output capacitor to supply the output DC voltage. The 
following prior art technique is used to regulate the output 
voltage during start up and during normal operating conditions. 
A clock periodically sets an RS flip flop to turn on the switch 
to deliver power through the transformer. The output voltage 
is compared to a reference voltage and when the output voltage 
rises just above the reference voltage, a comparator resets the 
flip flop to turn off the switch. The switch stays off until 
the next clock cycle. The longer the switch stays on during 
each cycle, the higher the output voltage and vice verse. 
Thus, the feedback from the output voltage regulates the output 
voltage to the desired level. The reference voltage can be 
designed to increase gradually during start up so the output 
current is limited during start up to prevent large current 
surges. Afterwards, the reference voltage reaches a constant 
level so the power supply can deliver operating current. One 
problem with such a pulse width modulated power supply is that 
at initial start up, substantial current will still flow to the 
output capacitor of the power supply and a capacitive load and  
 
the switch will stay turned on for a long time. This may burn-out 
the switch. Another prior art technique to control the switch uses a 
differential amplifier that receives at one input a fixed 
reference voltage and at the other input the output voltage. 
The output of the differential amplifier is called an "error 
voltage" and is proportional to the difference between the 
output voltage and the reference voltage. The output of the 
differential amplifier charges a reference capacitor through a 
current limiting resistor and diode. The voltage across the 
reference capacitor and diode forms a second reference voltage 
and is supplied to one input of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pulse width modulated power supply comprising: 
an input transformer having a primary winding, a secondary 

winding and means for coupling one end of the primary 
winding to a DC power supply; 

a switch coupled to the other end of the primary winding 
to control power through the primary winding; 

a rectifier connected across the secondary winding to 
rectify current induced in the secondary winding; 

an output capacitor coupled to the rectifier to develop a 
DC output voltage; and 

means for controlling said switch. 
The pulse width modulated power supply wherein the means 
for controlling said switch is based on a first, 

relatively short RC time constant during start up such 
that widths of pulses through said primary winding are 

relatively short and controlling said switch based on a 
second, relatively long RC time constant afterwards such 

that widths of pulses through said primary winding are 
relatively long. 
The power supply as set forth in claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
controlling means comprises first and second timing 

capacitors and means for selecting the first timing 
capacitor during start up to cause in part the relatively 

short RC time constant and relatively short pulse widths 
and selecting a parallel combination of said first and 

second timing capacitors afterwards to cause in part the 
relatively long RC time constant and relatively long pulse 

widths. 
The power supply as set forth in claim 3 further 
comprising a sense transformer in series with said input 

transformer, and a rectifier connected to a secondary 
winding of said sense transformer and wherein said first 

and second timing capacitors are charged by current from 
said rectifier connected to the secondary winding of said 

sense transformer. 
The power supply as set forth in claim 1 wherein the 
controlling means comprises a timing capacitor, means for 

charging said timing capacitor and means for generating a 
gradually rising reference voltage during start up and 

comparing a voltage developed across said timing capacitor 
during the charging to said reference voltage to control 

operation of said switch, said relatively short RC time 
constant being based in part on said timing capacitor. 
The power supply as set forth in claim 5 wherein said 
controlling means includes means for causing a second 

timing capacitor to act in parallel with the first said 
timing capacitor after start up, means for maintaining 

said reference voltage at a substantially constant level 
after start up, and means for comparing the voltage across 

both of said timing capacitors to said substantially 
constant reference voltage to determine when to turn off 

said switch. 
The power supply according to any one of the above claims 
further comprising a full wave rectifier bridge connected 

across the secondary winding, said rectifier being part of 
said full wave rectifier bridge. 
The power supply as set forth in claim 1 wherein the 
controlling means comprises a timing capacitor which is 

charged by current from said rectifier, and means for 
comparing a voltage across said timing capacitor to a 

reference voltage to determine when to turn off said 
switch. 
The power supply as set forth in claim 1 wherein the 
controlling means also controls said switch based on the 

first RC time constant during overload or short circuit 
conditions. 
The pulse width modulated power supply wherein: 
the means for controlling said switch is based on charging 

time of a first, relatively small timing capacitance 
during start up such that widths of pulses through said 

primary winding are relatively short and controlling said 
switch based on charging time of a second, relatively 

large timing capacitance afterwards such that widths of 
pulses through said primary winding are relatively long. 
The power supply as set forth in claim 10 wherein the 
controlling means comprises first and second timing 

capacitors and means for selecting the first timing 
capacitor du
ring start up to form said first capacitance 
and selecting the first and second capacitors in parallel 

afterwards to form said second capacitance. 
The power supply as set forth in claim 10 wherein the 
controlling means comprises means for charging said first 

timing capacitor during start up and means for generating 
a gradually rising reference voltage during start up and 

comparing a voltage developed across said first timing 
capacitor during start up to said reference voltage to 

control operation of said switch. 
The power supply as set forth in claim 5 or 12 wherein 
said controlling means comprises means for discharging 

said first timing capacitor after said switch is turned 
off. 
A power supply as set forth in claim 10 wherein the 
controlling means also controls said switch based on 

charging time of the first timing capacitance during 
overload or short circuit conditions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
