<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655157</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VEHICLE OPERATOR STATION WITH THREE DIMENSIONAL ACTIVE NOISE CANCELLATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R1102	B60R1102	G10K1100	G10K11178	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	G10K	G10K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R11	B60R11	G10K11	G10K11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A zone of reduced sound is formed about the head and shoulders of an operator in a vehicle by projecting a cancelling sound signal into a passively attenuated operator workplace (4), positioning monitoring microphones (8, 9) in the operator workplace (4), acoustically sensing drive related sources of sound at the source location, normalizing the sound signals and processing the normalized input and monitored signals in an adaptive multi channel filtered X least means squares algorithm.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CATERPILLAR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CATERPILLAR INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTENSEN MARY K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEROLD ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUO SEN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTENSEN, MARY, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEROLD, ROBERT, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUO, SEN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionVEHICLE OPERATOR STATION WITH THREE DIMENSIONAL ACTIVE NOISE CANCELLATIONTechnical FieldThe invention relates to the control of the sound level in a vehicle operator station and in particular to the formation of a localized three dimensional zone surrounding an operator within a vehicle enclosure in which the sound level is reduced.Background and Relation to the Prior ArtActive noise cancellation involves superimposing on a noise acoustic wave an opposite acoustic wave that destructively interferes with and cancels the noise wave. The cancelling acoustic wave is of equal amplitude but of opposite phase to the noise acoustic wave. The generation of the proper interference signal to produce cancellation, in the proper position at the right time requires taking into consideration a number of variables resulting in elaborate signal processing.The active noise cancellation principle is most useful at frequencies below 500 cycles per second (Hz) . Above that frequency range, noise attenuating materials applied to surfaces are more effective. The implementation of the principle of active noise cancellation generally involves sensing of the characteristics of the noise acoustic wave, generating the cancelling acoustic wave and, through monitoring the combined waves, developing a feedback signal that keeps the cancelling wave in adjustment.The monitoring signal is frequently called an "error" signal. 

 Most implementations of the active noise cancellation principle also accommodate changes in the frequency and the intensity characteristics of the noise. This usually involves incorporating adaptability into a feedback from a monitoring microphone that provides information used in adjusting the cancelling wave. The computations involved in determining the adjustments to the cancelling wave are performed under a procedure known in the art as an algorithm. A number of algorithms with adaptability have evolved in the art. A survey article by J.C. Stevens entitled "An Experimental Evaluation of Adaptive Filtering Algorithms for Active Noise Control", Georgia Institute of Technology, GRTI/AERO, Atlanta, Ga., 1992 Pages 1-10, provides an illustrative description of the current capabilities in the art.The implementation of the algorithms has been achieved in the art using digital signal processing (DSP) and fabricated in the form of single semiconductor chip active noise controller devices. Active noise cancellation systems exhibit instability under conditions where the cancelling signal gets into the noise
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A vehicle operator station (4) with a zone (5) of reduced sound level at the operator's location comprising: a passive sound attenuated operator station enclosure (1) , at least one sound cancellation speaker (6,7) , said at least one sound cancellation speaker (6,7) positioned to project sound toward an operator location in said enclosure (1) , at least one monitoring microphone (8,9), said at least one monitoring microphone (8,9) being positioned in said operator location, at least one input microphone (12,13,14) , said at least one input microphone (12,13,14) positioned within an enclosure (15) at least partially surrounding a separate source of vehicle drive related noise for acoustic sensing of said separate source of noise, signal translation means operable to normalize the signal from said at least one input microphone (12,13,14) into a single signal, and sound cancelling signal means, said sound cancelling signal means being responsive to said normalized input signal and to a signal from said at least one monitoring microphone (8,9) and operable to provide an iteratively corrected cancellation signal to each said speaker (6,7) .
2. The operator station (4) of claim 1 wherein said at least one sound cancellation speaker (6,7) is two sound cancellation speakers (6,7). 


 3. The operator station (4) of claim 2 wherein said at least one monitoring microphone (8,9) is two monitoring microphones (8,9).
4. The operator station (4) of claim 3 wherein said at least one input microphone (12,13,14) is three input microphones (12,13,14).
5. The operator station (4) of claim 4 wherein said signal translation means includes an operational amplifier (17,18,19) for each input microphone (12,13,14) with each operational amplifier (17,18,19) output summed in a summing amplifier (20).
6. The operator station (4) of claim 5 wherein said sound cancelling signal means includes a multi channel filtered X least mean squares algorithm modified for multiple cancellation speakers and multiple monitoring microphones.
7. In a vehicle workstation (1) the improvement for providing a reduced sound level in a localized operator space comprising: an operator enclosure (1) with a layer of passive sound attenuating material (10) thereon, active sound cancellation means consisting of at least one cancelling speaker (6,7) positioned to project sound into an operator work location (4) , at least one monitoring microphone (8,9) positioned in said operator work location (4) and at least one input microphone (12,13,14) each said at least one input microphone 


(12,13,14) positioned to acoustically sense a separate source of vehicle drive related sound at the location of said source and within a housing for said source, signal translating means for normalizing signals from said at least one input microphone
(12,13,14) and responsively producing normalized input signals, and signal processing means responsive to said normalized input signals and said at least one monitoring microphone (8,9) to deliver to said at least one cancelling speaker (6,7) an iteratively corrected cancellation signal.
8. A noise control system for a vehicle operator station (4) comprising: an operator enclosure (l) with a layer of passive sound attenuating material (10) essentially covering the surfaces thereof, and, means for controlling the level of sound at an operator workplace location (4) in said enclosure (1) said sound control means including, at least one sound cancellation speaker (6,7) positioned to project a cancellation sound signal into said operator workplace location (4) , at least one monitoring microphone
(8,9) positioned in said operator workplace location (4), input means including at least two separate input microphones (12,13,14) positioned at at least two separate sources of vehicle drive noise and located apart from said enclosure for acoustic sound sensing, and signal normalizing means for converting input signals from said separate input microphones (12,13,14) into a normalized input signal and signal processing means responsive to signals from said at 


least one monitoring microphone (8,9) and said normalized input signal in delivering to said at least one sound cancellation speaker (6,7) an iteratively corrected sound cancellation signal.
9. The system of claim 8 wherein said at least one sound cancellation speaker (6,7) is two sound cancellation speakers (6,7).
10. The system of claim 9 wherein said at least one monitoring microphone (8,9) is two monitoring microphones (8,9).
11. The system of claim 10 wherein at least one monitoring microphone (8,9) is three input microphones (12,13,14) .
12. The system of claim 11 wherein said input means said signal normalizing means includes an operational amplifier for each said input microphone signal with each operational amplifier (17,18,19) output summed in a summing amplifier (20) .
13. The system of claim 11 wherein in said signal processing means said iteratively corrected sound cancellation signal is developed in iterative signal processing in a multi channel filtered X least mean squares algorithm modified for multiple cancellation speakers (6,7) and multiple monitoring microphones (8,9).
14. The process of providing a reduced sound level in a vehicle operator work station (4) comprising the steps of: 


 providing an operator workplace enclosure (1) with a layer of passive attenuation material (10) on and essentially covering the surfaces thereof, positioning at least one sound cancelling signal speaker (6,7) to project sound into an operator workplace (4) in said enclosure (1) , positioning at least one monitoring microphone (8,9) in said operator workplace (4), sensing at least one source of vehicle drive noise at the source thereof acoustically, normalizing input signals from acoustically sensed separate sources of sound and processing and delivering to said cancelling sound speaker (6,7) a noise cancellation signal in response to normalized input signals and monitoring microphone signals with iterative cancelling signal correction.
15. The process of claim 14 wherein in said processing step said normalized input signals and said microphone signals are processed using a multi channel filtered X least mean squares algorithm.
16. The process of claim 15 wherein said algorithm includes a modification to accommodate multiple speakers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
