<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654426</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
High friction plastic conveyor belts having modular links formed by two integrated plastic materials
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G1706	B65G1530	B65G1530	B65G1732	B65G1708	B65G1734	B65G1532	B65G1532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G17	B65G15	B65G15	B65G17	B65G17	B65G17	B65G15	B65G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plastic conveyor belt system provides high frictional 
surface contact between the conveyor work surface and the load 

carried by the conveyor. This is achieved by modular belt links 
integrally formed of two diverse plastic materials such as a low 

friction polypropylene and a high friction elastomer thermoplastic 
rubber. Typically a belt modular link having a planar load support 

area 12 disposed in its lower forming mold piece 21 with an upper 
mold piece 22 removed to expose the planar area 12. Then a further 

mold piece 23 is mated with the lower mold piece 21 to integrally 
join by thermal bonding the two diverse materials producing on the 

planar link load bearing surface area an elastomer strip 16, 19 
with an outer patterned surface for encountering the belt load. The 

modular belt links are coupled in a belt array to dispose paths 40, 
42 along the length of the belt upper and lower surfaces where a 

belt supporting member 31, 33, 45, 46 frictionally encounters the 
low friction plastic material. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAITRAM LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAITRAM L.L.C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARBONE JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAPEYRE ROBERT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARBONE, JOHN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAPEYRE, ROBERT S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to plastic modular conveyor
belts and more particularly it relates to conveyor belts
with plastic modular links integrally formed of two different
plastic or rubber materials.Modular plastic links for conveyors are typically
formed of polyethylene, polypropylene or acetal, which
are hard, wear resistant plastics having a low coefficient
of friction ideal for pivoting the links and frictional contact
with wear strip surfaces. These plastics also provide
a high tensile strength along the belt for conveying
heavy loads and ideal chemical and biological inactivity
for use of the belts in sanitary and chemical environments.
However, the low friction characteristics of the
plastics do not form an ideal belt-to-load surface for carrying
loads up and down inclines.EP-A-0 523 810 discloses a conveyor link module
showing practically most of the features recited in the
head clause of claim 1 of the present patent and particularly
disclosing the idea of affixing a resilient pad to the
link module by thermal bonding in order to form an integral
body. The resilient material and the low friction
material being incompatible for direct bonding, the use
of an intermediary frame for affixing the two pieces
together has been proposed.It is a primary object of this invention to provide a
less complicated to manufacture high friction link belt
module.In accordance with this invention modular plastic link belts are
formed by a plurality of individual links pivotably coupled
end-to-end by pivot rods passed through interdigitated link end
fingers, each link comprising the features as defined in claim 1.Further objects, features and advantages of the
invention will be found throughout the following description,
drawings and claims.In the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference
characters refer to similar features throughout the
various views to facilitate comparison:
Figure 1 is an exploded perspective sketch of a
modular belt link afforded by this invention having
an integral body formed of two different materials,
respectively characterized by low and high coeffidents
of friction;Figure 2 is a plan view of a high friction textured
overlay pattern for forming a load carrying surface
of a conveyor belt;Figures 3 to 5 are respectively section sketches of
a lower and two alternating upper mold pieces
employed to integrally mold a modular belt link from
two different materials in accordance with this
invention;Figure 6 is a side view sketch, partly in section.
showing a fragment of a modular link belt
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A modular link for a conveyor belt formed of a plurality
of the modular links pivotably coupled end-to-end

by pivot rods passed through interdigitated link
end fingers (18), said link being formed of a hard

plastic material base element (12) having a low
coefficient of friction and presenting a rigid high

strength flat load conveying surface (15) for the
conveyor belt and carrying a high friction resilient

surface material (11) in contact therewith to outwardly
extend from said load conveying surface

(15) of said hard plastic material over a substantial
portion of the flat load conveying surfaces (15, 50)

thereby forming an integral body (53, 54, etc.)
therewith, said surface material (11) presenting a

patterned surface having a resiliency that gives with
the weight of load bodies in contact therewith being

conveyed by said belt,
said surface material (11) being a soft thermoplastic

rubber like material thermally bonded
over its entire contact surface with the hard

plastic material (12) onto
the hard plastic material (12) by thermal injection

molding (21, 22, 23).
The link of Claim 1 further 
characterized by
 a load
carrying surface substantially disposed in a plane

and comprising co-planar sets of said link end fingers
(18) extending from respective ends and having

a set of pivot rod receiving apertures axially
aligned therein and disposed between two substantially

parallel link sides, wherein said resilient surface
material has fingers (19, 60) extending onto

said link end fingers (18, 59).
A modular plastic conveyor belt formed of a plurality
of modular links (25, 26, 40, etc.) according to claim

1 or claim 2, connected end to end.
The belt of Claim 3 having two outer substantially
parallel edges (43) further 
characterized by
:

a substantially planar surface (42, 44, 70)
along the length of the belt load carrying surface

partially devoid of said high friction material
(11).
The belt of Claim 3 further 
characterized by
:

a low-triction belt-supporting load-bearing wear
strip surface (45) positioned at an outer edge of

the belt in low friction sliding frictional engagement
with hard plastic low friction outer belt

edge surfaces (42) of the link bodies moving
along the conveyor belt path.
The conveyor belt of Claim 3 further 
characterized
by
:

said modular links having extended ridges of
the hard plastic low friction material defining

sprocket drive means for contact with a 
sprocket drive gear to the exclusion of contact

with the high friction material.
The conveyor belt of Claim 3 further 
characterized
by
:

a substantially continuous aperture free outer
surface pattern of the high-friction surface

material (11,27,41,55) disposed to produce a
substantially continuous constant width load

bearing conveying surface along the belt
The conveyor belt of Claim 3 further 
characterized
by
:

a region devoid of the high resistance surface
layer comprising at least one longitudinally disposed

lane (42, 44, 70) along said conveyor
belt consisting of low friction plastic link body

surfaces, whereby the belt presents an outer
belt surface load bearing area with a low friction

surface (27, 41, 55).
The conveyor belt of Claim 3 further 
characterized
by
:

a plurality of modular links (53, 54, etc.) bricklayed
into a belt configuration of predetermined

width with said high friction material (11, 55)
substantially covering the width of the belt
The belt of Claim 3 comprising at least some
regions (42, 44, 61) on the load carrying surfaces of

the links devoid of the high friction surface material
(11,27,41,55).
The link of Claim 1 further 
characterized by
 a patterned
surface (16) comprising ridges outwardly

extending from a substantially planar base (15) of
the high friction material (11).
The link of Claim 1 further 
characterized by
 a patterned
surface comprising a plurality of tooth-like

appendages (51) extending from a substantially
planar load bearing surface (15).
The link of Claim 12 wherein said rubber like material
(11) comprises horizontal extensions (19) from

the load bearing surface toward the link end fingers
(18) to produce saw-tooth like leading and trailing

edges.
The link of Claim 13 wherein said extensions (19)
overlap onto the link end fingers (59).
The link of Claim 14 wherein the extensions (19) of
high friction material (11, 27, 55) are dimensioned

to produce for adjacent end-to-end coupled links a
gap (61) between mated teeth (59) and notches

(60) that permit a limited degree of backward articulation
of links toward the load bearing surface by

resilient abutment of the surface material (11, 27,
55) on two adjacent links.
The link on Claim 13 wherein said extansions (19)
form a substantially rectangular zig-zag pattern

(58) substantially parallel to a pivot axis through the
link ends.
The link of Claim 1 wherein teeth (51) extend vertically
from the load bearing surface (15).
The link of Claim 17 wherein said teeth (51) comprise
a bed of closely spaced teeth extending outwardly

at least one-quarter inch and wherein said
outer surface material (50) is soft enough to bend

and provide a nest in the presence of small sized
fragile load objects such as fruits without penetration

and damage.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
