<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0085246</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A control circuit for a variable displacement air conditioning compressor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60H132	B60H132	F04B4900	F04B4900	F04B4906	F04B4906	F04C2800	F04C2800	F24F1102	F24F1102	F25B100	F25B100	F25B4902	F25B4902	G05D23275	G05D23275	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60H	B60H	F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	F04C	F04C	F24F	F24F	F25B	F25B	F25B	F25B	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60H1	B60H1	F04B49	F04B49	F04B49	F04B49	F04C28	F04C28	F24F11	F24F11	F25B1	F25B1	F25B49	F25B49	G05D23	G05D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A control circuit is disclosed for controlling the operation 
of a variable displacement device in an air conditioning 

compressor (10) in order to change the capacity of the 
compressor (10). The control circuit includes at least one 

solenoid (20) which controls the operation of one more 
valves in the variable displacement device. The solenoid (20) 

is connected to a voltage source (18) via a detecting device 
(21) which includes a pressure sensitive switch responsive to 

the pressure of the refrigerant in the air conditioning system 
at the inlet of the compressor (10). The detecting device (21) 

enables the solenoid (20) to decrease the capacity of the 
compressor (10) when the refrigerant pressure goes below a 

first predetermined pressure level and then disables the 
solenoid (20) when the refrigerant pressure exceeds a 

second predetermined level. The detecting device (21) also is 
responsive to the temperature of the refrigerant at the inlet of 

the compressor (10). 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDEN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDEN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOMIMATSU SHIGENAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOMIMATSU, SHIGENAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

 A CONTROL CIRCUIT FOR A   VARIABLE   
   DISPLACEMENT    AIR CONDITIONING COMPRESSOR   HACKGROl3ND    OF THE INVENTION
 This invention relates to a control system for controlling the operation of an air conditioning system, and more particularly, to a control circuit for a variable displacement compressor in an automobile air conditioning system.


    In conventional air conditioners, thermal control in the room * cncrally    is accomplished by the intermittent operation of the air conditioning compressor through a magnetic clutch or motor. The magnetic clutch or motor is connected to the compressor and activated by a signal from a thermostat disposcd in the room. Once the temperature in the room has   bcen    lowered to a desired temperature, the refrigerating or cooling capacity of the air conditioner for supplemental cooling because of further temperature changes in the room, or for keeping the room at the desired   temperature,    nced not be as large.
Therefore, after the room has been cooled to the desired temperature,   conventional    air conditioning compressors are Intermittently operated in response to the   thcrmostat    signal.   Comprcssors    having a large cooling capacity are operated even more intermittently so that the large load required to drive such compressors is intermittently applied to the   compressor    drive mechanism.


   In    air conditioning systems for automobiles, the compressor usually Is driven by the engine of the automobile. Since the r.p.m. of the automobile engine changes continuously, the rotation frequency of the compressor also changes which in turn rapidly changes the cooling capacity of the air conditioner. Automobile air   conditioners      generally    are designed so that   whcn    the compressor is driven by the engine at normal driving speed, the air conditioner operates at optimum capacity. Therefore, when the compressor is driven by the engine at lower operating speed, or during idling, the cooling capacity of the air conditioner is insufficient in comparison with the  refrigerating or cooling load.
Also, when the compressor is driven by the engine at high operating speed, the cooling capacity is higher than necessary.


 One known mechanism for controlling the excessive cooling capacity of an air conditioner operates by heating part of the cool air generated by the air conditioner. Part of the cool air from the   evaporator    of the air conditioner passes a heating unit which heats the cool air and this heated air is mixed with the remaining
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:



   1. A control    device for a compressor in a refrigerating system, said compressor having a fluid inlet and a variable displacement device to   change    the capacity of said compressor, said control device comprising:
 a   voltage    source;

 actuating means for actuating said variable displacement device to change the capacity of said compressor; and
 detecting means coupled to said voltage source and said actuating means for detecting the pressure of the fluid in the fluid inlet of said compressor and enabling said actuating means to actuate sald variable displacement device at a predetermined pressure level.




   2.    The control device of claim I wherein said detecting means is a pressure sensitive switch which is responsive to a first predetermined pressure level in the fluid inlet of said compressor to   enable    said actuating means and a second   predetermined    pressure   level    to disable said actuating means.



 3. The control device of claim 2 wherein said first predetermined pressure level is lower than said second predetermined pressure level and said detecting means enables said actuating means at said first predetermined pressure   level    to lower the capacity of said compressor.



   4.    The control device of claim I wherein said   detecting    means is further responsive to the temperature of the fluid in the fluid inlet of said compressor, said detecting means comprising a   pressurc    switch and a   tern-      erature    switch.



 S.   A    control device for a compressor in a refrigerating system, said compressor having a fluid inlet and a variable displacement device to change the capacity of said compressor, said control device   comprising:   
 a voltage source;

 actuating means for actuating said variable displacement device; and  
 detecting means coupled to said voltage source and said actuating means for detecting the   temperatute    of the fluid in the fluid inlet of slid comprcssor.




   6.    In a refrigerating system having refrigerant flowing through a closed vapor cycle refrigeration circuit Including an   evaporator,    a compressor, a condenser and a thermostatic expansion device, said compressor including a variable displacement device to change the capacity of said comprcssor, a control device for controlling said variable   displacernent    device comprising:

:
 a voltage   source;   

 solenoid means for actuating said variable displacement device to change the capacity of said   cornpecssor;      and   
 detecting means   corinected    to said voltage source and said solenoid means for detecting the refrigerant pressure at the fluid inlet of said compressor and enabling said solenoid means at a first   ptedctermined    pressure level, said detecting means disabling said solenoid means at a second predetermined   pressure    level

   7.    The refrigerating system of claim 6 wherein said detecting means is further responsive to the temperature of the refrigerant at said fluid inlet of said   compressor.   



 8. The refrigerating system of claim   G    wherein said first   predcter-    mined pressure level is lower than said second predetermined pressure level and slid detecting means enables said solenoid means at said first predetermined pressure level to   lowcr    the capacity of said compressor.



 9. The refrigerating system of claim 8 wherein said detecting means disables said solenoid means at said second   predetermined    pressure level to increase the capacity of said compressor.



   10.      refrigerating    system comprIsing:
 a closed vapor cycle refrigeration circuit for   drculating    a refrigerant including an   evaporotor,    a compressor, a   condenser    and a   termostatic    expansion device   connected    in series, said compressor having a variable  displacement device to change the displacement of said compressor; and

 capacity control means coupled to said variable displacement device to actuate said variable displacement device to change the capacity of said compressor in response to the pressure of the refrigerant at the   inlet    of said compressor.



   t1.    A refrigerating system according to claim   10    wherein said capacity control means comprises:
 a voltage source;

 actuating means for   actuating    said variable displacement device to change the capacity of said compressor; and
 pressure sensing means connected to said voltage source and said actuating means for sensing the pressure of the refrigerant at the fluid inlet of said compressor and enabling said actuating moans at a first prcdetermined pressure level to lower the capacity of said compressor.


 

   12.    A refrigerating system according to claim 11 wherein said pressure sensing   means    disables said actuating means at a second   predeter-    mined pressure level which is higher than the first predetermined pressure level to increase the capacity of said compressor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
