<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626656</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image processing system and method for automatic feature extraction.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B600	A61B600	G06K936	G06K936	G06T500	G06T500	G06T520	G06T520	G06T700	G06T700	G06T760	G06T760	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G06K	G06K	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B6	A61B6	G06K9	G06K9	G06T5	G06T5	G06T5	G06T5	G06T7	G06T7	G06T7	G06T7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
For extracting, from a source image, irregular relatively 
distinct features from an irregular relatively less distinct object 

which occupies a part of the source image, a number of image 
processing steps are performed in which: the edge outline of the 

object is extracted from the source image to produce an object outline 
image; the object outline is traced and predetermined data points on 

the object outline are located; particular regions of the object are 
identified within the source image using the identified data points; 

and the relatively distinct features are extracted from the identified 
regions. The invention finds particular application for the assessment 

of skeletal maturity ('bone age') wherein the source image is, or is 
derived from a digital or digitised radiograph of a subject's hand and 

wrist, with the object being the hand and wrist and the feature being 
the bones within the hand and/or wrist. In this case, classification 

of bone outlines extracted from the image are compared to and 
classified with respect to reference sample bones to compute an 

assessment of skeletal maturity. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOUTH BIRMINGHAM DISTRICT HEAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOUTH BIRMINGHAM DISTRICT HEALTH AUTHORITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILL KEVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILL, KEVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an image processing system and 
method for automatic feature extraction. The invention finds particular application in the 
identification of skeletal maturity from radiographs. The 
determination of skeletal maturity ("bone age") plays an important 
role in paediatrics. The skeletal maturity, once determined, can be 
useful in the diagnosis of endocrinological problems and growth 
disorders. It is frequently used in connection with the application 
of growth hormones for the treatment of growth disorders to monitor 
the patients progress. A standard technique for the assessment of skeletal maturity 
and for predicting of adult height, along with drawings representing 
bone samples at various stages in development is set out, for example, 
in the book entitled "Assessment of Skeletal Maturity and Prediction 
of Adult Height (TW2 Method)", by Tanner, et al, the second edition of 
which was published in 1983 by Academic Press, Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovich, Publishers. The process of determining skeletal maturity has 
traditionally been a labour intensive process requiring the 
involvement of skilled personnel to compare radiograph images to 
drawings of samples of bones in the hand at various stages of 
development. It involves identifying individual bones of interest, 
comparing them to drawings of the standard reference samples, 
allocating point classifications according to closest matches with the 
reference samples, determining weighted maturity scores and then 
comparing the results to a percentile chart. Different charts a 
required for male and female subjects. As well as being labour 
intensive, the traditional manual techniques do not give very 
repeatable results. It would be desirable to at least partially automate the 
process of determining skeletal age in order to reduce the human 
involvement and, hopefully, to improve the accuracy of the final 
determination. It has been proposed to assist a technician to match a given 
bone to a given standard sample by storing representations of the 
standard samples in a computer memory, displaying a number of samples 
to the technician and enabling the technician to select the standard  
 
sample most closely related to the particular bone of interest. 
However, this proposed technique still requires the technician to 
correctly identify the bone of interest from the radiograph of the 
hand and wrist of the subject and to then make the comparison of the 
selected bone to the standard samples presented to him/her. It would be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image processing system for extracting, from a source image 
comprising an array of pixels, irregular relatively distinct features 

from an irregular relatively less distinct object which occupies a 
part of the source image, the system comprising: 


object outline extracting means (S1, S2) for extracting the 
edge outline of the object in the source image to produce an 

object outline image; 
data point locating means (S3) for tracing the extracted 
object outline and for locating predetermined data points on 

the object outline; 
region identification means (S4) responsive to the located 
data points to identify particular regions of the object 

within the source image; and 
feature identification means (S5) responsive to image data 
relating to the source image within the identified regions 

for extracting the relatively distinct features therefrom. 
A system according to claim 1 wherein the object outline 
extracting means comprises: 


object outline emphasising means (S2) including a 
difference function generator for replacing each pixel value 

in the image by a pixel value determined as a function of the 
difference in grey scale of pixels in a predetermined area 

centred on the pixel in question to produce an outline 
emphasised image; and 
thresholding means (S2) for extracting, as the object 
outline, pixels from the outline emphasised image which 

exceed a predetermined threshold. 
A system according to claim 2 wherein the thresholding means 
(S2) recursively determines a threshold on the basis of a cumulative 

distribution of grey scale levels in the outline emphasised image 
until a continuous outline has been extracted. 
A system according to claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the object 
outline emphasising means also comprises a filter (S1) for reducing 

 
the noise in the source image before processing by the difference 

function generator. 
A system according to any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein the 
object outline extracting means (S1, S2) removes any object pixels 

forming a part of the object outline which part has a perimeter 
greater than the distance between its extremities by an amount outside 

a predetermined range. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims wherein 
the data point locating means (S3) comprises: 


means for determining the orientation of the object within 
the image and initial data points by identifying 

predetermined object structures within the image; and 
means for selecting further data points corresponding to 
predetermined directions or changes in direction of the 

object outline. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims wherein 
the region identification means (S4) comprises sub-image defining 

means responsive to the data point locating means define a sub-image 
identified by respective data points by extracting pixels from or 

derived from the source image and, where necessary, rotating the 
pixels to correspond to a predetermined sub-image orientation, and 

wherein the feature identification means identifies the outlines of 
individual features within a sub-image. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims wherein 
the feature identification means (S5) comprises: 


means for emphasising the feature outlines; and 
means for following the feature outlines to encode the 
shape of the outlines. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims 
additionally comprising feature classifying means (28) which compares 

the features identified by the feature identification means to 
predetermined reference features to classify the identified features 

 
and report generating means for outputting a report on the result of 

the classification of predetermined identified features from the 
source image. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims wherein 
the source image is, or is derived from a digital radiographic image 

of a part of a limb of a subject wherein the object is part of the 
limb and the features are the bones within the limb. 
A system according to claim 10 wherein the part of a limb 
includes a hand of a subject. 
A system according to claim 11 wherein the data point locating 
means (S3) comprises means for tracing fields, e.g. circles, of 

differing sizes, e.g. diameters, on the object outline image and for 
determining data points representative of the wrist or forearm, as 

start and finish points for subsequently tracing the object outline, 
in response to the detection of a predetermined pixel value pattern or 

patterns. 
A system according to claim 11 or claim 12 when dependent on 
claim 7 wherein the feature identification means (S5) comprises means 

for assessing the relative widths of the relatively distinct areas in 
the wrist portion of source image, or of an image derived therefrom, 

to determine the handedness of the image, and, where necessary, to 
invert the pixels of the sub-images to correspond to a hand of a 

particular handedness. 
A system according to any one of claims 10 to 13 when 
dependent on claim 9 wherein the report generated is an assessment of 

skeletal maturity. 
A system according to claim 14 wherein the feature classifying 
means (28) comprises rough age assessment means for scanning pixels 

within an identified image region to identify predetermined pixel 
value changes indicative of immature bone development whereby a rough 

age assessment is computed for distinguishing different cases relevant 
 

to the generation of the report on skeletal maturity. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims 
comprising means (24) for generating the source image from an initial 

image by adjusting the spread of pixel values of the initial image to 
utilise substantially the full range of pixel values available for the 

source image. 
A method for processing an image to extract, from a source 
image comprising an array of pixels, irregular relatively distinct 

features from an irregular relatively less distinct object which 
occupies a part of the source image, the method comprising: 


a) extracting an edge outline of the object in the source image 
to produce an object outline image; 
b) tracing the extracted object outline and locating 
predetermined data points on the object outline; 
c) responding to the located data points to identify particular 
regions of the object within the source image; and 
d) responding to image data relating to the source image within 
the identified regions for extracting the relatively distinct 

features therefrom. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
