<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654126</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HOUSED BEARING ASSEMBLY WITH SEALED ROLLER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C1300	F16C1300	F16C1302	F16C1302	F16C2300	F16C2304	F16C2904	F16C2904	F16C3304	F16C3310	F16C3320	F16N900	F16N902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16N	F16N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C13	F16C13	F16C13	F16C13	F16C23	F16C23	F16C29	F16C29	F16C33	F16C33	F16C33	F16N9	F16N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A housed bearing assembly suitable for use as a pillow block bearing unit or flanged bearing unit. The assembly includes a shaft sleeve (21) and roller body (23) secured to one another and enclosed by a housing (10). The roller body (23) is adapted to rool against an inner peripheral surface of the housing (10). A supply of lubricant sufficient to lubricate the roller body (23) is contained within the housing. The housing (10) and rolling body (23) are designed to direct lubricant toward fluid tight areas of the assembly and away from those areas where leakage might occur. A lubricant containment reservoir is formed in either the housing or the shaft such that lubricant will not reach the space or interface betwen the shaft and the housing. The roller body may be provided with a drip edge to further direct lubricant away from the interface between the housing and the shaft. The housing is constructed as a spherical segment seated in a spherical seat to allow pivoting of the inner housing portion to pivot to adjust for misalignement.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDE, RUSSELL D.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE, RUSSELL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HOUSED BEARING ASSEMBLY WITH SEALED ROLLERField of the InventionThe present invention relates to roller assemblies which include a, preferably cylindrical, housing rotatably supported on a shaft. The present invention is particularly directed to the adaptation of such roller assembly for use in a self-contained or housed bearing system such as a pillow block bearing unit or flanged unit both of which are referred to as pillow block assemblies hereinafter.Background of the InventionPillow block and flanged bearing units are basically self-contained bearing systems which include a housing for containing oil, a shaft sleeve adapted to be secured to a shaft, and a bearing. The two most common types of housed units, pillow block and flanged units, have similar features, but flanged units are mounted by bolts through a housing flange whereas pillow block units include a mounting base. Because of the similarities, both units are sometimes referred to pillow block units and that practice is followed to some extent hereinafter.Housed units offer a number of advantages including ease of installation and mounting. Moreover, the housings can be mounted in any position and self-aligning and relubricatable designs are available. They provide an 

 acceptable choice in many applications including: conveyor systems, fans and blowers, baggage lines, material handling, food packaging plants and textile machinery. Housed units are well suited for a variety of industrial applications from those involving normal or routine loads as well as adverse applications involving wet and dirty environments.Typically, a self-contained housed unit of the pillow block or flanged type includes a base or housing, superfinished inner and outer rings, high grade ball bearings and precise ball bearing assembly. Although such units have proven adequate in the past, they are expensive and difficult and relatively difficult to assemble. Many of the problems associated with pillow block bearings are common to all rolling element bearing assemblies and are discussed below.An alternative to rolling element bearing assemblies is the plain bearing assembly, but there are problems adapting such a unit to a pillow block or self- contained unit. Pillow block bearings are typically either grease or oil filled, with oil generally being preferred. To avoid leakage, however, the oil level must be kept below the shaft line, i.e., one third filled. This presents a problem when a sleeve bearing is used in the pillow block bearing assembly because it is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim: 1. A housed bearing assembly for supporting a rotating shaft, the assembly comprising: a εhaft εleeve adapted to be εecured to the rotating εhaft for rotation therewith; a roller body secured to the εhaft εleeve for rotation therewith, the roller body including a cylindrical wall portion; a housing, the housing comprising an outer housing portion and an inner housing portion, the outer housing portion having a radially innermost surface formed with a spherical seat, the inner housing having a radially outermost surface formed with a spherical segment which conforms to the spherical seat formed in the outer housing so that the inner housing iε pivotably εeated in the εpherical seat formed in the outer housing; the inner housing further comprising a cylindrical peripheral wall portion disposed adjacent to the cylindrical wall portion of the roller body such that the roller body contacts the wall portion at a contact surface such that the roller body may roll on the cylindrical peripheral wall portion of the housing; a predetermined supply of lubricant contained within the housing; and a lubricant containment reεervoir formed in at least one of the housing and the roller body the lubricant containment reservoir designed to contain lubricant such that lubricant is provided at the contact surface.
2. The bearing assembly of claim 1, wherein the cylindrical wall portion of the roller body is located radially outward of the cylindrical peripheral wall portion 


of the housing.
3. The bearing assembly of claim 1, wherein th cylindrical wall portion of the roller body iε locate radially inward of the cylindrical peripheral wall portion o the housing.
4. The bearing assembly of claim 1, wherein the rolle body is in the form of an annular trough with the cylindrica wall portion of the roller body comprising the base of th trough and radially inward extending walls comprising th side edges of the trough such that on rotation of the rolle body, lubricant contained within the trough is centrifugall distributed across the cylindrical wall portion of the rolle body.
5. The bearing assembly of claim 1, wherein a seal i provided on one of the housing and the roller body, the sea being in contact with the other of the housing and the rolle body to seal the interior of the houεing at a sealing point
6. The bearing assembly of claim 5, wherein th lubricant containment reservoir is designed to contai lubricant such that regardless of the orientation of th assembly, lubricant does not collect at the sealing point.
7. A housed bearing assembly for εupporting a rotatin shaft, the bearing assembly comprising: a housing, the housing having a cylindrica interior surface portion and at leaεt one εhaft receivin opening formed therein, the houεing further compriεing a εea integrally formed with the housing; a shaft sleeve and roller body aεεembl 


comprising a roller body located within the housing and adapted to roll against the cylindrical interior surface portion of the housing and a shaft sleeve secured to the rotating shaft, the shaft sleeve extending into the housing through the shaft receiving opening and rotatably secured to the roller body, the seal being in sliding contact with the shaft sleeve and roller body aεsembly at a sealing point; a predetermined supply of lubricant contained within the housing; and a lubricant containment reservoir formed in at least one of the shaft and the houεing, the lubricant containment reservoir designed to contain lubricant such that regardless of the orientation of the roller assembly, lubricant does not collect at the sealing point. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
