<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657036</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED NIGHT VISION WEAPON SIGHT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2300	G02B2312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B23	G02B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A night vision sight is provided for use with a weapon, which includes an objective lens (16) and a non-inverting image intensifier tube (22) disposed along an optical axis (18), providing an intensified target image. The sight is focused by direct movement of the image intensifier tube relative to the fixed position of the objective lens. A reticle projector (50) is disposed orthogonal to the optical axis and provides a collimated reticle image, the reticle image providing an aiming point for the weapon. The reticle image is superimposed over the target image, which are reflected into an eyepiece (70) of the sight. The eyepiece has an axis (74) between the optical axis (18) and a sight line (14) passing through a pre-existing sight provided with the weapon. Adjustment of the apparent position of the reticle to compensate for azimuth and elevation is accomplished by moving the reticle projector about crossed cylindrical bearings.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITTON SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONNORS, CLIFFORD, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORLEY, ROLAND, MATTHEW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANNAGOT, GARY, ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED NIGHT VISION WEAPON SIGHTBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to night vision systems, and more particularly, to an improved night vision weapon sight.2. Description of Related ArtMilitary and law enforcement personnel which use weapons, such as rifles, have long sought ways to improve their aim. By improving their shooting accuracy, these personnel increase their own effectiveness and survivability, while minimizing the possibility of innocent bystanders being inadvertently shot. The typical rifle is provided with a mechanical sight which is aligned to the barrel of the rifle. The operator visually aligns the mechanical sight with the desired target by peering down the barrel.Since the desired target cannot be observed accurately at night, night vision systems are commonly used as night vision weapon sights. These systems employ an image intensification process which amplifies the ambient light reflected or emitted by an observed object. The image intensification process involves conversion of the received ambient light into electron patterns and projection of the electron patterns onto a phosphor screen for conversion of the electron patterns into light visible to the observer. This visible light is then viewed by the operator through a lens provided in an eyepiece of the night vision system. The night vision weapon sight is often equipped with a high power magnification, such as three times magnification (3X) .Instead of using the mechanical sight, internal sighting systems can be incorporated into the night vision 

sight. These sighting systems utilize a light source which is superimposed over the viewed image to provide an aim point, or reticle. The light source is aligned, or boresighted, to the barrel of the weapon, so that it designates the point which would be struck by a bullet fired from the weapon. The operator uses the night vision sight by overlaying the reticle over the image of the desired target viewed through the sight. Night vision sights having internal aiming reticles can enable an operator to accurately strike a distant target during low light conditions.In typical night vision systems, an objective lens forms an inverted image on an internal image intensifier tube, which performs the image intensification process. In order for the system to present the user with an upright image, the image intensifier tube inverts the image. An inverting intensifier tube contains a fused fiber optic slug with a 180 degree twist. The eyepiece
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed Is:
1. An adjustment assembly particular suitable for optical lens focusing, comprising: an optical member movable along an optical axis; a threaded worm shaft mounted transverse to said optical axis; a ring gear rotatable around said optical axis in mating engagement with said worm shaft, a side surface of said gear having a plurality of axially extending ramp surfaces; a plurality of opposing ramp surfaces extending axially from said optical member in facing contact with said ramp surfaces of said ring gear; and a spring biasing said optical member to maintain contact between said ramp surfaces, said optical member changing position along said optical axis by intentional rotation of said worm shaft and corresponding rotation of said ring gear, said ramp surfaces of said ring gear rotating about said optical axis and changing contact point with said opposing ramp surfaces.
2. The adjustment assembly of Claim 1, wherein said ring gear has four of said ramp surfaces.
3. The adjustment assembly of Claim 1, wherein said optical member is constrained to prevent rotation.
4. The adjustment assembly of Claim 1, wherein said ramp surfaces have a shallow angle of approximately 20 degrees.
5. The adjustment assembly of Claim 1, wherein said optical member is an image intensifier tube of a night vision system. 


 6. A focusing assembly for a night vision sight having a fixed objective lens with an optical axis, comprising: a non-inverting image intensifier tube movable along said optical axis; and means for manipulating said image intensifier tube along said optical axis to focus said night vision system.
7. The focusing assembly of Claim 6, wherein said manipulating means comprises: a focus knob affixed to a threaded worm shaft mounted transverse to said optical axis; a ring gear rotatable around said optical axis in mating engagement with said worm shaft, a side surface of said gear having a plurality of axially extending ramp surfaces; a plurality of opposing ramp surfaces extending axially from said image intensifier tube in facing contact with said ramp surfaces of said ring gear; and a spring biasing said image intensifier tube to maintain contact between said ramp surfaces; whereby, said image intensifier tube changes position along said optical axis by intentional rotation of said focus knob and corresponding rotation of said ring gear, said ramp surfaces of said ring gear rotating about said optical axis and changing contact point with said opposing ramp surfaces.
8. The focusing assembly of Claim 7, wherein said ring gear has four of said ramp surfaces.
9. The focusing assembly of Claim 7, wherein said image intensifier tube is constrained to prevent rotation. 


 10. The focusing assembly of Claim 7, wherein said ramp surfaces have a shallow angle of approximately 20 degrees.
11. The focusing assembly of Claim 6, wherein said manipulating means comprises: a housing for said night vision system; a driving member mounted to said housing; a rotating member rotatable about said optical axis in mating engagement with said driving member, a side surface of said rotating member having a plurality of axially extending ramp surfaces; a forcing member having a plurality of axially extending opposing ramp surfaces in facing contact with said ramp surfaces of said rotating member, said forcing member engaging said image intensifier tube; and means for biasing said image intensifier tube to maintain contact between said ramp surfaces; whereby, said image intensifier tube changes position along said optical axis by intentional rotation of said focus knob and corresponding rotation of said ring gear, said ramp surfaces of said ring gear rotating about said optical axis and changing contact point with said opposing ramp surfaces.
12. The focusing assembly of Claim 11, further comprising a focus knob affixed to said driving member.
13. A night vision sight for use with a weapon, comprising: an image intensifier tube disposed along an optical axis and providing an intensified target image; a reticle projector disposed orthogonal to said optical axis and providing a collimated reticle image, said reticle image providing an aiming point for said weapon; 


 a dichroic filter disposed at a 45 degree angle to said optical axis, said filter reflecting said intensified image and transmitting said reticle image; a relay lens combining said target image and said reticle image into a combined image; a mirror reflecting said combined image into an eyepiece of said sight, said eyepiece having an axis between said optical axis and a sight line passing through a pre-existing sight provided with said weapon.
14. The night vision sight of Claim 13, further comprising: a means for translating apparent position of said reticle image relative said intensified image to calibrate said sight in elevation and azimuth.
15. The night vision sight of Claim 14, wherein said translating means further comprises: an elevational cylindrical bearing permitting pivotal movement of said reticle projector in a first general direction, and an azimuthal cylindrical bearing permitting pivotal movement of said reticle projector in a second general direction, controlled movement of said reticle projector varying the apparent position of said reticle image relative said intensified image.
16. The night vision sight of Claim 13, wherein said reticle projector further comprises: a light source; a diffuser plate scattering light illuminated by said light source to provide uniform illumination, an opposite side of said plate having a plated surface with a reticle pattern etched into said plated surface; and a lens element receiving light illuminated through said reticle pattern, said lens element 


collimating said light and forming said collimated reticle image.
17. The night vision sight of Claim 13, wherein said reticle projector further comprises: a light source; means for providing a reticle pattern from light emitted from said light source; and means for collimating said light and forming said collimated reticle image.
18. The night vision sight of Claim 13, further comprising a fixed objective lens disposed along said optical axis and means for manipulating said image intensifier tube along said optical axis to focus- said night vision sight.
19. The night vision sight of Claim 18, wherein said manipulating means comprises: a focus knob affixed to a threaded worm shaft mounted transverse to said optical axis; a ring gear rotatable around said optical axis in mating engagement with said worm shaft, a side surface of said gear having a plurality of axially extending ramp surfaces; a plurality of opposing ramp surfaces extending axially from said image intensifier tube in facing contact with said ramp surfaces of said ring gear; and a spring biasing said image intensifier tube to maintain contact between said ramp surfaces, said image intensifier tube changing position along said optical axis by intentional rotation of said focus knob and corresponding rotation of said ring gear, said ramp surfaces of said ring gear rotating about said optical axis and changing contact point with said opposing ramp surfaces. 


 20. A night vision sight for aiming a weapon, comprising: a non-inverting image intensifier tube capable of providing an intensified target image at an output face of said tube; a reticle projector capable of providing a collimated reticle image; and means for optically superimposing said target image and said reticle image.
21. The night vision sight of Claim 20, wherein said superimposing means further comprises: a dichroic filter reflecting said intensified image and transmitting said reticle image; a relay lens combining said target image and said reticle image into a combined image; a mirror reflecting said combined image into an eyepiece of said sight, said eyepiece having an axis between said optical axis and a sight line passing through a pre-existing sight provided with said weapon.
21. A night vision sight for use with a weapon, comprising: a non-inverting image intensifier tube disposed along an optical axis and capable of providing an intensified target image; a reticle projector capable of providing a collimated reticle image, said reticle image providing an aiming point for said weapon; and a means for superimposing said reticle image upon said target image.
22. The night vision sight of Claim 21, further comprising:
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 means for translating apparent position of said reticle image relative said intensified image to calibrate said sight in elevation and in azimuth.
23. The night vision sight of Claim 22, wherein said translating means further comprises: an elevational cylindrical bearing permitting pivotal movement of said reticle projector in a first general direction, and an azimuthal cylindrical bearing permitting pivotal movement of said reticle projector in a second general direction, controlled movement of said reticle projector varying the apparent position of said reticle image relative said intensified image.
24. The night vision sight of Claim 23, wherein said reticle projector further comprises: a light source; a diffuser plate scattering light emitted from said light source and providing uniform illumination, an opposite side of said plate having a plated surface with a reticle pattern etched into said plated surface; and a lens element receiving light illuminated through said reticle pattern, said lens element collimating said light and forming said collimated reticle image.
25. The night vision sight of Claim 24, wherein said light source is a light emitting diode (LED) .
26. The night vision sight of Claim 21, wherein said superimposing means comprises: a dichroic filter disposed at a 45 degree angle to said optical axis, said filter reflecting said intensified image and transmitting said reticle image; a relay lens combining said target image and said collimated reticle image to form a combined image;
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 a mirror reflecting said combined image into an eyepiece of said sight.
27. The night vision sight of Claim 21, wherein said eyepiece has its optical axis substantially linear to the sight line of a day sight provided with said weapon.
28. A night vision weapon sight, comprising: a non-inverting image intensifier tube capable of providing an intensified target image; and an inverting eyepiece capable of inverting said intensified target image.
29. The night vision weapon sight of Claim 28, further comprising an offset optical line of sight for the eyepiece relative said image intensifier tube.
30. The night vision weapon sight of Claim 29, further comprising means for producing a reticle image boresighted to said weapon.
31. The night vision weapon sight of Claim 30, wherein said reticle image is collimated by use of a collimating lens, said collimated reticle image being injected into said eyepiece.
32. A night vision sight having a fixed objective lens with an optical axis, comprising: a non-inverting image intensifier tube movable along said optical axis and capable of providing an intensified target image, and means for manipulating said image intensifier tube along said optical axis to focus said night vision system; means for collimating said intensified target image;
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 a reticle projector capable of providing a collimated reticle image, said collimated reticle image providing an aiming point for said weapon; and means for superimposing said collimated reticle image upon said collimated target image.
33. The night vision sight of Claim 32, further comprising: means for translating apparent position of said reticle image relative said intensified image to calibrate said sight in elevation and in azimuth.
34. The night vision sight of Claim 33, wherein said manipulating means comprises: a threaded worm shaft; a ring gear rotatable around said optical axis in mating engagement with said worm shaft, a side surface of said gear having a plurality of axially extending ramp surfaces; a plurality of opposing ramp surfaces extending- axially from said image intensifier tube in facing contact with said ramp surfaces of said ring gear; and a spring biasing said image intensifier tube to maintain contact between said ramp surfaces; whereby, said image intensifier tube changes position along said optical axis by intentional rotation of said worm shaft and corresponding rotation of said ring gear, said ramp surfaces of said ring gear rotating about said optical axis and changing contact point with said opposing ramp surfaces.
35. The night vision sight of Claim 34, wherein said ring gear has four of said ramp surfaces.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
