<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631676</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GAMING DEVICE PROVIDING HIGH SECURITY COMMUNICATIONS WITH A REMOTE STATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F1302	A63F1306	G06Q5000	G06Q5000	G07F520	G07F522	G07F908	G07F908	G07F1732	G07F1732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	G06Q	G06Q	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F13	A63F13	G06Q50	G06Q50	G07F5	G07F5	G07F9	G07F9	G07F17	G07F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A gaming device (10) is shown having one printed circuit board (42) that includes a game control processor (20); at least one memory storing game operation information (22, 24); and a light transmitter (36) for transmitting encoded information representing selected game operation information that is stored in the memory. The gaming device (10) also includes a communication printed circuit board (44) that has a light receiver (40) for receiving light encoded information from the light transmitter (36); at least one memory (52, 54) for storing game operation information as represented by the light encoded information received by the light receiver (40); and a communication controller (50) that allows communication between the gaming device (10) and a remote station (18). Because the light transmitter (36) can transmit information to the communication board (44) but cannot receive information therefrom, communications between the gaming device (10) and a remote station (18) are allowed without compromising the integrity or security of the operations of the gaming device (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARACHNID INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARACHNID, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN, JOHN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 GAMING DEVICE PROVIDING HIGH SECURITY COMMUNICATIONS WITH A REMOTE STATIONTECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a gaming device and more particularly to a system that allows communication between the gaming device and a remote operator station to allow game operation information to be transmitted to the remote station while preventing the operation of the gaming device from being altered from the remote station.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Gaming devices are known that allow communication between the gaming device and a remote station run by a jurisdictional authority, such as a State administrator. The jurisdictional authority typically requires that such communications be initiated only by the remote station and not by the gaming device. The restrictions on the communications between a gaming device and a remote station are to ensure the security and integrity of the gaming device operations. However, it is often desirable that the operator of the gaming device be able to communicate with the device from a remote location so that the operator can simultaneously monitor a number of gaming devices to ensure that they are operating without difficulty. Heretofore jurisdictional authorities have not allowed the operator to communicate with the gaming device from a remote location due to the risk that the operations of the device will be tampered with by downloading information to the device. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention, the disadvantages of prior gaming devices as discussed above have been overcome. The gaming device of the present invention includes a high security communication system that allows communications between a remote operator station and the gaming device while ensuring that the game controls of the device cannot be altered from the remote station. More particularly, the gaming device of the present invention includes a game controller for controlling the operations of the gaming device and for monitoring the operations of the gaming device to provide information representative thereof. A first memory is coupled to the game controller for storing game operation information. A transmitter, is responsive to the game controller for transmitting encoded signals representing selected game operation information that is stored in the first memory. A receiver receives the encoded signals transmitted thereto to generate an electrical signal representative of the selected game operation information. A second memory is coupled to the receiver for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A gaming device comprising: a game controller for controlling the operations of said gaming device and for monitoring the operations of said gaming device to provide information representative thereof; first means coupled to said game controller for storing said game operation information; a transmitter responsive to said game controller for transmitting encoded signals representing selected game operation information; a receiver for receiving said encoded signals to generate an electrical signal representative of said selected game operation information; second storage means coupled to said receiving means for storing said selected game operation information; and remote communication means for transmitting game operation information stored in said second storage means to a remote operator station.
2. A gaming device as recited in claim 1 wherein said remote communication means includes means for initiating communications with said remote operator station.
3. A gaming device as recited in claim 1 wherein said remote communication means includes means for receiving communications from said remote operator station.
4. A gaming device as recited in claim 1 wherein said transmitter includes a light emitting diode and said receiver includes a photocell, said photocell being positioned with respect to said light emitting diode so as to receive light transmitted therefrom. 


 5. A gaming device as recited in claim 1 wherein said game operation information includes alarm information and said gaming device further includes a control means coupled to said light receiving means and responsive to the receipt of alarm information included in said game operation information for initiating communications with said remote operator station.
6. A gaming device as recited in claim 1 wherein said game operation information includes information representing a plurality of different types of gaming information and said game controller selectively controls the type of game information to be transmitted by said transmitter at a given time, the game operation information transmitted by said transmitter including data identifying the type of game information being transmitted. 

7. A gaming device comprising: a game controller for controlling the operations of said gaming device and for monitoring the operations of said gaming device to provide information representative thereof; a first memory coupled to said game controller for storing said game operation information; electro optical means responsive to said game controller for transmitting light encoded signals representing selected game operation information; electro optical receiving means for receiving said light encoded signals to generate an electrical signal representative of said selected game operation information; a second memory coupled to said receiving means for storing said selected game operation information; and remote communication means for transmitting game operation information stored in said second memory to a remote operator station.
8. A gaming device as recited in claim 7 wherein said remote communication means includes means for initiating communications with said remote operator station.
9. A gaming device as recited in claim 7 wherein said remote communication means includes means for receiving communications from said remote operator station.
10. A gaming device as recited in claim 7 wherein said transmitting means includes a light emitting diode and said receiving means includes a photocell, said photocell being positioned with respect to said light emitting diode so as to receive light transmitted therefrom. 


 11. A gaming device as recited in claim 7 wherein said game operation information includes alarm information and said gaming device further includes a control means coupled to said light receiving means and responsive to the receipt of alarm information included in said game operation information for initiating communications with said remote operator station.
12. A gaming device comprising: a gaming device control printed circuit board including a game control processor, at least one memory storing game operation information and a transmitter responsive to said processor for transmitting encoded information representing selected game operation information; and a communication printed circuit board including a receiver for receiving said encoded information from said transmitter to generate an electrical signal representing said received information; at least one memory storing said received information and a communication controller for communicating with a remote station to transfer said received information to said remote station.
13. A gaming device as recited in claim 12 wherein said communication controller includes means for initiating communications with said remote station.
14. A gaming device as recited in claim 12 wherein said communication controller includes means for receiving communications from said remote station. 


 15. A gaming device as recited in claim 12 wherein said transmitter includes a light emitting diode and said receiver includes a photocell, said photocell being positioned with respect to said light emitting diode so as to receive light transmitted therefrom.
16. A gaming device as recited in claim 12 wherein said game operation information includes alarm information and said communication controller includes means responsive to alarm information included in said received information for initiating communications with said remote station.
17. A gaming device as recited in claim 12 wherein said gaming device control printed circuit board includes means for communicating with a second remote station.
18. A gaming device comprising: a gaming device control circuit board for controlling the operations of said gaming device; at least one sensor for detecting an event of said gaming device to provide gaming device event information; and a communication printed circuit board directly receiving said gaming device event information from said sensor, said communication board including a memory for storing said received gaming device event information and a communication controller for communicating with a remote station to transfer said received information to said remote station. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
