<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628336</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vapor recovery system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5304	B01D5304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vapor recovery unit (10, 30) comprising a vapor 
inlet for taking up hydrocarbon vapor/carrier gas mixture 

from a loading facility or the like, and thereafter 
alternately allowing the vapor to flow to one of at least 

two adsorber vessels (12, 14). Each adsorber vessel 
includes an entry port in the bottom of the adsorber 

vessel for receiving vapor. Hydrocarbons are retained on 
activated carbon beds in the adsorber vessels (12, 14), 

resulting in purified air or other carrier gas which is 
removed through a discharge port also in the bottom of 

each adsorber vessel (12, 14) and released through an 
elevated vent to the atmosphere. Hydrocarbon vapor is 

desorbed from the adsorber vessel (12, 14) by a vacuum 
system (30) and directed to a separator/absorber (34, 36) 

vessel wherein the desorbed vapor which has passed 
through the vacuum system is brought into contact with a 

hydrocarbon absorbent liquid or condenser. In use, when 
one adsorber vessel (34 or 36) is taking in vapor from 

the vapor inlet, the other adsorber vessel is having its 
adsorbent bed desorbed or regenerated. When the 

adsorbent bed is saturated, or if desired on a time 
cycle, the process will alternate. The adsorber vessels 

of the present invention do not require any flow lines or 
vent lines on the top of the adsorber vessels thereby 

allowing for easier maintenance and installation of the 
adsorber vessels. The entire system is designed to be 

fitted to and located on a skid or skids. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALLIDUS TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALLIDUS TECHNOLOGIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUTTLE WILLARD N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUTTLE, WILLARD N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process and 
apparatus for the recovery of hydrocarbon vapors from hydrocarbon 
inert gas vapor mixtures. More particularly, the 
present invention relates to a simplified vapor recovery 
system which has increased safety and is more easily maintained. During the late 1970's and early 1980's, activated 
carbon-vacuum regeneration hydrocarbon vapor recovery systems 
were developed to meet the environmental requirements for 
vapor control at gasoline bulk terminals. These systems were 
originally designed to meet the clean air standards which were 
in force at the time. Since that time, the emission standards 
have become increasingly more strict, leading to the need to 
develop vapor recovery systems having a greater degree of 
efficiency. Such systems have generally been relatively 
complex, have safety problems, and in large measure are 
relatively difficult to maintain. Specifically, 
U.S.-A-4,261,716 is directed to an apparatus 
for recovering hydrocarbons from an air-hydrocarbon vapor 
mixture including a pair of adsorbers containing beds of 
adsorbent having first and second connections on opposite 
sides of the beds, a first conduit means connected to the 
first connection of the adsorbers for conducting the air-hydrocarbon 
vapor mixture to the adsorber and for evacuating 
the adsorbers, a second conduit means connected to 
the second connection of the adsorbers for conducting 
residue gas exiting the adsorbers to the atmosphere, a 
vacuum pump having a suction connection and a discharge 
connection, a third conduit means connected between the 
suction connection of the vacuum pump and the first  
 
conduit means, an ejector jet pump disposed in the third 
conduit means, and an absorber. U.S.-A-4,276,058 is directed to a process 
for recovering hydrocarbons from an inlet air-hydrocarbon 
vapor mixture which includes the steps of (1) dividing a 
flow of liquid absorbent having an affinity for 
hydrocarbons into a first portion and a second portion, 
(2) passing the first portion of the liquid absorbent in 
heat exchange relationship with seal liquid used by a 
vacuum pump so that the seal liquid is cooled and the 
first portion of the liquid absorbent is heated, and (3), 
thereafter, contacting the air-hydrocarbon mixture 
produced in an adsorber with the heated first portion of 
the liquid absorbent so that a portion of the 
hydrocarbons are removed therefrom and a residue gas 
stream comprised of air and a portion of hydrocarbons is 
produced. U.S.-A-4,331,456
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vapor recovery unit (10, 30) comprising a vapor 
inlet for taking up hydrocarbon vapor, at least two 

adsorber vessels (12, 14), each of said adsorber vessels 
(12, 14) including an entry port for receiving vapors in 

the bottom thereof; a bed of solid adsorbent having an 
affinity for hydrocarbons contained in each of said 

adsorber vessels (12, 14); valve means for alternately 
directing said hydrocarbon vapors from said vapor inlet 

to one or the other of said entry ports of said at least 
two adsorber vessels; a vacuum system (30) connected by 

connector means to an outlet in each of said at least two 
adsorber vessels, said connector means permitting for 

alternately desorbing said adsorbent beds in said 
adsorber vessels (12, 14); means for directing vapors 

desorbed from said adsorbent beds through said vacuum 
system (30) to a separator-absorber vessel (34, 36) 

wherein said desorbed vapors are brought in contact with 
a hydrocarbon absorbent liquid for recovery of 

hydrocarbon characterised in that each entry port is 
connected to closed pipe means within each of said 

adsorber vessels and which pipe means extends from said 
entry port to the top of each of said vessels (12, 14) 

discharging vapors received at the entry port at the top 
of each of said vessels; each adsorber vessel is provided 

with an outlet port in the bottom of each of said 
adsorber vessels for discharging vapors from said 

adsorber vessels after passing through said solid 
adsorbent; and the vacuum system (30) is connected by 

connector means to an outlet in the bottom of each of 
said at least two adsorber vessels. 
The vapor recovery unit (10, 30) of claim 1 
characterised in that said solid adsorbent is activated 

carbon.  
 
The vapor recovery unit (10, 30) of claim 2 
characterised in that said vacuum system (30) includes a 

liquid ring vacuum pump (32). 
The vapor recovery unit (10, 30) of claim 3 
characterised in that said hydrocarbon vapors are carried 

in a carrier gas and wherein the carrier gas for said 
hydrocarbon vapors which is separated from the adsorbed 

hydrocarbon vapors is removed through the outlet port at 
the bottom of the vessel (12 or 14) and vented to the 

atmosphere. 
The vapor recovery unit (10, 30) of claim 3 
characterised in that said hydrocarbon vapors are carried 

in a carrier gas and wherein the carrier gas is removed 
from the outlet port in the bottom of the adsorber vessel 

(12 or 14) and returned to the adsorber vessel (12 or 14) 
through a second entry port in the bottom of the vessel 

and used to charge the adsorber bed during the 
regeneration cycle. 
The vapor recovery unit (10, 30) of claim 1 wherein 
said means for feeding said liquid absorbent is a single 

line, said single line including means to split the 
liquid flow so as to enter the absorber vessel at two 

separate points. 
The vapor recovery unit (10, 30) of claim 6 
characterised in that said means to split the liquid flow 

includes an upper spray line (39) and a lower spray line 
(37) and the separator-absorber vessel (34, 36) includes 

an absorber column (36) which contains flanging (35) 
positioned above said lower spray line (37). 
The vapor recovery unit (10, 30) of claim 6 
characterised in that the separator-absorber vessel (34,  

 
36) includes two vertical immersion pumps for circulating 

said liquid absorbent and the regenerated hydrocarbon 
(33, 42), the first of said two pumps being a sealed 

fluid pump and the second pump being a hydrocarbon 
product return pump. 
The vapor recovery unit (10, 30) of claim 1 wherein 
said vapor recovery unit is constructed and arranged to 

be fitted to a skid. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
