<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646746</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bearings having beam mounted bearing pads and methods of making same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C1703	F16C1703	F16C1704	F16C1706	F16C3206	F16C3206	F16F15023	F16F15023	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16F	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C17	F16C17	F16C17	F16C17	F16C32	F16C32	F16F15	F16F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hydrodynamic thrust, journal or combined radial 
and thrust bearing and methods of manufacturing the 

same. The bearing includes a bearing pad structure (10) that 
may change shape and move in any direction (six degrees 

of freedom) to optimize formation of a converging wedge 
for hydrodynamic operation, equalization of load on the 

bearing pads in thrust bearings and to adjust for any 
shaft (6) misalignment. The bearing pad may be formed so as 

to contact the shaft (6) in the installed state and to 
deflect under fluid film pressure. The pad is separated 

from the support member by a support structure which 
includes one or more beam-like members (14,16). The support 

structure preferably includes a primary support portion (740), 
a secondary support portion (742) and a tertiary support 

portion (740). The beams allow (14,16) deflection of the pad by 
either deflecting or twisting in a torsional mode. The 

bearing pad support structure (10) may include portions which 
are fluid dampened. The bearing may be made self 

lubricating through the provision of a lubricant 
absorbing and releasing material in the spaces between 

the bearing pads or within the support structure (10). The 
bearings may be made of a wide variety of materials 

including, plastics, ceramics, powdered metals, 
composites and metals. The bearings may be manufactured 

by simple molding using a two-piece camless mold, 
injection molding, casting, powdered metal die casting, 

extrusion, electric discharge or laser cutting. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDE, RUSSELL D.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE, RUSSELL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to hydrodynamic 
bearings. In such bearings, a rotating object such as a 
shaft is supported by a stationary bearing pad via a 
pressurized fluid such as oil, air or water. 
Hydrodynamic bearings take advantage of the fact that 
when the rotating object moves, it does not slide along 
the top of the fluid. Instead the fluid in contact with 
the rotating object adheres tightly to the rotating 
object, and motion is accompanied by slip or shear 
between the fluid particles through the entire height of 
the fluid film. Thus, if the rotating object and the 
contacting layer of fluid move at a velocity which is 
known, the velocity at intermediate heights of the fluid 
thickness decreases at a known rate until the fluid in 
contact with the stationary bearing pad adheres to the 
bearing pad and is motionless. When, by virtue of the 
load resulting from its support of the rotating object, 
the bearing pad is deflected at a small angle to the  
 
rotating member, the fluid will be drawn into the 
wedge-shaped opening, and sufficient pressure will be 
generated in the fluid film to support the load. This 
fact is utilized in thrust bearings for hydraulic 
turbines and propeller shafts of ships as well as in the 
conventional hydrodynamic journal bearing. Both thrust bearings and radial or journal bearings 
normally are characterized by shaft supporting pads 
spaced about an axis. The axis about which the pads are 
spaced generally corresponds to the longitudinal axis of 
the shaft to be supported for both thrust and journal 
bearings. This axis may be termed the major axis. In an ideal hydrodynamic bearing, the hydrodynamic 
wedge extends across the entire bearing pad face, the 
fluid film is just thick enough to support the load, the 
major axis of the bearing and the axis of the shaft are 
aligned, leakage of fluid from the ends of the bearing 
pad surface which are adjacent the leading and trailing 
edges is minimized, the fluid film is developed as soon 
as the shaft begins to rotate, and, in the case of 
thrust bearings, the bearing pads are equally loaded. 
While an ideal hydrodynamic bearing has yet to be 
achieved, a bearing which substantially achieves each of 
these objectives is said to be designed so as to 
optimize hydrodynamic wedge formation. The present invention relates to hydrodynamic 
bearings that are also sometimes known as movable pad 
bearings and methods of making the same. Generally 
these bearings are mounted in such a way that they can 
move to permit the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hydrodynamic radial or combined radial-thrust 
bearing for supporting a rotating shaft on a fluid film, 

the bearing comprising a plurality of bearing pads (732, 
932,1032) having curved pad surfaces disposed to engage a 

shaft portion to support the shaft for rotation and a 
support structure for supporting the bearing pads, the 

bearing pads and the support structure being unitary and 
the support structure comprising a primary support portion 

(740, 940, 1040) a secondary support portion (742, 960, 
1044) and a tertiary support portion (740, 1082), the 

support portions being adapted to deflect relative to one 
another and to support the bearing pads for movement with 

six degrees of freedom, such that under loading each pad 
deflects to a position in which the trailing edge of the 

pad is closer to the shaft portion than the leading edge 
of the pad so as to form an optimum hydrodynamic wedge, 

characterized in that the primary support portion includes 
at least two beams (740, 940, 1040) for supporting each of 

the pads at a location that is spaced from the leading edge 
of the pad. 
A bearing according to Claim 1, wherein the support 
structure includes at least two radial beams (740, 940, 

940) and two circumferential beams (742) or a membrane 
(960) for supporting said pads for movement with six 

degrees of freedom. 
A bearing according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the 
support structure is symmetrical with respect to the 

bearing pads such that the bearing can support the shaft 
portion for rotation in either direction. 
A bearing according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, 
having a porous plastic material filling the spaces between 

the bearing pads. 
A bearing according to Claim 4, wherein the porous 
plastic is capable of absorbing and releasing liquid 

lubricant and is loaded with liquid lubricant such that 
when the support structure deflects, liquid lubricant is 

released from the porous plastic onto the bearing pad 
surfaces. 
A bearing according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, 
having an easily moldable shape. 
A hydrodynamic radial or combined radial-thrust 
bearing for supporting a rotating shaft on a fluid film, 

the bearing comprising a plurality of bearing pads (732, 
1032) having curved pad surfaces disposed to engage a shaft 

portion to support the shaft for rotation and a support 
structure for supporting the bearing pads, the bearing pads 

and the supporting structure being unitary and the support 
structure comprising a primary support portion (740, 940, 

1034) a secondary support portion (742, 1036) and a 
tertiary support portion (744, 1038), the support portions 

being adapted to deflect relative to one another and to 
support the bearing pads for movement with six degrees of 

freedom,such that under loading each pad deflects to a 
position in which the trailing edge of the pad is closer to 

the shaft portion than the leading edge of the pad so as to 
form an optimum hydrodynamic wedge, characterized in that 

a porous plastic material (pp) fills the spaces between the 
bearing pads. 
A bearing according to Claim 7, wherein the porous 
plastic is capable of absorbing and releasing liquid 

lubricant (PP) and is loaded with liquid lubricant such 
that when the support structure deflects, liquid lubricant 

is released from the porous plastic onto the bearing pad 
surfaces. 
A hydrodynamic combined radial-thrust bearing for 
supporting a rotating shaft on a fluid film, the bearing 

plurality of bearing pads (1032) having curved pad surfaces 
disposed to engage a shaft portion to support the shaft for 

rotation and a support structure for supporting the bearing 
pads, the bearing pads and the support structure being 

unitary and the support structure comprising a primary 
support portion (1034, 1040), a secondary support portion 

(1044, 1036) and a tertiary support portion (1082, 1038), 
the support portions being adapted to deflect relative to 

one another and to support the bearing pads for movement 
with six degrees of freedom such that under loading each 

pad deflects to a position in which the trailing edge of 
the pad is closer to the shaft portion than the leading 

edge of the pad so as to form an optimum hydrodynamic 
wedge, characterised in that the bearing pad surfaces are 

disposed at an angle between 0 and 90 degrees with respect 
to the major axis of the bearing such that the pads react 

both radial and thrust loads. 
A bearing according to Claim 9, wherein the 
support structure is symmetrical with respect to the 

bearing and such that the bearing can support the shaft for 
rotation in either direction. 
A bearing according to Claim 9 or 10, wherein the 
primary support portion is divided into a plurality of 

beam-like pad support members (1040, 1034), each of said 
 

plurality of bearing pads (1032) being supported by at 
least one of the plurality of said beam-like pad support 

members in the primary support portion; the secondary 
support portion (1036) supports each of said plurality of 

beam-like pad support members and the tertiary support 
portion (1082, 1032) supports the secondary support 

portion. 
A bearing according to any one of Claims 9 to 11, 
having a porous plastic material filing the spaces between 

the bearing pads. 
A bearing according to Claim 12, wherein the porous 
plastic is capable of absorbi
ng and releasing liquid 
lubricant and is loaded with liquid lubricant such that 

when the support structure deflects, liquid lubricant is 
released from the porous plastic onto the bearing pad 

surfaces. 
A bearing according to any one of Claims 9 to 13, 
having an easily moldable shape. 
A bearing according to any one of Claims 9 to 14, 
wherein the primary support portion for each bearing pad 

(1032) comprises one beam (1034). 
A bearing according to any one of Claims 9 to 14, 
wherein the primary support portion for each bearing pad 

(1032) comprises two beams (1040). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
