<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657076</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PERSONAL NUMBER COMMUNICATIONS METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q364	H04Q366	H04Q372	H04Q300	H04N132	H04M348	H04Q372	H04M350	H04Q300	H04N100	H04N132	H04M1102	H04M342	H04M354	H04M350	H04M1102	H04M3533	H04M342	H04M354	H04M348	H04N100	H04M3436	H04W412	H04W412	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04N	H04M	H04Q	H04M	H04Q	H04N	H04N	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04N	H04M	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q3	H04Q3	H04Q3	H04Q3	H04N1	H04M3	H04Q3	H04M3	H04Q3	H04N1	H04N1	H04M11	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M11	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04N1	H04M3	H04W4	H04W4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A personal number communications system assigns a personal number to each subscriber, and receives from each subscriber communication routing information in the form of one or more hierarchical lists of destinations based on the time of day and day of the week. The hierarchy and composition of the lists may be changed or may be overridden to direct selected communications to a specific destination. The system receives communications directed to a subscriber's personal number and identifies the source of the communication. The identification may be made through calling line identification, through a personalized list of callers, or through source identification. The system selects a first destination for the communication from the hierarchical list. At the first destination, the system announces the identified source of the communication and requests disposition information as to the acceptance, formal rejection or passive rejection, such as a no answer, of the communication. If accepted, the system routes the communication to the first destination. If rejected, the system routes the communication to the default destination selected by the subscriber. If there is a passive rejection, the system requests communication disposition information from the next destination in the destination list according to the hierarchy selected by the subscriber. The system continues to request communicatioin disposition information from each sequential destination on the destination list until the communication is accepted or until the last destination on the destination list is reached, at which point the communication is routed to the last destination.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to
communications methods, and more particularly relates to a
method for automatically and interactively delivering
communications to subscribers at preselected destinations.In this age of communication, the speed of
information delivery can affect the outcome of business
negotiations and influence national and international politics, as
well as affect the well-being of individuals. Communication
devices such as wireline and wireless telephones, facsimile
transmitters, voice mail systems and pagers are used to speed
communications between parties. However, the delivery speed of
communications is hampered by the assignation of identification
numbers such as telephone numbers to particular locations, rather
than to particular individuals. Thus, a caller attempting to deliver
a communication to a particular party by telephone will succeed
only if the party is located at the site of the called telephone. If the party is not located at the called site, the caller
has the option of trying to deliver the communication to another
location by calling a different telephone number. For this option,
the caller must possess or obtain other telephone numbers of the
telephones at the site where the called party may be located. The
caller also has the option of repeatedly calling the first telephone
number until the called party returns to the site of the first
telephone. This option is, at least, inefficient. The necessity of
resorting to either of these options because of the assignment of a
telephone number to a location causes delay in delivering
communications. Of course, the caller may abandon the attempt
to deliver the communication, an option which results in
inconvenience and in some cases, negative consequences.The same delay disadvantages are applicable
generally to communication by facsimile transmitters, voice mail
systems and pagers, which also are assigned identification
numbers by location rather than by person. Moreover, a person
who uses multiple communication devices must keep track of and
distribute multiple identification numbers for his/her
communication devices. For example, an individual who uses a
facsimile transmission machine, a voice mail system and a pager
and who has an office telephone, a home telephone and a mobile
phone must keep track of and distribute at least six different
identification numbers. In addition, the person has to keep track
of security numbers such as PIN numbers for each device.
Anyone trying to reach this person in an emergency
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for delivering a communication for a subscriber,
comprising the steps of:


(a) assigning a personal number to said subscriber;
(b) receiving communication routing information including
a list of destinations hierarchically arranged in

order of subscriber preference for communication routing
(167);
(c) receiving a communication directed to said personal
number (20) ;
(d) selecting a first destination from said communication
routing information (70);
(e) announcing at said first destination the receipt of
said communication (74);
(f) receiving communication disposition information (73,
75, 76); and
(g) disposing of said communication in accordance with
said communication disposition information (77, 82,

83) by either routing said communication to said first
destination if the communication disposition information

received from the first destination indicates
acceptance of the communication, or by selecting the

next hierarchically arranged destination on said list
of destinations and repeating steps (e) through (g) at

said next destination if the communciation disposition
information received from the first destination indicates

that the subscriber did not accept the communication.
The method of claim 1, wherein said list of destinations
comprises a first hierarchical list and a second hierarchical

list, said first hierarchical list having destinations
hierarchically arranged in order of subscriber preference

for comunication routing during a first period of time
(165), said second hierarchical list having destinations

hierarchically arranged in order of subscriber preference
for communication routing during a second period of time

(166).
The method of claim 2, wherein said communication is received
during said first period of time, and wherein said

step of selecting a first destination comprises selecting
said first destination from said first hierarchical list.
The method of claim 2, wherein said communication is received
during said second period of time and wherein said

step of selecting a first destination comprises selecting
said first destination from said second hierarchical list.
The method of claim 1, wherein said communication is initiated
by a source (20) and said step of receiving communication

routing information (167) further comprises receiving
an override destination (204), said method further

comprising the steps of:

determining whether said source is a priority caller (52);
and
if said source is a priority caller, then routing said
communication to said override destination (63, 64).
The method of claim 5, wherein said step of receiving communication
routing information (167) further comprises

receiving a default destination (204), said method further
comprising the step of:


if said caller is not a priority caller (52), then routing
said communication to said default destination (53).
The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
receiving alternative communication routing information

including an alternative destination (194, 195); and
substituting said alternative designation for a subscriber-specified

designation in said list of destinations (202).
The method of claim 7, wherein said step of receiving said
alternative destination (194, 195) comprises:


receiving a call on a calling line from said subscriber
(20) ;
identifying a calling line number associated with said
calling line (193); and
confirming said calling line number as said alternative
destination with said subscriber (196).
The method of claim 1, wherein said communication is initiated

by a source (27), and further comprising the step
of identifying said source of said communication (27, 30,

33, 387).
The method of claim 9, wherein said step of announcing (74)
comprises determining an identity for said source (27, 30,

33, 387) and announcing said identity (67, 74, 393).
The method of claim 9, wherein, after said identity is
determined, said step of announcing (74) further comprises

the step of requesting said source to confirm said identity.
The method of claim 9, wherein said step of identifying
said source of said communication (27, 30, 33, 387) comprises

the steps of:

identifying a calling line number associated with said
source of said communication; and
determining said identity for said source by accessing a
database to find a database entry corresponding to said

calling line number (30, 387).
The method of claim 12, wherein said database comprises a
subscriber personalized database having entries of priority

callers, and wherein said step of determining said identity
comprises accessing said subscriber personalized database

to find a priority caller entry corresponding to said calling
line number (52).
The method of claim 13, wherein said step of announcing
(74) comprises:


announcing said communication as a priority call; and
announcing said identity obtained from said subscriber
personalized database.
The method of claim 1, wherein said step of selecting said
first destination (70) comprises:


checking said communication routing information for a mobile
telephone destination (71);
if said mobile telephone destination is present in said
communication routing information, then checking for a

powered-on indication of said mobile telephone destination
(81); and
if said mobile telephone destination provides said powered-on
indication, then selecting said mobile telephone destination

as said first destination (72).
The method of claim 1, wherein said communication disposition
information comprises an acceptance of said communication

(76), and wherein said step of disposing comprises
routing said communication to said first destination (77).
The method of claim 1, wherein said communication disposition
information comprises a rejection of said communication

(76), and wherein said step of disposing comprises
routing said communication to a default destination (83).
The method of claim 17, wherein said default destination
comprises a voice mail service, and wherein said step of 

routing said communication comprises routing said communication
to said voice mail service (106, 107).
The method of claim 17, wherein said rejection comprises a
failure to receive an acceptance of said communication

(75), and wherein said step of disposing comprises routing
said communiation to a second destination (82).
The method of claim 17, wherein said rejection comprises a
failure to receive an acceptance of said communication

(75), and wherein said step of disposing comprises routing
said communication to a default destination (83).
The method of claim 1, wherein said communication disposition
information comprises a rejection of said communication

(76), and wherein said step of disposing of said communication
comprises:


selecting a second destination from said communication
routing information for routing said communication (82);
announcing receipt of said communication at said second
destination (74) ;
receiving second communication disposition information (75,
76); and
disposing of said communication in accordance with said
second communication disposition information (77, 82, 83).
The method of claim 12, and further comprising the step of:
requesting said source to confirm said identity obtained

from said database.
The method of claim 22, wherein said step of requesting
comprises:


announcing said identity to said source; and requesting
said source to confirm said identity.
The method of claim 22, and further comprising the steps
of: 


if said source does not confirm said identity, then requesting
said source to provide source identification information;

and
receiving said source identification information.
The method of claim 9, wherein said step of identifying
said source of communication comprises the steps of:


receiving a code from said source (37);
determining an identity for said source by accessing a
database to find a database entry corresponding to said

code (52); and
announcing said identity obtained from said database to
said subscriber (74).
The method of claim 18, comprising the steps of:

receiving a communication on a calling line from a source
(20) ;
identifying a calling line number associated with said
calling line (120);
determining an identity for said source of said communication;
recording said message from said source (123); and
recording said calling line number and said identity in
association with said message.
The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of
requesting said source to confirm said calling line number.
The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of
requesting said source to confirm said identity.
The method of claim 26, wherein said step of identifying
said calling line number comprises comparing said calling

line number with entries of calling line numbers in a subscriber
personalized database. 
The method of claim 26, wherein said step of determining
said identity comprises accessing a database to find a

database entry corresponding to said calling line number.
The method of claim 30, further comprising the steps of:

announcing said identity to said source; and
requesting said source to confirm said identity.
The method of claim 31, further comprising the steps of:

if said source does not confirm said identity, then requesting
said source to provide source identification information;

and
receiving said source identification information.
The method of claim 18, comprising the steps of:

accessing said voice mail service in response to an instruction
from said subscriber;
playing a first voice mail message for said subscriber,
said first voice mail message having been received on a

calling line from a source (275) ;
receiving a call back indication from said subscriber
(282);
placing a call to said source of said first voice mail
message by calling a calling line number associated with

said calling line (297); and
when said call is terminated, returning said subscriber to
said voice mail service (305).
The method of claim 33, further comprising the step of
playing a second voice mail message for said subscriber in

response to said step of returning said subscriber to said
voice mail service.
The method of claim 33, wherein, after said step of accessing
said voice mail service, said method further comprises

the step of announcing the number of voice mail messages
received for said subscriber. 
The method of claim 33, said method further comprises the
step of determining said calling line number and an identity

for said source, and wherein said step of playing said
first voice mail message comprises playing source identification

information for said subscriber, said source identification
information including said calling line number and

said identity.
The method of claim 33, wherein said step of calling said
calling line number comprises leaving said voice mail service

at a subscriber-selected point of said first voice
mail message.
The method of claim 37, wherein said step of returning said
subscriber to said voice mail service comprises returning

said subscriber to said subscriber-selected point of said
first voice mail message.
The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of
notifying a subscriber of a communication received during

playing of a voice mail message to said subscriber, by:

receiving said communication for said subscriber on a calling
line from a source (709);
interrupting said playing of said voice mail message; and
announcing receipt of said communication to said subscriber

(710).
The method of claim 39, further comprising the step of
resuming playing of said voice mail message after announcing

said receipt of said communication.
The method of claim 39, wherein said step of receiving said
communication for said subscriber comprises the steps of:


identifying a calling line number associated with said
calling line; and
determining an identity for said source of said communication.
The method of claim 41, wherein said step of announcing
said receipt of said communication comprises:


announcing said calling line number; and announcing said
identity of said source.
The method of claim 39, further comprising the steps of:

receiving communication disposition information from said
subscriber; and
disposing of said communication in accordance with said
communication disposition information.
The method of claim 43, wherein said communication disposition
information comprises an acceptance of said communication;

wherein said step of receiving communication disposition
information comprises receiving said acceptance; and

wherein said step of disposing of said communication comprises
routing said communication to said subscriber.
The method of claim 43, wherein said communication disposition
information comprises a rejection of said communication;

wherein said step of receiving communication disposition
information comprises receiving said rejection; and

wherein said step of disposing of said communication comprises
routing said communication to a voice mail service.
The method of claim 43, wherein said step of announcing
said receipt of said communication comprises requesting

said communication disposition information from said subscriber.
The method of claim 1, wherein the communication is a facsimile
transmission from a source further comprising the

steps of:

(h) receiving said facsimile transmission;
(i) obtaining source information for said facsimile transmission; 
(k) storing said facsimile transmission as a stored facsimile
transmission; and
(l) providing a subscriber with said source information.
The method of claim 47, wherein said step of obtaining
source information comprises determining a calling line

number for said source, and wherein said step of providing
said subscriber with said source information comprises

providing said calling line number for said source.
The method of claim 47, wherein said step of obtaining
source information comprises determining the time and the

date of receipt of said stored facsimile transmission, and
wherein said step of providing said subscriber with said

source information comprises providing said time and date
of receipt of said stored facsimile transmission.
The method of claim 47, further comprising the step of:

(m) retrieving said stored facsimile transmission in
response to a retrieval request from said subscriber.
The method of claim 50, further comprising the steps of:

(n) receiving disposition information from said subscriber;
and
(o) disposing of said stored facsimile transmission in
accordance with said disposition information.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
