<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651607</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REVERSE, INVERSE FLY AND METHOD OF TYING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K8500	A01K8508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K85	A01K85	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fishing fly, particularly of the dry fly variety, which orients itself when cast so that the point of the hook is naturally pointing upwards when the fly lands on the water (W). The fly is of a reverse and inverse design, having hackles (118) and wings (116) positioned on the curved shape portion of the hook (100), the wings directed tangentially along the shape portion at an angle to the spear of the hook (100). The dry fly is tied by winding the hackles axially around the shape portion of the hook so that the hackle fibers protrude radially in a plane generally parallel to the shank of the hook between the shank and spear of the hook. Preferably, the hook has a wide gape and an elliptical eye approximately coplanar to the shank and shape of the hook so that the eye can remain secured in a vise throughout the fly-tying process.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREENE JAMES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAHLER WALTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREENE, JAMES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAHLER, WALTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASETTI GIULIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASETTI, GIULIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 REVERSE, INVERSE FLY AND METHOD OF TYINGBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to fishing lures of the type generically known as fly fishing lures wherein the weight of the fishing line is primarily used in the placement and casting of the lure, and the lure is intended to represent an insect or similar natural fish bait. More particularly, the invention pertains to a design and method for making fly fishing lures that are supported on a water surface by the surface tension of the water, commonly known as dry flies.Conventional flies, such as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4,411,089, and as described in J. Edson Leonard, Flies (1950), pp. 1-9, are tied on a hook having an eye at one end for tying the fishing line leader. Typically, the hook has a substantially straight shank, which commences from the base of the eye, a curved portion known as the shape, which proceeds accurately from the end of the shank opposite the eye, and a spear portion or bite which has a point and can include a barb. Typically, as a result of the arcuate shape, the spear and the shank are substantially parallel and lie within the same plane, although the spear can be bent or offset to one side. The eye is generally oriented transversely, i.e., in a plane normal to the plane of the shank and shape of the hook. It can be parallel to the shank, or inclined towards or away from the point, depending upon the desired action of the hook.Once the desired hook has been selected, common fly materials are fastened to the hook in a commonly known fashion (see Flies, pp. 32-42) to form the parts of a fly. These parts include all or most of the following: a tail, a body, a hackle, and wings, depending on the insect to be imitated. In some patterns, the tail or wings or both are omitted. 

All dry fly patterns, however, use hackles to help support the fly on the water surface.Typically in a dry fly, such as a May fly imitation, wings are attached to the shank just behind the eye; a hackle is wound axially around the shank adjacent the wings so as to protrude radially normal to the shank; and body and tail material are tied on the shank between the wings and/or hackle and the shape of the hook. A head is usually formed adjacent the eye. Variations in dry fly design include Palmer, with hackle wound fore and aft around the shank, and parachute hackle arrangements, wherein hackle is wound around a wing positioned near the hook eye. A reverse fly design is also known, in which the fly is arranged with the tail protruding forward
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS 1. A fishing fly comprising: a hook (100) having a shank (102), an eye (110) at a first end of the shank, a curved shape (104) portion at a second end of the shank opposite the eye, and a spear (106) connected to the shape portion and having a point directed generally parallel to the shank; and a hackle (118) wound axially around the shape portion of the hook to form a radial pattern of hackle fibers protruding outward between the shank and the spear from the shape portion of the hook. 2. A fishing fly according to claim 1 including a wing (116) attached to the shape portion between the shank and the spear so as to extend away from the shank.
3. A fishing fly according to claim 2 in which the wing (116) is positioned tangentially on the shape portion at a perpendicular to acute angle to the spear (106) of the hook.
4. A fishing fly according to claim 1 including a tail (122) connected to the first end of the shank and extending past the eye of the hook.
5. A fishing fly according to claim 4 in which the eye (110) is aligned parallel to the shank.
6. A fishing fly according to claim 1 in which the eye (110) is oriented in a plane approximately coplanar with the shank (102) and the shape.
7. A fishing hook according to claim 6 wherein the shape of the eye (110) is elliptical.
8. A fishing hook according to claim 6 wherein the eye (110) is located on the side of the shank (102) opposite the spear .
9. A fishing hook according to claim 6 wherein the shape of the hook (100) separates the shank (102) from the spear (106) to form a wide gape. 


 10. A fishing hook according to claim 6 wherein the shank (102) is curved inward towards the spear.
11. A fishing hook according to claim 6 wherein the point does not lie in a plane with the curved shape portion. 12. A method for tying a fly on a hook (100) which includes a shank (102), an eye (110) connected to a first end of the shank, a curved shape (104) portion connected to a second end of the shank, and a spear connected to the shape portion in an approximately parallel relationship to the shank, the method comprising: winding a hackle (118) around the shape portion of the hook; attaching a tail (122) to the first end of the shank adjacent to the eye; and forming a body (124) along the shank of the hook between the tail and the hackle. 13. A method for tying a fly according to claim 12 wherein winding the hackle (118) includes: tying a piece of thread to said shape portion between the shank (102) and the spear of the hook; wrapping the hackle (118) around a portion of the shape portion of the hook so as to create a plane of hackle fibers extending radially from said portion of the shape portion, in a plane spaced between and oriented generally parallel to the shank and the spear of the hook; and wrapping the thread around an end of the hackle so as to secure the hackle to the hook. 14. A method for tying a fly according to claim 12 including attaching a set of wings to said shape portion of the hook at a predetermined position spaced from the shank toward the spear.
15. A method for tying a fly on a hook according to claim 14 wherein attaching a set of wings to said shape portion includes: positioning a base portion of wing along the shape portion of the 


hook; orienting the wing so as to extend in a direction away from the shape portion and at an angle to the spear of the hook to steer the fly when cast to position the spear above a water surface; and wrapping the thread around said base portion and the shape portion of the hook so as to secure said wing to the hook.
16. A method for tying a fly on a hook according to claim 14 wherein attaching a set of wings to said shape includes: positioning a base portion of a wing tangentially along the shape of the hook; orienting the wing so as to extend in a direction away from the shank and generally toward the spear of the hook; and wrapping the thread around said base portion and the shape of the hook so as to secure said wing to the hook. 17. A method for tying a fly according to claim 12 wherein forming a body along the shank of the hook between where the tail is attached and where the hackle is attached includes: attaching one end of a selected body material to said shank near the eye by wrapping a piece of thread around said end; wrapping the body material around the shank from the eye to a location at which the hackle is attached to the shape portion; and securing said body material to the hook at said location by wrapping the thread around a terminal end of the body material.
18. A method for tying a fly according to claim 12 further comprising: forming the eye of the hook to lie approximately coplanarly with the curved shape portion of the hook; and securing the eye of the hook in a fly tying vise with the spear positioned superior to the shank. 19. A method for tying a fly according to claim 18 wherein the 


hook remains secured in the vise at the eye of the hook throughout said steps.
20. A method for tying a fly according to claim 12 including attaching a tail to the first end of the shank adjacent to the eye. 21. A fishing fly comprising: a hook (100) having a non-angular shank (102) , an eye (110) at a first end of the shank, a curved shape (104) portion at a second end of the shank opposite the eye, and a spear (106) connected to the shape portion and having a point directed generally parallel to the shank; and a wing (116) attached to the shape portion between the shank and the spear so that the wing extends away from the shank at an angle to the spear.
22. A fishing fly according to claim 21 in which the wing (116) includes two wings positioned symmetrically about a plane defined by the shank (102) and the shape portion of the hook.
23. A fishing fly according to claim 21 including a hackle (118) wound axially around the shape portion of the hook.
24. A fishing fly comprising: a hook (100) including a shank (102), an eye (110) connected to a first end of said shank (102), and a curved shape portion connected to a second end of the shank opposite the first end; a tail (122) mounted on the first end of the shank adjacent to the eye; a body (124) formed on the shank; a set of wings (116) mounted on the shape portion of the hook (100); and a hackle (118) wound on the shape portion of the hook.
25. A fishing fly according to claim 24 in which the hook (100) has a non-angular shank (102) around which body material is wrapped 


from the first end adjacent the eye (110) to the second end adjacent the shape portion and the hackle (118) to form said body.
26. A fishing fly according to claim 24 in which the hook includes a spear (106) connected to the shape portion, the shape portion being curved so that the spear (106) is substantially parallel to the shank, and the wings (116) being mounted on the shape portion nearer the spear (106) than to the shank in a direction extending away from the shape portion at an angle to the spear to steer the fly when cast so as to position the spear above a water surface. 27. A fishing fly comprising: a hook (100) having a shank (102), an eye (110) at a first end of the shank (102), a curved shape portion at a second end of the shank opposite the eye, and a spear (106) connected to the shape portion, the shape portion being curved so that the spear is generally parallel to the shank; and a wing (116) mounted on the shape portion nearer the spear than to the shank and extending away from the shape portion at an angle to the spear to steer the fly when cast so as to position the spear above a water surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
