<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636297</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SUBSCRIBER LINE INTERFACE CIRCUIT WITH VOLTAGE CONTROLLED LOOP CURRENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q342	H04Q342	H04M1900	H04M1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q3	H04Q3	H04M19	H04M19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A telephone line interface circuit comprises two unity gain d.c. amplifiers (132, 134) having outputs d.c. coupled via feed resistors to the line wires. Currents in the feed resistors are monitored via a digital control circuit (152), which can be programmed to provide desired operating conditions. The control circuit controls, via D-A converters (158, 160), currents passed by current sources (142, 148) through resistors (140, 146) at inputs of the d.c. amplifiers, thereby determining voltages at the amplifier inputs and hence on the line wires. These d.c. voltages are smoothed by capacitors (136, 138) used for coupling an a.c. signal to the d.c. amplifiers. The voltage control facilitates adaptive adjustment of the line interface circuit to the line in dependence upon the monitored currents.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHERN TELECOM LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHERN TELECOM LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSCH REINHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENBAUM STANLEY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSCH, REINHARD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENBAUM, STANLEY, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to line interface circuits for telecommunications lines. Line 
interface circuits are commonly connected to two-wire telephone subscriber lines at a 
telephone central office or remote terminal in order to provide a variety of well-known 
desired functions. Various forms of line interface circuit, and various desirable features in line 
interface circuits, are known. In particular, it is known for example from Rosenbaum 
United States Patent No. 4,484,032 issued November 20, 1984 and entitled "Active 
Impedance Transformer Assisted Line Feed Circuit" to provide a line interface circuit in 
which two amplifiers have their outputs coupled to the tip and ring wires of a two-wire 
telephone line via feed resistors and primary windings of a very small transformer. In this 
arrangement, a secondary winding of the transformer and a resistive network coupled to 
the feed resistors provide for sensing of a.c. and d.c. conditions on the line. It is also known from Bolus et al. United States Patent No. 4,431,868 issued 
February 14, 1984 and entitled "Solid State Telephone Line Interface Circuit With 
Ringing Capability" to provide a line interface circuit in which a low-level ringing 
reference signal can be supplied to the input of high-voltage tip and ring wire amplifiers, 
to be amplified thereby to produce a desired high voltage ringing signal on the line. The 
supply voltage rails of the amplifiers are controlled to follow, with an offset, the 
instantaneous values of the ringing signal waveform in order to reduce power dissipation. 
D.c. levels at the amplifier outputs are determined by d.c, potentials at the amplifier inputs 
and the d.c. gain of the amplifiers. This arrangement has the disadvantage that the 
amplifiers must operate with a substantial gain to produce the large signal amplitudes at, 
their outputs, and consequently have a relatively narrow bandwidth. An active impedance line interface 
circuit is also known from JP-A-5 983 452. 
However, 
the circuit shown in this document is for monitoring the DC supply current of 
the two-wire-line, and not for controlling the DC potential 
as in the present application. With evolution of telephone systems, it is desirable to provide improved line 
interface circuits which in particular have a bandwidth which is sufficiently great to 
accommodate ISDN (integrated services digital network) services, for example a signal 
bandwidth of the order of 200 kHz. At the same time, it is desirable to provide 
improvements in line interface
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A line interface circuit for a telecommunications line, comprising: 

d.c. amplifying means (132); 
means (36, 40) for d.c. coupling an output of the amplifying means to a wire (14) 
of the telecommunications line; and 
means for selectively determining a d.c. potential at an input of the amplifying 
means, thereby to determine a d.c, level at the output of the amplifying means, comprising 

a resistance (140) and a controlled current source (142) connected in series between two 
supply voltage lines (+V, -V) and having a junction therebetween d.c, coupled to the input 

of the amplifying means, and means (152, 158) for controlling a current passed by the 
controlled current source to determine a voltage dropped across the resistance. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein the means for controlling a 
current passed by the controlled current source comprises a digital-to-analog converter 

(158) for supplying an analog signal for controlling the controlled current source in 
dependence upon a digital signal supplied thereto. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 2 and including means (136) for 
smoothing the d.c. potential at the input of the amplifying means. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 3 and including a capacitor for coupling 
an a.c. signal to the input of the amplifying means, the capacitor constituting the means 

for smoothing. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 1 and including a capacitor(136) for 
coupling an a.c. signal to the input of the amplifying means and constituting means for 

smoothing the d.c. potential at the input of the amplifying means. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 4 or 5 and including means (144) for 
selectively discharging the capacitor. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 and including a switched 
current source (144), connected in parallel with the resistance, and means (152) for 

controlling the switched current source. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 wherein the d.c. 
amplifying means comprises a d.c. amplifier having a gain of approximately unity. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8 wherein the means for 
d.c. coupling an output of the amplifying means to a wire of the telecommunications line 

comprises means for monitoring current on the wire, and the means for selectively  
 

determining a d.c. potential at an input of the amplifying means is responsive to the 
monitored current. 
A line interface circuit for a two-wire telecommunications line, comprising: 

two d.c. amplifiers (132, 134); 
d.c. feed means (36, 40) for coupling outputs of the amplifiers to respective wires 
(14) of the line; and 
means for selectively determining d.c. potentials at inputs of the two d.c. 
amplifiers, thereby to determine d.c. levels at the outputs of the amplifiers, comprising, 

for each d.c. amplifier, a respective resistance (140, 146) and a respective controlled 
current source (142, 148) connected in series between two supply voltage lines (+V, -V) 

and having a junction therebetween d.c. coupled to the input of the respective amplifier, 
and a respective means (152, 158, 160) for controlling a current passed by the controlled 

current source to determine a voltage dropped across the resistance. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 10 wherein each respective means for 
controlling a current passed by the controlled current source comprises a respective 

digital-to-analog converter (158, 160) for supplying an analog signal for controlling the 
controlled current source in dependence upon a respective digital signal supplied thereto. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 11 and including means (136, 138) for 
smoothing the d.c. potentials at the inputs of the d.c. amplifiers. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 12 and including two coupling 
capacitors (136, 138) for coupling an a.c. signal with opposite phases to the inputs of the 

two d.c. amplifiers, respectively, the two coupling capacitors also constituting the means 
for smoothing. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 10 and including two capacitors (136, 
138) for coupling an a.c. signal with opposite phases to the inputs of the two d.c. 

amplifiers, respectively, the capacitors also serving to smooth the d.c. potentials at the 
inputs of the amplifiers. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 13 or 14 and including means (144, 
150) for selectively discharging each of the two coupling capacitors. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in any of claims 10 to 14 and including two 
switched current sources (144, 150), each connected in parallel with a respective 

resistance, and means (152) for controlling each of the switched current sources. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in any of claims 10 to 16 wherein each of the 
d.c. amplifiers has a gain of approximately unity.  

 
A line interface circuit as claimed in any of claims 10 to 17 and including means 
(12), coupled to the d.c. feed means, for monitoring currents on the two wires, the means 

for selectively determining d.c. potentials at inputs of the two d.c. amplifiers being 
responsive to the monitored currents. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in any of claims 10 to 18 wherein the means for 
monitoring currents comprises means for monitoring loop current and common mode 

current on the two wires of the line. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 19 wherein the means for selectively 
determining d.c. potentials at inputs of the two d.c. amplifiers comprises digital control 

means (152) and the means for monitoring currents comprises means (166) for supplying 
digital signals representing the monitored currents to the digital control means. 
An active impedance line interface circuit for connection to tip and ring wires of a 
two-wire telephone line, comprising: 


tip and ring d.c. amplifiers (132, 134) having outputs d.c. coupled to resistive 
feed means (40) for connection to the tip and ring wires (14) respectively, each d.c. 

amplifier having a gain of approximately unity; 
means (12) for monitoring loop current and common mode current conducted via 
the resistive feed means; 
means (140, 142, 146, 148) for selectively determining d.c. potentials at inputs of 
the d.c. amplifiers thereby to determine d.c, levels at the outputs of the amplifiers; and 
digital control means (152) responsive to the monitored currents for controlling the 
means for selectively determining d.c. potentials. 
A line interface circuit as claimed in claim 21 and including two capacitors (136, 
138) for coupling an a.c. signal with opposite phases from respective low impedance 

sources (104, 106) to the inputs of the two d.c. amplifiers, the capacitors also serving to 
smooth the d.c. potentials at the inputs of the d.c. amplifiers. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
