<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637037</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radioisotope power cells.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21H100	G21H106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21H	G21H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21H1	G21H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical power source or power cell (10) includes a semiconductor 
material (12) having an N region (14), a P region (16) and a P-N junction 

(18). A radioactive source (24) associates with P-N junction (18) and emits 
energy or radioactive particles (26) into semiconductor material (12). In 

semiconductor material (12), electron-hole pairs are formed in N region (14) 
and P region (16) to cause electrical current to pass through P-N junction (18) 

and produce, therefrom, electrical power. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATON THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANTZ SCOTT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATON, THOMAS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANTZ,SCOTT D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to electrical power sources for 
electronic circuitry and, more particularly, to a method and apparatus for 
generating electrical power that employ radioisotope power cells. Decay of radioactive materials produces electrically charged 
radioactive particles such as α particles, β particles, and γ particles. As with 
other nuclear processes, the charge scale of these types of radiation is millions of 
times greater than in non-nuclear processes. For example, α decay of the Am₂₄₁ 
radioisotope has a half-life of 458 years and can introduce 5.5 million 
electron volts (MeV) into a typical semiconductor material. On the average, 
however, 3.6 electron volts (eV) are necessary to produce one electron-hole 
pair the typical semiconductor material. Thus, for every α particle traveling 
through the semiconductor material approximately 1.53 million electron-hole 
pairs may be formed. In contrast, for a typical photo-cell each photon that is 
absorbed by a photon-responsive semiconductor material generates only one 
electron-hole pair. If a method and apparatus existed to harness the power that 
comes from atomic particles, then this energy could be used for a variety of 
power applications. There is a need, therefore, for a method and apparatus in the form of a 
radioisotope-based electrical power source. The present invention, 
accordingly, provides a radioisotope power source in the form of radioisotope  
 
power cells using P-N junctions in a semi-conductor material that provides a 
heretofore unavailable source of power to energize electronic circuits. The radioisotope power cell of the present invention provides an 
electrical power source that includes a semiconductor material and at least 
one P-N junction within the semiconductor material. A radioisotope or 
radioactive source associates with the P-N junction and emits electrically-charged 
radioactive particles into the semiconductor material near the P-N 
junction. The P-N junction receives the electrically-charged radioactive 
particles to generate electron-hole pairs therefrom and produce electrical 
current across the P-N junction. The electrical power source of the present 
invention may use, for example, a radiation source that emits α radiation, β 
radiation, or γ radiation, or even positron radiation. A technical advantage of the present invention is that it recognizes the 
advantages of a problem that is inherent in packaging integrated circuits. 
That is, radioactive emissions in electronic circuit
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical power source, comprising: 
a semiconductor material; 

at least one junction between a P semiconductor material and an N 
semiconductor material within said semiconductor material; 

a radioactive source associated with said junction, said radioactive 
source for emitting into said semiconductor material, said P-N junction 

thereby supplying electrical power. 
The electrical power source of claim 1, wherein said radioactive source 
comprises an α particle emitting radioactive source and said energy 

comprises α radiation. 
The electrical power source of claim 1, wherein said radioactive source 
comprises a β particle emitting radioactive source and said energy 

comprises β radiation. 
The electrical power source of claim 1, wherein said radioactive source 
comprises a photon particle emitting radioactive source and said 

energy comprises photon energy. 
The electrical power source of claim 1, wherein said radioactive source 
comprises a charged particle emitting radiation source. 
The electrical power source of any preceding claim, wherein said 
radioactive source comprises an array of power cells, each of said 

power cells associated with said at least one junction for generating 
electron-hole pairs within said semiconducting material, thus causing 

 
current to flow across said junction to produce electrical current from 

said semiconductor material. 
The electrical power source of any prceding claim, wherein said 
semiconductor material comprises a first semiconductor material and a 

second semiconductor material and said at least one junction further 
comprises a first junction in said first semiconductor material and a 

second junction in said second semiconductor material, and further 
where said radioactive source associates with said first semiconductor 

material and said second semiconductor material to form a sandwich-type 
configuration. 
The electrical power source of any preceding claim, wherein said at 
least one junction at least partially surrounding a trench within said 

semiconductor material and further wherein said trench contains said 
radioactive source. 
The electrical power source of any preceding claim, wherein said 
semiconductor material forms part of a semiconductor chip having a 

first side and second side such that said electrical power source 
attaches to said first side and an electronic circuit attaches to said 

second side to thereby isolate said electronic circuit from radiation 
emitted from said electrical power source. 
The electrical power source of any preceding claim, wherein said 
electrical power source associates with an integrated circuit having an 

associated power supply, said electrical power source for providing 
power to a predetermined portion of said integrated circuit in the event 

of a failure of said associated power supply. 
The electrical power source of any preceding claim, wherein said 
semiconductor material comprises a plurality of solar cells and further 

comprising circuitry for associating said at least one junction with said 
solar cells for augmenting electrical current derived from said solar 

cells. 
A method for generating electrical current from a radioactive source, 
comprising the steps of: 

emitting energy from a radioactive source into a junction between a P 
semiconductor material and an N semiconductor material; 

receiving said energy in the junction to generate electrical power 
therefrom. 
The method of claim 12, wherein said energy emitting step further 
comprises the step of emitting α particle radiation into the junction. 
The method of claim 12, wherein said energy emitting step further 
comprises the step of emitting β particle radiation into the junction. 
The method of claim 12, wherein said energy emitting step further 
comprises the step of emitting photon radiation into the junction. 
The method of claim 12, wherein said energy emitting step further 
comprises the step of emitting charged particle radiation into the 

junction. 
The method of any of claims 12 to 16, wherein said emitting step 
further comprises the steps of emitting energy into a first junction 

between a first P semiconductor material and a first N semiconductor 
material and into a second junction between a second P semiconductor 

 
material and a second N semiconductor material, said first junction 

and said second junction being formed in a sandwich-type 
configuration around the radioactive source. 
The method of any of claims 12 to 17, wherein said emitting step 
further comprises the step of emitting energy from a radioactive source 

into a junction surrounding a trench within a semiconductor material, 
the radioactive source being within the trench. 
The method of any of claims 12 to 18, further comprising the step of 
emitting energy from a first side of the P and N semiconductor 

materials and attaching an electronic circuit that is to receive the 
electrical current to a second side of the P and N semiconductor 

materials, thereby isolating the electronic circuit from the emitted 
electrically-charged radioactive particles. 
The method of any of claims 12 to 19, further comprising: 
forming a radioactive source in association with at least one junction, 

the radioactive source formed to emit energy into the junction to 
produce electrical power therefrom. 
The method of claim 20, wherein said radioactive source forming step 
comprises the step of formi
ng the radioactive source from a material 
containing the isotope tritium. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
