<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653147</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ON-SITE, BIOHAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61G1200	A61G1200	F23G500	F23G500	F23G508	F23G508	F23G544	F23G544	F23G700	F23G700	F27B100	F27B109	F27B126	F27B308	F27B308	F27B310	F27B328	H05B700	H05B718	H05H126	H05H144	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61G	A61G	F23G	F23G	F23G	F23G	F23G	F23G	F23G	F23G	F27B	F27B	F27B	F27B	F27B	F27B	F27B	H05B	H05B	H05H	H05H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61G12	A61G12	F23G5	F23G5	F23G5	F23G5	F23G5	F23G5	F23G7	F23G7	F27B1	F27B1	F27B1	F27B3	F27B3	F27B3	F27B3	H05B7	H05B7	H05H1	H05H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An incinerator (10) for the disposal of biohazardous waste has a sealed enclosure (12) defining a combustion chamber (18) with upper, first and second level intermediate, and lower portions (19, 20, 21, 22). The upper chamber portion (19) is an inclined chute (23) into which a plurality of cylindrical metal containers (25) of waste are loaded. A pair of laterally-spaced drums (41, 42) is disposed in the first level intermediate portion (20), at a constriction (27) which stops further descent down the chute (23) of the leading container (23a). Banks of first-level TIG torches (30) are arranged to arc to the drums (41, 42), providing heat for "cooking" waste in the unopened containers (25) and for opening the leading container (25a) and incandescently acting on solid materials spilled therefrom. Second-level drums (67, 68) and associated second-level TIG torches (75) are also provided to further act on the waste.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VANCE I D S INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VANCE I D S, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANCE MURRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANCE, MURRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ON-SITE, BIOHAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMTECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates generally to a system for processing waste; and, in particular, to a system for the on-site processing of biohazardous waste into solid nonhazardous material at a hospital, medical lab or similar location where the waste is generated.BACKGROUND ARTConventional on-site disposal of biohazardous waste involves two types of processes: those which disinfect, sterilize or decontaminate; and those which destroy, shred, contain or grind. The first of these are aimed at destroying or irreversibly inactivating germs, viruses, and other harmful micro-organisms which might otherwise cause illness to humans or damage the environment. The second are aimed at precluding the possibility of reuse, injury, or improper end material disposal.Most existing on-site disposal systems satisfy only one of these objectives and must be combined with additional off-site processing to complete the safe disposal of the biohazardous waste. Such systems have the disadvantage that they require the transportation and handling of biohazardous materials between the different steps required to render the waste safely disposable. Each handling occurrence adds to the chance for human or environmental contamination.An alternative procedure for biohazardous waste disposal has been to transport the waste to a remote open air or forced air controlled combustion incinerator for processing. The biohazardous waste is disposed of through incineration at temperatures of 1800° F, or more, for an accepted retention time of at least one minute. Such combustible flame burning techniques, however, produce and discharge their own hazardous gas waste and ash directly into the atmosphere and environment. They also require the transportation and handling of the 

untreated waste from the site of generation to the incineration site, which adds to the cost of disposal and increases the chance of mishap.DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to provide a system for the disposal of biohazardous waste which renders the waste non-biohazardous and decomposes the same on site to a nonhazardous, readily manageable solid residue. It is a further object of the invention to provide a biohazardous waste disposal system which controls the by-products of waste treatment processing so that they do not create a hazard of their own and uses the generated by-products to facilitate their own decomposition. In one aspect of the invention, an incandescent heat, biohazardous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. An incinerator for the processing of waste stored in containers, comprising: a sealed enclosure defining a combustion chamber having upper, intermediate and lower chamber portions; said upper chamber portion comprising an inclined chute having a cross-section suitable for the gravitational feed of a plurality of waste containers, and means for introducing said plurality into said chute; said intermediate chamber portion comprising an internal cavity communicating with said chute to receive containers from said chute, a plurality of drums laterally spaced across said cavity, a plurality of torches, respectively arranged adjacent said drums, and means providing arcing between said torches and said drums; said internal cavity and drums being dimensioned, configured and adapted relative to said chute to block further gravitational feed of a leading container until said leading container size has been reduced; and said lower chamber portion comprising an internal expansion communicating with said internal cavity through said lateral spacing of said drums, means for the expulsion of gases, and means for the receipt of solid residue produced by the action of heat from said torches on said waste.
2. An incinerator as in Claim 1, further comprising gas recirculation means, having an ingress port opening from said upper chamber portion and in egress port opening to said intermediate chamber portion, for recirculating heated gases between said upper and intermediate portions.
3. An incinerator as in Claim 2, wherein said gas recirculation means comprises a conduit and means for cooling gases passing through said conduit. 4. An incinerator as in Claim 1, wherein said intermediate portion comprises first and second level 


intermediate portions; and wherein said first level intermediate portion communicates with said chute, has a first pair of drums laterally spaced across a first nip, a first plurality of torches respectively arranged adjacent said first pair of drums, and means providing arcing between said first plurality torches and said first pair drums; and said second level intermediate portion communicates with said first level intermediate portion, has a second pair of drums laterally spaced across a second nip, a second plurality of torches respectively arranged adjacent at least one of said second pair of drums, and means providing arcing between said second plurality torches and said at least one of said second pair drums; said second nip being smaller than said first nip.
5. An incinerator as in Claim 4, wherein one of said second pair of drums has an outside surface disposed below said first nip so that material falling through said first nip will be deposited on said outside surface. 6. An incinerator as in Claim 1, wherein said means providing arcing between said torches and said drums comprises a high voltage source and distributor means for connecting said high voltage source cyclically and sequentially to said torches. 

ABENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 29 December 1993 (29.12.93); original claims 1-6 replaced by amended claims 1-20 (5 pages)]
1. An incinerator for the processing of waste, comprising: a sealed enclosure defining a combustion chamber 5 having upper, intermediate and lower chamber portions; said upper chamber portion comprising means for introducing waste into said enclosure; said intermediate chamber portion comprising an internal cavity communicating with said upper chamber 0 portion to receive said introduced waste and including a constriction; at least one drum located in said internal cavity at said constriction; at least one arc transfer device arrayed adjacent said drum; and means providing arcing between said arc transfer device and said drum for generating heat; said constriction and drum being relatively dimensioned, configured and adapted to deliver said received waste into said heat; and said lower chamber portion communicating with said internal cavity and said constriction for receipt of 0 residue produced by action of said heat on said waste.
2. An incinerator as in Claim 1, wherein said arc transfer device comprises an electric arc transfer torch having an electrode; and wherein said means providing arcing comprises means connecting said electrode to a first terminal of an electrical power source, and means connecting said drum to a second terminal of said electrical power source.
3. An incinerator as in Claim 2, wherein said torch is an elongated member having an axis of elongation and a 0 blunted leading end with an annular, gas delivering nozzle; said electrode is axially-disposed within said gas delivering nozzle; said drum has a cylindrical shell with a top; and said torch is mounted with said axis of elongation at a 14° tilt angle to a tangent drawn horizontally at said top.
4. An incinerator as in Claim 3, wherein said nozzle is positioned relative to said drum, to discharge gas over 


said top at 30° outwardly, away from said nozzle, of a point of tangency of said tangent with said top.
5. An incinerator as in Claim 1, wherein said at least one drum comprises first and second drums located in said internal cavity, laterally spaced across said constriction; and wherein said at least one arc transfer device comprises first and second arc transfer devices, respectively arranged adjacent said first and second drums.
6. An incinerator as in Claim 5, wherein said constriction is a first constriction; and wherein said intermediate chamber portion further includes a second constriction; third and fourth drums located in said internal cavity, laterally spaced across said second constriction; a third arc transfer device arranged adjacent said third drum; and means providing arcing between said third arc transfer device and one of said third and fourth drums for generating additional heat; said second constriction and third and fourth drums being relatively dimensioned, configured and adapted to deliver said waste also into said additional heat.
7. An incinerator as in Claim 6, wherein said third drum has a rotational axis; wherein said first drum has an innermost part closest to said second drum; and wherein said third drum is located so that said innermost part is located radially of said third drum relative to said third drum rotational axis.
8. An incinerator as in Claim 7, wherein said third drum is larger than said fourth drum; said third drum includes an outer surface; said second drum has an innermost part closest to said first drum and spaced across a gap from said first drum innermost part; and said third drum is positioned so that all of said gap is located above said third drum outer surface.
9. An incinerator as in Claim 8, wherein said third drum has a top in line with said radius between said third drum rotational axis and said first drum innermost part; and wherein said third drum and gap are relatively 


dimensioned, configured and adapted so that all of said gap is positioned above said third drum outer surface on an arc extending 30°-45° from said third drum top in a direction toward said fourth drum. 10. An incinerator as in Claim 9, wherein the spacing between said third and fourth drums is less than the spacing between said first and second drums.
11. An incinerator as in Claim 10, further comprising a conduit connecting said upper chamber portion with said second constriction outside of said internal cavity, said conduit being dimensioned, configured and adapted for recirculating heated gases between said upper chamber portion and said intermediate chamber portion.
12. An incinerator as in Claim 1, wherein said upper chamber portion further comprises an inclined chute having a cross-section suitable for the gravitational feed of a plurality of waste containers, said means for introducing waste into said enclosure comprises means for introducing said plurality of waste containers into said chute; said internal cavity communicates with said chute to receive containers from said chute; said at least one drum comprises a plurality of drums laterally spaced across said cavity; said at least one arc transfer device comprises a plurality of torches respectively arranged adjacent said drums; said internal cavity and drums being dimensioned, configured and adapted relative to said chute to block further gravitational feed of a leading container until said leading container size has been reduced; and said lower chamber portion comprises an internal expansion communicating with said internal cavity through said lateral spacing of said drums, means for the expulsion of gases, and means for the receipt of solid residue produced by the action of heat from said torches on said waste.
13. An incinerator as in Claim 12, further comprising gas recirculation means, having an ingress port opening from said upper chamber portion and in egress port opening to said intermediate chamber portion, for recirculating 


heated gases between said upper and intermediate portions.
1 . An incinerator as in Claim 12, wherein said intermediate portion comprises first and second level intermediate portions; and wherein said first level intermediate portion communicates with said chute, has a first pair of drums laterally spaced across a first nip, a first plurality of torches respectively arranged adjacent said first pair of drums, and means providing arcing between said first plurality torches and said first pair drums; and said second level intermediate portion communicates with said first level intermediate portion, has a second pair of drums laterally spaced across a second nip, a second plurality of torches respectively arranged adjacent at least one of said second pair of drums, and means providing arcing between said second plurality torches and said at least one of said second pair drums; said second nip being smaller than said first nip.
15. An incinerator as in Claim 14, wherein one of said second pair of drums has an outside surface disposed below said first nip so that material falling through said first nip will be deposited on said outside surface.
16. An incinerator as in Claim 12, wherein said means providing arcing between said torches and said drums comprises a high voltage source and distributor means for connecting said high voltage source cyclically and sequentially to said torches.
17. A method for processing waste, comprising the steps of: providing an enclosure defining a combustion chamber having upper, intermediate and lower chamber portions; introducing the waste into said enclosure at said upper chamber portion; generating heat at a constriction of an internal cavity in said intermediate chamber portion by arcing between a drum located in said internal cavity at said constriction and an arc transfer device arranged adjacent said drum; 


 delivering the waste to said constriction to be acted upon by said generated heat; and delivering solid residue of said action of said heat on said waste to said lower chamber portion. 18. A method as in Claim 17, wherein said arc transfer device is an electric arc transfer torch having an electrode; and wherein, in said heat generating step, said electrode is connected to a first terminal of an electrical power source, and said device is connected to a second terminal of said electrical power source.
19. A method as in Claim 18, wherein in said introducing step, the waste is introduced into said enclosure contained in a plurality of closed containers; wherein, in said delivering step, said containers are delivered by means of gravitational feed; and wherein, in said heat generating step, said heat is generated by arcing between a plurality of drums and a plurality of torches respectively arranged adjacent said drums, said drums being laterally spaced across said internal cavity and acting to block further gravitational feed of a leading container until said leading container size has been reduced.
20. A method as in Claim 18, further comprising a step of recirculating gases which are generated by said action of said heat on the waste and which rise to said upper chamber portion through said internal cavity, back to said constriction outside of said internal cavity. 

STATEMENTUNDERARTICLE19
The accompanying amendment is submitted under Article 19 within two months of transmittal of the International Search Report mailed 15 October 1993.
New Pages 20 and 21a-21d are submitted, to substitute new Claims 1-20 for original Claims 1-6. New Claims 12-16 correspond to original Claims 1-2, 4-6.
For the Examiner's information, it is noted that Claims 12- 16 correspond to Claims 1-2, 4-6 of priority application U.S. Serial No. 07/919,449, filed 27 July 1992 (now U.S. Patent No. 5,224,118) ; and that added Claims 1-11 and 17-20 correspond to Claims 7-8, 11-13, 16-19, 21-22 and 23-26 of priority application U.S. Serial No. 08/083,893, filed 28 June 1993. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
