<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630466</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENHANCED RESOLUTION WAFER THICKNESS MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B734	G01B734	G01B1106	G01B1106	G01B1502	G01B1502	G01B1702	G01B1702	G01B2108	G01B2108	H01L2166	H01L2166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B7	G01B7	G01B11	G01B11	G01B15	G01B15	G01B17	G01B17	G01B21	G01B21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus involving the use of a thickness measurement probe (20) having a predetermined resolution to measure the thickness of a wafer (18) over a two-dimensional area of the wafer (18), the method including sampling the measured thickness of the wafer (18) with the probe to generate an image of the two-dimensional area of the wafer (18), the image being a two-dimensional array of measurements, each measurement representing a measurement of the thickness of a different region of the two-dimensional area, the two-dimensional array of measurements being represented by a measured column tensor; and left multiplying the measured column tensor by a reconstruction tensor T to obtain an estimate of a desired measurement column tensor, where reconstruction tensor T is equal to RdmRmm
<
-1
>
, Rdm being a cross-variance tensor computed for d 
&
cir
&
 _, a desired measurement column tensor, and m 
&
cir
&
 _, the measured column tensor, and the Rmm being an auto-covariance tensor computed for m 
&
cir
&
 _, and wherein the estimate of a desired measurement column tensor represents an estimate of measurements that would be obtained from a hypothetical probe assembly having a different resolution from the first mentioned probe (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECHNOLOGY DEV GROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT GROUP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUDELL NEIL H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUDELL, NEIL, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Enhanced Resolution Wafer Thickness Measurement System Background of the Invention The invention relates to a system for measuring the thickness of a semiconductor wafer over a region of the wafer.Using current semiconductor device fabrication technology, integrated circuit manufacturers are able to produce hundreds of circuit chips from a single large wafer. Each circuit chip may in turn contain millions of devices. The devices in the circuits are typically fabricated one layer at a time, each layer associated with a different part of the underlying semiconductor device structures. For example, there may be a diffusion stage during which electrically isolated islands are created in the underlying semiconductor wafer. Then there are subsequent diffusion stages in which devices are fabricated in those islands. Near the end of the fabrication process there at least one metalization layer is formed on the wafer interconnecting all of the devices on the circuit. The stages of the fabrication process are represented by a series of masks, at least one mask for each stage of the process. Thus, there will be a mask for the isolation diffusion, masks for each of the subsequent diffusions, and at least one mask for the metalization layer.The sequence of steps used to fabricate the various layers of the integrated circuit on the wafer are similar. In a diffusion-based fabrication process, for example, the fabrication of an individual layer might involve the following steps. First, a passivation layer is grown or deposited on the surface of the wafer. The passivation layer prevents diffusion of dopants into the underlying wafer during a subsequent diffusion step. Windows are then opened up through the passivation layer 

to identify those areas in which it is desired to diffuse a dopant into wafer. This is done by first depositing a photoresist (or some material sensitive to the particular energy source that is used, e.g. X-rays) on top of the passivation layer. Then, a mask having a pattern of the regions in which diffusion is not desired is imaged onto the photoresist thereby exposing the photoresist in those selected regions. The exposed photoresist is developed and the unexposed regions are dissolved away, thereby exposing the passivation layer. Next, the wafer is placed in an etchant solution. The etchant etches away the passivation layer only in those regions that are not protected by the photoresist. After the etching step is complete, the developed photoresist is removed and the wafer is placed in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims 1. An apparatus for measuring the thickness of a wafer, said system comprising: a chuck assembly holding the wafer; a probe assembly mounted relative to the chuck assembly, said probe assembly for measuring the thickness of a region of the wafer that is aligned with the probe assembly; a motorized assembly moving either the wafer relative to the probe assembly or the probe assembly relative to the wafer and thereby enabling the probe assembly to examine a two-dimensional area of the wafer; measurement circuitry generating an image of the two-dimensional area of the wafer that is examined by the probe assembly, said image comprising a two-dimensional array of measurements, each measurement of said two- dimensional array of measurements representing a measurement by said probe assembly of a different region of said two-dimensional area, said two-dimensional array of measurements being represented by a measured column tensor; a memory for storing the measured column tensor; and a computer programmed to left multiply the measured column tensor stored in said memory by a reconstruction tensor T to obtain an estimate of a desired measurement column tensor, where said reconstruction tensor T is equal to Rd R^, , Rdm being a
cross-covariance tensor computed for d, a desired measurement column tensor, and m, the measured column tensor, and Rm being an auto-covariance tensor computed
for m, the measured column tensor, and wherein the estimate of a desired measurement column tensor 


represents an estimate of measurements that would be obtained from a hypothetical probe assembly having a possibly different resolution from said first mentioned probe assembly.
2. The apparatus of claim l wherein the computer is programmed to compute the cross-covariance tensor in accordance with the following relationship:
R_im = BdR__ιχB
m
- , where B d is a desired blur tensor
characterizing the hypothetical probe assembly, B
m
 is a
measurement blur tensor characterizing the first mentioned probe assembly, and J?c is an physical process
auto-covariance tensor characterizing the underlying wafer geometry.
3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein _R.
BG
 is
equal to o
p
2
 I , where o
p
 is an estimate of the root-
mean-square variability of the wafer geometry and I is an identity tensor.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the computer is programmed to compute the auto-covariance tensor in accordance with the following relationship:
Raw = BmRii__B
m
 + σ
2
n
I. , where B
m
 is a measurement blur
tensor characterizing the first mentioned probe assembly, R
S
Q
is an auto-covariance tensor characterizing the 


underlying geometry of the wafer, σ
n
2
 is a noise
variance characterizing noise in the measurement system, and I is an identity tensor.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the reconstruction tensor T is precomputed and stored in said memory.
6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the motorized assembly comprises a first motor spinning the wafer and a second motor translating the wafer linearly in a preselected direction and wherein said measurement circuitry samples the thickness of the wafer in a two- dimensional pattern characterized by a series of concentric rings.
7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said probe is a capacitive probe having a first and second plate, said first plate positioned on one side of said wafer and said second plate positioned in alignment with said first probe and on the opposite side of said wafer from said first probe.
8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said computer is programmed to perform the left multiplication of the measured column tensor stored in said memory by a reconstruction tensor T by first calculating a Fourier transform of each ring of the measured column tensor.
9. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said computer is programmed to model the measurement blur function as separable in two dimensions and to thereby diagonalize the 
'
R
χm
 tensor in at least one dimension to facilitate computing the inverse of R^. 


 10. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said computer is programmed to represent the measurement blur function as a factorization of a first set of orthogonal blur operators to thereby diagonalize the R,^ tensor in at least one dimension to facilitate computing the inverse of R
jrø
,, and wherein said computer is further programmed to represent the desired blur function as a factorization of a second set of orthogonal blur operators and to thereby diagonalize the R^ tensor to thereby facilitate computing the reconstruction tensor.
11. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said computer is programmed to model the measurement blur function as cyclic in at least one dimension and to thereby diagonalize the R^ tensor in at least one dimension to facilitate computing the inverse of ^.
12. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said computer is programmed to represent the measurement blur function as cyclic in at least one dimension to thereby diagonalize the ^ tensor in at least one dimension to facilitate computing the inverse of R,^ and wherein said computer is further programmed to represent the desired blur function as cyclic in at least one dimension and to thereby diagonalize the R^ tensor to thereby facilitate computing the reconstruction tensor.
13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the computer is programmed to: compute the cross-covariance tensor in accordance with the following relationship: R_±_ = BdRnoB
m
- , where
Bd is a desired blur tensor characterizing the 


hypothetical probe assembly, B
m
 is a measurement blur
tensor characterizing the first mentioned probe assembly, and _R.ec is an physical process auto-covariance tensor
characterizing the underlying wafer geometry; and compute the auto-covariance tensor in accordance with the following relationship: R____ = BmRmfi , 
+
 ^
n
1
- .
where . ^c is an auto-covariance tensor characterizing
the underlying geometry of the wafer, o
n
2
 is a noise
variance characterizing noise in the measurement system, and I is an identity tensor.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said measurement circuitry samples the thickness of the wafer in a two-dimensional pattern characterized by a series of concentric rings and wherein the computer is programmed to perform the following computations in computing the reconstruction tensor: to diagonalize the auto-covariance tensor by computing a Fourier transform of each ring of the auto- covariance tensor; and to compute a tensor inverse of the diagonalized autocovariance tensor by matrix inversion, in computing of the reconstruction tensor.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said computer is programmed to perform the following additional computations in computing the reconstruction tensor: 


 to diagonalize the cross-covariance tensor by computing a Fourier transform of each ring of the cross- covariance tensor; and to compute a matrix product of the tensor inverse of the diagonalized auto-covariance tensor and the diagonalized cross-covariance tensor, wherein the matrix product is a Fourier transformed reconstruction tensor.
16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said computer is programmed to perform the following computations in computing the estimate of a desired measurement column tensor: to diagonalize the measured column tensor by calculating a Fourier transform of each ring of the measured column tensor.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said computer is programmed to perform the following additional computations in computing the estimate of a desired measurement column tensor: to compute the left multiplication of the diagonalized measured column tensor by the Fourier transformed reconstruction tensor to generate a Fourier transformed estimate tensor; and to compute the inverse Fourier transform of the Fourier transformed estimate tensor to arrive at said estimate of a desired measurement column tensor.
18. A method involving the use of a thickness measurement probe having a predetermined resolution to measure the thickness of a wafer over a two-dimensional area of the wafer, the method comprising: sampling the measured thickness of the wafer with said probe over the two-dimensional area of the wafer to generate an image of the two-dimensional area of the 


wafer, said image comprising a two-dimensional array of measurements, each measurement of said two-dimensional array of measurements representing a measurement by said probe of a different region of said two-dimensional area, said two-dimensional array of measurements being represented by a measured column tensor; and left multiplying the measured column tensor by a reconstruction tensor T to obtain an estimate of a desired measurement column tensor, wherein said reconstruction tensor T is equal to 


 , Rdm being a
cross-covariance tensor computed for d, a desired measurement column tensor, and m, the measured column tensor, and Rmm being an auto-covariance tensor computed
for m, the measured column tensor, and wherein the estimate of a desired measurement column tensor represents an estimate of measurements that would be obtained from a hypothetical probe assembly having a different resolution from said first mentioned probe. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
