<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647386</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOUDSPEAKER CONE SUSPENSION RIM HAVING INTEGRAL GASKET.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R102	H04R102	H04R700	H04R720	H04R3100	H04R3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R1	H04R1	H04R7	H04R7	H04R31	H04R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A loudspeaker cone assembly having a generally conical speaker cone body (12) and an annular flexible suspension rim (14). The suspension rim (14) may include an annular integral gasket (20), and is formed from a plastic foam which may be deposited into an annular channel in a female mold (30) cooperable with a male die to define a substantially closed channel. The foam is expanded and cured so that the resulting annular rim and integral gasket have high density closed-cell outer skin surfaces on opposite sides of a low density closed-cell inner core. The suspension rim of the loudspeaker cone assembly may be secured to a support basket for mounting within a speaker cabinet. The annular gasket provides an improved apearance and may serve as a mounting gasket and shock absorber.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOCUM FRED D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOCUM, FRED D.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOCUM FRED D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOCUM, FRED D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LOUDSPEAKER CONE SUSPENSION RIM HAVING INTEGRAL GASKETBackground of the Invention The present invention relates generally to loudspeaker cones, and more particularly to a novel annular suspension rim for a loudspeaker cone wherein the rim has, in a preferred embodiment, a mounting gasket formed integral therewith, and a method for making the same.Loudspeaker cones, alternatively termed loudspeaker vibration diaphragms, are well known. They may employ a generally frustoconical shaped fibrous or felted-paper cone or diaphragm adapted to be supported on a similarly shaped support frame or basket through an annular suspension member or rim secured to the outer marginal edge of the cone and having predetermined elastic or flexibility properties. The suspension member or rim may be formed as an integral generally radially directed extension of the periphery of the cone or diaphragm, as disclosed in U.S. patent Nos. 1,872,583, 2,302,178 and 4,646,874, or may be formed as a separate annular supporting flange or rim affixed to an outer peripheral edge of the cone, such as are disclosed in U.S. patent Nos. 2,840,177 and 3,684,052. Alternatively, the loudspeaker cone or diaphragm may be formed of plastic material such as that disclosed in U.S. patent No. 3,858,680.With the advent of relatively sophisticated sound reproduction systems, such as in stereophonic sound systems, the dynamic or moving coil-type loudspeaker cones used for the mid and low frequency ranges have become subject to relatively high amplitude vibrations in the axial direction of the cone. In the past, many 

manufacturers of larger size loudspeaker cones have made the suspension rims from rubber in order to achieve desired flexibility and durability. A drawback to the use of rubber suspension rims is their relatively high cost.In mounting the loudspeaker cone or diaphragm on a support frame or basket, the annular suspension rim on the cone is conventionally adhesively affixed to an annular mounting flange surface on the basket with the speaker cone extending into a generally conical or concave portion of the basket. The annular axially extending mounting flange is on the outer periphery of the basket. The mounting flange thereby supports the circumference of the speaker cone suspension rim.The speaker cone and associated frame or basket are then usually mounted within a speaker cabinet so that the axially extending flange on the basket is concentric to a circular speaker opening formed in a forward wall of the cabinet. The speaker cabinet, or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A loudspeaker cone assembly comprising, in combination, a generally frustoconical cone body having an outer circumferential edge, and a flexible annular suspension rim having an inner peripheral edge affixed to the outer circumferential edge of said cone and having an outer free peripheral edge enabling mounting of the cone assembly to support means, said rim being made of a plastic foam material having high density closed-cell outer skin surfaces.
2. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 1 wherein said rim incorporates an integral gasket made of said plastic foam material and having a high density closed-cell outer skin surface.
3. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 2 wherein said rim has a generally planar outer peripheral portion having a circumferential free edge, said annular gasket extending outwardly from an external surface of said outer peripheral portion of said rim and being generally concentric with said circumferential free edge.
4. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 3 wherein said rim and annular gasket are made form a closed-cell flexible polyurethane foam. 5. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 2 wherein said rim and gasket have a closed-cell center core bounded by said high density closed-cell skin surfaces, said closed-cell center core having a lower density than said skin surfaces. 


 6. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 2 wherein said inner peripheral edge of said rim is impregnated into said outer circumferential edge of said cone body. 7. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 2 wherein said gasket has a substantially rectangular transverse cross- sectional configuration.
8. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 2 wherein said rim and annular gasket are made by a low pressure casting process including the steps of depositing a predetermined quantity of liquid polyurethane foam into an open annular channel so as to form a bead of foam in said channel, closing said channel to create a substantially closed annular chamber having a configuration substantially identical to the desired annular configuration of said rim and annular gasket, and causing said foam to expand and cure in a manner to form said rim and annular gasket having said high density closed-cell skin surfaces.
9. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 8 wherein the cone has inner arril outer conical surfaces terminating at the outer circumferential edge of the cone body, said outer circumferential edge of said cone body being exposed within said channel so that said foam expands to overlap and impregnate the inner and outer conical surfaces of the cone body adjacent said outer edge thereof.
10. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 1 including a color coating formed on selected outer surface areas of said rim and annular gasket. 


 11. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 1 wherein said cone body has inner and outer conical surfaces terminating at said outer circumferential edge of the cone body, said inner peripheral edge of said rim being in overlapping impregnated relation to said inner and outer conical surfaces adjacent said outer circumeferential edge of said cone body.
12. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 1 wherein said rim has a closed- cell center core bounded by said high density closed-cell skin surfaces, said closed-cell center core having a lower density than said skin surfaces. 13. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 12 wherein said inner peripheral edge of said rim forms a butt-joint connection with said outer circumferential edge of said cone body. 14. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 1 wherein said cone body has a transverse thickness in the range of approximately .006-.070 inch, and said rim has a thickness in the range of approximately .015-.070 inch. 15. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 14 wherein said inner peripheral edge of said rim overlaps said inner and outer conical surfaces of said circumferential edge a distance equal to approximately the thickness of said rim at its outer free edge.
16.. A loudspeaker cone assembly as defined in Claim 1 wherein said rim is made by a low pressure casting process including the steps of depositing a predetermined quantity of liquid polyurethane foam into an open annular channel so 


as to form a bead of foam in said channel, positioning the cone body so that its outer circumferential edge is exposed to said channel, closing said channel to create a substantially closed annular chamber having a configuration of said rim, and causing said foam to expand and cure in a manner to impregnate said exposed edge of said circumferential edge and form said high density closed-cell skin surfaces. 17. A method of making a loudspeaker cone assembly which includes a cone body having an outer edge, an annular flexible suspension rim having an inner peripheral edge fixed to the outer edge of the cone body and defining inner and outer exposed surfaces, said method comprising the steps of: a. positioning the cone body on an open mold having an annular cavity defined by a transverse contour substantially identical to the desired contour of the outer surface of said rim and gasket, said cone body and annular cavity being mutually cooperable so that the outer edge of the cone body is exposed to said cavity; b. depositing a bead of liquid plastic foam into said annular cavity along substantially its full circumferential length; c. positioning a die on said mold so as to form with said cavity a substantially closed annular chamber circumferentially of the outer edge of the cone and having a transverse profile substantially identical to the desired transverse profile of said rim; and d. effecting expansion and curing of the plastic foam so that the foam fills said chamber and impregnates the outer edge of the cone 


body whereby to form a flexible annular rim integrally secured to the outer edge of the cone body.
18. The method as defined in Claim 17 wherein the plastic foam forms a rim construction having high density closed-cell skin surfaces on the rim and a lower density internal cellular core during expansion and curing of the foam.
19. The method as defined in Claim 18 including the step of applying a color coating to selected exposed surfaces of said annular cavity prior to depositing said bead of plastic foam into said cavity, said coating being of the type adapted to transfer to the adjacent surfaces of the foam rim and gasket during forming of said rim.
20. The method as defined in Claim 18 wherein the step of effecting expansion and curing of the plastic foam includes heating said mold and die so as to heat the foam to a temperature of approximately 120°F during curing.
21. The method of Claim 17, wherein the cavity in said open mold defines an annular gasket and the step of effecting expansion and curing of the plastic foam forms an outwardly extending annular gasket integral with said flexible annular rim.
22. A tool for use in making a loudspeaker cone assembly having a generally conical cone body and a flexible annular suspension rim fixed to an outer circumferential edge of the cone body, said tool comprising, in combination, a female mold having an annular cavity and adapted to support a cone body so that the outer circumferential edge of the cone body is 


exposed within said cavity, and a male die having an annular surface cooperative with said annular cavity to define a substantially closed channel having a transverse profile generally identical to the desired transverse profile of said suspension rim and with said outer cone edge exposed therein, said female mold and male die being mutually cooperative -to seal said cone generally adjacent said free outer edge so as to prevent a liquid plastic foam deposited into said cavity from escaping said cavity past said seal during curing of the foam.
23. A tool as defined in Claim 22 wherein said female mold and male die define mutually opposed annular sealing surfaces cooperative to engage the cone body in a seal path concentric to said outer edge of said cone body.
24. A tool as defined in Claim 22 wherein said female mold and male die define mutually opposed annular pinch ber.^s operative to engage opposite surfaces of said cone body in a manner to prevent said liquid plastic foam deposited into said cavity from escaping past said seal during curing of the foam. 25. A tool as defined in Claim 22 wherein said cone body is generally cor.ical, said female mold and male die having mutually opposed surfaces adapted for interfacing relation with opposite inner and outer surfaces of the conical cone body, said mutually opposed surfaces each having an annular groove formed therin, and resilient annular seal means carried in each of said annular grooves so that said annular seal means engage the coone body generally adjacent its free outer edge and prevent escape of foam 


material past said seal means during curing of said foam material.
26. A tool as defined in Claim 22 wherein said female mold is adapted to support a generally conical loudspeaker cone body so that an outer circumferential edge of the cone body is exposed within said cavity, said female mold and male die being cooperative to define a transverse profile of a suspension rim and an integral gasket, said mold and sai die being cooperative to engage the cone body in a seal path concentric to said outer edge of said cone body. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
