<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614687</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for recovering multicomponent vapor mixtures
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L220	B01D800	A61L220	B01D800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	B01D	A61L	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L2	B01D8	A61L2	B01D8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vapor recovery apparatus which withdraws 
multicomponent vapor mixtures from processing apparatus (12) 

(such as gas sterilizers) by condensation at two or more 
progressively colder levels (34,46) while maintaining an 

appropriate balance between components during steps of 
capture and phase change. Two cold traps provide 

progressive partial condensation at multiple temperature 
levels and serve to reduce input energy requirements at 

least 50% compared to a single cold level. The components 
in the recovered mixture may include (a) recyclable ozone 

depleting, global warming and valuable CFCs or HCFCs, (b) 
hazardous materials and (c) contaminants such as water 

vapor and air. The system maintains safe balance of 
component materials by immediately and constantly draining 

the condensate (52) from a warmer temperature stage into the 
liquid holding section of a colder trapping zone (46). The 

system separates vestigial air or air used as a carrier gas 
from the condensed mixture and purges it without an 

unacceptable release or recyclable materials and also it 
controls water vapor so that frost or ice can not impair 

performance. After the cryocondensation procedure, valves (32,38,44) 
isolate the system from the processing apparatus, and the 

system warms the captured condensate to above room 
temperature. Warming the condensate pressurizes it for 

transfer to a vessel used for shipping the captured 
mixtures for reclaiming and reuse. Opening a drain valve (56) 

in the second cold trap allows captured condensate to flow 
from the now higher pressure recovery system to the 

transport vessel without any mechanical pump. The only 
mechanical device employed for fluid transfer is a small 

vacuum pump (40) for evacuation of air stripped of condensible 
materials. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYCOLD SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYCOLD SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISSIMER DALE J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISSIMER, DALE J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for 
recovering multicomponent vapor mixtures, and more 
particularly for recovering vapor mixtures used in 
sterilizing processes. In various industrial processes multicomponent vapor 
mixtures are used and after their use it may be necessary 
or highly desirable to capture and recover such mixtures 
for reuse or to prevent the escape of particularly 
contaminating constituents to the atmosphere. For example, 
many hospitals and some industrial manufacturing processes 
employ a process called gas sterilization which comprises 
the following steps: (1) A pressure and vacuum sealed 
enclosure or vessel is loaded with articles to be 
sterilized. The sterilizer and its contents are 
preconditioned by evacuation down to a moderately low 
pressure level, typically about 75 Torr (26 in. Hg Vac.), 
backfilled with low pressure steam and then re-evacuated. 
This evacuation-backfill cycle is repeated several times to 
remove most of the air and to prewarm and moisten the 
articles to be sterilized. (2) A sterilant gas, typically 
a 12-88 weight percent mixture of ethylene oxide and CFC-12 
(dichlorodifluoromethane), is introduced into the 
preconditioned and evacuated enclosure until the pressure 
reaches approximately 1½ atmospheres. This condition is 
held for a predetermined period adequate to sterilize the 
articles in the enclosure. Heretofore, the now moist 
sterilant gas was removed from the enclosure by evacuation 
and was either discharged into the atmosphere or the sewer. 
This practice created serious problems. First of all,  
 
ethylene oxide by itself is flammable, explosive and toxic, 
while the blanket vapor, dichlorodifluoromethane or CFC-12 
damages the ozone layer in the atmosphere and is a global 
warming gas. Therefore it became desirable, if not 
essential, to provide a process for capturing and 
recovering at least the CFC and preferably both components 
of the mixture. The aforesaid problem of capturing the vapor 
constituents from a sterilizer were further aggravated by 
the fact that after the initial post-sterilization 
evacuation step, a continuous air flow at a controlled flow 
rate was normally introduced into the sterilizer and 
maintained at slightly below atmospheric pressure. This 
air wash stream absorbed sterilant gases which desorbed 
from the sterilized articles and the enclosure's surfaces. 
Following the previous air wash step, the air flow was 
stopped, the enclosure evacuated (again, to the atmosphere) 
and then backfilled
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for recovering a mixture of chemical 
compounds used as a vapor mixture in predetermined 

proportions of said compounds within a chamber, said 
apparatus comprising: 


a main fluid conduit (28) extending from said chamber (12), 
through a first valve (38) and connected at its outer end to a 

vacuum pump (40); 
a first branch conduit (30) between said chamber and said first valve extending 
from said main conduit through a second valve (32); 
a first cold trap (34) connected to said first branch 
conduit 
first cryosurface (36) means within said first cold trap 
and connected to a first low temperature refrigerant 

source; 
a second cold trap (46) and a second cryosurface means (48) 
within said second cold trap which is connected to a second 

low temperature refrigerant source that circulates 
refrigerant thereto at a lower temperature than said first 

refrigerant source; 
a second branch conduit (42) extending from said second 
cold trap through a third valve (44) to said main fluid conduit 

between said first valve and said vacuum pump; 
a vapor conduit (50) interconnecting said cold traps for 
carrying vapor from said first trap to said second trap; 

and 
a condensate conduit (52) connected to the lower end of 
said first cold trap for conveying condensate to said 

second trap. 
The apparatus as described in claim 1 wherein said 
vapor mixture is comprised of a sterilant material and a 

blanketing material. 
The apparatus as described in claim 2 wherein said 
vapor mixture comprises almost 12% (by weight) of ethylene  

 
oxide and about 88% (by weight) of CFC-12 

(dichlorodifluoromethane). 
The apparatus as described in claim 1 wherein said 
first refrigerant source maintains said first cryosurface 

means within a temperature range of -5°C to -40°C and said 
second refrigerant source maintains said second cryosurface 

means within a temperature range of -95°C to -110°C. 
The apparatus as described in claim 1 wherein said 
first and second cold traps each comprise upright 

cylindrical chambers and said second trap is situated at a 
level below that of said first trap. 
The apparatus as described in claim 5 wherein said 
first and second cryosurface means are fluid conduit coils 

located within said first and said cold traps, 
respectively. 
The apparatus as described in claim 2 including: 

an input conduit (14) connected to said chamber; 
supply conduits (16, 18, 20) connected to said input conduit 

extending from separate sources of steam, air and sterilant 
material; and a shut-off valve in each said supply conduit. 
A method for recovering a vapor mixture of 

chemical compounds used in an enclosed chamber, said method 
comprising the steps of: 


providing a recovery apparatus for drawing by means of a 
vacuum pump the mixture from said chamber into a first cold trap; 
cooling the mixture in said first cold trap to a 
first temperature level which causes partial condensation 

of said mixture. 
draining condensate from said first cold trap to a 
second cold trap; 
drawing vapor from said first cold trap into said 
second cold trap;  

 
cooling said second cold trap to a temperature 
level that is lower than said first cold trap so that all 

vapor therein is condensed and combines with condensate 
from said first cold trap; and 
draining the combined condensate from said second 
cold trap for storage or reuse. 
The method of claim 8 wherein said first cold trap 
is cooled to a temperature range of -5° to -40°C and said 

second cold trap is cooled to a temperature range of -95°C 
to -110°C. 
The method as described in claim 8 wherein said 
enclosed chamber is a sterilizer and said vapor mixture is 

comprised of ethylene oxide and CFC-12. 
The method of claim 8 including the further steps 
of: 


heating the combined condensate to above room 
temperature until the pressure of the condensate increases 

to a suitable level for transfer to a storage container. 
The method of claim 8 including the steps of: -- 

providing a valve for isolating the enclosed 
chamber from the recovery apparatus; 
closing said valve after all of the vapor has been 
drawn from said chamber; 
allowing additional vapor and moisture to desorb 
from products and walls within said chamber over a 

predetermined time period; 
opening said valve after said time period; 
admitting a pulse of air into said chamber to 
remove therefrom said desorbed additional vapor and 

moisture and force it into the recovery system to condense 
the additional vapor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
