<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610626</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method of simulating an integrated circuit.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1750	G06F1750	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A performance enhanced simulation modeling technique is 
provided for optimizing integrated circuit layout. The modeling 

technique utilizes a performance enhanced methodology. Namely, a 
physical design enhances performance design to ensure that the 

simulation model takes into account placement and interconnect 
when determining whether or not the resulting integrated circuit 

will operate properly at required speed with actual load being 
applied. An initial sizing of selected devices within a network 

is performed using estimated time duration and load factors. 
Subsequently, select devices are resized according to more 

optimal physical time duration and load. The entire simulation 
modeling is achieved using computer program simulation prior to 

the generation of a final layout placeable upon a silicon 
substrate. As such, simulation methodology provides a flow to 

correct unexpected performance errors resulting from physical 
design 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUA HUNG K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER ARTHUR B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUA HUNG K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER ARTHUR B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of simulating an 
integrated circuit layout and more particularly to a method 
which determines optimal sizing of various electronic 
devices to be placed upon an integrated circuit. The process of manufacturing an integrated circuit 
beings with a logic/circuit sketch of various devices 
coupled together in a network necessary to accomplish the 
desired circuit outcome. Each network includes a series of 
electronic devices having the output node of one device 
connected to the input node of one or more subsequent 
devices. Each device is thereby sized to provide adequate 
drive needed for activating the subsequent connected 
devices. Sizing of select devices may entail increasing or 
decreasing circuit gate configuration to meet the desired 
fan-out load of the subsequent devices. Devices connected in a network must operate under 
certain timing and load constraints. Knowledge of load and 
time are.  
 
important in the design of a high performance VLSI circuit. 
While an electronic device may operate perfectly well as a stand-alone 
device or under certain load constraints, the same device 
may not operate when coupled to various other devices within a 
network. For example, when a device is coupled to a known load, 
the device can be configured to generally propagate a signal from 
its input node to its output node within an acceptable time 
period or duration. However, when the same device is coupled to 
a series of devices within a network, it may not operate at its 
targeted time duration or speed due to the additional loading 
seen at its output node. This problem becomes magnified whenever 
the interconnect between devices is quite large or small. 
Interconnect or routing carries with it an associated impedance 
load. Long and thin interconnect lines present a larger 
impedance than if the lines are short and wide. Moreover, as 
interconnect length is increased, resistive-capacitive constant 
also increases thereby slowing the response time of any signal 
sent through the interconnect. As such, longer interconnect may 
increase the associated signal time duration causing certain 
networks to become inoperable under limited time constraints. 
High speed VLSI process technologies often enjoy smaller device 
layout, however, they generally have relatively more extensive 
interconnect placed between devices. The interconnect length may 
vary drastically depending upon the specific location in which 
each device is placed within the chip or integrated circuit area.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of simulating an integrated circuit comprising 
the steps of: 

   providing a model of electronic devices, each device 
having an input node, an output node and an 

estimated time duration between activation of said 
input node and said output node; 

   applying a computer simulated input signal upon each 
said input node; 

   sizing select said plurality of electronic devices to 
achieve a first computer simulated output signal 

from each said output node having optimal time 
duration and voltage magnitude; 

   configuring a model of each said device at specific 
locations within an integrated circuit area; 

   reapplying said computer simulated input signal upon 
each said input node; and 

   resizing select said electronic devices to achieve a 
second computer simulated output signal from each 

said output node of optimal time duration and 
voltage magnitude. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 1, wherein said configuring step comprises connecting the 

output node of a first electronic device to an input node of a 
second electronic device. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 2, wherein the output node of said first device comprises a 

physical load impedance substantially equal to the impedance of 
an interconnect placed between said first and second device and 

the impedance at the input node of said second device. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 3, wherein said configuring step comprises determining said 

physical load impedance as a function the specific location in 
which said first and second electronic devices are placed and 

routed within said integrated circuit area. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 3, further comprising utilizing said physical load 

impedance to achieve optimal performance of said plurality of 
electronic devices. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 1, wherein said reapplying step comprises determining 

physical time duration between activation of the output node of 
said first device with respect to activation of the input node of 

said first device. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 6, wherein said configuring step comprises determining said 

physical time duration as a function of where said first and 
second electronic devices are placed and routed within said 

integrated circuit area. 
The method as claimed in 
 

claim 6, further comprising utilizing said physical time duration 
to achieve optimal performance of said plurality of electronic 

devices. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 1, wherein said placing and routing step comprises routing 

selected cells representing said devices from a cell library to 
said specific locations within an integrated circuit area. 
A method of simulating an integrated circuit , comprising the 
steps of: 

   providing a model of electronic devices, each device 
including an input node and an output node; 

   providing an estimated load impedance at each said 
output node and an estimated time duration between 

activation of each said input node and respective 
said output 
node; 
   applying a computer simulated input signal upon each 

input node; 
   measuring a first simulated output signal upon each 

output node; 
   sizing select said plurality of electronic devices in 

response to measured said first simulated output 
signal to achieve optimal performance at said 

estimated load impedance and time duration; 
   configuring a model of each said device at specific 

locations within an integrated circuit area to 
 

obtain a physical load impedance and a physical 
time duration; 

   reapplying said computer simulated input signal upon 
each said input node; 

   measuring a second simulated output signal upon each 
output node; and 

   resizing select said plurality of electronic devices to 
achieve optimal performance at said physical load 

impedance and said physical time duration. 
A method as claimed in 
claim 10, wherein said step of providing a plurality of 

electronic devices comprises choosing a specific cell 
representing circuit layout of each said electronic device from a 

cell library. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 10, wherein said step of providing estimated load impedance 

and estimated time duration comprises obtaining stored estimated 
load impedance and estimated time duration for each said 

respective cell. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 10, wherein said physical load impedance and said physical 

time duration are a function of the specific location in which 
said plurality of electronic devices are modeled within said 

integrated circuit area. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 10, wherein said resizing step comprises adjusting the 

specific locations in which said plurality of electronic devices 
are modeled within said integrated circuit area. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 10, further comprising the steps of: 

   repeating the resizing and adjusting steps to obtain a 
final layout configuration; 

   generating a mask embodying said final layout 
configuration; and 

   processing said final layout configuration upon a 
silicon substrate to produce an integrated 

circuit. 
The method as claimed in 
claim 15, wherein said integrated circuit operates having an 

actual output signal substantially closer to said second computer 
simulated output than said first computer simulated output. 
A method of laying out an integrated circuit, comprising the 
steps of: 

   selecting a model of a plurality of electronic devices 
from a library containing said devices, each said 

device having an input node and an output node and 
an estimated load impedance at each said output 

node and an estimated time duration between 
activation of each said input node and respective 

 
said output node; 

   applying a computer simulated input signal upon each 
said input node; 

   measuring a first simulated output signal upon each 
said output node; 

   sizing select said plurality of electronic devices to 
achieve optimal performance at said estimated load 

impedance and said estimated time duration; 
   configuring a model of said devices at specific 

locations within a integrated circuit area to 
obtain a physical load impedance and a physical 

time duration; 
   reapplying said computer simulated input signal upon 

each said input node; 
   measuring a second simulated output signal upon each 

said output node; 
   resizing select said plurality of electronic devices to 

achieve optimal performance at said physical load 
impedance and said physical time duration; 

   adjusting select said plurality of electronic devices 
within said integrated circuit area; 

   repeating the resizing and adjusting steps to obtain an 
actual layout configuration; and 

   processing said final layout configuration upon a 
silicon substrate to produce an integrated 

 
circuit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
