<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634956</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-CLEANING/UNBLOCKING SPRAY NOZZLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B134	B05B134	B05B1502	B05B1502	B05B100	B05B100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B1	B05B1	B05B15	B05B15	B05B1	B05B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-unblocking spray nozzle (10, 11) in which an easily removable insert (12) is automatically moved by fluid pressure to form a spray orifice (26), and expands resiliently when the fluid pressure out. The insert (12) may include swirl vanes (33) to rotate the fluid, and may operate with a static member (14) to form an automatic anti-drip valve.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INCRO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INCRO LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAIDLER KEVIN OSWALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAIDLER, KEVIN, OSWALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Spray nozzles are well known devices for producing 
controlled sprays of liquids for applications such as paint 
spraying, crop spraying to dispense fertiliser and 
insecticide, industrial washing and chemical treatment. 
For most applications it is essential for a spray nozzle to 
produce an evenly distributed spray of uniform liquid 
particles in a predetermined spray pattern. In most cases the spray pattern consists of fine 
droplets created by forcing liquid into the nozzle through 
a large orifice and out of the nozzle through a smaller 
discharge orifice or plurality of smaller discharge 
orifices. The finer the droplets required, the smaller the 
size of the discharge orifice. The discharge orifices in 
known spray nozzles are usually outlet openings of a static 
nature and preset dimensions, e.g. holes drilled or moulded 
into the ends of nozzle members. The outlet openings or 
holes, being of small size, have a tendency to block 
frequently with particles of dirt, crystals and other 
matter present in the liquid or the spraying equipment. Conventional methods of removing trapped particles to 
clean the spray nozzle and allow liquid to flow properly 
are very labour intensive. The spray nozzles need to be 
removed frequently from the spraying equipment and cleaned 
out by hand. Often there are large numbers of spray 
nozzles and they can be in difficult to access locations. 
The spray nozzles can also be contaminated with toxic or 
corrosive liquid if that is the nature of the material 
passing through the nozzle. Whilst this cleaning process 
is undertaken, production cannot continue which is 
extremely costly. In order to reduce the need for frequent cleaning of 
the nozzles there is disclosed in GB 0987723 a spray nozzle 
comprising a hollow member having an outlet opening at its  
 
front end, and a movable device within the hollow member. 
The movable device comprises a plurality of separable 
segmental parts, and the device can be moved by fluid 
pressure to move the segmental parts towards each other to 
create a spray discharge orifice at the front end of the 
nozzle. The segmental parts can separate when relieved of 
fluid pressure, so that discharge orifice can be opened-up 
for releasing particles so as to tend to prevent collection 
of matter which could block the orifice. However, this known spray nozzle has the disadvantage 
that when orientated so that the open end is lowermost, the 
segmental parts remain together and fail to release such 
matter. There is disclosed in EP
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spray nozzle comprising a hollow member (11) having 
an outlet opening (16) therein at the front of the spray 

nozzle, a movable device (12) movable within the hollow 
member and rearwardly biased to a normal position in which 

the outlet opening (16) is minimally restricted or is 
unrestricted by the movable device (12), wherein the 

movable device (12) is movable by fluid pressure from the 
normal position in a forwards direction towards the outlet 

opening (16) to obstruct the flow to the outlet opening and 
to cause relative movement between separable parts (23) of 

the movable device (12) to create a spray discharge orifice 
(26), smaller than the outlet opening (16), within or 

proximal to the outlet opening; and characterised in that 
transverse biasing means (20,27:20,27,33;20,27,39) is 

provided in or by the movable device (12) to subject the 
separable parts (23) to radially outwardly directed forces 

whereby to urge said separable parts (20,23) to separate 
and react against an internal surface (17) of the spray 

nozzle to provide said rearwards bias indirectly. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the 
movable device comprises a flexible body (12) incorporating 

said separable parts (23). 
A spray nozzle as claimed in Claim 2 wherein said 
flexible body (12) is at least partially resilient, and 

serves to provide said rearwards bias by urging the 
separable parts (20) away from each other. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein 
said internal surface (17) is part conical, converges 

towards the outlet opening and is inclined to the axis of 
the nozzle at an angle within the range of 20° to 40°, 

preferably 25 to 35°. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in Claim 1,2,3 or 4 wherein  
 

the transverse biasing means comprises a resilient member 
(33 or 35) accommodated inside the movable device (12) 

between said separable parts. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in Claim 5 wherein said 
movable device (12) or said resilient member (33 or 35) is 

shaped to impart rotational motion to fluid passing 
through the movable device. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 6 
wherein the movable device (12) has disposed therein flow 

guiding means (33,35,37,46) to impart rotary motion to 
fluid passed through the movable device. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein in the normal position the movable device (12) 

cooperates with a static member (14) in the nozzle to 
restrict an opening (28) into the movable device. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 7 
wherein the movable device (12) in the normal position 

cooperates with a static member (14) in the nozzle to 
serve as a valve closing a flow path (31) to the movable 

device. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the periphery of the discharge orifice (26) is 

wholly defined by nozzle forming surfaces (22) on the 
separable parts (20). 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 
wherein the periphery of the discharge orifice (26) is 

defined by a combination of nozzle surfaces (22) on the 
separable parts (20) and a portion of the surface of the 

outlet opening (16). 
A spray nozzle as claimed in claim 9 or 10 wherein 
said surfaces define a plurality of the discharge orifices  

 
(26). 
A spray nozzle as claimed in claim 2 wherein the 
flexible body (12) serves as a combined piston (21) and 

flow restrictor in the normal position in the spray nozzle. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the movable device is a moulding of thermoplastics 

material. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in Claim 14 wherein the 
moulding comprises at least two arms (20) joined to a 

central portion (21) by integral flexible hinges (27). 
A spray nozzle as claimed in Claim 15 wherein the 
arms (20) terminate in free end portions shaped to provide 

surfaces (22) for forming the discharge orifice and further 
surfaces (24) for sliding engagement with said internal 

surface (17) of the spray nozzle. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the hollow member is a cap (11) releasably secured 

to an inlet body (10), and is separable from the body to 
provide access for removal or insertion of the movable 

device (12). 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 
16 wherein said internal surface (17) is provided by an 

inlet body (10) in which the movable device (12) is 
slidably movable. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein guide means (38:50) slidably engages the movable 

device (12) to prevent rotation of the movable device. 
A spray nozzle as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein a stop flange (42) or said internal surface (17) 

provides a sealing abutment surface adjacent the outlet  
 

opening, and the separable parts have front end portions 
and shaped to engage the abutment surface to provide a seal 

in the operative position of the movable device to prevent 
fluid by-passing the discharge orifice or orifices. 
In a spray nozzle, a movable device (12) comprising a 
moulded plastics body in which a plurality of arms (20) are 

connected by hinge portions (27) to a head (21) and have 
end portions shaped to abut so that surfaces (22) thereof 

define at least part of a spray discharge orifice (26) when 
the body is resiliently compressed so that said end 

portions are moved towards each other. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
