<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655117</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS IN MARINE AND SUBMARINE APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L5916	F16L112	F16L1112	F16L1112	F16L5900	F16L116	F16L5914	F16L11133	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L59	F16L1	F16L11	F16L11	F16L59	F16L1	F16L59	F16L11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to improvements in an apparatus, such as pipelines (2) and associated equipment and to a method of making, insulating, providing buoyancy to, recovering and installing submarine apparatus. The marine or submarine apparatus comprises an impermeable enclosure (1) associated with the apparatus (2), which enclosure is tightly packed with hollow microspheres (3) to a density where, when submerged in use, the internal pressure of the microspheres is greater than or substantially equal to the water pressure on the apparatus.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORBISHLEY TERRENCE JEFFREY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORBISHLEY, TERRENCE JEFFREY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORBISHLEY TERRENCE JEFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORBISHLEY, TERRENCE JEFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to improvements in marine and 
submarine apparatus, such as pipelines and associated 
equipment, and to a method of making, insulating, providing 
buoyancy to, recovering and installing submarine apparatus. With the growth of the offshore oil and gas industry, 
it has been necessary to install prefabricated pipelines 
between offshore oil and gas fields and onshore processing 
facilities and between different offshore locations. These 
may be for processing purposes or for loading the oil or 
gas into shuttle tankers from offshore loading buoys. To meet the need to install pipelines with a high 
degree of reliability, it is possible to use barges and 
vessels with several aligned welding, inspection and 
coating stations that can fabricate a pipeline from a large 
number of short lengths of coated pipe, typically 10 metres 
long. The welded joints of the pipeline have then to be 
inspected and coated before the pipeline is lowered to the 
sea bed down a long curved stinger or ramp. As an 
alternative, suitable for pipelines of a smaller diameter, 
the pipeline will be supplied in long lengths which are 
found on a large reel housed on a vessel. The pipeline is 
unreeled from the vessel, straightened to remove the 
curvature created by the reeling process, and then lowered 
directly into the sea and down to the sea bed. A further alternative is to fabricate, at a suitable 
shore site, a bundled assembly formed of a pipeline or 
group of pipelines housed within a large diameter outer 
steel pipeline, known as a carrier pipe. The void space 
within the carrier pipe and around the pipelines housed  
 
within it is sealed to prevent the ingress of water when 
towed. For towing from its shore site to its installation 
site, the fabricated bundle assembly is needed to be 
provided with buoyancy and preferably having just 
sufficient submerged unit weight (i.e. it should be 
negatively buoyant) for the purposes of towing. Towing can 
be either on-bottom, off-bottom or controlled depth towing. It is also often necessary to tow and install other 
equipment, apart from pipelines, such as platforms, 
mainfolds, templates, storage units, valves, well christmas 
trees and other structures, which also need to be provided 
with buoyancy to aid their intallation. Where apparatus 
which is only partially submerged is to be installed, 
positive buoyancy must be provided. Pipelines and underwater equipment are often needed 
to be recovered, for example for repair, and positive 
buoyancy is required to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) comprising an 
impermeable enclosure (1) associated with said apparatus, 

characterised in that the enclosure is tightly packed with 
hollow microspheres which are compacted to a density such 

that the microspheres cease to flow and act more like a 
solid within the enclosure. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in claim 
1 in which the microspheres (3) are of a ceramic material. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in claim 
1 or claim 2 in which the microspheres (3) have a particle 

diameter in the range 5 to 1000 microns. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims in which the bulk specific 

density of the microspheres (3) is less than or equal to 
that of water. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims in which the bulk specific 

density of the packed microspheres (3) lies in the range of 
0.37 to 0.8 g/cc. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in claim 
5 in which the bulk specific density of the packed 

microspheres (3) is in the range of 0.42 to 0.49 g/cc. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims in which voids formed between 

the microspheres (3) are filled with fine particle solids. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any  
 

one of the preceding claims 1 to 6 in which voids formed 
between the microspheres (3) are filled with a solid matrix. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of claims 1 to 6 in which voids formed between the 

microspheres (3) are filled with a vacuum, gas or liquid. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims in which the enclosure (1) is 

of a rigid or flexible material. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims in which the enclosure (1) is 

of a thermally insulating material. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims in which the apparatus is 

coated with a thermal insulation layer (8). 
Marine or submarine apparatus as claimed in any one 
of the preceding claims in which the enclosure (1) wholly 

or partially surrounds the apparatus with a space 
therebetween, which space is filled with the microspheres 

(3). 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims in which the enclosure (1) is 

attached to an external surface of the apparatus. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of claims 1 to 12 in which the enclosure (1) is located 

within the apparatus. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of claims 1 to 12 and 15 in which the enclosure (1) 

forms a part of the structure of the apparatus.  
 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims in which the encl
osure (1) is 
surrounded by an external cover (5). 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims in which the enclosure (1) 

comprises a jacket for surrounding the apparatus and end 
caps (6) to close one or more ends of the jacket. 
Marine or submarine apparatus (2) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims further including end caps (1) 

for creating compartments within the enclosure. 
A submarine flowline (2, 2a, 2b, 2c) comprising a 
pipeline, a group of pipelines, or combination of 

pipeline(s) and associated equipment located within an 
impermeable enclosure (1) with a space between said 

enclosure and flowline, characterised in that the space is 
filled with tightly packed hollow microspheres (3) which 

are compacted to a density such that the microspheres 
cease to flow and act more like a solid within the 

enclosure. 
A submarine flowline (2) as claimed in claim 20 
further comprising joints and/or thermal strain resisting 

bulkheads at intervals along the flowline. 
A method of installing or recovering marine or 
submarine apparatus (2) comprising the step of filling an 

enclosure (1) associated with said apparatus with 
microspheres (3) characterised in that the microspheres 

are tightly packed and are compacted to a density such 
that microspheres cease to flow and act more like a solid 

within the enclosure. 
A method as claimed in claim 22 further comprising  
 

the step of filling voids formed between the microspheres 
(3) with fine solid particles. 
A method as claimed in claim 22 or claim 23 further 
comprising the step of further filling the enclosure (1) 

with a liquid. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 24 
comprising the step of further filling the enclosure (1) 

with a fluid which sets or reacts with another material to 
set to form a solid matrix around the microspheres (3). 
A method as claimed in claim 22 in which the 
microspheres (3) are mixed with a settable material prior 

to filling the enclosure. 
A method as claimed in claim 22 further comprising 
the step of filling voids formed between the microspheres 

(3) with a gas or evacuating said voids. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 27 
further comprising the step of towing the apparatus (2) to 

or from an offshore location. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 28 
further comprising the step of joining separate pieces of 

apparatus (2, 2a, 2b, 2c) and their enclosures (1). 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 28 
further comprising the step of separating joined pieces (2, 

2a, 2b, 2c) of apparatus. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 30 
further comprising the step of first surrounding the 

apparatus (2) with the enclosure (1).  
 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 31 
further comprising the step of applying a tensile stress to 

the apparatus (2) before surrounding the apparatus with the 
enclosure (1). 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 32 
further comprising the step of heating the apparatus (2) 

before surrounding it with the enclosure (1). 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 33 
further comprising the step of venting gas or a liquid from 

the enclosure (1) to control the buoyancy of the apparatus 
(2). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
