<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617726</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WATER COMPATIBLE AMINE TERMINATED RESIN USEFUL FOR CURING EPOXY RESINS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G5900	C09D17100	C09D17102	C09D17100	C08G7300	C08G7302	C08L7100	C08L7102	C09D16300	C09D16300	C08L6300	C08G5914	C08G5950	C08G5918	C08L6300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C09D	C09D	C09D	C08G	C08G	C08L	C08L	C09D	C09D	C08L	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G59	C09D171	C09D171	C09D171	C08G73	C08G73	C08L71	C08L71	C09D163	C09D163	C08L63	C08G59	C08G59	C08G59	C08L63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A water miscible or soluble amine terminated resin useful as a curing agent comprising the reaction product of: A) a polyamine component comprising one or more hydrophilic amine terminated polyalkylene glycols, and optionally one or more hydrophobic polyamines; B) a polyepoxide component comprising one or more diglycidyl ethers of a polyalkylene glycol, one or more diglycidyl ethers of a cycloalkylene glycol and optionally one or more hydrophobic polyglycidyl ethers, wherein the mixture is optionally advanced by an amine extender; C) optionally, a reactive diluent which is capable of reacting with an epoxy resin; and D) optionally, a catalyst for the reaction of an amine with an epoxy resin; wherein Component A is employed in an equivalent excess with respect to Component B such that the terminal moieties of the reaction product are amine moieties capable of reacting with an epoxy resin; the composition has an amine hydroxy equivalent weight of from 140 to 240; and the composition is water soluble or water miscible. In preferred embodiments such amine terminated resin is an efficient pigment grinding vehicle. The aminate terminated resin can be dispersed in water with a polyepoxide to form a coating composition.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN DIETER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESSELY HANS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN, DIETER, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESSELY, HANS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to water-soluble or miscible resin compositions having 
terminal amine moieties which are capable of reacting with glycidyl ether moieties preferred 
embodiments of which are particularly useful in pigmented coating compositions. In another 
aspect, the invention relates to a process for preparing such resins. In yet another aspect, the 
invention relates to water-based coating compositions based on amine terminated resin 
compositions of the invention and further containing curable epoxy resins. EP 0070550 discloses aqueous dispersions of resinous coating compositions which 
contain 0.5 to 40 percent by weight of an ungelled resin formed by reacting a polyepoxide with 
a polyoxyalkylene polyamine, which reaction product is partially neutralized with acid to 
provide cationic groups; and 60 to 99 percent by weight of an additional cationic resin which is 
electrodepositable on the cathode. The use of polyglycidyl ethers of polyhydric alcohols as the 
polyepoxide is disclosed but discouraged. The reference does not disclose a composition which 
is water soluble or dispersible in the absence of converting some of the terminal groups to 
cationic moieties. Nor does it disclose a composition which can be used as a curing agent for 
other epoxy resins in two part coating compositions. Two part epoxy resin based coating systems generally comprise a curable epoxy 
resin and a curing agent for the epoxy resin, and are commonly dispersed or dissolved in a 
solvent, primarily an organic solvent to prepare coating compositions, for example paints and 
floor sealants. Significant environmental concerns are created due to the use of such organic 
solvent based coating compositions as the evaporation of the organic solvents create the 
potential for environmental pollution and for creati ng health hazard. On the other hand, 
cured epoxy resin based coatings provide hard and abrasion resistant coatings which are 
resistant to hydrocarbons and aqueous media. Water-based resins systems consisting of an epoxy resin and a curing agent 
dissolved or emulsified in water have been developed, and create less environmental and 
health concerns. The advantages of water dispersible epoxy resin systems include reduced 
environmental pollution, less obtrusive solvent odor during application, reduced health and  
 
safety risks, reduced flammability, water clean-up of application equipment, excellent 
wettability to moist concrete and good adhesion and mechanical strength. Known two part 
water-based epoxy
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A water miscible or soluble amine terminated resin useful as a curing agent 
for an amine curable resin which is the reaction product of: 


A.) a polyamine component comprising one or more hydrophilic amine terminated 
polyalkylene glycols, and optionally one or more hydrophobic polyamines; 
B.) a polyepoxide component comprising i) one or more diglycidyl ethers of a 
polyalkylene glycol, ii) one or more diglycidyl ethers of a cycloalkylene glycol, or a mixture 

thereof and optionally iii) one or more hydrophobic polyglycidyl ethers, or a reaction 
product of i), ii) or a mixture thereof, and optionally iii) with an amine extender having two 

active amine hydrogen atoms; 
C.) optionally, a reactive diluent which is capable of reacting with an epoxy resin; 
and 
D.) optionally, a catalyst for the reaction of an amine with an epoxy resin; and 
wherein component A.) is employed in an equivalent excess with respect to component B.) such 

that the terminal moieties of the reaction product are amine moieties capable of reacting with 
an epoxy resin, the composition has an amine hydrogen equivalent weight of from 140 to 240, 

and the combined amount of the amine terminated polyalkylene glycol and the diglycidyl 
ether of polyalkylene glycol, diglycidyl ether of a cycloalkylene glycol, or a mixture thereof is 

sufficient to render the composition water soluble or water miscible. 
A resin composition according to Claim 1 wherein component A.) comprises 
from 30 to 70 percent by weight of the total composition, with the proviso that no more than 

30 percent by weight of the total composition can be derived from hydrophobic polyamines; 
component B). comprises from 30 to 70 percent by weight of the total composition, with the 

proviso that no more than 35 percent by weight of the total composition can be derived from 
hydrophobic polyglycidyl ethers; component C.) may be present in amounts from 0 to 15 

percent by weight; and component D.) may be present in amounts of from 0 to 15 percent. 
A resin according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein the hydrophilic amine terminated 
polyalkylene glycols correspond to Formula 1  

 

 
wherein the diglycidyl ether of a polyalkylene glycol corresponds to Formula 3: 


 
the hydrophobic polyamine corresponds to Formula 2: 


 
the hydrophobic polyglycidyl ether corresponds to formula 4: 


 
the amine extending agent corresponds to formula 2 or to the formula R⁸NH₂ 

the reaction product of an amine extending agent with one or more diglycidyl ethers of a 
polyalkylene glycol, one or more diglycidyl ethers of a cydoalkylene glycol, or a mixture thereof 

and optionally one or more hydrophobic polyglycidyl ethers corresponds to Formula 11 

  
 

wherein: 

A is independently in each occurrence an aryl moiety; aryl moiety substituted with an alkyl or 
halo moiety; a polyaryl moiety or a polycycloaliphatic moiety wherein the aryl moieties or the 

cycloaliphatic moieties are connected by direct bonds, alkylene, haloalkylene, cycloalkylene, 
carbonyl, sulfonyl, sulfinyl, oxygen, or sulfur moieties, such polyaryl or polycycloaliphatic 

moieties being optionally substituted with one or more alkyl or halo moieties; or the 
oligomeric reaction product of an aldehyde and phenol; 
B independently in each occurrence corresponds to one of the formulas 

R is independently in each occurrence hydrogen, methyl or ethyl; 
R¹ is independently in each occurrence a C₁₋₁₀ straight- or branched-chain alkylene, C₁₋₁₀ straight 
or branched-chain alkenylene moiety, or a C₅₋₁₂ divalent cycloaliphatic moiety; 
R² is independently in each occurrence a C₁₋₅₀ hydrocarbylene moiety, which may be substituted 
with a non-interfering substituent and which may contain one or more secondary amines, an ether, an amide or a thioether moiety 

in the backbone; 
R³ is independently in each occurrence hydrogen or a C₁₋₁₀ straight- or branched-chain alkyl C₁₋₁₀ moiety; 
R⁴ is independently in each occurrence hydrogen or C₁₋₄ alkyl; 
R⁸ is independently in each occurrence a C₁₋₂₀ hydrocarbyl moiety which may be substituted 
with a non-interfering substituent; 
R¹² is independently in each occurrence a moiety corresponding to one of the formulas 

Z is is independently in each occurrence oxygen or 

X is independently in each occurrence a straight- or branched-chain C₁₋₆ alkyl moiety; 
D is independently in each occurrence a divalent C₅₋₂₀ aliphatic moiety containing one or more 
five or six-membered saturated rings;  

 
a is independently in each occurrence a positive real number of 1 or greater; 
b is independently in each occurrence 2 or 3; 
d is independently in each occurrence 1 to 5; and, 
f is independently in each occurrence an integer of from 2 to 4, with the proviso that for each 

 
unit if f is 2 and one R is ethyl the other R is hydrogen and that if f is 3 or 4 then R is hydrogen; 
h is independently in each occurrence 0 or 1; 
u is independently in each occurrence a positive real number greater than 1. 
An amine terminated resin according to any one of Claims 1 to 3 wherein the resin corresponds 
to Formula 12 or 13  

 

  
 

wherein: 

A is independently in each occurrence an aryl moiety; aryl moiety substituted with an alkyl or 
halo moiety; a polyaryl moiety or a polycycloaliphatic moiety wherein the aryl moieties or the 

cycloaliphatic moieties are connected by a direct bond, alkylene, haloalkylene, cycloalkylene, 
carbonyl, sulfonyl, sulfinyl, oxygen, or sulfur moiety, such polyaryl or polycycloaliphatic 

moieties being optionally substituted with one or more alkyl or halo moieties; or the 
oligomeric reaction product of an aldehyde and phenol; 
B independently in each occurrence corresponds to one of the formulas 

R is independently in each occurrence hydrogen, methyl or ethyl; 
R¹ is independently in each occurrence a C₁₋₁₀ straight- or branched-chain alkylene, C₁₋₁₀ straight- 
or branched-chain alkenylene moiety, or a C₅₋₁₂ divalent cycloaliphatic moiety; 
R² is independently in each occurrence a C₁₋₅₀ hydrocarbylene moiety, which may be substituted 
with a non-interfering substituent and which may contain 

one or more secondary amines, an ether, an amide or a thioether in the backbone; 
R³ is independently in each occurrence hydrogen or a C₁₋₁₀ straight- or branched-chain alkyl C₁₋₁₀ moiety; 
R⁴ is independently in each occurrence hydrogen or C₁₋₄ alkyl; 
R⁸ is independently in each occurrence a C₁₋₂₀ hydrocarbyl moiety which may be substituted 
with a non-interfering substituent; 
R¹¹ is a C₁₋₅₀ hydrocarbyl moiety; 
R¹² is independently in each occurrence a moiety corresponding to one of the formulas 

R¹³ is independently in each occurrence a moiety corresponding to one of the formulas 

Z is independently in each occurrence oxygen or  
 


X is independently in each occurrence a straight- or branched-chain C₁₋₆ alkyl moiety; 
D is independently in each occurrence a divalent C₅₋₂₀ aliphatic moiety containing one or more 
five or six-membered saturated rings; 
a is independently in each occurrence a positive real number of 1 or greater; 
d is independently in each occurrence 1 to 5; and 
e is independently in each occurrence 1 to 5; and 
f is independently in each occurrence an integer of from 2 to 4 with the proviso that for each 

 
unit, if is 2 and one R is ethyl then the other R is hydrogen and if f is 3 or 4 then R is hydrogen; and 

h is independently in each occurrence 0 or 1. 
A process for the preparation of an amine terminated resin composition 
according to Claim 1 which process comprises contacting Components A.) and B.) optionally 

Components C.) and/or D.) wherein Component A.) is employed in an equivalent excess with 
respect to Component B.) such that the terminal moieties of the reaction product are amine 

moieties capable of reacting with an epoxy resin; wherein the combined amount of the amine 
terminated polyalkylene glycol and the diglycidyl ether of polyalkylene glycol, diglycidylether 

of cycloalkylene glycol, or a mixture thereof is sufficient to render the final composition watersoluble 
or miscible; and
 
initiating the reaction by heating the contacted components until an exotherm results and 

thereafter maintaining the temperature at a temperature at which the amine moieties react 
with glycidyl ether moieties until an amine hydrogen equivalent weight of from 140 to 240 is 

achieved, wherein the terminal moieties of the reaction product are amine moieties capable of 
reacting with an epoxy resin; and the composition is water soluble or water miscible. 
The process of claim 5 wherein the Component B.) is continuously added to the 
reaction mixture to control the amine hydrogen equivalent weight and to control the reaction 

such that substantially all of the polyepoxide moieties are endcapped with an amine. 
A stable aqueous coating composition comprising 

I.) water; 
II.) a resin composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 4; and 
III.) a polyepoxide. 
A stable aqueous coating composition of Claim 7 wherein the polyepoxide 
is a water emulsifiable epoxy resin composition comprising: 


A) a polyepoxide comprising (1) the reaction product of i) one or more polyepoxides; ii) 
optionally, one or more polyaromatic hydroxy containing compounds; iii) optionally, one or 

more chain terminators; and iv) one or more nominally difunctional C₁₂₋₃₆ fatty acids or dimers of 
unsaturated fatty acids; or (2) a mixture of one or more polyepoxides, and opti
onally one or 
more reactive diluents; and 
B) a sufficient amount of a surfactant to form a stable emulsion of (A) in water 
wherein the surfactant comprises an alkyl aryloxy poly(propyleneoxy) poly(ethyleneoxy) 

ethanol or a C₁₂₋₃₆ hydrocarbyloxy poly(propyleneoxy) poly(ethyleneoxy) ethanol wherein 
the hydrocarbyloxy moiety is the residue of a C₁₂₋₃₆ fatty alcohol or C₁₂₋₃₆ fatty acid. 
A curing agent according to Claim 1 wherein the polyepoxide component has 
an epoxy equivalent weight of 200 to 450 and the total chlorine content is 5.5 percent by weight or less, and the 

curing agent is optionally contacted with an organic or inorganic acid such that the pH of the 
curing agent in water is 8.5 or greater. 
An article coated with a composition 
comprising the aqueous coating composition of Claim 7 or 8. 
A method of preparing a pigmented coating composition which comprises 

a. contacting a solution of an amine terminated curing agent according 
to Claim 9 in water at a solids level of from 20 to 70 percent by weight 

with one or more pigments with agitation over a period sufficient to 
form a stable pigmented dispersion; and 
b. contacting the stable pigmented dispersion of a. with a polyepoxide 
composition. 
A product prepared by the process of any one of Claims 5 to 6. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
