<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635357</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for forming a shrinkable bag having an integral handle, and a shrinkable handle bag article
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31B1986	B31B1900	B65D7556	B65D3002	B65D7500	B65D3002	B31B1964	B65D7500	B65D7552	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31B	B31B	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B31B	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31B19	B31B19	B65D75	B65D30	B65D75	B65D30	B31B19	B65D75	B65D75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Bag making apparatus and method for forming a 
handle opening (30) in a thermoplastic food packaging shrink 

bag includes cold cutting and hot cutting 
operations as well as heat-sealing the two plies together by a welded 

seam (38) circumscribing the entire cut, 
to form a handle which, on heat shrinking the 

bag, is strong and has an enhanced appearance. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VISKASE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VISKASE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CILIA PHILIP FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUPCIKEVICIUS VYTAUTAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CILIA, PHILIP FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUPCIKEVICIUS, VYTAUTAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and 
apparatus for forming shrinkable bags as used in the 
vacuum packaging of bulky food articles such as whole 
muscle meat products, brick cheese, and poultry such as 
whole turkeys and the like wherein the bag has an 
integral handle forming portion at the bottom or 
"preclosed" end of the bag. More particularly, the 
present invention relates to such a method and apparatus 
which provides an improved handle structure and to a bag 
wherein the integral handle formed on heat shrinking has 
enhanced appearance and strength characteristics. It is customary in food packaging to vacuum 
package bulky food items in heat shrinkable bags. After 
evacuation and sealing, the bag sometimes referred to as 
a "shrink bag", is immersed in hot water or otherwise 
exposed to heat which causes the bag to shrink tightly 
about the food item to create a relatively wrinkle-free 
package. Fresh and frozen turkeys and the like are 
commonly packaged in this fashion for retail sale. Since the resulting package is relatively bulky 
and heavy, a handle to facilitate lifting and carrying 
the package is desirable. A shrink bag having a handle 
portion at the preclosed end of the bag is disclosed in  
 
U.S. Patent No. 5,120,553. This bag has a skirt of heat 
shrinkable material at the preclosed end of the bag. The 
skirt is composed of a part of each of two superimposed 
bag panels so it is two plies thick. There is a slit cut 
in the skirt. On heat shrinking about a product sealed 
in the bag, the skirt shrinks and thickens to provide a 
handle for carrying the resulting package wherein the 
slit forms the handle opening. The easiest and most 
conventional way of making the slit is to use a hot wire 
to burn through both plies of the skirt material. The 
hot wire melts the plies so they weld together at the 
edge of the slit. The result is that the slit edge is a 
fused bead formed from both skirt plies. The fused bead produced by the hot wire burning 
through the plies also acts as a seal to prevent entry of 
liquids or contaminants into the area between the plies. 
However, one drawback of using a hot wire to form the 
slit is that the resulting fused bead at the slit edge 
detracts from the handle appearance on subsequent heat 
shrinking. In this respect, when the bag material 
undergoes heat shrinking the fused bead at the slit edge 
shrinks much less than the surrounding plies. As a 
result, the shrinkage of the surrounding plies draws the 
fused bead together lengthwise so it
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for forming a handle opening 
in a bag composed of a heat shrinkable thermoplastic 

material comprising: 

a) an anvil (50) having a surface for 
receiving said bag in a lay-flat condition wherein a 

front and a rear bag panel (12, 14) are superimposed one on 
another; 
b) a knife (54) movable towards said anvil 
for cold cutting a transverse slit through both of said 

bag panels; and 
c) means (68) for burning segments through 
the panels at each end of said cold cut slit thereby 

extending the length of said cold cut slit and welding said 
panels together along said segments. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 including heat 
sealing means (66) movable against said anvil for fusing said 

panels together to form a seal which circumscribes said 
slit. 
Apparatus as in claim 2 wherein said 
heat sealing means comprises: 


a) a pressure plate (60) movable against 
said anvil surface, said pressure plate having a lower 

face for pressing the superimposed panels of said bag 
against said anvil surface; and 
b) a hot wire (66) on said lower face for 
fusing said panels together to form said seal. 
Apparatus as in claim 3 wherein: 

a) said pressure plate has a slot (62) and 
said knife is movable through said slot and towards said  

 
anvil for cold cutting said slit through both of said bag 

panels; and 
b) said hot wire (66) on said lower face is 
disposed so as to extend about said slot. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 including: 

a) a pressure plate (60) movable against 
said anvil surface, said pressure plate having a lower 

face for pressing the superimposed panels of said bag 
against said anvil surface and a slot opening (62) through 

said lower face; 
b) said knife (54) being movable through 
said slot for cold cutting said slit in said panels; and 
c) said means (68) for burning segments 
through said panels being disposed on said pressure plate 

lower face. 
Apparatus as in claim 5 wherein said 
means for burning segments through said panels comprises 

a hot knife (68) extending from each end of said slot and 
along said lower face. 
Apparatus as in claim 6 wherein said 
hot knife (68) is curved in the plane of said lower face. 
Apparatus as in claim 6 wherein said 
hot knife (68) is an electrically heated wire having an end 

extending up through said slot. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said 
knife (54) has a serrated cutting edge.  

 
A method for forming a handle opening 
in a bag composed of a heat shrinkable thermoplastic 

material comprising the steps of: 

a) arranging said bag in a lay-flat 
condition wherein a front panel of said bag is 

superimposed over a rear panel of said bag; 
b) cold cutting a transverse slit (24) 
through a portion of both of said panels; and 
c) burning a segment through both of 
said panels at each end (29, 31) of said slit to extend the 

length of said slit and to weld said panels together along 
said segments. 
A method as in claim 10 including 
fusing said panels together to form a seal (38) which 

circumscribes said slit including said cold cut portion 
and both of said burned through segments. 
A method as in claim 10 including: 

a) holding said panels to a lay-flat 
condition; 
b) cold cutting said slit by pressing 
a knife edge (54) through both of said panels; and 
c) pressing a hot knife (68) against said 
panels for burning through said panels to form said 

segments and extend the length of said slit. 
A method as in claim 12 wherein 
pressing said hot wire (68) against said panels to form said 

segments occurs prior to cutting said slit with said cold 
knife.  

 
A method as in claim 10 wherein said 
segments are arcuate and said cold cut slit is generally 

rectilinear. 
A heat shrinkable bag (10) with an integral 
handle forming portion comprising: 


a) generally rectangular front and 
rear bag panels (12, 14) of a thermoplastic, heat shrinkable 

film superimposed and laying flat one against the other, said 
panels being generally symmetrical about a longitudinal 

midline; 
b) a transverse heat seal (20) joining said 
panels, said heat seal defining the closed bottom of said 

bag; 
c) each of said superimposed panels 
extending from said heat seal to provide a skirt (22) along 

said closed bottom which is two plies thick over its 
entire extent; 
d) said skirt having a slit (24) which 
extends transverse said longitudinal midline (26), the 

opposite ends (29, 31) of said slit being arcuate and curved 
inwards towards said heat seal; 
 
caracterised by further comprising: 


e) said slit being cold cut through 
both of said plies for a major portion of the slit length 

such that said panels along said major portion are loose 
and unsealed one from another; 
f) said arcuate slit ends (29, 31) each being 
hot cut through both of said panels such that said panels 

along said arcuate ends are fused one to another; and 
g) said skirt upon the heat shrinking 
of the bag about a product sealed therein being biaxially 

shrinkable to form a bag carrying handle wherein said 
slit forms a hand opening for said carrying handle and a  

 
portion of said panels along said cold cut length 

shrinking and curling back over said plies to form a 
relatively smooth appearing handle edge. 
A bag as in claim 15 including a second 
heat seal (38) joining said two panels and circumscribing said 

slit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
