<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644756</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLED RELEASE OF ANTIARRHYTHMIC AGENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K900	A61K900	A61K922	A61K922	A61L3114	A61L3116	A61N136	A61N136	A61N1362	A61N1362	A61N139	A61N139	A61P900	A61P906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61L	A61L	A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	A61P	A61P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61L31	A61L31	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61P9	A61P9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for controlled release, site-specific delivery of therapeutic agents, particularly myocardial agents such as antiarrhythmic agents, comprises a biocompatible polymeric patch (30) with an incorporated therapeutic agent for direct placement at the epicardium of heart (31). The dosage form is fabricated so as to tailor the release characteristics as required by the nature of the physical condition desired to be treated. In a specific illustrative embodiment, ibutilide, a potent, but toxic, Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is incorporated in polyurethane and solvent-cast to form a monolithic drug delivery device which can be co-implanted with an implantable cardiac defibrillator. Advantageously, very low doses of ibutilide administered directly to the epicardium in this manner produces a reduction in defibrillation threshold.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MICHIGAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVY ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINTOV AMNON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVY, ROBERT J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINTOV, AMNON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLED RELEASE OF ANTIARRHYTHMIC AGENTSBackground of the InventionFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a controlled release dosage form for site-specificdelivery of therapeutic agents and, more specifically, to a controlled releasedosage form for direct transmyocardial delivery of antiarrhythmic agents either alone or in combination with cardiac rhythm controlling devices and methods ofmaking and using same. DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ARTLife-threatening cardiac arrhythmias are a medical problem confronting millions of persons daily. Arrhythmias are the principal cause of death following myocardial infarction in hundreds of thousands of other persons. Furthermore, cardiac arrhythmias complicate one-third to one-half of the more than three hundred thousand open heart surgeries carried out annually in the United States.The term "cardiac arrhythmia" is used generally in the art, and herein, to coverconditions of abnormal heart rhythm, and specifically includes ventricular arrhythmia, ventricular fibrillation, and superventricular arrhythmias, such as atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, superventricular tachycardia, multifocal atrial tachycardia, junctional tachycardia, etc.Currently, the millions of persons suffering from cardiac rhythm abnormalities receive oral drug therapy. Examples of frequently prescribed oral antiarrhythmic therapeutic agents are Digitalis, Digitoxin and Procainamide. 

Other antiarrhythmic agents, such as lidocaine or amiodarone are given intrave¬nously. Conventional drug therapy is often ineffective in either preventing or treating life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias due to inadequate drug concentra¬ tions where and/or when needed and adverse side effects of the drugs. In addition to drug therapy, many patients per year now receive intracar- diac electronic pacemakers or implantable countershock devices, such as automatic defibrillator/cardioverter devices, for severe cardiac rhythm distur¬ bances. However, there are significant problems created with surgical implanta¬ tion and subsequent maintenance of electronic pacemakers and implantable countershock devices. In particular, it would be desirable to enhance the function of such devices so that less discharge current is required and the episodes of use are diminished. Lowering the requirements of discharge current would advanta¬ geously increase the lifetime of the battery and could facilitate miniaturization.In general, patients with implantable countershock devices are also treated with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An arrangement for controlling the heart rhythm of a patient, the
arrangement comprising: electrode means for conducting an electrical signal to or from the heart of the patient; and implantable controlled release means for releasing a therapeutically
effective amount of an antiarrhythmic agent to the heart of the patient.
2. The arrangement of claim 1 wherein said implantable controlled release means comprises a substrate formed of a biocompatible polymeric material incorporating said antiarrhythmic agent therein, said substrate being adapted for direct application to the heart of the patient for effecting transmyocardial delivery of said antiarrhythmic agent.
3. The arrangement of claim 2 wherein said therapeutically effective amount of said antiarrhythmic agent is between about 5% and 40% by weight of said substrate. 4. The arrangement of claim 2 wherein said substrate comprises at least one pharmacologically inert filler having a water solubility characteristic which differs from that of said antiarrhythmic agent.
5. The arrangement of claim 4 wherein the pharmacologically inert
filler is selected from the group consisting of inulin, polyethylene glycol, and dimethyl tartrate. 


 6. The arrangement of claim 2 wherein said biocompatible polymeric
material is nonbiodegradable and selected from the group consisting of poly¬
urethane, polydimethylsiloxane, ethylene vinyl acetate, polymethyl methacrylate, polyamide, polycarbonate, polyester, polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, polytetrafluoroethylene, and cellulose acetate. 7. The arrangement of claim 1 wherein said electrode means
comprises tissue engagement means for engaging the heart tissue of the patient. 8. The arrangement of claim 7 wherein said engagement means is configured as an annular conical tip arranged on a distal end of said electrode means.
9. The arrangement of claim 1 wherein said electrode means further comprises a pacing electrode aπanged on said electrode means.
10. The arrangement of claim 1 wherein said electrode means comprises sensing means disposed on a distal end thereof for sensing a predeter¬
mined condition of the heart of the patient. 11. The arrangement of claim 1 wherein said electrode means comprises a plurality of defibrillator/cardioverter electrodes. 12. The arrangement of claim 2 wherein said biocompatible polymeric material is biodegradable and selected from the group consisting of collagen, polylactic-polyglycolic acid, and polyanhydride.
13. The arrangement of claim 1 wherein said antiarrhythmic agent is a prolonger of action potential duration and is selected from the group consisting of
artilide, clofilium, ibutilide, and sotalol. 


 14. The aπangement of claim 1 wherein said substrate is in the form of a film.
15. The aπangement of claim 14 wherein the film is multilamellar. 16. The arrangement of claim 1 wherein said substrate is in the form of
a molded cardiac contacting component attached to said electrode means.
17. A cardiac rhythm controlling device comprising: cardiac contact means for conducting an electrical signal to the heart of a
living being; and controlled release dosage means for producing a controlled release of an antiarrhythmic agent.
18. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 17 wherein said controlled release dosage means comprises a substrate of a biocompatible polymeric material which has incorporated therein a therapeutically effective amount of an antiarrhythmic agent.
19. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 17 incorporating a pharmacologically inert filler having a water solubility different from that of said antiarrhythmic agent. 20. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 19 wherein said pharmacologically inert filler is selected from the group consisting of inulin, polyethylene glycol, and dimethyl tartrate.
22. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 17 wherein said
biocompatible polymeric material is nonbiodegradable. 


 23. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 22 wherein said
nonbiodegradable biocompatible polymeric material is selected from the group
consisting of polyurethane, polydimethylsiloxane, ethylene vinyl acetate, polymethyl methacrylate, polyamide, polycarbonate, polyester, polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, polytetrafluoroethylene, and
cellulose acetate.
24. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 17 wherein said antiarrhythmic agent is a prolonger of action potential duration.
25. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 17 wherein said antiarrhythmic agent is selected from the group consisting of artilide, clofilium, ibutilide, sotalol. 26. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 17 wherein said antiarrhythmic agent is ibutilide. 27. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 17 wherein said antiarrhythmic agent is artilide. 30. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 17 wherein said antiarrhythmic agent is sotalol. 31. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 18 wherein said substrate is in the form of a film adhered to said cardiac rhythm controlling device.
32. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 31 wherein said film is multilammelar. 


 33. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 31 wherein said film has a thickness on the order of 20 μm to 1 cm.
34. The cardiac rhythm controlling device of claim 18 wherein said substrate is in the form of a molded cardiac contacting component attached to the cardiac rhythm controlling device.
35. A method of treating cardiac rhythm disturbances in a living being
have a heart, said method comprising:
placing a polymeric matrix incorporating a therapeutically effective amount of at least one antiarrhythmic agent in direct contact with the epicardium of the heart of the living being in conjunction with a cardiac rhythm controlling device.
36. The method of claim 35 wherein the cardiac rhythm controlling device is an implantable cardioverter-defibrillation device.
37. The method of claim 35 wherein the cardiac rhythm controlling device is an implantable pacemaker.
38. A method of treating or preventing ventricular or atrial fibrillation in a living being having a heart, the method comprising the step of placing a
polymeric matrix incorporating a therapeutically effective amount of at least one antiaπhythmic agent of the type which is a prolonger of action potential duration in direct contact with the epicardium of the heart of the living being in conjunc- tion with a cardiac rhythm controlling device. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
