<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642316</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PAPER TOWEL DISPENSING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H3500	B65H3510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H35	B65H35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAMES RIVER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAMES RIVER CORPORATION OF VIRGINIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUTZ RUDOLPH W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINERT LAWRENCE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUTZ, RUDOLPH, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINERT, LAWRENCE, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PAPER TOWEL DISPENSING SYSTEMTECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates to a system for dispensing individual sheet material segments from a roll of sheet material. The invention has particular application to the manual dispensing of individual paper towels from a roll of such towels interconnected by perforated tear lines.BACKGROUND ARTMany dispenser devices exist or are known in the prior art for dispensing paper toweling. Commonly, dispensing is from a roll of toweling, which may be either perforated or non-perforated, the dispenser operative to form tear lines at spaced locations in the toweling whereby individual towels are manually removed from the remainder of the toweling.The use of perforated tear lines in rolls of sheet material such as paper toweling is a widely employed, well known expedient per se. A search of the prior art located the following United States patents which may be considered representative of the state of the prior art: 5,041,317, issued August 20, 1991, 3,575,328, issued April 20, 1971, 4,646,364, issued March 3, 1987, 3,467,250, issued September 16, 1969, 4,199,090, issued April 22, 1980, 714,652, issued November 25, 1902, 4,121,004, issued October 17, 1978, and 3,583,558, issued June 8, 1971.DISCLOSURE OF INVENTIONThe system of the present invention relates to an improved approach for dispensing individual segments of 

sheet material, such as paper toweling, from a roll of such material. The invention has particular application to the dispensing of individual paper towels from a roll of paper towels. The invention is characterized by its simplicity, reliability, and relatively low cost of manufacture.The system of the invention includes a dispenser housing defining an interior and an opening in communication with the interior.A roll of sheet material having side edges is positionable in the dispenser housing interior. The sheet material has a plurality of perforated tear lines dividing the sheet material into a plurality of sheet material segments including an end-most segment having a terminal end.The roll of sheet material has a principal axis, i.e. the axis of rotation, and the perforated tear lines are parallel to one another and extend across the sheet material between the side edges. At least a portion of each tear line is disposed at an angle to the principal axis whereby the terminal end of the end-most segment of the sheet material will incrementally emerge from the opening in the housing during dispensing of the sheet material from the roll.Nip defining means is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. In combination: a dispenser housing defining an interior and an opening in communication with said interior; a roll of sheet material having side edges positionable in said dispenser housing interior, said sheet material having a plurality of perforated tear lines dividing said sheet material into a plurality of sheet material segments including an end-most segment having a terminal end, said roll of sheet material having a principal axis and said perforated tear lines being parallel to each other and extending across the sheet material between said side edges, with at least a portion of each tear line disposed at an angle to said principal axis whereby the terminal end of the end-most segment of said sheet material will incrementally emerge from said opening in said housing during dispensing of said sheet material from said roll; nip defining means operatively associated with said housing defining a nip through which said sheet material passes when a pulling force is applied to said end-most segment and exerting a drag force on said sheet material in opposition to said pulling force whereby the end-most segment will tear along the tear line separating the end-most segment from an adjacent segment and present a portion of said adjacent segment externally of said housing for subsequent manual grasping by an individual.
2. The combination according to Claim 1 wherein said nip defining means includes nip rollers, at least one of said nip rollers having a deformable surface, said nip rollers being in tight engagement and said deformable surface of said at least one nip roller being 


deformed by another of said nip rollers to a degree sufficient to impede rotational movement of said nip rollers and to create said drag force.
3. The combination according to Claim 1 wherein said nip defining means includes nip rollers and means to impede rotational movement of said nip rollers.
4. The combination according to Claim 3 wherein said means to impede rotational movement of said nip rollers comprises frictional brake means in operative association with at least one of said nip rollers.
5. The combination according to Claim 1 wherein said roll of sheet material comprises a roll of paper toweling, said perforated tear lines being substantially straight and extending across the paper toweling at an acute angle relative to said principal axis.
6. The combination according to Claim 5 wherein said acute angle is in the range of from about 5 degrees to about 30 degrees.
7. The combination according to Claim 6 wherein said acute angle is between about 15 degrees and about 20 degrees.
8. A dispenser for dispensing sheet material from a roll of sheet material having a terminal end and side edges, said sheet material additionally having a plurality of perforated tear lines dividing said sheet material into a plurality of sheet material segments including an end-most segment partially defined by said terminal end, said roll having a principal axis and said perforated tear lines being parallel to each other and extending across the sheet material between said side 


edges with at least a portion of said tear line disposed at an angle to said principal axis, said dispenser including: a housing defining an interior for accommodating said roll of sheet material and an opening in communication with said interior, said opening accommodating the sheet material terminal end whereby said terminal end may be grasped and a pulling force applied thereto by a user to rotate said roll and remove sheet material therefrom; and nip defining means associated with said housing defining a nip through which said sheet material passes when a pulling force is applied to the end-most segment of said sheet material adjacent to said terminal end, said nip defining means exerting a drag force on said sheet material in opposition to said pulling force whereby the end-most segment will tear along the tear line separating the end-most segment from an adjacent segment as said tear line passes through said nip defining means, said nip defining means being so positioned relative to said opening in said housing as to present a portion of said adjacent segment externally of said housing for subsequent manual grasping by a user when said end-most segment totally separates from said adjacent segment.
9. The dispenser according to Claim 8 wherein said nip defining means includes nip rollers, at least one of said nip rollers having a deformable surface, said nip rollers being in tight engagement and said deformable surface of said at least one nip roller being deformed by another of said nip rollers to a degree sufficient to impede rotational movement of said nip rollers and to create said drag force. 


 10. The dispenser according to Claim 8 wherein said nip defining means includes nip rollers and means to impede rotational movement of said nip rollers.
11. The dispenser according to Claim 10 wherein said means to impede rotational movement of said nip rollers comprises frictional brake means in operative association with at least one of said nip rollers.
12. A method of separating individual segments from a web of sheet material divided into segments by a plurality of perforated tear lines, said perforated tear lines being spaced from one another and extending across the width of said web, and said segments including an end-most segment, said method comprising the steps of: pulling said end-most segment by applying a pulling force on said end-most segment in a predetermined direction; during said pulling step, transporting said end-most segment through a nip defined by nip rollers; exerting a drag force on said end-most segment with said rollers as said end-most segment passes through said nip, said drag force being opposed to said pulling force; utilizing said opposed pulling and drag forces to tear said web of sheet material along the perforated tear line separating the end-most segment from an adjacent segment as said end-most segment is transported through said nip; and completing the tearing of said perforated tear line separating the end-most segment from said adjacent segment after a portion of the adjacent segment has passed through said nip. 


 13. The method according to Claim 12 including the steps of pressing said nip rollers together and deforming at least one of the nip rollers to create said drag force.
14. The method according to Claim 12 including the step of applying frictional forces to impede rotation of said nip rollers.
15. A roll of sheet material having side edges positionable in the interior of a dispenser housing, said housing defining an opening in communication with said interior, and said sheet material cooperable with nip defining means operatively associated with said housing and having a plurality of perforated tear lines dividing said sheet material into a plurality of sheet material segments including an end-most segment having a terminal end, said roll of sheet material having a principal axis and said perforated tear lines being parallel to each other and extending across the sheet material between said side edges, with at least a portion of each tear line disposed at an angle to said principal axis whereby the terminal end of the end-most segment of said sheet material will emerge incrementally from said opening in said housing during dispensing of said sheet material from said roll when a pulling force is applied to said end-most segment, said sheet material being so constructed that a drag force exerted by said nip defining means on said sheet material in opposition to said pulling force will result in the end-most segment being torn along the tear line separating the end-most segment from an adjacent segment and present a portion of said adjacent segment externally of said housing for subsequent manual grasping by an individual.
16. The roll according to Claim 15 wherein said 


sheet material comprises paper toweling, said perforated tear lines being substantially straight and extending across the paper toweling at an acute angle relative to said principal axis.
17. The roll according to Claim 16 wherein said acute angle is in the range of from about 5 degrees to about 30 degrees.
18. The roll according to Claim 17 wherein said acute angle is between about 15 degrees and about 20 degrees. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
