<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631326</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor memory device and method of manufacturing same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L21329	H01L2966	H01L29739	H01L2102	H01L29861	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L21	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor device has an n⁺ source region (7), a 
first n⁻ channel region (5), a barrier layer (6), 

a second n⁻ channel region (5'), 
a pair of n⁺ drain regions (2), an insulating film (4), 

and a pair of metal 
electrodes (3) over the respective n⁺ drain regions (2), 

all successively 
disposed on an upper surface of an n⁺ crystal 

substrate (8). The drain 
regions (2) and the metal electrodes (3) jointly provide a 

storage electric 
capacitance. A source electrode (10) is disposed on the 

lower surface of 
the n⁺ crystal substrate (8). Bit information can 

be written and read at 
a high speed by tunneling through the barrier layer (6). According to a 

method of manufacturing the above semiconductor device, the n⁺ source 
region (7), the first n⁻ channel region (5), 

the barrier layer (6), the second 
n⁻ channel region (5'), the n⁺ drain regions (2), 

the insulating film (4), and 
the metal electrodes (3) are successively deposited on the n⁺ 

crystal 
substrate (8) in a growing apparatus. The metal electrodes (3) 

and the source 
electrode (10) are formed by depositing a metal and a low-resistance 

semiconductor selectively or both in one location within the growing 
apparatus. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZAIDAN HOJIN HANDOTAI KENKYU
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZAIDAN HOJIN HANDOTAI KENKYU SHINKOKAI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIZAWA JUN-ICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIZAWA, JUN-ICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor
device for use in a logic integrated circuit, a semiconductor memory,
or the like which is incorporated in an electronic computer, a main
storage device thereof, an office-automation device, a personal
computer, a game device, or the like, the semiconductor device having
a structure capable of reading and writing data at high speed and
suitable for high-density integration, and a method of manufacturing
such a semiconductor device which has a potential barrier controllable
by an external bias to generate an optimum potential barrier.Recent years have been seeing a rapid progress in
high-speed semiconductor devices and highly integrated semiconductor
devices. Particularly, efforts that have heretofore been made to
produce highly integrated semiconductor devices have resulted in a
mass production of 16-Mbit memories, and have also revealed a 64-Mbit
memory prototype.However, conventional attempts to achieve a higher
degree of integration for semiconductor devices have been
encountering some problems. Specifically, simply reducing the size
of the structure of a present semiconductor memory configuration of
the MOS (metal oxide semiconductor) type or VMOS (V-groove metal
oxide semiconductor) type would cause the number of electrons that
contribute to the operation of the semiconductor memory to be reduced 
closely to a noise level, making it difficult to control the
operation of the semiconductor memory. This drawback is serious with
respect to 64-Gbit memories where the number of electrons involved in
the memory operation is about 100 or less. The problem is not only
limited to semiconductor memories, but also applies to semiconductor
devices which are affected by the number of operating electrons.To alleviate the above shortcomings, the inventor has
already proposed a semiconductor memory composed of basic memory cells
each comprising a static inductor transistor (SIT) (see IEEE Journal
of solid-state circuits, vol. SC-13, No. 5, October 1978, p. 622,
"High Speed and High Density Static Induction Transistor Memory").SIT memories are classified by circuit operation into
a two-terminal memory (ping-pong memory) and a three-terminal memory
(purse memory). Semiconductor memories are basically brought under
three categories, i.e., a serial memory or shift register, a random-access
memory (RAM), and a read-only memory (ROM), by the manner in
which they store in formation. The inventor has disclosed in the
above publication that the semiconductor memories of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor device comprising:

a semiconductor substrate (8);
a source electrode (10) disposed on the lower surface of said
semiconductor substrate (8);
a source region (7) disposed on the upper surface of said
semiconductor substrate (8);
a channel region (5, 5') disposed on said source region (7);
a drain region (2) disposed on said channel region (5, 5');
an insulating layer (4) disposed on said drain region (2);
an electrode (3) disposed on said insulating layer (4); and
a very thin barrier layer (6) disposed in said channel region
(5, 5') between said source region (7) and said drain region (2), said

very thin barrier layer (6) having a potential developed therein which
is controllable by static induction effect caused by an external source-drain

bias voltage so that, because the drain region (2), the insulating
region (4) and the electrode (3) disposed on the insulating layer form a

storage capacitance capable of storing carriers, said carriers being injected
from the source region (7) through the barrier layer (6) by

tunneling into the drain region (2).
A semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein said
drain region (2) is formed within said channel region (5'), and a charge

storage layer formed in said drain region (2) stores carriers
injected from said source region (7) through said barrier layer (6)

by tunneling.
A semiconductor device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
said very thin barrier layer (6) is disposed between said source region

(7) and said drain region (2) with the said channel region being
virtual channel layers formed by depletion layers at each junctions.
A semiconductor device according to anyone of the claims
1 to 3, wherein the distance between said drain

region (2) and the saddle of the intrinsic gate potential (9) developed
by said very thin barrier layer (6) is equal to or less than a mean free 

path of carriers.
A semiconductor device according to anyone of the claims 1
to 4, wherein said very thin barrier layer (6) is a very thin homojunction

structure.
A semiconductor device according to anyone of the claims 1
to 4, wherein said very thin barrier layer (6) is a very thin heterojunction

structure.
A semiconductor device according to anyone of the claims 1 to 6, further
having a mesa structure and comprising a gate region (11') formed on said gate mesa

and connected to said very thin barrier layer (6), said gate
region (11') applying an external voltage as gate bias voltage to

control the potential of said very thin barrier layer (6).
A semiconductor device according to claim 6,
wherein said very thin

heterojunction develops a quantum well potential (12).
A semiconductor device according to anyone of the claims 1
to 4, wherein said very thin barrier layer (6) comprises a very thin

insulating layer.
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device according to claim 1
using a growing apparatus, comprising the steps of:


forming a source region (7) on a semiconductor substrate (8);
forming a first channel region (5) on said source region (7);
forming a barrier layer (6) on said first channel region (5);
forming a second channel region (5') on said barrier layer
(6);
forming a drain region (2) on said channel region (5');
forming an insulating layer (4) on said drain region (2);
forming a surface electrode (3) on said insulating layer (4)
over said drain region (2); and
forming a source electrode (10) on said semiconductor substrate
(8);
the arrangement being such that said surface electrode (3) and
said source electrode (10) are formed by depositing a metal and a low-resistance

semiconductor selectively or both in one location within the 
growing apparatus.
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device according
to claim 10, wherein after said forming an insulating layer (4) on

said drain region (2), in successively adding the steps of:

forming a mesa structure, and
forming a gate region (11') on said gate mesa;
said step of forming a mesa structure being carried out by an
etching process with a radiation at a low temperature.
A method according to claim 10 or 11, wherein said step
of forming said source region (7) includes the step of previously

surface- treating a GaAs crystal substrate in an AsH
3
 atmosphere at a
predetermined temperature.
A method according to claim 11, wherein said etching
process comprises a molecular layer etching process with a chlorine gas

adsorbed to the surface of a GaAs crystal substrate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
