<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632997</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spinal surgery retractor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1702	A61B1702	A61B1756	A61B1756	A61B1788	A61B1788	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical spinal retractor (10) comprises two arms (16,18) 
which define a first plane and means (12) for 

moving the arms (16,18) relative to one another and for holding 
the arms (16,18) apart against collapsing pressure. A pair of 

retractor blade (28) are attached to the distal ends of 
the two arms (16,18). Each retractor blade (28) has an 

angle arm section (30) between a retractor plate (32) 
and a connector section (34). The angle arm section (30) 

causes the retractor plate (32) to be off-set from the 
connecting section (34) whereby in use, the arms (16,18) of the 

retractor (10) are removed from the top edges of the wound, 
thus allowing greater latitude in applying various 

mechanical devices to the spine. The angled arms (30) 
enable the retractor blades (28) to be placed deep within the 

wound and thus apply distraction forces where they are 
needed the most (near the spine itself) to spread the 

muscles away from the spine and make it easier to see. 
On either side of the retractor blade vertical 
fingers (42) project. The fingers (42) on the lower side 

project deeper into the wound and those on the upper 
side project up out of the wound. The distances between 

the fingers provide further lateral angulation of 
instruments used in the wound itself for the placement 

of the spinal fixation devices. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COKER WESLEY L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COKER, WESLEY L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COKER WESLEY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COKER, WESLEY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a surgical retractor and more specifically to a 
surgical spinal retractor designed to facilitate certain delicate surgical procedures. The present 
invention relates more specifically to a retractor that will better aid in the exposure of the 
thoracic and the lumbar spine during certain hardware insertion procedures. It is now well recognized in the medical profession that back pain and pain in the 
extremities is often a direct result of pressure on the nerves of the spinal cord due to narrowing 
of the spinal column or misalignment of the vertebrae. The spine can be compressed by 
encroaching arthritic spurs, ruptured discs, enlarging soft tissue masses such as tumors, and 
pressure from infectious processes. In years past, these conditions of the spine were surgically 
corrected by bone decompression and soft tissue removal in association with a procedure called 
a fusion. Strips of grafted bone were placed adjacent to the vertebral segments causing them 
to grow together or "fuse". The resultant rigidity and realignment prevented further pressure 
on the nerves and stabilized the spinal column. In certain cases metal rods and hooks were 
attached to the bones to hold them in a specific position while they fused together. In the past four to five years, these procedures have changed and there has been a 
dramatic increase in the use of spinal instrumentation devices in the treatment of this problem. 
Briefly, these devices involve the application of rather large screws, bolts, bars, and sometimes  
 
even rods in order to stabilize the spine. However, there has been an ongoing struggle to obtain 
adequate exposure of the bone structures surrounding the nerves making up the spinal column 
in order to insert the stabilizing devices. Because of the delicate nature of the surgery and the 
critical demand for visualization and placement of the stabilizing hardware, a need has developed 
for a retractor which allows better visual access to the spine and mechanical access to the bone 
structure where the hardware is being inserted. In today's market, many different types of retractors are available which employ rack and 
pinion devices for the purpose of powering the retractor mechanism and holding the tissues 
apart. However, the retractor blades (the part of the distraction mechanism that actually enters 
into the wound and holds the muscle apart) currently available are a hinderance to visualizing 
the bones of the vertebral column and physical access to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical retractor including: 
   a pair of arms (16 and 18) defining a first plane, 

   means (14) for maintaining the arms within the said 
first plane and substantially parallel to each other, 

   means (21, 24) for moving one of the arms (18) 
relative to the other arm (16) and for holding the one 

arm apart from the other arm against collapsing 
pressure, 

   each of the arms having a proximal end (16', 18') 
and a distal end (16'', 18''), 

   a pair of retractor blades (28), 
   each of the retractor blades (28) having a 

connector section (34), an angle arm (30) and a 
retractor plate (32), 

   one of the retractor blades (28) being connected at 
the said connector section to the distal end of one of 

the arms and the other of the retractor blades connected 
to the distal end of the other of the arms, the 

connector sections (34) being substantially co-planar 
with the said first plane, the angle arms (32) being 

fixedly attached to the connector section, and the 
retractor plate (32) extending in a plane substantially 

transverse to the said first plane; and 
   wherein the angle arms (30) cause the retractor 

plates (32) to be off-set from the connector sections 
(34) whereby the retractor plates extend beyond the 

distal end of the arm to which the retractor blade (28) 
is attached and down into a wound created by an incision 

when the retractor is employed in a surgical procedure. 
A surgical retractor according to Claim 1, 
wherein the retractor plate (32) has an axis (40) 

passing substantially through the point of connection 
between the angle arm (30) and the retractor plate (32), 

said axis being substantially parallel to the connector 
section (34), and wherein the retractor plate (32) has 

 
sets of fingers (42) projecting outwardly from the axis 

(40) of the plate, one set of fingers (42) projecting 
generally in the direction of the connector section and 

another set of fingers projecting substantially in the 
opposite direction. 
A surgical retractor comprising: 
   a first arm (16) and a second arm (18) each arm 

having a proximal end (16', 18') and a distal end (16'', 
18''); 

   the first arm and the second arm each lying 
substantially in the same plane; 

   a cross bar (14); 
   the proximal end (16') of the first arm (16) being 

connected to the cross bar (14), 
   means (20) slidably connecting the proximal end 

(18') of the second arm (18) to the cross bar (14); 
   means (21, 24) enabling the second arm (18) to 

traverse the cross bar (14), thereby being movable 
selectively toward and away from the first arm; 

   said means further enabling the second arm to be 
fixed in selected spacial relationship to the first arm; 

   a first retractor blade (28) connected to the 
distal end (16'') of the first arm (16), 

   a second retractor blade (28) attached to the 
distal end (18'') of the second arm (18); 

   the retractor blades each having a connector 
section (34), an angle arm (30) and a retractor plate 

(32); 
   the connector sections (34) of the first and second 

retractor blades being connected to the distal ends 
(16'', 18'') of the first and second arm, respectively; 

   each retractor having an axis of symmetry (40) 
which lies in a plane substantially parallel to the 

plane in which the first and second arms lie; and 
   the retractor plates being spaced beyond the distal 

ends of the arms and below the plane in which the first 
and the second arms lie. 
A surgical retractor blade kit including a 
pair of retractor blades (28) designed for use with a 

surgical retractor wherein said surgical retractor 
includes means for spreading a pair of arms (16 and 18) 

and for holding the arms in a fixed relationship, the 
rectrator blades (28) of said retractor blade kit being 

designed for attachment to the end of each arm; each 
retractor blade of the retractor blade kit including a 

retractor plate (32) and means off-setting the location 
of the retractor plate from the point of attachment 

between the retractor blade (28) and the arm (16, 18) so 
that the retractor plate extends beyond the end of the 

retractor arm and, when the retractor arm is held in a 
horizontal position, below the retractor arm, the off-setting 

means including an angle arm (30) having an axis 
along the length thereof and the retractor plate having 

an axis along the length thereof, the axis of the angle 
arm and the axis of the retractor blade lying in 

substantially the same plane and at an angle to each 
other. 
Apparatus according to Claims 2, 3 or 4, 
wherein the or each retractor plate has fingers with 

gaps between the fingers. 
Apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein there 

are two sets of the fingers, one set projecting upwardly 
and another set projecting downwardly. 
Apparatus according to Claim 6, wherein there 
are fewer fingers projecting upwardly than downwardly. 
A surgical retractor as claimed in Claim 6, 
wherein the gaps between the fingers of the set of 

fingers projecting generally toward the connector 
section are larger than the gaps between the fingers of 

the set of fingers projecting away from the connector 
section. 
Apparatus according to any of the preceding 
claims, including an anchor peg projecting substantially 

perpendicularly from at least one of each retractor 
plates. 
Apparatus according to Claim 10, wherein the 
direction of projection of the anchor peg (60) is away 

from the other arm of the retractor. 
Apparatus according to Claim 6, including 
means for adjusting the plate relative to a remainder of 

the blade so that the depth of the plate relative to the 
retractor can be varied. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
