<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652437</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved method for determining lipid bound sialic acid in plasma or serum.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33574	G01N33574	G01N3392	G01N3392	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The amount of lipid bound sialic acid in a blood plasma or 
serum sample may be determined by an improved method, which 

may be automated, involving the following steps to be 
performed simultaneously on the sample and a standard 

consisting of commercially available n-acetyl nueraminic acid 
(NANA); diluting with a buffer; mixing the diluted sample; 

adding a mixture of a chlorinated lower aklyl hydrocarbon and 
a lower alkyl alcohol; treating by mixing and centrifuging to 

yield a substantially clear upper phase; treating the upper 
phase with a color development reagent; mixing; boiling the 

admixture; cooling the admixture; and determining the amount 
of lipid bound sialic acid present in the sample by comparing 

the optical density of the sample to the optical density of 
the NANA. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ONCO MEDICS INTERNATIONAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ONCO MEDICS INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATOPODIS NONDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATOPODIS, NONDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns an improved method for the 
determination of lipid bound sialic acid in plasma or serum 
which is less expensive, less time consuming, less variable 
from sample to sample, and less dependent upon the skill and 
experience of the person performing the test. Additionally 
this invention concerns an improved test kit which contains a 
unique standard which will allow greater reproducibility of 
test results and more consistency throughout the world. Much work has been done which indicates that elevated sialic 
acid content in blood sera of a patient is an indication of 
the presence of cancer. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,146,603 
to Davidson, et al. discloses and claims a fairly complex 
series of procedures whereby elevated sialic acid content is 
a determinant with respect to cancer specific determinations. MacBeth and Bekesi, Cancer Res. 22:1170-1176 (1962) measured 
plasma glycoproteins and found galactose and mannose values 
were seen in breast cases without metastases. Kloppel, et 
al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sc. 74:3011-3013 (1977) reported 2.5-fold  
 
increases of serum sialic acid glycolipids in mice 
bearing transplantable mammory carcinomas and 2-fold 
increases in human carcinoma patients. Kloppel, et al., Am. 
J. Vet. Res. 39:1377-1380 (1978) also reported increases of 
sialic acid in 93% of 24 dogs. In leukemia AKR/J mice, 
Lengle, J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 62:1565-1567 (1979) found 
increased lipid bound sialic acid in their plasma and thymic 
lymphocytes. Lipid bound sialic acid levels were found 
increased in plasma and erythrocytes of humans bearing 
melanomas. Portouklian, et al., Biochem. Biophys. Res. 
Commun. 85:916-920 (1978). Chromatographic separation and 
purification on columns was followed by evaluation on 
chromatoplates. Silver, et al., Cancer 41:1497-1499 (1978); 
Cancer Res. 39:5036-5042 (1979) have reported elevated serum 
sialic acid values in melanoma patients that were 
significantly related to the tumor burden. However, 36% of 
patients with observable tumors showed no elevated serum 
sialic acid. Hogan-Ryan, et al., Br. J. Cancer 41:587-592 
(1980) reporting on total bound serum sialic acid in patients 
with breast cancer found elevations that corresponded with 
tumor stage.  One specific method over which the present invention is an 
improvement is disclosed in the American Association for 
Cancer Research Annual Meeting PROCEEDINGS Vol 21, March 1980 
as Abstract No. 728 by Katopodis, et al. This method 
requires that a 100 ul plasma sample (reduced
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of extracting lipid bound sialic acid from human 
blood plasma or serum and determining the amount of lipid 

bound sialic acid in a sample of human blood plasma or serum 
which comprises the following steps: 


(a) diluting a predetermined volume of a blood plasma 
or serum sample with buffer solution to a volume about six 

(6) times that of the predetermined volume of the sample; 
(b) mixing the diluted sample for a suitable period of 
time to obtain a substantially homogeneous sample; 
(c) adding to the sample a mixture of a chlorinated 
lower alkyl hydrocarbon and a lower alkyl alcohol, the volume 

of the mixture added being about twenty (20) times the 
predetermined volume of the blood plasma or serum sample, and 

the volume ratio of chlorinated hydrocarbon to alcohol in the 
mixture being about 1:1; 
(d) mixing the resulting admixture for a suitable 
period of time to dissolve matter present in the sample in 

the chlorinated hydrocarbon/alcohol/buffer mixture; 
(e) centrifuging the admixture for a suitable period of 
time at a suitable speed to permit formation of a 

substantially clear upper phase; 
 

(f) separately recovering from the clear upper phase so 
formed a predetermined volume of the upper phase; 
(g) adding to the predetermined volume of the clear 
upper phase a color development reagent; 
(h) mixing the resulting admixture; 
(i) boiling the admixture; 
(j) cooling the admixture; 
(k) mixing, then centrifuging said admixture, 
separating the clear supernatant from the precipitated 

material; and 
(l) determining the amount of lipid bound sialic acid 
present in the supernatant and thereby the amount present in 

the blood plasma or serum sample. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (a) the 
predetermined volume is about 50 ul and is diluted with about 

250 ul of buffer solution. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (b) the 
mixing comprises vortexing for at least 5 seconds. 
A method according to Claim 2, wherein in step (c) the 
volume of the added mixture is about 1 ml. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (c) the 
lower alkyl alcohol is methanol, ethanol, propanol, n-butanol, 

isopropanol, isobutanol or isoamyl alcohol. 
A method according to Claim 5, wherein in step (c) the 
lower alkyl alcohol is methanol. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (c) the 
chlorinated lower alkyl hydrocarbon is chloroform. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (d) the 
mixing comprises vortexing for at least 10 seconds. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (e) the 
centrifuging is carried out at about 3500 rpm for at least 5 

minutes. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (f) the 
separately recovering comprises removing the upper phase from 

the lower phase. 
A method according to Claim 2, wherein in step (f) the 
predetermined amount of the upper phase is about 200 

microliters. 
A method according to Claim 2, wherein in step (g) the 
predetermined volume of the color development reagent is 

about 1 ml. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (g) the 
color development reagent is resorcinol. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (h) the 
mixing comprises vortexing for about 5 seconds. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (i) the 
boiling of the mixture is carried out for about 15 minutes. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (j) the 
mixture is cooled for about 5 minutes. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein in step (k) the 
mixing is carried out by vortexing for 5 seconds and the 

centrifuging is carried out for 5 minutes at 3500 rpm. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein in step (1) the 
amount of lipid bound sialic acid is determined by reading at 

580 nm the extracted blue color present in the supernatant, 
determining the amount of lipid bound sialic acid by 

comparing the reading obtained at 580 nm to that obtained for 
a standard having a known concentration of lipid bound sialic 

acid and applying the formula 
LSA [mg/100 ml plasma]
 = AxB/C  
where A= the known concentration of the standard, B= the 

optical density of the sample and C= the optical density of 
the standard. 
A method according to Claim 18, wherein the known 
standard is tested exactly the same as, and simultaneously 

with, the sample in accord with the method of Claim 1. 
A method according to Claim 18, wherein the standard is 
commercially available n-acetyl neuraminic acid (NANA). 
A method of diagnosing cancer in a human subject which 
comprises determining the amount of lipid bound sialic acid 

in a sample of the subject's blood plasma or serum according 
 

to the method of Claim 1 and comparing the amount so 
determined with values obtained for subjects known to have 

cancer. 
A method of diagnosing cancer in a human subject which 
comprises determining at regular time intervals the amount of 

lipid bound sialic acid in a sample of the subject's blood 
plasma or serum according to the method of Claim 1 and 

comparing the amounts so determined with amounts previously 
obtained for the subject. 
A cancer diagnostic kit comprising a container of a 
mixture of chlorinated lower alkyl hydrocarbon and lower 

alkyl alcohol (1:1 v/v); a container of resorcinol reagent; a 
container of buffer solution; a container of commercially 

availbable n-acetyl neuraminic acid having a known 
concentrate of lipid bound sialic acid; and written 

instructions for treating the sample and the standard. 
A cancer diagnostic kit according to Claim 23, wherein 
the lower alkyl alcohol is methanol and the lower alkyl 

hydrocarbon in chloroform. 
In a method for determining the amount of lipid bound 
sialic acid in a sample of human blood plasma or serum 

according to the method of Claim 1 the treatment of the known 
standard at the same time and in the same manner as the 

sample with the effect that discrepancies in the test results 
attributable to variations in the techniques used in the test 

of the sample and the standard are eliminated. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
