<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657016</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND ARRANGEMENT FOR KEEPING A MAGAZINE OF ICE CUBES AND LIQUID IN A LOOSE AND LUMP-FREE CONDITION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25C500	F25C518	F25C500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25C	F25C	F25C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25C5	F25C5	F25C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A procedure is being described for keeping a magazine of ice cubes (3) in sea water (4) in a loose and lump-free condition, and this is achieved by subjecting the magazine (3, 4) to a physical mixing influence creating a strong movement in the ice cubes and sea water mixture. The mixing influence is achieved by injecting air into the magazine (3, 4) creating air bubbles effecting the mixing movement. An arrangement for carrying out the procedure is described. This above mentioned procedure can be carried out by modifying an arrangement known per se for transporting fish from a storage magazine, in which the following steps are carried out: the injection of air into the magazine, discharging a mixture of ice cubes and water into an intermediate storage tank, after which the mixture is transported to a processing area by subjecting the intermediate storage tank means to an over-pressure.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RONNEBERG ASBJORN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MMC AS RONNEBERG, ASBJORN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RONNEBERG ASBJORN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROENNEBERG, ASBJOERN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns a procedure and an 
arrangement for storing a mixture of ice cubes and water 
in a magazine, and, when needed, collecting and 
transporting ice cubes to an area of use, especially for 
vessels such as fishing vessels. The main purpose of the 
present invention is to keep the ice cubes in a loose and 
lump-free condition. The invention also concerns the 
abovementioned arrangement integrated in an application 
designed to collect and transport the ice cubes to the 
processing area. The present invention is especially 
concerned with plants for producing and storing ice for 
industrial purposes. One is in this context primarily 
thinking of food articles, and especially fisheries, such 
as ocean fisheries, where a catch consisting of fish, 
shellfish, etc., must be refrigerated by ice in order to 
preserve its quality. The ice itself, with which this invention is 
intended to be used in relation to, can either be brought 
along from ashore in a separate magazine on board, or the 
vessel can have its own ice machine installed, which 
produces the necessary ice from seawater. The present 
invention shall in the ensuing be described in connection 
with the mentioned sea water ice machine, but shall not  
 
limit itself to this. At present there are several refrigeration systems 
in operation on board fishing vessels. One of these is the 
socalled RSW-system (Refrigerated Sea Water), which 
involves that seawater is chilled in a separate unit, and 
when the catch is taken onboard from e.g. trawl or seine, 
the chilled seawater is added so that the fish is kept 
refrigerated. This system, however, has one disadvantage; 
when the fish dies, its osmotic qualities cease, i.e. the 
quality that separates the salt from the water when the 
fish is alive. This quality causes the meat in seawater 
fish to taste basically unsalted, but when the osmosis 
ceases the salt will penetrate the fishmeat and make it 
taste salt. This will in turn result in a deteriorated 
quality of the fish. Also fodder producers who manufacture fish meal for 
the breeding industry, using fish raw materials, demand 
that the fish meat should be without salt. For such raw 
materials it is therefore necessary to use ice 
refrigeration. Ice may be manufactured from fresh water in 
conventional ice machines located on board the vessel. 
This, however, means that the fresh water must be brought 
from ashore, and also that the vessel must be equipped 
with a storage tank with a grab device for collecting the 
ice, as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Procedure for storing a mixture of ice cubes (3) and water (4) in a magazine, 
and, when needed, collecting and transporting ice cubes to an area of use, 

especially for use on vessels such as fishing vessels,
characterized
 in bringing the ice cubes and water into strong movement 
by injecting a fluid like air or water with a high pressure pulse into the magazine 

with time intervals, so that the ice cubes are kept in a loose and lumpfree 
condition. 
Procedure in accordance with claim 1,
characterized
 in that the fluid is air and the air injection is effected 
with regular time intervals of approximately 1-3 hours, and most preferably with 

time intervals of 3 hours. 
Procedure in accordance with claims 1 and 2,
characterized
 in that the fluid is air and the air is injected in horizontal 
direction and/or in vertical direction from the bottom of the magazine. 
Procedure in accordance with any of the preceding claims,
characterized
 by the water being sea water. 
Procedure in accordance with any of the preceding claims,
characterized
 in that the fluid is air and the air is injected through a 
pipe (44) which is arranged in the bottom portion of the magazine, and into the 

magazine through a number of outlet nozzles (45) in the pipe. 
Procedure in accordance with any of the preceding claims,
characterized
 in that the fluid is air and the air is injected into the magazine 
through a number of branch pipes (46,47,48) which are distributed over 

the bottom area of the magazine, in that every branch pipe comprises a number 
of outlet nozzles (45) for the air. 
Procedure in accordance with any of the claims 1-6,
characterized
 in that the ice cubes are collected by sucking an ice 
cube/water mixture from the magazine, the fluid is air, and the air injection and 

the suction of ice-water-mixture are effected in proportionally unequal height levels  
 

in the magazine. 
Procedure in accordance with any of the preceding claims,
characterized
 in that when the mixture separates in an upper ice cube 
layer and a lower water layer, the suction is effected in a border area between 

the layers of water and ice cubes. 
Procedure in accordance with claim 1,
characterized
 in that the strong movement is provided by sucking a 
volume of water from the magazine and into a pipe (42), which water-volume 

thereafter is re-injected into the magazine. 
Procedure in accordance with claim 1,
characterized
 by when using a magazine volume of 100 m
3
, and an ice 
cube/sea water share of the magazine of approximately 60%, the injection capacity 

of the air blasts being 900 m
3
 air per hour, and preferably the high pressure 
air injection pulse lasting for a total of 15 seconds with a total amount of air injection 

of 6 m
3
. 
Arrangement for effecting the method of claims 1-10, comprising a magazine 
of ice cubes (3) and water (4), means (44) for delivering fluid to said magazine, 

and means (42,15) for collecting ice cubes from said magazine,
characterized
 by 

said means for delivering fluid comprising an injection pipe (44) being 
positioned in the bottom portion of the magazine and comprising a number of 

outlet nozzles (45), and pumping means (29) for injecting high pressure air or 
water pulses to the pipe, and 
said means for collecting ice cubes comprising a suction pipe (42) positioned 
in the magazine for sucking a mixture of ice cubes and water from a border 

area between the layers of water and ice cubes, which border area establishes 
after each agitating, by the high pressure pulses, of the ice cubes/water-mixture. 
Arrangement in accordance with claim 11,
characterized
 by the injection pipe (44) comprising a number of separate 
branch pipes (46,47,48) which from a branching point are distributed over 

the bottom area of the magazine, and each branch pipe comprises a number of  
 

outlet nozzles (45) for injecting high pressure air. 
Arrangement in accordance with claim 11,
characterized
 by the suction pipe comprising a flexible hose (42) 
which more or less horizontally extends inwards in the magazine, and the hose 

(42) is arranged to follow the varying height levels of the border area between 
ice cubes and water, depending on the volume of the magazine, by means of 

hinging the hose at the inlet (57) of the magazine to enable it to swing upwards 
and downwards in accordance with the level variations in the magazine, 

and that the hose comprises a float gadget (58) to enable it to follow the varying 
height levels of the border area. 
Arrangement in accordance with any of the preceding claims 11-13, 
where the arrangement is integrated with an arrangement comprising a rising 

pipe (15) including an intermediate storage tank (30), and where the intermediate 

storage tank (30) by means of a pressure transmitter (29) in consecutive order: 

a) is subjected to vacuum in order to suck a mixture of ice cubes and water 
up from the magazine through the pipe (15) and fill up the tank (30), 
b) after which the inlet side of the tank (30) is subjected to over-pressure to 
discharge the ice cubes and water mixture further through the pipe (27) to the 

area of use, 
characterized
 by the arrangement comprising a separate pipe (40) for 
injecting the air into the magazine and the rising pipe (15) constituting said 

suction pipe (42), and the injection pipe (44) and the suction pipe (42) being arranged 
in proportionally unequal height levels in the magazine. 
Arrangement in accordance with claim 14,
characterized
 by the suction pipe (42) being applied in a border area 
between the layers of water and ice cubes. 
Arrangement in accordance with claim 14 or 15,
characterized
 by a pipe (35) being connected between the pressure 
transmitter (29) and the pipe (15), the said pipe (35) comprising in consecutive 

order: 

a) a branching to an outlet (36) through a valve (34) that by readjustment, by 
means of the pressure transmitting function of the pump (29), in consecutive  

 
order can produce an over pressure and a vacuum in the pipe (35), 
b) a valve (28), from which the pipe (35) branches out into a branch pipe 
(37) leading directly into the separate pipe (40) and further into the magazine, 

and a branch pipe (37) leading into the inlet area of the tank (30). 
Arrangement in accordance with the preceding claims 11-16,
characterized
 by means for controlling the fluid injecting process and 
the suction process in such a way that the ensuing stages are carried out consecutively: 


1) injection of high pressure air pulse into the magazine, 
2) sucking of an ice/water mixture into the tank (30) from the magazine by 
subjecting the tank (30) to vacuum, and 
3) pressing the ice/water to the area of use by subjecting the tank (30) to 
over-pressure. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
