<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632867</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR RECOVERING POLLUTANTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B09C100	B09C100	E21B4312	E21B4312	E21B4334	E21B4338	F04B4700	F04B4708	F04B4910	F04B4910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B09C	B09C	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B09C1	B09C1	E21B43	E21B43	E21B43	E21B43	F04B47	F04B47	F04B49	F04B49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED REMEDIATION TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOGUEN ROBIN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOGUEN, ROBIN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Descrjption Methods And Apparatus For Recovering PollutantsTechnical Field This invention generally relates to pumping systems. More specifically this invention relates to pumping systems for removing a first liquid, such as spilled hydrocarbons, from the surface of a second liquid, such as ground water.Background Art When hydrocarbons or similar polluting substances spill, they can seep into the ground. Such pollutants have a lower specific gravity than water and generally are immiscible in water. Consequently, they accumulate or float on the surface of the ground water as they permeate the ground and contaminate the surrounding aquifer.Existing recovery apparatus uses different techniques for recovering such pollutants from ground water. Generally these techniques rely on different physical and chemical properties of the ground water and pollutants. One such technique, called "skimming", relies on the different specific gravities of the ground water and pollutants and the immiscibility of the two liquids.The skimming process generally includes the drilling of one or more wells. Each well provides access to the ground water and pollutants that accumulate in the well to facilitate the removal of the pollutants. The removed pollutant may be processed on site or stored in containers for removal to an authorized disposal site. It is important that the cleanup apparatus discriminate the pollutant and noncontaminated ground water to minimize the storage or processing requirements of materials recovered as pollutants. 

 The cleanup process may also include ground water processing particularly as a condition precedent to returning ground water to the aquifer. As such processing may include aerating or filtering steps, it also is important that the apparatus discriminate ground water from pollutants to assure that materials processed as ground water are essentially pollutant free.The following patents disclose two embodiments of recovery apparatus used in such skimming procedures: 4,497,370 (1985) Breslin4,663,037 (1987) Breslin The Breslin (370) patent discloses recovery apparatus that utilizes a hollow housing covered by a semi-permeable membrane. The membrane passes liquid hydrocarbons, but blocks the flow of ground water into the housing. The liquid hydrocarbons then can be moved to a receptacle by suction applied to the housing, by pressurization of the well casing or using submersible pumps.In accordance with the Breslin (037) patent a recovery unit lowered into a well sinks in the hydrocarbons, but
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Clai s
1. Apparatus for pumping a product floating on a medium to a product discharge point, said apparatus comprising: A. discharge chamber means for conveying the medium to a medium discharge point,
B. pumping means having an inlet located in the medium and an outlet connected to said discharge chamber means for periodically pumping the medium into said discharge chamber means under pressure,
C. product conduit means for conveying product floating on the medium to the product discharge point, and D. variable volume chamber means for pumping product through said product conduit means, the volume of said variable volume chamber means being varied in response to pressure fluctuations of the medium in said discharge chamber means whereby periodically operating said pumping means causes said variable volume chamber means to transport the product to the product discharge point.
2. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim l wherein said pumping means includes submersible pumping means and control means for periodically energizing said submersible pumping means.
3. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said control means includes first and second sensor means for generating a signal indicating the presence of the medium at upper and lower levels respectively and pump energizing control means for energizing said submersible pump when the medium is at the upper 


 level and thereafter de-energizing said submersible pump means when the medium falls to the lower level.
4. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said product conduit means includes inlet and outlet conduit means connected through said discharge chamber means to said variable volume chamber means.
5. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 4 wherein each of said inlet and outlet conduit means includes a one-way valve means for permitting the transfer of product into and from said variable volume chamber means, respectively.
6. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein said pumping means includes first and second sensor means for generating a signal indicating the presence of the medium at upper and lower levels respectively and wherein said inlet conduit means includes pipe means connected at one end to said inlet conduit one-way valve means, the other end of said pipe means having an opening positioned above said first sensor means. 7. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 4 additionally including product receiving means and medium receiving means, said outlet conduit means having outlet pipe means with one end connected to said outlet conduit one-way valve means and the other end connected to said product receiving means and said discharge chamber means having pipe means connected to said medium receiving means. 8. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein said pumping means includes first and second sensor means for generating a signal indicating the presence of the medium at upper and lower levels respectively and wherein said inlet conduit means defines a passage between the upper level and said variable volume chamber means for receiving product when the medium 


 is proximate the upper level said outlet conduit means defines a passage for conveying the product from said variable volume chamber means directly to said product receiving means. 9. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein said pumping means includes first and second sensor means for generating a signal indicating the presence of the medium at upper and lower levels respectively and wherein said inlet conduit means includes reservoir means for receiving product when the medium is proximate the upper level and means for conveying the product from said reservoir means to said variable volume chamber means.
10. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said discharge chamber means and said pumping means are located along an axis and said variable volume chamber means is coaxially located in said discharge chamber means and wherein said pumping means includes submersible pumping means and control means for periodically energizing said submersible pumping means.
11. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein said control means includes first and second sensor means for generating a signal indicating the presence of the medium at upper and lower levels respectively and pump energizing control means for energizing said submersible pump when the medium is at the upper level and thereafter de-energizing said submersible pump means when
*
 the medium falls to the lower level. 12. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein said variable volume chamber means includes: i. cylinder means with an open end and a closed end, and 


 ii. biased barrier means slidable within said cylinder and biased toward said open end thereby to define a variable pumping volume between said barrier means and said closed end, said product conduit means communicating with said variable pumping volume.
13. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein said barrier means includes slidable piston means in said cylinder and spring means for biasing said piston means toward said open end of said cylinder.
14. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein said open end of said cylinder faces said outlet of said pumping means. 15. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein said piston means carries peripheral sealing means intermediate said piston means and said cylinder.
16. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein said product conduit means includes inlet and outlet conduit means connected through said discharge chamber means and said cylinder means to said variable pumping volume.
17. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 16 wherein each of said inlet and outlet conduit means includes one- way valve means for permitting the transfer of product into and from said variable pumping volume respectively.
18. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 17 wherein said inlet conduit means includes pipe means connected at one end to said inlet conduit one-way valve means, the other end of said pipe means having an opening positioned above said first sensor means.
19. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 18 additionally including product receiving means and medium 


 receiving means, said outlet conduit means having outlet pipe means with one end connected to said outlet conduit one-way valve means and the other end connected to said product receiving means and said discharge chamber means having pipe means connected to said medium receiving means.
20. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 16 wherein said inlet conduit means includes reservoir means for receiving product when the medium is proximate the upper level and means for conveying the product from said reservoir means to said variable volume chamber means.
21. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 20 wherein said reservoir means includes means forming an annular chamber extending from said discharge chamber means and having an entrance at a level disposed in the product when said pumping means is inactive.
22. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 21 wherein said outlet conduit means includes one-way valve means for permitting the transfer of product from said variable pumping volume and said conveying means includes one¬ way valve means for permitting the transfer of product into said variable pumping volume from said reservoir means.
23. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said discharge chamber means includes a first chamber portion aligned along a first axis with said pumping means, a second chamber portion aligned along a second axis with said variable volume chamber means and a third chamber portion for establishing a passage between said first and second portions.
24. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 23 wherein said variable volume chamber means includes bladder means 



 with an opening formed therein and means for supporting said bladder means for defining an inner bladder chamber facing said inlet and outlet conduit means, said second discharge chamber portion including means for supporting said bladder means and said inlet and outlet conduit means.
25. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 24 wherein said pumping means includes submersible pumping means and control means for periodically energizing said submersible pumping means whereby the medium is pumped into the second portion of said discharge chamber means thereby to reduce the volume of said bladder means.
26. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 25 wherein each of said inlet and outlet conduit means includes one¬ way valve means for permitting the transfer of product into and from said bladder means respectively.
27. Pumping apparatus as recited in claim 26 wherein said control means includes first and second sensor means for generating a signal indicating the presence of the medium at upper and lower levels respectively and pump energizing control means for energizing said submersible pump when the medium is at the upper level and thereafter de-energizing said submersible pump means when the medium falls to the lower level thereby to reduce the volume of said bladder means when said pumping means is energized and to permit the volume of said bladder means to increase when said pumping means is deenergized.
28. A method for displacing a first liquid floating on a second liquid to a discharge point comprising the steps of: 


 A. periodically pumping a portion of the second liquid thereby to depress the second liquid from a first to a second level and to produce a pressurized discharge of the second liquid in a discharge path,
B. locating a variable volume chamber means in the discharge path, and
C. establishing a path from the first liquid to the discharge point through said variable volume chamber means whereby pressure variations in the discharge path during said periodic pumping alternately contract and expand the variable volume chamber means thereby to pump the first liquid to the discharge point. 29. A method as recited in claim 28 wherein said periodic pumping reduces the level of the second liquid and includes the steps of monitoring the level of the second liquid, starting said pumping when the second liquid reaches a first level and terminating said pumping when the second liquid reaches a second level.
30. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein said periodic pumping additionally includes the step of restarting said pumping when the second level reaches the first level.
31. A method apparatus as recited in claim 28 wherein said path establishment step includes the establishment of a one-way flow path for transferring the first liquid to the discharge point. 32. A method as recited in claim 31 wherein said path establishment step includes the establishment of a one-way inlet path for conveying the first liquid to the variable volume chamber means and of a one-way 


 outlet path for conveying the first liquid from the variable volume chamber means to the discharge path. 33. A method as recited in claim 32 wherein said periodic pumping reduces the level of the second liquid and includes the steps of monitoring the level of the second liquid, starting said pumping when the second liquid reaches a first level and terminating said pumping when the second liquid reaches a second level. 34. A method as recited in claim 33 wherein said periodic pumping additionally includes the step of restarting said pumping when the second level reaches the first level.
35. A method as recited in claim 33 including the step of position the entrance to said one way flow path at a position above the first level.
36. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein said step of establishing a path includes the step of accumulating product in a reservoir in the path while the first liquid is proximate the first level, the expansion of the variable volume chamber means moving the first liquid from the reservoir.
37. A method as recited in claim 36 wherein said path establishment step includes the establishment of a one-way flow path for transferring the first liquid from the reservoir to the discharge point.
38. A method as recited in claim 37 wherein said path establishment step includes the establishment of a one-way inlet path for conveying the first liquid to the variable volume chamber means from the reservoir and of a one-way outlet path for conveying the irst liquid from the variable volume chamber means to the discharge path. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
