<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635187</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR HALFTONING AND INVERSE HALFTONING AND THE TRANSMISSION OF SUCH IMAGES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T100	G06T100	G06T500	G06T500	G06T900	G06T900	H04N140	H04N140	H04N1405	H04N1405	H04N141	H04N141	H04N152	H04N152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T1	G06T1	G06T5	G06T5	G06T9	G06T9	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for obtaining the inverse halftone or gray scale image of a halftone image is disclosed in which the halftone image can be comprised of clustered dots or dispersed dots, and it is not necessary to have knowledge of the screening methods or parameter. This method involves adaptive run-length filtering over at least one of rows and colums and diagonals of said halftones. A method for transmitting and receiving a gray scale image in a compressed and decompressed manner, respectively, is also disclosed for efficient facsimile transmission of images. This method involves transmitting a local mean continuous tone image and an error image.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RES CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RESEARCH CORPORATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICELI CHRISTOPHER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER KEVIN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICELI, CHRISTOPHER, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER, KEVIN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionMETHODS AND APPARATUS FOR HALFTONING AND INVERSE HALFTONING AND THE TRANSMISSION OF SUCH IMAGESPAgygRorø QF THE INVENΓIQE. The present invention relates generally to the halftoning, inverse-halftoning, and facsimile transmission of images. More particularly, the present invention relates to a method of and system for rendering an inverse- halftone from a binary image and methods and apparatus for efficiently transmitting halftone images and for recovering the gray scale image transmitted by inverse-halftoning the received halftone image.Many printing devices are not capable of reproducing gray scale images because they are bi-level. As a result, the binary representation of a gray scale image is a necessity in a wide range of applications such as laser printers, facsimile machines, lithography (newspaper printing), liquid crystal displays and plasma panels. Gray 
scale images are typically converted to binary images using halftone techniques. Halftoning renders the illusion of various shades of gray by using only two levels, black and white, and can be implemented either digitally (facsimile machines, laser printers) or optically (newspaper printing) .Inverse-halftoning is the method by which an approximation of a gray scale image is reconstructed from a binary, halftone version of the original image. Digital halftoning is the process of transforming an N-bit gray scale image into a 1-bit binary image perceived to contain a gray scale. Digital inverse-halftoning is the reconstruction of a gray scale image from its halftone rendering.It is desirable to utilize an inverse-halftoning process on a 1-bit image in many applications. In some situations, the only image available is a halftone rendering and, in order to reconstruct a gray scale image of that halftone rendering, an inverse-halftoning method must be utilized. In other cases, the system receiving the image is capable of displaying a binary display (printers, facsimile devices) . Situations may also exist in which it is desirable for halftone images to be displayed on multilevel devices. For example, in comparison to laser and dot matrix printers, the dynamic range of CRT displays is large, causing the display of binary images to appear "harsh" or "loud" when viewed. Also the picture quality of 

 binary images when viewed on multilevel devices can be greatly improved. By generating gray scale approximations 

to the binary images, the level of low pass filtering that must be performed by the eye on the image can be significantly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for the inverse-halftoning of dispersed dot and dispersed dot halftones, comprising the steps of:
adaptive run-length filtering over at least one of rows and columns and diagonals of said halftones and combining the run-length estimates into an averaged continuous tone image;
filtering said averaged continuous tone image; and
removing any impulses and periodicities remaining in the filtered averaged continuous tone image.
2. The method of claim 1, further including the step of dynamically remapping said filtered averaged continuous tone image after removing any of said remaining impulses and periodicities to produce an inverse-halftone image.
3. A method for the inverse-halftoning of dispersed dot and dispersed dot halftones, comprising the steps of:
adaptive run-length filtering over rows and columns and diagonals of said halftones and combining the run-length estimates into an averaged continuous tone image; 


 removing any impulses and periodicities remaining in the filtered averaged continuous tone image; and
dynamically remapping said averaged continuous tone image after removing any impulses and periodicities to produce an inverse-halftone image.
.4. The method of claim 3, further including the step of filtering said averaged continuous tone image prior to removing any impulses and periodicities in said averaged continuous tone image.
5. A method for the inverse-halftoning of dispersed dot and dispersed dot halftones, comprising the steps of:
adaptive run-length filtering over rows and columns and diagonals of said halftones and combining the run-length estimates into an averaged continuous tone image;
filtering said averaged continuous tone image; and
dynamically remapping said filtered averaged continuous tone image to produce an inverse-halftoning image.
6. The method of claim 5, further including the step of removing any impulses and periodicities in the filtered averaged continuous tone image. 


 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said filtering step uses an adaptive spatial low pass filter.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said adaptive run-length filter utilizes two-dimensional regions.
9. A method for the inverse-halftoning of dispersed dot and dispersed dot halftones, comprising the steps of:
generating a halftone image of said continuous tone image to be encoded using a predetermined halftone screen;
subdividing said continuous tone image into blocks having a predetermined size;
calculating a local mean continuous tone image for each of said blocks;
generating a mean halftone image for each of said calculated local mean continuous tone images using said predetermined halftone screen; and
generating an error image by obtaining the difference between said halftone image and said mean halftone image.
10. The method of claim 9, further including the steps of transmitting said local mean continuous tone image for each of said blocks and transmitting said error image. 


 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said transmitting steps use standard encoding techniques.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein said transmitting steps are performed sequentially.
13. The method of claim 9, further including the steps of storing said local mean continuous tone image for each of said blocks and storing said error image.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein said predetermined halftone screen is a blue noise mask.
15. The method of claim 11, further including the steps of receiving and decoding said transmitted and encoded local mean continuous tone image for each of said blocks and said transmitted and encoded error image to produce said continuous tone image.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein said step of decoding comprises the steps of:
producing a block mean halftone image from said received local mean continuous tone image for each of said blocks using said predetermined halftone screen; and
adding said block mean halftone image for each of said blocks to said received error image to generate said halftone scale image. 


 17. The method of claim 16, further including the step of at least one of printing and storing said halftone scale image.
18. A method for the transmitting and receiving of a continuous tone image, comprising the steps of:
encoding said continuous tone image using a predetermined halftone screen;
transmitting said encoded continuous tone image;
receiving said encoded continuous tone image; and
decoding said encoded continuous tone image using said predetermined halftone screen to reproduce said continuous tone image.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein a first facsimile machine having the predetermined halftone screen stored in a memory encodes said continuous tone image and transmits said encoded continuous tone image to a receiving facsimile machine, having said predetermined halftone screen stored in a memory which decodes said encoded continuous tone image using said predetermined halftone screen to reproduce said continuous tone image.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein said predetermined halftone screen is a blue noise mask. 


 21. A system for transmitting and receiving a halftone image, comprising:
a first facsimile device having a memory in which a predetermined halftone screen is stored;
means contained in said first facsimile device for encoding said halftone image and for transmitting said encoded halftone image;
a second facsimile device having a memory in which said predetermined halftone screen is stored; and
means contained in said second facsimile device for receiving said transmitted encoded halftone image and for decoding said received encoded halftone image.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein said predetermined halftone screen is a blue noise mask.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein said second facsimile device further contains at least one of the means for printing and storing said halftone image.
24. A method for encoding and decoding a digital image, comprising the steps of:
halftoning said digital image using a blue noise mask;
encoding said half oned digital image; 


 transmitting said encoded halftoned digital image;
receiving said encoded halftoned digital image;
decoding said encoded halftoned digital image using said blue noise mask to reproduce said halftoned digital image; and
inverse-halftoning said halftoned digital image to reproduce said digital image.
25. The method of claim 2, wherein said inverse- halftoning method is applied to a b-bit halftone system.
26. The method of claim 18, wherein said inverse- halftoning method is applied to a b-bit halftone system.
27. The method of claim 2, wherein said inverse- halftoning method is applied to color images.
28. The method of claim 18, wherein said inverse- halftoning method is applied to color images.
29. The method of claim 9, wherein said method for encoding continuous tone images is applied to a sequence of gray images, color images and halftone images. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
