<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654657</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method for measuring polarization dependent loss.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J400	G01J400	G01M1100	G01M1100	G01N2121	G01N2121	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01J	G01M	G01M	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J4	G01J4	G01M11	G01M11	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Polarization dependent loss (PDL) of an optical component is computed in a 
deterministic method that requires only four measurements, each having a unique input 

state of polarization. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAVIN DAVID LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYMAN BRUCE MITCHELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLTER GREGORY MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAVIN, DAVID LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYMAN, BRUCE MITCHELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLTER, GREGORY MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of optics, and more particularly, to a 
method and apparatus for measuring the polarization dependent loss of an optical 
component. When an optical signal is input to an optical component, an insertion loss 
occurs. A portion of the insertion loss varies as a function of the input polarization 
state and is known as polarization dependent loss (PDL). PDL causes signal 
degradation in optical transmission systems. Many optical components, such as 
isolators and couplers, exhibit PDL. It is desirable to accurately measure the PDL of 
an optical component to determine its suitability for use in an optical system. Conventional techniques have allowed measurement of PDL to an accuracy of 
approximately 0.01 dB. However, in an optical transmission system which spans 
thousands of kilometers and includes many optical components located along the 
transmission path, a PDL of 0.01 dB per component can have a substantial adverse 
affect on signal quality. Thus, it is desirable to increase the accuracy with which PDL 
can be measured so that optical components may be more accurately screened to 
determine suitability for use in such an optical system. Conventional PDL measurement techniques use a test set that includes a laser, 
a manual polarization controller, and a power meter. The polarization controller is 
used to manually adjust the polarization of an optical signal from the laser through a 
wide range of polarization states. The power meter is then used to monitor the output 
of the device under test (DUT) for maximum and minimum signal transmission. PDL 
measurement error can be attributed to three primary sources: (1) the stability of the 
laser, (2) the fiber bend loss associated with adjustments of the manual polarization 
controller, and (3) PDL of the power meter (detector). Commonly owned, copending U.S. Pat. Appl. No. 07/999,080, filed December  
 
31, 1992, and titled "Depolarizer," discloses a means for decreasing the PDL of the 
power meter. A depolarizer (an unpumped erbium doped fiber) is interposed between 
the DUT and the power meter. The depolarizer converts the polarized light into 
unpolarized amplified spontaneous emission of a longer wavelength. The unpolarized 
amplified spontaneous emission reduces the effect of the PDL of the power meter. While the system disclosed in the '080 application has led to an improvement 
in PDL measurement techniques, a flaw remains. Current PDL measurement 
techniques are empirical. For example, the polarization
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for computing polarization dependent loss of an optical 
component, the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) generating an optical input signal; 
(b) polarizing said input signal to produce a polarized signal having a first 
known polarization state; 
(c) transmitting said polarized signal through said optical component to 
yield an output signal, wherein a transmissivity of the optical component is represented 

by a Mueller matrix, an intensity T0,a of said output signal being a product of first row 
elements m₀₀, m₀₁, m₀₂, and m₀₃ of said Mueller matrix and a Stokes vector representing 

said polarized signal; 
(d) measuring said intensity T0,a of said output signal; 
(e) repeating steps (b)-(d) for second, third and fourth polarization states to 
yield respective intensities T0,b, T0,c and T0,d, wherein each of said first, second, third 

and fourth polarization states are unique and one of said polarization states is not 
linear; 
(f) computing values for said first row elements m₀₀, m₀₁, m₀₂, and m₀₃ of 
said Mueller matrix using said intensities T0,a, T0,b, T0,c and T0,d; and 
(g) computing the polarization dependent loss (PDL) of the optical 
component from said first row elements m₀₀, m₀₁, m₀₂, and m₀₃ of said Mueller matrix. 
The method of claim 1, wherein step (g) of computing comprises using 
an equation: 


The method of claim 2, further comprising a step of: 
   normalizing each said intensity T₀ prior to step (f) to eliminate test 

measurement errors from the computations of step (g). 
The method of claim 3, wherein said step (d) of measuring comprises: 
   depolarizing said output signal to produce a depolarized output signal; and 

   measuring an intensity of said depolarized output signal with a power meter. 
The method of claim 4, wherein said step of depolarizing comprises 
passing said output signal through an unpumped doped optical fiber to produce from 

said output signal unpolarized amplified spontaneous emission of longer wavelength; 
and wherein said step of measuring comprises measuring said intensity of said 

spontaneous emission with a power meter. 
A method for computing polarization dependent loss of an optical 
component using a test set, the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) generating an optical input signal; 
(b) polarizing said optical input signal to produce a polarized signal having 
a first known polarization state; 
(c) tapping off a portion of said polarized signal to produce a test signal and 
a reference signal; 
(d) measuring an intensity of each of said test signal and said reference 
signal for said first known polarization state with a power meter; 
(e) repeating steps (b)-(d) for second, third and fourth polarization states, 
wherein each of said first, second, third and fourth polarization states are unique and 

one of said polarization states is not linear; 
(f) introducing the optical component into the test set so that said test signal 
is passed through the optical component prior to step (d); 
(g) repeating steps (a)-(e); 
(h) using, for said first polarization state, said intensity of said reference 
 

signal and said test signal measured prior to step (f), and said reference signal 
measured after step (f), to normalize said intensity of said test signal measured after 

step (f), said normalized intensity T0,a representing an intensity loss at said first 
polarization state resulting from said optical component; 
(i) repeating step (h) for second, third and fourth polarization states to yield 
respective normalized intensities T0,b, T0,c and T0,d; 
(j) computing values for first row elements m₀₀, m₀₁, m₀₂, and m₀₃ of a 
Mueller matrix from said normalized intensities T0,a, T0,b, T0,c and T0,d; and 
(k) computing the polarization dependent loss (PDL) of the optical 
component from said first row elements m₀₀, m₀₁, m₀₂, and m₀₃ of said Mueller matrix. 
The method of claim 6, wherein step (k) of computing comprises using 
an equation: 


An apparatus for measuring polarization dependent loss of an optical 
component, comprising: 

   laser means for generating an optical signal; 
   polarization means for receiving said optical signal and for producing a 

polarized signal having one of four known polarization states, wherein each of said 
polarization states is unique and one of said polarization states is not linear; 

   connection means for providing said polarized signal to the optical component; 
   meter means for receiving said polarized signal from the optical component and 

for determining an intensity of said polarized signal; 
   actuation means, coupled to said polari
zation means, for causing said 
polarization means to cycle through said four known polarization states; and 

   controller means, coupled to said meter means, for computing the polarization 
dependent loss of said optical component based on said measured intensities of said 

 
polarized signals for said four known polarization states. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said meter means comprises: 
   a depolarizer configured to depolarize said polarized signal to produce a 

depolarized signal; and 
   a power meter coupled to said depolarizer to measure an intensity of said 

depolarized signal. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said depolarizer comprises an 
unpumped doped optical fiber having a length sufficient to produce from said polarized 

signal unpolarized amplified spontaneous emission of longer wavelength, said 
spontaneous emission forming said unpolarized signal. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said connection means comprises: 
   an optical splitter to tap off a portion of each polarized signal to produce a 

reference signal, each reference signal being provided to said power meter. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said laser means comprises: 
   a distributed feedback laser; 

   a first optical isolator coupled to receive said optical signal from said laser; 
   an interference bandpass filter coupled to receive said optical signal from said 

first optical isolator; and 
   a second optical isolator coupled to receive said optical signal from said 

interference bandpass filter. 
The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said polarization means comprises: 
   a first polarization controller coupled to receive said optical signal from said 

laser means, said polarization controller having a fixed polarizer, a quarter waveplate, 
and a half waveplate; and 

   a second polarization controller interposed between said laser means and said 
 

first polarization controller and configured to be manually adjustable to maximize an 
optical signal being transmitted through said fixed polarizer of said first polarization 

controller. 
The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said actuation means comprises: 
   an electric motor configured to change orientation of said waveplates of said 

first polarization controller to cycle said polarization means through said four known 
polarization states. 
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said electric motor is controlled by 
said controller means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
