<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656216</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Estimation of flow and detection of breathing in CPAP treatment
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1600	A61M1600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M16	A61M16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flow generator (10) comprises an electric motor (12) that drives a 
turbine (14). The turbine (14) provides a supply of air for the 

administration of CPAP treatment, transported to the patient's mask by 
an air delivery tube (not shown). The motor (32) receives electrical 

power from a power supply (16). Also comprising a part of the flow 
generator (10) is a motor controller (18), which issues a control signal 

(20) to the power supply (16) to control the motor speed and thus the 
speed of the turbine (14) and, in turn, the flow rate in the air 

delivery tube. Furthermore, a speed feedback signal (22) is input to the 
motor controller (18) to provide a signal upon which speed regulation 

can be based. One of the interconnecting wires between the power supply 
(16) and the motor (12) is provided with a current sensing resistor 

(24). This resistor therefore detects current demanded by the motor 
(12), represented as the voltage appearing across the resistor (24). 

That voltage is sensed and input to a differential amplifier (26) thus 
producing an output signal representative of motor current (and thus 

also motor power). This output signal is then provided to a low-pass 
filter circuit (28) having an upper limiting frequency of, say, 20 Hz. 

The 
low-pass filter circuit (28) removes high frequency electrical noise, 

and also tends to average the signal. The filtered signal is then 
passed through a high-pass filter (30), typically with 0.5 Hz cut-off, 

to remove the non-respriatory components. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RESMED LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RESMED LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRYDON JOHN WILLIAM ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRYDON, JOHN WILLIAM ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods and apparatus for the estimation of flow and the
detection of breathing (respiration) in continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP)
treatment.The administration of CPAP is common in the treatment of Obstructive Sleep
Apnea (OSA) syndrome and Upper Airway Resistance syndrome. The fundamental
disclosure of CPAP is made in the specification of PCT/AU82/00063, published under WO
82/03548. CPAP treatment effectively acts as a pneumatic splint of a patient's upper
airway by the provision of a positive air pressure at approximately 10 cm H2O, although
pressures in the range of approximately 2-20 cm H2O are encountered. More sophisticated
forms of CPAP, such as bi-level CPAP and autosetting CPAP, are described in US Patent
No. 5,245,995. Common to all forms of CPAP is a nose, mouth or face mask fitted to a
patient having connection via a flexible air delivery tube to an air flow generator.In more advanced forms of CPAP treatment, the measurement of airflow in the air
delivery tube is used to detect the avenge volume breathed by the patient and to determine
whether that person is inhaling (inspiring) or exhaling (expiring). Currently this is done
using an in-line sensor to measure flow directly, or by measuring the pressure drop across a
restriction in the air delivery tube (or alternatively, the pressure drop along the air delivery
tube). These methods require the use of additional transducers and, in some cases,
additional wiring or tubing to connect the transducer to the appropriate point in the circuit.A method for controlling the supply of pressurised respiratory gas is disclosed in
EP-A-0505232, which teaches a method for controlling an installation for supplying
pressurised respiratory gas including a low-inertia turbine and means for controlling the
turbine supplying a control signal to the turbine as a function of a given set pressure value,
comprising the step of detecting periodic variations in the speed of the turbine,
characterised in that it comprises the step of modifying the set value accordingly in order to
modulate the pressure supplied by the turbine.In this specification any reference to a "mask" is to be understood as embracing a
nose, mouth or combination nose and mouth (face) mask suitable for the 
administration of CPAP treatment. Furthermore, a "mask" can include nasal prongs
(cannulae) that are inserted into the nares at the entrance to the airway.
An apparatus according to the preamble of claim 1 is disclosed in US-A-4 905 687.It is a preferred object
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for the detection of respiration during the administration of
continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) treatment by a CPAP system, said CPAP

system including an electrical motor (12) coupled to a turbine (14) for supplying
breathable gas to a mask via a gas delivery tube, said apparatus comprising:


first measurement means (24,26) for measuring motor current to derive a
motor current signal;
second measurement means (25) for measuring motor voltage to derive a motor
voltage signal; and characterised in that there further comprises:
processor means (27) for deriving an instantaneous motor power signal as a
multiplication of said motor voltage signal and said motor current signal;
filter means (28,30) for filtering said instantaneous motor power signal to remove non-respiratory
components; and
sensing means (42) for sensing a change in said filtered instantaneous motor power
signal as being indicative of a change in respiratory phase.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said sensing means (42)
includes differentiation means (42) for performing a time differentiation of said filtered

instantaneous motor power signal.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, further comprising:

comparison means (44,46) for comparing said differentiated instantaneous
motor power signal with a first threshold value to detect start of inhalation phase if said

first threshold value is exceeded, and for comparing said differentiated instantaneous
motor power signal with a second threshold value to detect start of exhalation phase if

said second threshold value is exceeded.
A system for the administration of CPAP treatment, said system
comprising:


an electrical motor (12);
a turbine (14) coupled with said electrical motor for supplying breathable gas;
a gas delivery tube coupled with said turbine to receive said breathable gas;
a mask coupled with said delivery tube to deliver said breathable gas; and
control means (18) to control said motor and hence the pressure of breathable
gas delivered by said turbine, different treatment pressures being delivered in

synchronism with patient inspiration and expiration phases; and
apparatus for the detection respiration phase change as defined in any one of claims 1 to 3.
A method for detecting respiration during the administration of
continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) treatment by a CPAP system

as defined in claim 4, said method comprising the steps of:

measuring motor current to derive a motor current signal;
measuring motor voltage to derive a motor voltage signal; and characterised by
deriving an instantaneous motor power signal as a multiplication of said motor
voltage signal and said motor current signal;
filtering said instantaneous motor power signal to remove non-respiratory
components; and
sensing a change in said filtered instantaneous motor power signal as being indicative of
a change in respiratory phase.
A method as claimed in claim 5, whereby said sensing step comprises
performing a time differentiation of said filtered instantaneous motor power signal.
A method as claimed in claim 6, comprising the further steps of:

comparing said differentiated instantaneous motor power signal with a first
threshold value to detect start of inhalation phase if said first threshold value is

exceeded; and
comparing said differentiated instantaneous motor power signal with a second threshold
value to detect start of exhalation phase if said second threshold value is exceeded.
A method as claimed in claim 7, comprising the further steps of:
linearising said filtered instantaneous motor power signal with respect to ones

of predetermined characteristics of said gas delivery tube and said mask relating flow to
consumed power to provide a volumetric measure of respiratory flow.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
