<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625866</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radiant electric heater
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B368	H05B374	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B3	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radiant electric heater for use in a smooth top cooker, 
comprises a base (2) of electrical and thermal insulating 

material and two heating elements (5, 6) supported on the 
base. One of the heating elements (5) is energisable 

independently of the other element, for example to permit 
the heater to be adapted to different size cooking 

utensils. A peripheral wall (4) of thermal insulating 
material extends laterally around the heating elements 

and a dividing wall (7) is arranged between the heating 
elements such that, in use, separate and distinct heating 

zones are formed on the smooth top (100) of the cooker. 
The dividing wall (7) is received in the base of 

electrical and thermal insulating material and is 
retained in the base by friction. The dividing wall (7) 

may additionally be constructed and arranged as a barrier 
effectively only to thermal convection currents generated 

in the heater. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMASPEED LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMASPEED LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCWILLIAMS KEVIN RONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCWILLIAMS, KEVIN RONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a radiant electric heater for use 
in a smooth top cooker and to a smooth top cooker 
incorporating such a heater. In a smooth top cooker, a smooth top, normally of glass 
ceramic, overlies one or more heaters comprising a metal 
dish, for example of circular shape, in which is provided 
a base layer of thermal and electrical insulating material. 
One or more electrical heating elements is or are supported 
in the dish, such element or elements comprising coiled 
wire and/or electrically conducting strip and/or one or 
more infra-red radiating lamps, for example of tungstenhalogen 
form. A peripheral wall of a thermally insulating 
material, such as a ceramic fibre material or vermiculite, 
is normally provided around the heater and, when the heater 
is installed, the peripheral wall contacts the underside of 
the glass ceramic smooth top with the heating element or 
elements being spaced from the smooth top. In order to accommodate cooking utensils of different base 
areas it is known to provide such a heater incorporating at 
least two heating elements which are independently 
energisable and separated by a dividing wall of thermal 
insulating material. In use, separate and distinct heating 
zones are formed on the smooth top of the cooker so as to 
enable the heated area of the cooker to be adapted  
 
substantially to cooking utensils having different sizes 
and/or shapes. Such a heater is described in 
GB-A-2 044 057. With such an arrangement it is possible, for example, to 
provide a circular heater including a central heating 
element and an annular heating element surrounding the 
central heating element and separated from it by a circular 
dividing wall of thermally insulating material. For heating a cooking utensil of small base area the 
central heating element is arranged to be energised alone. 
For heating a cooking utensil of large base area, the 
central and annular heating elements are both arranged to 
be energised together. In the arrangement of GB-A-2 044 057, the dividing wall is 
selected by way of its materials and dimensions to optimise 
thermal isolation of the inner and outer heating zones from 
one another, the inner heating zone incorporating the 
central heating element and the outer heating zone 
incorporating the annular heating element. The dividing 
wall, which is typically of ceramic fibre material, is 
arranged to extend in height substantially up to the 
underside of the smooth top of the cooker and has a typical 
thickness of about 10 to 15
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radiant electric heater for use in a smooth top 
cooker, the heater comprising a base (2; 32) of 

electrical and thermal insulating material; at least 
two heating elements (5, 6; 13, 14; 30, 31) supported 

on the base, at least one of which heating elements 
(5; 13; 30) is energisable independently of the other 

element or elements; a peripheral wall (4) of thermal 
insulating material extending laterally around the 

heating elements; and at least one dividing wall (7; 
15; 29) arranged between the heating elements such 

that, in use, separate and distinct heating zones are 
formed on the smooth top (100) of the cooker, 

characterised in that the at least one dividing wall 
(7; 15; 29) is received in the base of electrical and 

thermal insulating material and is retained therein by 
friction. 
A radiant heater according to claim 1, characterised 
in that the at least one dividing wall (7; 15; 29) is 

constructed and arranged as a barrier substantially 
only to thermal convection currents generated in the 

heater. 
A radiant electric heater according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that the at least one dividing wall  

 
(7; 15; 29) is partly embedded in the base (2; 32) of 

electrical and thermal insulation. 
A radiant electric heater according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that the at least one dividing wall 

(7; 15) is received in a groove formed in the base (2) 
of electrical and thermal insulation. 
A radiant electric heater according to any preceding 
claim, characterised in that the dividing wall (7; 15; 

29) comprises a metal strip. 
A radiant electric heater according to any one of 
claims 1 to 4, characterised in that the dividing wall 

(7; 15; 29) comprises an electrically insulating 
material. 
A radiant electric heater according to claim 6, 
characterised in that the electrically insulating 

material is selected from the group consisting of 
fabrics incorporating glass fibres and/or ceramic 

fibres, ceramics, mica and other micaceous materials. 
A radiant electric heater according to claim 7, 
characterised in that the electrically insulating 

material comprises a fabric, which fabric is 
impregnated or coated with a stiffening medium.  

 
A radiant electric heater according to claim 8, 
characterised in that the stiffening medium is 

selected from the group consisting of a solution of an 
alkali silicate, a solution of an alkaline earth 

silicate and a silica sol, the stiffening medium being 
dried subsequent to impregnating or coating the 

fabric. 
A radiant electric heater according to any preceding 
claim, characterised in that the thickness of the 

dividing wall (7; 15; 29) does not exceed 50 per cent 
of the thickness of the peripheral wall (4) of the 

heater. 
A radiant electric heater according to claim 10, 
characterised in that the thickness of the dividing 

wall (7; 15; 29) does not exceed 30 per cent of the 
thickness of the peripheral wall (4) of the heater. 
A radiant electric heater according to any preceding 
claim, characterised in that the thickness of the 

dividing wall (7; 15; 29) is less than 5 mm. 
A radiant electric heater according to any preceding 
claim, characterised in that the dividing wall (7; 15; 

29) is of substantially uniform thickness.  
 
A radiant electric heater according to any preceding 
claim, characterised in that the height of the 

dividing wall (7; 15; 29) is substantially the same as 

the height of the peripheral wall (4). 
A radiant electric heater according to any of claims 
1 to 13, characterised in that the height of the 

dividing wall (7; 15; 29) is less than the height of 
the peripheral wall (4). 
A radiant electric heater according to any preceding 
claim, characterised in that at least two of the 

heating elements (5, 6; 30, 31) are concentrically 
disposed relative to one another, a dividing wall (7; 

29) being provided at the or each interface between 
the heating elements. 
A radiant electric heater according to any preceding 
claim, characterised in that at least one of the 

heating elements (14) is disposed laterally of the 
other heating element or elements (13), a dividing 

wall (15) being provided between the laterally 
disposed heating element and the other heating element 

or elements. 
A radiant electric heater according to any preceding 
claim, characterised in that the dividing wall (7; 15;  

 
29) comprises, or includes, or is coated with, a 

thermal radiation reflecting material. 
A smooth top cooker incorporating at least one radiant 
electric heater according to any preceding claim. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
