<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633626</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Crimped terminal wire having a rubber plug, method for making same and tool for assembling same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R13415	H01R410	H01R4304	H01R1340	H01R1352	H01R1352	H01R418	H01R43058	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R4	H01R43	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R4	H01R43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rubber plug for sealing is engaged with a 
covered wire, and the rubber plug is prevented from being 

disconnected when an insulation barrel of a terminal 
fitting is clamped to the plug. The insulation barrel is 

curved and clamped along a maximum extent of the outer 
circumferential surface of the rubber plug, while both end 

portions of the insulation barrel are overlapped. Both 
ends of the insulation barrel can be prevented from biting 

onto the surface of the rubber plug. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NABESHIMA AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NABESHIMA, AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a wire terminal
connector, and more particularly, to a crimped terminal
wire having a rubber plug.Conventionally, a thin insulated wire 30 having a
rubber plug shown in Fig. 4 is inserted into a connector
that is used in a place where water-proof capability is
required. That is, a rubber plug 32 for sealing is
engaged with a boundary portion of a core wire 31 of the
thin insulated wire 30, so that a connecting portion
between the insulated wire 30 and the wire insertion hole
of a connector housing can be tightly sealed.In this connection, the rubber plug 32 is made of
silicon rubber and formed into a cylindrical shape. After
the rubber plug 32 has been inserted with the wire 30, it
is prevented by the clamping or crimping action of a
terminal fitting 33 from being disconnected. As shown in
Figure 4, the conventional terminal fitting 33 includes a
wire barrel 34 that clamps or crimps the core wire 31 and
an insulation barrel 35 that clamps the rubber plug 32.
Both ends of the insulation barrel 35 are separated and
curved along an outer circumferential surface of the
rubber plug 32 in the process of clamping. At this time,
an appropriate crimping force is given to the insulation
barrel 35, so that the rubber plug 32 is prevented from
being disconnected.In the above crimping system, the insulation
barrel 35 is crimped under the condition that both ends
are butted against each other. Therefore, when a crimping
force is applied to the insulation barrel, both ends bite
onto a surface of the rubber plug 32. For this reason,
the clamping portion of the rubber plug 32 may be cracked,
which could cause the wire to be damaged or disconnected.
Also, the same metal terminal fitting 33 is applied to a
plurality of types of wires (rubber plugs) as long as the
outer diameter is in a predetermined range. Therefore, it
is difficult to provide a constant clamping force. In 
other words, when the outer diameter of the plug is
small, the insulation barrel is too big. If the
critical bending radius of the clamp pieces is larger
than the radius of the rubber plug, the insulation
barrel loses contact with the surface of the plug,
since the ends of the insulation barrel cannot apply
an adequate crimping force to the plug. When the 
other words, when the outer diameter of the plug is small,
the insulation barrel is too big and the ends of the
insulation barrel cannot apply an adequate crimping force
to the plug (see Fig. 3). The critical bending radius of
the clamp pieces 9a and 9b is larger than
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A wire terminal connected to a wire (1) comprising:

a terminal fitting (5);
a wire barrel (7), coupled to said terminal fitting (5), and
adapted to clamp an exposed region (2) of said wire (1);
a rubber plug (3) having a through-bore providing a passage
for an end of said wire (1), said plug (3) having a crimping

portion (3a); and
an insulation barrel (8), including first and second
clamping arms (9a, 9b) that are crimped onto an outer

circumferential surface of said rubber plug (3), said
insulation barrel (8) being curved along said outer

circumferential surface,
characterized in that
the first arm (9a) being overlapped with respect to the
second arm (9b), and
the second arm (9b) comprises 
in the connected state of the
first and second arms and the rubber plug
 a substantially straight
portion 
which is arranged
 substantially in the direction of
a center line on which a pressing force was applied when

the arms were crimped onto the outer circumferential
surface of said rubber plug (3), so that the first arm (9a)

and the second arm (9b) accommodate wires (1) having various
diameters while maintaining a tight frictional grip with a

maximum degree of contact between the surfaces of the first
and second arms (9a,9b) and the rubber plug (3).
The wire terminal of claim 1, wherein the first and
second clamping arms (9a,9b) are of different lengths so

that the first and second clamping arms (9a,9b) are shifted
from a center line on which a pressing force is applied.
The wire terminal of claim 1 or 2, wherein the first and
second clamping arms (9a,9b) have respective surfaces that, 

combined, make contact with substantially an entire
perimeter of said rubber plug (3).
The wire terminal of one of the preceding claims,
wherein the first and second arms (9a, 9b) comprise a

permanently deformable material.
The wire terminal of one of the preceding claim, wherein
the first and second arms (9a,9b) have chamfered ends.
A method for making a wire terminal 
according to claim

1, the method comprising the steps of:

providing the insulating barrel (8) with the first clamping
arm (9a) and the second clamping arm (9b);
placing the crimping portion (3a) of the rubber plug (3)
between the first and second arms (9a,9b);
bending and conforming the first arm (9a) to the shape of
the crimping portion (3a) including engaging a first end of

the first arm (9a) with a first tool surface (12) of a tool
(10);
holding an end portion of the second clamping arm (9b) of
the wire terminal during part of the movement of said tool

(10) toward the wire terminal at an edge (14) between the
first inner surface (12) and a second inner surface (13)
;
bending and conforming the second arm (9b) to the shape of
the first arm (9a) and the crimping portion (3a) including

sequentially engaging a second end of the second arm (9b)
with the second tool surface (13) of said tool (10); and
permanently deforming the first and second arms
(9a, 9b so
that the first and second arms (9a 9b) are maintained

substantially in contact with the crimping portion (3a)
 .
The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of
chamfering ends of the first and second arms (9a, 9b) to

prevent the ends from biting into the crimping portion (3a)
and to allow the first and second arms (9a,9b) to slide with

respect to one another during the bending steps. 
An assembly tool 
for a wire terminal according to claim 1

comprising a main body (10) having a generally bell-shaped
cross-section including


a first arm and a second arm, the first and second arms
having respective inner surfaces (12, 13), wherein the inner

surfaces (12, 13) have different depths, i.e. the distance
between the topmost portion and the lowermost portion of

the second inner surface (13) is larger than the distance
between the topmost portion and the lowermost portion of

the first inner surface (12); and
an edge (14) between the first inner surface (12) and the
second inner surface (13) for holding an end portion of a

second clamping arm (9b) of the wire terminal during part of
the movement of the assembly tool toward the wire terminal.
The assembly tool of claim 8, wherein the first inner
surface (12) is adapted to engage the insulating barrel (8)

before the second inner surface (13) engages the insulating
barrel (8) so that first and second clamping arms (9a,9b) of

said wire terminal are overlapped and shifted from a center
line on which a tool pressing force is applied.
The assembly tool of claim 8 or 9, further comprising
an anvil (11) having a cradle shape for holding the wire

terminal stationary during assembly.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
