<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621936</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REPLICATED-IN-PLACE INTERNAL VISCOUS SHEAR DAMPER FOR MACHINE STRUCTURES AND COMPONENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04C329	E04C329	E04C330	E04C336	E04H902	E04H902	F16F900	F16F930	F16F1304	F16F1304	F16F15023	F16F15023	F16M700	F16M700	F16S300	F16S300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04C	E04C	E04C	E04C	E04H	E04H	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16M	F16M	F16S	F16S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04C3	E04C3	E04C3	E04C3	E04H9	E04H9	F16F9	F16F9	F16F13	F16F13	F16F15	F16F15	F16M7	F16M7	F16S3	F16S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A means for providing an internal damping mechanism for a system with structural load supporting members (3) that may be subject to time-varying loads, where the structure's structural members have rough holes (4) formed in them, either by casting, drilling, or welding pipe, where the holes can be any shape, but the ideal shape and location maximizes the product of the perimeter of the shape and the distance from the neutral axes to the neutral axis of the structure, so a smooth surfaced shear member (7), with diameter several millimeters smaller than the hole (4) and a surface finish on the order of 0.5 micron Ra, with its surface covered with a very viscous fluid (6), can be inserted into the hole so a replicant, such as epoxy or rubber (5), can be injected around the shear member (7), such that when the structure bends, shear strains occur between the structure and the shear members (7) and this strain occurs across the viscous fluid interface which is very thin because of the use of the replicant, so therefore the energy dissipation rate will be high and bending and axial vibrations will be damped, the damping system being referred to as a replicated-in-place shear damper.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASSACHUSETTS INST TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSH ERIC R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLOCUM ALEXANDER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH DOUGLAS H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSH, ERIC, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLOCUM, ALEXANDER, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, DOUGLAS, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Replicated-in-place internal viscous shear damper for machine structures and componentsThe present invention relates to means to damp vibrations in machines and structures. More specifically, the invention is concerned with a system that includes a structure that has longitudinal holes cast, drilled, formed, or attached (in the form of tubes) in it. The holes can be any shape, but the ideal shape maximizes the perimeter (e.g., a square). The holes should be as large as possible and their neutral axes must be as far away as possible from the neutral axis of the structure. Ideally, the holes almost fill the structure (e.g., four squares inside of a large square. A smooth surfaced structural shear member, such as a tube, plate, solid section, that is 3-5 mm smaller than the hole is covered with a very viscous fluid (e.g., vacuum grease). The surface is gently wiped with a rag so only a thin film of viscous mold release is left. Optionally, the ends of the shear member should have lubricated O rings on them to prevent a Newtonian fluid from leaking with time. The shear member is suspended into the hole, and an epoxy or hard rubber is injected around the shear member to act as a replicant. After the replicant hardens, a press is used to free the shear member from the replicant. When the procedure has been done properly, the shear member will be held only by viscous friction resistance. Since the neutral axes of the shear members are displaced from the neutral axis of the structure, bending of the structure causes relative shear to occur between the surfaces of the shear members and the structure. This shearing motion shears the viscous fluid and dissipates vibration energy at a rate orders of magnitude higher than would normally occur in the material of the structure or in its joints. This concept allows machine tool builders to design a machine with integral rough cast longitudinal holes which can have replicated shear member dampers installed if the customer requests a high damping option on the machine order form. Thus the concept facilitates modular construction of machine tools.BACKGROUNDThe response of a structure to a time-varying input depends on the stiffness, damping, and mass of a structure. Hence good stiffness and damping are each necessary, but not individually sufficient, requirements for a precision machine. The structural joints in a machine tool have long been known to be a source of damping by the mechanisms of friction and microslip. A study of structural joint damping has shown that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C laims :
1. A damped apparatus having at least one structural member, said structural member comprising:
a. a body portion having at least one elongate hollow;
b. inside said hollow and spaced away from said body portion, at least one elongate shear member, aligned so that its long axis is parallel the long axis of said hollow and so that an annular space is defined between said body portion and said shear member;
c. substantially coating said at least one shear member, a highly viscous fluid; and
d. substantially filling an annular space between said body portion and said coated at least one shear member, a replicant that is substantially fixed relative to the body portion.
2. The damped apparatus of claim 1, said elongate hollow comprising a hollow cast into said body portion.
3. The damped apparatus of claim 1, said elongate hollow comprising a hollow drilled into said body portion.
4. The damped apparatus of claim 1, said elongate hollow comprising a separate tube secured to said body portion.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, said annular space between said body portion and said shear member having a thickness of less than five millimeters.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, said shear member having a surface finish on the order of 0.5 microns R
a
.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, said replicant comprising epoxy.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, said replicant comprising rubber.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, said viscous fluid comprising a Newtonian fluid. 


 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an annular seal between the body portion and the shear damper at at least one end of the at least one shear damper.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, the location of the neutral axis of said shear damper being spaced away from the location of the neutral axis of the structural member.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, the shape of said hollow being chosen so as to maximize its cross-sectional area with respect to the available space.
13. The apparatus of claim 9, said Newtonian fluid experiencing less hysteresis than rubber.
14. The apparatus of claim 1, said at least one elongate hollow arranged generally with its long axis oriented vertically with respect to ground.
15. The apparatus of claim 1, said at least one elongate hollow arranged generally with its long axis oriented horizontally with respect to ground.
16. The apparatus of claim 1, said at least one elongate shear member being surrounded around its cross-section by said replicant.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, said at least one elongate shear member comprising an arc-shaped cross-section.
18. The apparatus of claim 1, said body portion comprising a tube.
19. A space frame apparatus made of at least one tubular member, said tubular member having at least one elongate hollow, said apparatus comprising:
a. inside said hollow and spaced away from said tubular member, at least one elongate shear member, aligned so that its long axis is parallel the long axis of said hollow and so that an annular space is defined between said tubular member and said shear member;
b. substantially coating said at least one shear member, a highly viscous fluid; and
c. substantially filling an annular space between said tubular member and said coated at least one shear member, a replicant that is substantially fixed relative to the tubular member.
17
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 20. The space frame apparatus of claim 19, wherein said apparatus is a bicycle frame.
21. The space frame apparatus of claim 19, wherein said apparatus is a space station.
22. The apparatus of claim 1, said apparatus comprising a process tool.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, said process tool comprising a boring bar.
24. The apparatus of claim 22, said process tool comprising an end mill.
25. The apparatus of claim 22, said process tool comprising a shell mill.
26. The apparatus of claim 22, said process tool comprising a grinding wheel. 
"
27. The apparatus of claim 1, said apparatus comprising a measuring instrument.
28. The apparatus of claim 27, said measuring instrument further comprising:
a. a contact probe portion and;
b. a measurement system; and
wherein said structural member is a shank connecting said contact probe to said measurement system.
29. The apparatus of claim 1, said body portion comprising cast iron.
30. The apparatus of claim 1, said body portion comprising a ceramic.
31. A method for providing vibrational damping to an apparatus having structural load supporting members, said method comprising the steps of:
a. providing in at least one load supporting member, at least one elongate hollow, defined by a body portion of said load supporting member;
b. providing at least one elongate shear member having a cross- section such that it can pass through said elongate hollow with a clearance of several millimeters all around; 



 c. substantially coating said at least one shear member with a highly viscous fluid;
d. suspending said shear member inside said hollow while injecting a replicant into the space between said shear member and the body portion of said load supporting member; and
e. allowing said replicant to solidify.
32. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of freeing said shear member from binding to said replicant, thereby allowing sliding of the shear member relative to the replicant, in a direction parallel the long axis of the shear member.
33. The method of claim 31, said providing step comprising the step of casting a hollow in said support member.
34. The method of claim 31, said providing step comprising the step of drilling a hollow in said support member.
35. The method of claim 31, said providing step comprising the step of attaching a hollow tube to said support member.
36. The method of claim 31, further comprising, before said injecting step, wiping off all but a thin film of said viscous fluid.
37. A structural load supporting system whose structural members having have rough holes formed in them, either by casting, drilling, or welding pipe, where the holes can be any shape, but the ideal shape and location maximizes the product of the perimeter of the shape and the distance from the neutral axes to the neutral axis of the structure, so a smooth surfaced shear member, with a diameter several millimeters smaller than the hole and a surface finish on the order of 0.5 micron R
a
, with its surfaced covered with a very viscous fluid, can be inserted into the hole so a replicant, such as epoxy or rubber, can be injected around the shear members, such that when the structure bends, shear strains occur between the structure and the shear members and this strain occurs across the viscous fluid interface which is very thin because of the use of the replicant, so therefore the energy dissipation rate will be high and bending and axial vibrations will be damped, said damping system being referred to as a replicated-in-place shear damper. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
