<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643777</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CALIBRATION REAGENTS FOR SEMI-QUANTITATIVE BINDING ASSAYS AND DEVICES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33558	G01N33558	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The novel analytical devices and methods of the present invention involve a semiquantitative specific binding assay method for the detection of the presence of at least a predetermined minimum concentration of an analyte in the test sample. A calibration reagent is present at a concentration sufficient to inhibit the formation of a detectable analyte complex unless a predetermined minimum concentration of analyte is present in the test sample.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHING SHANFUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON JULIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHING SHANFUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON JULIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CALIBRATION REAGENTS FOR SEMI-QUANTITATIVE BINDING ASSAYS AND DEVICESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION; 51 . Field of the InventionIn general, the present invention relates to assay methods and devices for the detection and/or quantitation of an analyte in a test sample by means of a binding assay. In particular, the invention relates to novel assay methods and test devices in which a 1 0 calibration reagent is used for the qualitative and semiquantitative detection of analyte.2. Related ArtVarious analytical procedures and devices are commonly employed in specific binding assays to determine the presence and/or amount of substances of interest or1 5 clinical significance which may be present in biological or non-biological fluids. Such substances are commonly termed "analytes" and can include antibodies, antigens, drugs, hormones, etc.The ability to use materials which specifically bind to an analyte of interest has created a burgeoning diagnostic device market based on the use of binding assays.20 Binding assays incorporate specific binding members, typified by antibody and antigen immunoreactants, wherein one member of the specific binding pair is labeled with a signal-producing compound (e.g., an antibody labeled with an enzyme, a fluorescent compound, a chemiluminescent compound, a radioactive isotope, a direct visual label, etc.). For example, in a binding assay the test sample suspected of containing analyte can25 be mixed with a labeled anti-analyte antibody, i.e., conjugate, and incubated for a period of time sufficient for the immunoreaction to occur. The reaction mixture is subsequently analyzed to detect either that label which is associated with an analyte/conjugate complex (bound conjugate) or that label which is not complexed with analyte (free conjugate). As a result, the amount of label in one of these species can be30 correlated to. the amount of analyte in the test sample.The solid phase assay format is a commonly used binding assay technique. There are a number of assay devices and procedures wherein the presence of an analyte is indicated by the analyte's binding to a conjugate and/or an immobilized complementary ' binding member. The immobilized binding member is bound, or becomes bound during35 the assay, to a solid phase such as a dipstick, test strip, flow-through pad, paper, fiber matrix or other suitable solid phase material. The binding reaction between the analyte and the assay reagents results in a distribution of the conjugate between that which is immobilized upon the solid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1 . A multizone test device for semiquantitatively determining the presence of at least a predetermined minimum concentration of an analyte in a test sample, comprising: a porous material containing, a soluble conjugate comprising a labeled analyte-specific binding member which binds the analyte to form a labeled analyte complex, a capture reagent comprising an unlabeled specific binding member attached to said porous material, wherein said capture reagent binds the labeled analyte complex to form an immobilized labeled analyte complex, and a soluble calibration reagent comprising an unlabeled specific binding member which blocks the binding of the analyte to said capture reagent, thereby controlling the proportion of the analyte that binds to said capture reagent such that the analyte in the test sample must exceed a minimum concentration before said immobilized labeled complex is formed, said capture reagent being immobilized at a capture site wherein said immobilized labeled complex is separated from the test sample, and wherein the presence of label associated with said immobilized labeled complex is detected to determine the presence of at least a predetermined minimum concentration of an analyte in the test sample.
2. The device according to Claim 1, wherein said porous material comprises a teststrip wherein said conjugate and said calibration reagent are contained in a reagent zone upstream from said capture site.
3. The device according to Claim 2, wherein said reagent zone comprises at least two reaction zones, a first reaction zone containing said calibration reagent and a second reaction zone containing said conjugate.
4. A method for semiquantitatively determining the presence of at least a predetermined minimum concentration of an analyte in a test sample, comprising the steps of: a) reacting th
&
 analyte with two of at least three analyte-specific binding members, including, a conjugate comprising a labeled specific binding member which binds the analyte to form a labeled analyte complex, 


 a capture reagent comprising an unlabeled analyte-specific binding member attached to a solid phase, wherein said capture reagent binds the labeled analyte complex to form an immobilized labeled analyte complex, and a calibration reagent comprising an unlabeled specific binding member which blocks the binding of the analyte to said capture reagent, thereby controlling the proportion of the analyte that binds to said capture reagent such that the analyte in the test sample must exceed a minimum concentration before said immobilized labeled complex is formed; b ) separating said immobilized labeled complex from the test sample; and c ) detecting the presence of label associated with said immobilized labeled complex, and thereby determining the presence of at least a predetermined minimum concentration of an analyte in the test sample.
5. The method according to Claim 4, wherein said calibration reagent is reacted with the analyte prior to the addition of said conjugate.
6. The method according to Claim 4, wherein said calibration reagent is selected from the group consisting of an analyte-specific binding member and an analyte-analog.
7. A test kit for semiquantitatively determining the presence of at least a predetermined minimum concentration of an analyte in a test sample, comprising: a soluble conjugate comprising a labeled specific binding member which binds the analyte to form a labeled analyte complex, a capture reagent comprising an unlabeled analyte-specific binding member attached to a solid phase material, wherein said capture reagent binds the labeled analyte complex to form an immobilized labeled analyte complex, and a soluble calibration reagent comprising an unlabeled specific binding member which blocks the binding of the analyte to said capture reagent, thereby controlling the proportion of the analyte that binds to said capture reagent such that the analyte in the test sample must exceed a minimum concentration before said immobilized labeled complex is formed, whereby immobilized labeled complex is separated from the test sample, and whereby the presence of label associated with said immobilized labeled complex is detected to determine the presence of at least a predetermined minimum concentration of an analyte in the test sample.
8. The method according to Claim 7, wherein said calibration reagent is selected from the group consisting of an analyte-specific binding member and an analyte-analog. 


9. A multizone test device for semiquantitatively determining the presence of at least a predetermined minimum concentration of an analyte in a test sample, comprising: a porous material containing, a soluble conjugate comprising a labeled analyte-specific binding member which binds the analyte to form a labeled analyte complex, a capture reagent comprising an unlabeled specific binding member attached to said porous material, wherein said capture reagent binds the labeled analyte complex to form an immobilized labeled analyte complex, and a soluble calibration reagent comprising an unlabeled specific binding member which blocks the binding of the analyte to said conjugate, thereby controlling the proportion of said labeled analyte complex that binds to said capture reagent such that the analyte in the test sample must exceed a minimum concentration before said immobilized labeled complex is formed, said capture reagent being immobilized at a capture site wherein said immobilized labeled complex is separated from the test sample, and wherein the presence of label associated with said immobilized labeled complex is detected to determine the presence of at least a predetermined minimum concentration of an analyte in the test sample.
10. The device according to Claim 9, wherein said calibration reagent and said labeled analyte-specific binding member are the same specific binding members. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
