<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620327</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fluid distribution system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03B700	F16K3700	F16K3700	E03B707	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03B	F16K	F16K	E03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03B7	F16K37	F16K37	E03B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to the field of fluid 
distribution networks, for example water mains networks. 
A fluid distribution system comprises a network of 
conduits and a plurality of valves (4) to control the flow 

of a fluid through the conduits, and valve keys (18) to 
control said valves. At least some of the valves are 

adapted to yield up information on their identity to a 
valve key, and the information can be transmitted to a 

central logging station to update a map of valves and 
their on/off conditions. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YORKSHIRE WATER SERVICES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YORKSHIRE WATER SERVICES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN CHRISTOPHER FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN, CHRISTOPHER FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a fluid distribution system
and a valve system for a fluid distribution system. The
invention is of particular interest in relation to a water
distribution system, but may have application to
distribution of other fluids, whether liquids or gases.Water distribution systems are generally divided into
a series of zones for control of water pressure and
leakage. Valves are closed, to define the boundaries
between zones. In practice this means that some valves in
a water distribution system are required to be kept
closed, and the majority left open. However, day to day
operations - repair of burst conduits, modification and
extension of the water distribution system, and re-zoning
- means that closed valves need to be opened, and open
valves need to be closed.At present, it is not generally possible to exercise
close control of a water distribution system, because
there is inadequate information on the status of the
valves in the system, that is to say, which valves are
currently open, and which are closed. To rectify this is
not simply a matter of setting in place, for example, a
paper-based logging scheme, whereby an operator passes
back information on the operations he has carried out, and
the status of the valves he has worked on, to a logging
station. This is because the valve operator may be
uncertain of the valves on which he has worked. Equally,
if he is sent out to close certain valves, it is difficult
for him to be certain that he has closed the correct
valves. This is because it is sometimes very difficult to
identify particular valves from records of their location. A further problem with a conventional water
distribution network comprising a network of conduits and
valves is that the network includes very many valves,
which may have been installed over a period of one hundred
years or so. A large variety of different valve types are
found in a single network, the valve types including a
large variety of valve heads of different shapes and
sizes, by means of which each valve can be opened or
closed by engagement with a correspondingly shaped valve
key. It is estimated that in a single network, there may
be as many as seventy or more different types of valve
head, and this may require seventy or more corresponding
valve keys, with attendant storage, transport and
availability problems.An object of the present invention is to address some
of the abovementioned problems.FR-A-2 668 239 discloses a valve system according to the preamble of claim 1, the system comprising a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A valve system comprising: a valve (4), rotatable
between open and closed conditions; a valve key (2)

releasably connectible to the valve to rotate the valve;
and means to provide information about the valve

comprising an information storage device (10) associated
with the valve (4), and a sensing device (28) located in

the valve key (2), the sensing device (28) being capable
of receiving information from the storage device (10) when

the valve key is connected to the valve,
the valve key (2) being capable of obtaining information

yielded up by each of a plurality of valves (4) ; characterised in that the valve
system comprises a central valve

logging station, the valve key (2) in turn being adapted to yield the information thereto.
A valve system as claimed in Claim 1, in which the
valve (4) is fitted with a false top (7) to present a

standard configuration to the valve key (2).
A valve system as claimed in Claim 2, in which the
false top (7) is tapered.
A valve system as claimed in Claim 1, associated with
a cap (70) adopted to fit onto any one of a set of valve

heads, of different shapes.
A valve system as claimed in Claim 4, associated with
a cap (70) adapted to fit onto a head (72) of the valve,

the cap comprising a substantially tubular side wall
portion (70) for fitting over the head (72), and a base

portion 71 which extends across a lower end of the tubular
side wall portion (70). 
A valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, in which the storage device (10) has a memory

capable of being read and/or programmed by a respective
reading and/or programming means associated with the valve

key (2).
A valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding

claims, in which the storage device (10) is programmable
via the valve key (2) by a signal from an external

programming means, said signal comprising a power supply
component for supplying power for operation of the storage

device and an information component for controlling
programming of the storage device (10).
A valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, in which the sensing device (28) cooperates with

the storage device (10) to provide information uniquely
identifying the valve.
A valve system as claimed in Claim 8, in which the
storage device (10) comprises an electronic tag (64) which

is readable by the sensing device (28).
A valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, in which the sensing device (28) cooperates with

the storage device (10) to provide information about the
direction in which the valve has to be rotated to open the

valve.
A valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, in which the sensing device (28) cooperates with

the storage device (10) to provide information about the
rotational status of the valve. 
A valve system as claimed in Claim 11, in which the
information about rotational status includes information

about how much rotational movement is applied to the valve
(4) by the valve key (2).
A valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, in which the valve key (2) has means for

automatically identifying the valve when the valve key is
engaged with the valve.
A valve system as claimed in Claim 13, in which the
valve key (2) comprises :


reading means (90) for reading information yielded up
by the valve; and
programming means (91) for programming an
identification means of the valve.
A valve system as claimed in Claim 14, further
comprising a storage means for storing information

relating to an identity or status of the valve.
A valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, comprising a display means (110) for displaying

information relating to a location and/or status of the
valve.
A valve system as claimed in Claim 16, having a data
logger (110) for storing location and/or status

information concerning one or a plurality of valves.
A valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, in which the valve key has an outer housing (100)

adapted to locate with a locating member at a valve site,
such that the outer housing may be positioned in a 

reference orientation with respect to a valve and the
valve site.
A valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, in which the storage device (10) and sensing

device (28) communicates by inductive coupling.
A fluid distribution system comprising a network of
conduits and a plurality of valves to control the flow of

fluid through the conduits, comprising at least one valve
system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.
A fluid distribution system as claimed in Claim 20,
in which a valve key is provided with a removable storage

device which may be passed to the central valve logging station
for downloading of information.
A fluid distribution system as claimed in Claim 20 or
Claim 21, including radio means for transmitting to the

central valve logging station information yielded up to the valve
key.
A fluid distribution system as claimed in any one of
Claims 20 to 22, in which a valve key is provided with a

magnetic sensing device for corresponding with an array of
magnets on the valve.
A fluid distribution system as claimed in Claim 23,
in which different valves in the system are provided with

different arrays of magnets (101) and a sensing device on
the valve key provides an electrical signal when a valve

magnet is adjacent to it, the presence or absence of said
signals being used to generate a binary number for

denoting a valve. 
A fluid distribution system as claimed in any one of
Claims 20 to 24, in which a valve key is provided with

means sensitive to a magnet for providing a signal during
revolution of the valve key.
A fluid distribution system as claimed in Claim 25,
in which the valve key comprises upper and lower parts

which are engageable together, the two parts being
drivingly connected together such that the upper part may

rotate the lower parts in a first rotational sense, or in
a second, opposite rotational sense, the valve key being

provided with means for sensing whether the valve key, and
hence the valve, is being rotated in the first or second

rotational sense.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
