<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644537</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Information recording medium.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B700	G11B70045	G11B70055	G11B7006	G11B724	G11B724	G11B7243	G11B726	G11B726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides an information 
recording medium including a first recording film (25) 

formed on a substrate and having an amorphous phase made 
of an alloy containing at least Ge and Te, and a second 

recording film (26) formed on the first recording film 
and made of a material with a relatively large light 

absorption coefficient, wherein the alloy of the first 
recording film (25) exhibits a Raman scattering spectrum 

having scattering peaks at 140 to 160 cm
-1
 and 120 to 
130 cm
-1
 and no scattering peaks at 100 to 110 cm
-1
, and 
recording is performed by changing optical characteristics 

by alloying the materials of the first and second 
recording films (25, 26) by radiating recording light on 

the first and second recording films (25, 26). The 
present invention provides an information recording 

medium including a recording film (25, 26) formed on a 
substrate (17) and having an amorphous phase made of an 

alloy containing Ge, Sb, and Te, wherein the amorphous 
phase of the recording film (25, 26) is a mixed phase 

containing cluster molecules containing of two elements, 
Ge-Te and/or Sb-Te, and recording is performed by 

changing optical characteristics by changing in phase 
the cluster molecules into corresponding crystalline 

GeTe and crystalline SbTe by radiating recording light 
on the recording film (25, 26). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO SHIBAURA ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA TOSHIBA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUBARA MOTONARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHKAWA HIDEKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSHIDA NOBUHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUBARA, MOTONARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHKAWA, HIDEKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSHIDA, NOBUHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an information 
recording medium. The first subject of the present invention is as 
follows. Some conventional information recording media are 
manufactured by forming a film made of, e.g., a GeSbTe 
alloy on a substrate made of a transparent material, 
such as an acrylic resin or a polycarbonate resin, and 
forming a film made of a metal, such as Bi or a BiTe 
alloy, having a large light absorption coefficient on 
the GeSbTe alloy film. In performing recording in an 
information recording medium of this type, laser light 
is radiated to heat the two films to diffuse the atoms 
of the materials forming these films, thereby alloying 
the films. Reproduction is performed by making use of 
the difference in reflectance between the alloyed 
recorded region and an unrecorded region. Generally, a GeSbTe film left intact in a state 
immediately after formation has an amorphous phase. 
When this amorphous phase is checked by an X-ray 
diffraction method (XRD) which is normally used in 
checking lattice structures, only a broad diffraction 
peak indicating an amorphous phase is given, but no 
information about amorphous phases inherent in 
individual materials can be obtained. Therefore, no 
information about the state of the amorphous phase of  
 
the GeSbTe film can be obtained either. For this 
reason, the relationship between the GeSbTe film and the 
recording sensitivity is totally unknown. To check 
which composition maximizes the recording sensitivity 
when the GeSbTe film is used as a recording film, it is 
necessary to form GeSbTe films having different compositions 
and check the respective resulting recording 
sensitivities. Generally, an amorphous phase transforms into a 
crystalline phase when heated. Therefore, it is 
possible to estimate the recording sensitivity of an 
amorphous phase by using the crystallization temperature 
or the crystallization energy as a parameter without 
using any detailed knowledge about the amorphous phase. 
However, since the recording sensitivity estimated by 
using the crystallization temperature or the crystallization 
energy as a parameter does not necessarily agree 
with an actual recording sensitivity, it is not possible 
to determine a condition in which a high recording sensitivity 
is obtained. Therefore, it is currently 
impossible to specify an information recording medium 
with the highest recording sensitivity. The second subject of the present invention is as 
follows. As discussed above, optical recording is 
conventionall
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information recording medium characterized 
by comprising: 

   a first recording film formed on a substrate and 
having an amorphous phase made of an alloy containing at 

least Ge and Te; and 
   a second recording film formed on said first 

recording film and made of a material with a relatively 
large light absorption coefficient, 

   wherein said alloy of said first recording film 
exhibits a Raman scattering spectrum having scattering 

peaks at 140 to 160 cm⁻¹ and 120 to 130 cm⁻¹ and no 
scattering peaks at 100 to 110 cm⁻¹, and recording is 

performed by changing optical characteristics by 
alloying the materials of said first and second 

recording films by radiating recording light on said 
first and second recording films. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in 
that a ratio of an intensity of the scattering peak at 

120 to 130 cm⁻¹ to an intensity of the scattering peak 
at 140 to 160 cm⁻¹ is at least 1. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said alloy containing at least Ge and Te is one 

alloy selected from the group consisting of a GeSbTe 
alloy, a GeSnTe alloy, and a GeInTe alloy. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said material with a relatively large light absorption 

coefficient is one material selected from the group 
consisting of Bi, a BiTe alloy, Pb, Pd, Sn, and In. 
An information recording medium characterized 
by comprising: 

   a recording film formed on a substrate and having 
an amorphous phase made of an alloy containing Ge, Sb, 

and Te, 
   wherein said amorphous phase of said recording film 

is a mixed phase containing cluster molecules containing 
 

of two elements, Ge-Te and/or Sb-Te, and recording is 
performed by changing optical characteristics by 

changing in phase said cluster molecules into 
corresponding crystalline GeTe and crystalline SbTe by 

radiating recording light on said recording film. 
A medium according to claim 5, characterized in 
that said alloy of said recording film exhibits a Raman 

scattering spectrum having scattering peaks at 140 to 
160 cm⁻¹ and 120 to 130 cm⁻¹ and no scattering peaks at 

100 to 110 cm⁻¹. 
A medium according to claim 5, characterized in 
that said mixed phase does not contain a cluster molecule 

as a dimer or a higher order polymer in which said 
cluster molecules bind together. 
A medium according to claim 7, characterized in 
that said cluster molecule as a dimer or a higher order 

polymer is a dimer cluster molecule, Te₃Ge-GeTe₃, 
(Te₂Ge)Ge-Ge(Te₂Ge), or (TeGe₂)Ge-Ge(TeGe₂), having a 

symmetrical structure with a Ge-Ge bond, or is a dimer 
cluster molecule in which a combination of atoms bonded 

to Ge atoms of a Ge-Ge bond is asymmetrical in a dimer 
containing of Te and Ge. 
A medium according to claim 7, characterized in 
that said cluster molecule as a dimer or a higher order 

polymer is a dimer cluster molecule, Te₂Sb-SbTe₂ or 
(TeSb)Sb-Sb(TeSb), having a symmetrical structure with 

an Sb-Sb bond, or is a dimer cluster molecule in which a 
combination of atoms bonded to Sb atoms of an Sb-Sb bond 

is asymmetrical. 
A medium according to claim 5, characterized in 
that a first protective film is formed between said 

substrate and said recording film. 
A medium according to claim 10, characterized 
in that said first protective film contains a mixture of 

ZnS and SiO₂ in which a mixing ratio of ZnS is 50 to 
80 at%, a film thickness of said first protective film 

is 20 to 60 nm, and a film thickness of said recording 
 

film is 20 to 50 nm if a wavelength of said recording 
light is in a near infrared region of 600 to 850 nm. 
A medium according to claim 10, characterized 
in that a second protective film is formed on said 

recording film. 
A medium according to claim 12, characterized in 
that a film thickness of said recording film is 15 to 

30 nm, said first and second protective films contain a 
mixture of ZnS and SiO₂ in which a mixing ratio of ZnS 

is 50 to 80 at%, a film thickness of said first protective 
film is 30 to 100 nm, and a film thickness of said 

second protective film is 20 to 60 nm. 
A medium according to claim 12, characterized 
in that a reflective film and a resin film are formed in 

sequence on said second protective film, and erasure can 
be performed by changing said recording film in phase 

from a crystalline state to an amorphous state by 
radiating light on said recording film. 
A medium according to claim 12, characterized 
in that overwrite is possible. 
A medium according to claim 5, characterized in 
that in a triangular diagram of Ge, Sb, and Te, a composition 

of said alloy is in a region surrounded by a 
straight line connecting a composition Ge₁₀Sb₀Te₉₀ and a 

composition Ge₁₀Sb₉₀Te₀, a straight line connecting a 
composition Ge₀Sb₁₀Te₉₀ and a composition Ge₉₀Sb₁₀Te₀, a 

straight line connecting a composition Ge₀Sb₃₀Te₇₀ and a 
composition Ge₇₀Sb₃₀Te₀, a straight line connecting a 

composition Ge₄₀Sb₀Te₆₀ and a composition Ge₄₀Sb₆₀Te₀, 
and a straight line connecting a composition Ge₃₀Sb₀Te₇₀ 

and a composition Ge₀Sb₃₀Te₇₀. 
An information recording medium characterized 
by comprising: 

   a recording film formed on a substrate and having 
an amorphous phase made of an alloy containing Ge, Sb, 

and Te, 
   wherein said amorphous phase of said recording film 

 
is a mixed phase containing cluster molecules made of 

two elements, Ge-Te and/or Sb-Te, and recording is 
performed by changing optical characteristics by 

changing in phase said cluster molecules into 
corresponding crystalline GeTe and crystalline Sb₂Te₃ by 

radiating recording light on said recording film. 
A medium according to claim 17, characterized 
in that said mixed phase does not contain a cluster 

molecule having a Ge-Sb bond. 
A medium according to claim 17, characterized 
in that said cluster molecules are GeTe₄ cluster molecules 

and SbTe₃ cluster molecules. 
A medium according to claim 19, characterized 
in that said mixed phase does not contain a cluster 

molecule having a Ge-Sb bond. 
An information recording medium characterized 
by comprising: 

   a first recording film formed on a substrate via a 
protective film and having an amorphous phase made of an 

alloy containing Ge, Sb, and Te; and 
   a second recording film formed on said first 

recording film, 
   wherein said amorphous phase of said first 

recording film is a mixed phase containing cluster 
molecules made of two elements, Ge-Te and/or Sb-Te, 

recording is performed by changing optical characteristics 
by alloying the materials of said first and 

second recording films by radiating recording light on 
said first and second recording films, a film thickness 

of said first recording film is 20 to 50 nm if 

a wavelength of said recording light is in a near 
infrared region of 600 to 850 nm, said protective film 

contains of a mixture of ZnS and SiO₂ in which a mixing 
ratio of ZnS is 50 to 80 at%, a film thickness of said 

protective film is 20 to 60 nm, and said second 
recording film contains of an alloy of Bi and Te in 

which a Bi composition is within a range of ±10 at% with 
 

respect to Bi₄₀Te₆₀. 
An information recording medium characterized 
by comprising: 

   a recording film formed on a substrate and having 
an amorphous phase made of an alloy containing Ge, Sb 

and Te, wherein said alloy of said recording film has a 
phase exhibiting a Raman scattering spectrum having 

scattering peaks at 140 to 160 cm⁻¹ and 120 to 130 cm⁻¹ 
and no scattering peaks at 100 to 110 cm⁻¹, and 

recording is performed by changing in crystalline phase 
by radiating recording light on said recording film. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
