<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621206</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Prize holding container assemblies.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D1728	B65D1728	B65D7724	B65D7724	G09F2300	G09F2300	G09F2500	G09F2500	G09F2700	G09F2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D17	B65D17	B65D77	B65D77	G09F23	G09F23	G09F25	G09F25	G09F27	G09F27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
By providing prize award holding means (27) cooperatingly associated 
with a container 

shell (21) which is closed in the conventional manner, a container 
assembly is achieved for randomly 

distributing prize awards to consumers in association with any liquid, 
semi-liquid, wet 

or moist product, without fear of consumer detection of the prize 
bearing containers. In accordance 

with the present invention, the container assembly (20) may incorporate 
the actual product 

along with the prize award or may comprise a simulated product 
container bearing the 

prize award without the actual product, but being completely 

indistinguishable from non-prize bearing, product-holding containers. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COCA COLA CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to containers for liquid, 
semi-liquid or moist products constructed for secretly 
retaining a high or low value prize award and, more 
particularly, to simulated product containers for such 
goods constructed for secretly retaining a high or low 
value prize award while being indistinguishable from 
genuine product containers.  The use of various promotional enhancements for increasing 
the sales of particular products is commonly employed 
by manufacturers or distributors for a wide variety of 
products. These promotional enhancements take on a variety 
of forms, all for the purpose of increasing product sales. One of the promotional methods often employed by some 
manufacturers is the inclusion of a prize in either every 
product container or in selected containers. However, prior 
to the present invention, this promotional concept was 
employable only for dry products. Generally, wet or moist 
products have been incapable of using this type of 
promotional activity due to the potential for contamination 
that may be caused by the presence of a foreign or 
non-consumable prize with the product. In order to attain greater market share for various 
sales, manufacturers and distributors have found increasingly 
unique promotional activities in order to generate 
added sales for their particular products. In doing so, 
the premium or prize type promotion has progressed from 
inexpensive give-aways packed in every product bearing 
container to expensive prize awards which are packed in 
selected containers, which containers are randomly 
distributed with non-prize bearing containers.  Unfortunately, due principally to the difficulties of 
contamination, product degradation or prize degradation, 
such incentive programs have not been capable of being 
employed by manufacturers or distributors of wet or moist 
products, particularly food products such as liquid 
beverages as soda, water, beer, milk, juice and the like, 
or moist products such as yogurt, cottage cheese, sour 
cream, jelly, jams, peanut butter, dips, canned fruits and 
vegetables, and the like. Similarly, other wet or moist 
consumer goods such as detergents, soaps, bleaches, automotive 
oils, polishes, and the like have been unable to 
employ this advertising technique. As a result of this 
inability, these manufacturers or distributors have been 
incapable of employing an effective product sale incentive 
in generating increased interest and sales of their 
respective products. Consequently, it is a principal object
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A container assembly, for use in association with 
liquid, semi-liquid and moist products, constructed for housing 

a prize award and being randomly distributed with non-prize 
bearing containers without being detected by the consumer 

prior to opening thereof, said container assembly comprising: 

A. an outer surface defining shell 

a. identical in appearance to the product bearing 
shell normally employed for the liquid, 

semi-liquid or moist product; 
b. defining an internal retaining zone; and 
c. comprising at least one entry portal formed at 
one end thereof; 
B. closure means cooperatively associated with the outer 
shell for closing the entry portal thereof; 
C. means positioned in the retaining zone for providing 
the container assembly with the sound, weight and 

feel of the product normally contained therein; and 
D. holding means positioned within the retaining zone in 
juxtaposed, spaced cooperating relationship to the 

entry portal for securing retaining the prize award; 
 
whereby a prize award holding container assembly for liquid, 

semi-liquid and moist products is achieved for being randomly 
distributed with non-prize bearing, product-holding containers 

without fear of being detected by the consumer prior to 
opening thereof. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 1, wherein 
said means positioned in the retaining zone is further 

defined as comprising the actual liquid, semi-liquid or 
moist product being sold. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 2, wherein 
said holding means is further defined as comprising: 


a. a cup portion dimensioned for matingly 
engaging with the inside wall of the entry 

portal of the outer shell, and 
b. a flange portion integrally engaged with the 
upper edge of said cup portion and dimensioned 

for being retainingly engaged with the edge of 
said entry portal, whereby said holding means 

is securely retained in juxtaposed, spaced 
cooperating relationship with said entry 

portal of the retaining zone. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 3, wherein 
the closure means is further defined as comprising a cap 

engageable with the outer peripheral surface of the shell, 
directly adjacent the entry portal, thereby peripherally 

surrounding and visually obscuring the presence of said 
holding means. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 4, wherein 
shell comprises a transparent container and said holding 

means is further defined as comprising a mirrored surface 
for reflecting the surrounding area, thereby being incapable 

of detection by individual observation. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 5, wherein 
said means positioned in the retaining zone comprises 

carbonated beverages and said holding means is further 
defined as incorporating pressure release channels formed 

therein for allowing release of any built-up pressure when 
the closure means is open. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 1, wherein 
said means positioned in the retaining zone is further 

defined as comprising a housing, with said housing 
incorporating therein a fluid. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 7, wherein 
said fluid is further defined as comprising the liquid, 

semi-liquid or moist product being distributed. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 7, wherein 
said fluid is defined as comprising a simulated product, 

selected for providing the sound and weight of the actual 
product normally distributed in the containers. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 7, wherein 
said housing is further defined as comprising two independent 

compartments, one of which securely retains the fluid, 
and the other compartment comprises the holding means for 

retaining the prize award. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 10, wherein 
said prize award holding compartment is further defined as 

incorporating an entry portal, and said entry portal is 
defined by a peripherally surrounding upstanding wall 

incorporating thread means formed on one surface thereof. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 11 and 
further comprising: 

   E. a plug means constructed for threadingly engaging 
the thread means of the prize bearing compartment 

of said housing, completely closing and securely 
retaining the prize award therein. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 12, and 
further comprising: 

   F. locking means for preventing unwanted removal 
of the plug means. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 12, wherein 
the entry defining wall is further defined as comprising a 

plurality of independent segments, and at least one of said 
wall segments is further defined as being movably spring 

biased to change the diameter of said entry portal after 
removal of the plug means, thereby preventing re-use of the 

container assembly. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 12, and 
further comprising a winner identification message disc 

associated with the plug means to provide notice to the 
consumer that a prize award has been won. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 15, wherein 
the winner identification means is further defined as: 


A. comprising a substantially flat plate 
incorporating a message bearing tab portion 

extending therefrom, and 
B. being movable between a first spring load 
position when the container assembly is closed 

and a second released position when the 
container assembly is open, with the tab 

portion being in juxtaposed, spaced exposed 
relationship with the portal of the shell. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 7, and 
further comprising 

   E. flexible means positioned within the retaining zone 
between the inside wall of the shell and the 

outside wall of the housing, providing a 
pre-determined compressible flexibility to the 

shell wall for further simulating a particular 
product container. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 1, wherein 
the shell is further defined as comprising one selected from 

the group consisting of bottles, jars, vacuum cans, 
non-vacuum cans, carbonated beverage cans, containers with 

pull-tab openers, and containers with removable and 
resealable lids. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 1, wherein 
said holding means is further defined as being movable from 

a first secured position within the retaining zone to a 
second released position in juxtaposed, exposed relationship 

with the entry portal of the shell. 
The container assembly defined in Claim 18, wherein 
the holding means is further defined as being automatically 

moved from its first position to its second position by 
spring means, said spring means being activated only upon 

opening the container assembly. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
