<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614337</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS, INSTALLATION AND CHAMBER FOR REDUCING BIOLOGICAL ACTIVITY IN AN ENCLOSURE, PARTICULARLY FOR A STORAGE SPACE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23B900	A23B918	A23L334	A23L33409	A61L916	A61L916	A61L918	A61L920	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23B	A23B	A23L	A23L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23B9	A23B9	A23L3	A23L3	A61L9	A61L9	A61L9	A61L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to the preservation of stocked products, in particular cereal grain, by extracting the air contained in a silo (1) or the like, introducing air to the interior of a chamber (3) suitable for the oxidation of microorganisms suspended in the air, said chamber being equipped internally with heating means, ultra-violet lamps or catalysers. Downstream of the chamber there may be installed a heat exchanger (4) or an ozone decomposition system. The processed air is once more introduced to the silo by means of a propeller device. The electrostatic charge formed on the product may be dissipated by means of anodes provided above blocks that act as the heating means.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLOVER ELETRONICA LTDA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLOVER ELETRONICA LTDA.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALINTOR FIORENZANO JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALINTOR, FIORENZANO, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Specification of the Patent of Invention for: "PROCESS, IN¬ STALLATION AND CHAMBER FOR REDUCING BIOLOGICAL ACTIVITY IN AN ENCLOSURE, PARTICULARLY FOR A STORAGE SPACE"FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention refers to a process, an in¬ stallation and a chamber for reducing the biological activity in storage spaces, such as silos, storage sheds, grain stores, cargo holds in grain transport ships or the like, and partic¬ ularly for the storage and preservation of grains or other perishable foodstuffs.STATE OF THE ART The storage of large quantities of agricultural pro¬ ducts and principally cereals is problematic with regard to the preservation of the product throughout the period of stor- age. Losses due to the deterioration of stored grains has been a considerable problem on a worldwide scale and it should be observed that losses of this nature are presently of the order of 30% of the total product stocked in Brazil, about 12% in the USA and as high as 50% in some countries of the African continent.Cereals are characterized by a high potential energy content. Their availability in thousands of tons makes storage locations an excellent nutrition medium for fungi, bacteria, acarids and insects, provided that the ambient conditions such 

 as temperature and humidity (absolute humidity of the grain and relative humidity of the atmosphere) are favorable. The processes used up to the present involve a storage system which controls such parameters so as to reduce biological ac- tivity to a minimum. The controls act on the following vari¬ ables:- Reduction of the absolute humidity of the grain by previous drying.Constant airing of the storage ambient so as to reduce the fungi population by entrainment of the spores and to reduce the temperature increased as a result of biological activ¬ ity.- Utilization of gases such as nitrogen (N2), caτbon dioxide (C02) and other gases with the basic purpose of reducing the concentration of oxygen and thus producing a reduction in the aerobic organisms population as well as the metabolism of the grain itself.- Use of toxic chemical products to reduce the amount of microorganisms and insects by intoxication. All these processes have limited efficiency and some present health risks to the consumers, particularly those re¬ lated to the use of toxic chemical products.According to the most recent scientific works re¬ garding the inter-relation of the various variables within a mass of cereals, fungi have been identified as one of the most important elements in the matrix of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Process for reducing the biological activity in an enclo¬ sure, particularly for a storage location, characterized by the steps of: - extracting air gradually from the enclosure;
- submitting air to oxidation within a chamber located outside said enclosure, thereby oxidizing the particles suspended in the air; and
- forcing the processed air into the enclosure. 2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the oxidation of the particles is obtained by heating the air after which the air is cooled in a subsequent stage.
3. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the oxidation of the particles is obtained by ultra- violet radiation.
4. Process according to claim 3, characterized in that, after the oxidation step, the air is submitted to a step of decomposition of ozone which is generated by the ultra¬ violet radiation. 5. Process according to claim 4, characterized in that the ozone decomposition step comprises heating the air to a temperature of 70 to 80°C
6. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the oxidation of the particles is obtained by catalysis. 7. Process according to any of claims 1 to 6, char¬ acterized in that the air is submitted to a tortuous path within the oxidation chamber.
8. Installation for reducing biological activity in enclosures, particularly for storage locations, characterized in that it comprises:
- an air line; a chamber provided with an air inlet and an air outlet, con¬ nected to the enclosure through said air line, said chamber having means for oxidizing air; and - propelling means connected to the air line and capable of introducing to said enclosure air processed in said chamber.
9. Installation according to claim 8, characterized 


 in that the chamber is provided with means for heating air to an elevated temperature, a heat exchanger suitable for cooling the air that leaves the chamber being connected downstream of said chamber and having an air inlet and an air outlet. 10. Installation according to claim 8, characterized in that the chamber is equipped with ultra-violet lamps.
11. Installation according to claim 10, character¬ ized in that the chamber is provided with an ozone decompos¬ ition system. 12. Installation according to claim 8, characterized in that the chamber is equipped with catalysers.
13. Installation according to one of claims 8 to 12 , characterized in that the chamber is provided with a tortu¬ ous path. 14. Installation according to one of claims 8 to 13, characterized in that the air line establishes a closed cir¬ cuit leaving the enclosure, passing through the chamber and the propelling means and penetrating the enclosure once more.
15. Installation according to claim 14, character- ized in that a heat exchanger is provided between the chamber and the propelling means.
16. Installation according to claim 11, character¬ ized in that the the ozone decomposition system is provided between the chamber and the propelling means. 17. Installation according to claim 8, characterized in that the the enclosure is a silo with a lower chamber, a storage compartment and a perforated base, the lower chamber being situated below the storage compartment and the perfo¬ rated base being provided between the lower chamber and the storage compartment.
18. Installation according to claim 8, characterized in that the a detector is provided within the chamber and con¬ nected to an electronic control circuit capable of controlling the propelling means in dependence upon the conditions moni- tored within the chamber.
19. Installation according to claim 18, character¬ ized in that the detector is a temperature sensor.
20. Chamber for reducing biological activity in en¬ closures, particularly for storage locations, for an installa- 


 tion according to claim 8, the chamber containing in its interior at least one block provided with capillaries, a heating filament connectable to an electric energy source passing through said capillaries, the block being so arranged between said inlet and outlet of the chamber that, when in use, at least part of the air that circulates in the interior of the chamber passes through the capillaries, characterized in that above the block is provided an anode that is polarizable with respect to the filament by means of the ap- plication of an electric voltage.
21. Chamber according to claim 20, characterized in that the anode comprises a metallic screen mounted on an insu¬ lating support.
22. Chamber according to claim 21, characterized in that the metallic screen of the anode has a mesh of about 5 mm.
23. Chamber according to claim 21, characterized in that the insulating support is manufactured from Teflon.
24. Chamber according to claim 20, characterized in that the voltage applied to the anode is about 1 kv.
25. Chamber for reducing biological activity in en¬ closures, particularly for storage locations, for an installa¬ tion according to claim 8, characterized in that the chamber contains in its interior at least one ultra-violet lamp. 26. Chamber according to claim 25, characterized in that a mirror is provided around the ultra-violet lamp.
27. Chamber for reducing biological activity in en¬ closures, particularly for storage locations, for an installa¬ tion according to claim 8, characterized in that the chamber contains in its interior a catalyser to which electric current may be applied.
28. Chamber according to any one of claims 20 to 27, characterized in that various oxidation elements are provided, the chamber being provided internally with flow separating walls, as to provide a tortuous path for the air flow. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 12 March 1993 (12.03.93); original claims 3-6,10-12,16 and 25-27 cancelled; claims 1 and 2 replaced by new claim 1; claim 7 replaced by new claim 2; claims 8 and 9 replaced by new claim 3; claims 13-15,17-24 and 28 replaced by new claims 4-15 (2 pages)]
1. Process for reducing the biological activity in a storage enclosure and keeping it low, for preserving stuff against deterioration, characterized by the following steps:
- introducing air into a chamber which is located outside a storage enclosure
- oxidizing the air in said chamber by heating the air;
- cooling the air before entering said storage enclosure;
- propelling the oxidized air from said chamber to said .storage enclosure; and
- releasing air from said storage enclosure.
2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the air is submitted to a tortuous path within the oxidation chamber.
3. Installation for reducing biological activity in a stor¬ age enclosure and keeping it low, for preserving stuff against deterioration, comprising:
- a chamber which is outside a storage enclosure;
- means for introducing air into said chamber;
- means located inside said chamber for oxidizing air in said chamber;
- means for propelling oxidized air from said chamber to a storage enclosure; and
- means for releasing air from said storage enclosure; characterized in that said means for oxidizing air comprises means for heating air to an elevated temperature, a heat exchanger means suitable for cooling the air that leaves the chamber being connected downstream of said means for heating air and between the same and said storage enclosure.
4. Installation according to claim 3, characterized in that the chamber is provided with a tortuous path.
5. Installation according to claim 4, characterized in that a closed circuit is provided for circulating air from said storage enclosure, through said chamber, said heat exchanger and said propelling means and back to said storage enclo¬ sure.
6. Installation according to claim 5, characterized in that said heat exchanger means is provided in a flow path between the chamber and the propelling means.
7. Installation according to claim 4 characterized in that said storage enclosure is a silo with a lower chamber, a storage compartment and a perforated base, the lower chamber being situated below the storage compartment and the perfo¬ rated base being provided between the lower chamber and the storage compartment, an air inlet leading air treated in said chamber to said lower chamber, an air outlet being pro- 


 vided on the storage compartment to allow air to leave the storage compartment.
8. Installation according to claim 4, characterized in that a detector is provided within the chamber and connected to an electronic control circuit capable of controlling the propelling means in dependence upon the conditions monitored within the chamber.
9. Installation according to claim 8, characterized in that said detector is a temperature sensor.
10. Chamber for reducing biological activity in storage en¬ closures and keeping it low, to preserve stuff against dete¬ rioration, characterized in that it comprises in its interior at least one block as oxidation element which is provided with capillaries, a heating filament connectable to an electric energy source passing through said capillaries, said block being so arranged between said inlet and outlet of the chamber that, when in use, at least part of the air that circulates in the interior of the chamber passes through the capillaries, wherein above the block is provided an anode, which is polarizable with respect to the filament by means of the application of an electric voltage.
11. Chamber according to claim 10, characterized in that the anode comprises a metallic screen mounted on an insulating support.
12. Chamber according to claim 11, characterized in that the metallic screen of the anode has a mesh of about 5 mm.
13. Chamber according to claim 12, characterized in that the insulating support is manufactured from Teflon.
14. Chamber according to claim 10, characterized in that the voltage applied to the anode is about 1 kv.
15. Chamber according to claim 10, characterized in that various oxidation elements are provided, the chamber being provided internally with flow separating walls, as to pro¬ vide a tortuous path for the air flow. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19(1)
Having studied the result of the international search, applicant has cancelled claims 3-6, 10-12, 16 and 25-27 directed to the oxidation obtained by means of ultra¬ violet radiation and catalysis, bearing in mind cited WO 90/02572. Therefore, applicant has limited the new claims 1 to 15 to the embodiments of Figures 1 to 4 in which the oxidation is obtained by a heat means (block 11 with capillaries and heating filament). As one can observe from the original application, the applicant considers as the best mode the embodiment according to which the oxidation of liven organisms is obtained by a heating means (e.g. of the type disclosed in US-PS 4.877.990). This embodiment has already proved to be very efficient on experiments held by the appli¬ cant, as described on page 9 of the description. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
