<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643377</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and device for teaching
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09B706	G09B1700	G09B506	G09B700	G09B500	G09B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09B7	G09B17	G09B5	G09B7	G09B5	G09B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A teaching toy (8) includes at least one receptacle (12). The receptacle 
(12) has a conductive signal-out pad and a plurality of conductive code-in 

pads (46) at an inner surface. At least one remote unit (14) is included which 
is removable from receptacle (12). The remote unit (14) has multiple sides 

and a conductive signal-in pad for capacitive coupling to the signal-out pad. 
The remote unit (14) also has at least one conductive code-out pad (50) 

electrically connected to the signal-in pad for capacitive coupling to one of the 
code-in pads (46). The signal-in pad and the code-out pad (50) are disposed 

on a first side of unit (14). The remote unit (14) also has a datum disposed on 
a second side. A processor (20) is included for generating a control signal to 

the signal-out pad and detecting data signals from the code-in pads (46). The 
processor (20) associates the data signals with and generates data 

representing the datum. A memory (22) is included which stores instructions 
for operating processor (20). An interface device (27) receives the data from 

processor (20) and communicates the datum to a user. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRANTINGHAM GEORGE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERMAN SUSAN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STELLA MICHEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALLACE RICHARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRANTINGHAM,GEORGE L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERMAN,SUSAN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STELLA,MICHEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALLACE,RICHARD H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the field of electronic
devices and more specifically to the field of electronic teaching devices.There are many devices available for teaching basic skills to children
or others in need of such instruction. These devices, often called
instructional, i.e. teaching, toys teach skills such as letter (of the alphabet),
word, number and color recognition.One example of a teaching toy has cubes having datum, typically in
the form of a letter, digit or color, disposed on one or more of its six sides. A
student places a cube in a base receptacle, and a processor within the base
identifies the datum. For example, if the cube had a letter "A" disposed on a
side whose datum was to be identified, the processor would identify the
datum as the letter "A". The toy may use a word processor and speaker to
annunciate its identification.Typically, in the case of teaching toys having a receptacle for receiving
a cube, the side of the cube opposite the side with the datum thereon has a
uniquely arranged array of exposed metal contacts. When the cube is inside
the receptacle, electrical contact is made between the metal contacts and
exposed receiving conductors in the receptacle. The processor in the base
unit recognizes the unique arrangement as a code which identifies a specific
datum.A problem with exposed metal contacts and receiving conductors is
that they become tarnished and dirty from exposure to the environment.
After a period of time, the accumulation of dirt hinders or prohibits electrical 
conduction between the contacts and conductors. Thus, the toy malfunctions
until the contacts are properly cleaned.A second problem with exposed metal contacts and conductors is that a
user may come in direct contact with voltage coupled to a contact. Direct
contact with this voltage can cause a painful shock to the user.As an alternative to exposed metal contacts, an array of mechanical
switches may be disposed within the receptacle. The sides of the block have
unique arrangements of protrusions which close (or open) a unique
combination of the switches. The processor recognizes this unique
combination as a code that it matches to the specific datum on any one side.A problem with an array of switches is that the switches wear out with
time. A problem with protrusions is that one or more may become damaged
and cause the toy to malfunction. Replacement or repair of the damaged
switches and protrusions is economically unfeasible and may be physically
impossible as well.EP-A-0 471 572
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A teaching toy comprising at least one receptacle (12)
and at least one remote unit (14) removable from said

receptacle (12) having multiple sides; a first side having
means for indicating and a second side having datum disposed

thereon;

a processor (20);
a memory (22), in data communication with said
processor (20), for storing instructions for operating said

processor (20); and
an interface device (27) for receiving said response
data from said processor (20) and for communicating said

datum to a user;
characterized in that
said at least one receptacle (12) has a conductive
signal-out pad (S
out
) at an inner surface and a plurality of
conductive code-in pads (46) at said inner surface;
said at least one remote unit (14) having a conductive
signal-in pad (S
in
) for capacitive coupling to said signal-out
pad (S
out
) and at least one conductive code-out pad (50)
electrically connected to said signal-in pad (S
in
) for
capacitive coupling to one of said code-in pads (46), said

signal-in pad (S
in
) and said code-out pad (50) being
disposed on said first of said multiple sides of said unit

(14); and
said processor (20) generating a control signal to said
signal-out pad (S
out
) for detecting data signals from said
code-in pads (46), for associating said data signals with

said datum and for generating response data representing
said datum.
The teaching toy of Claim 1 characterized in that said
sides of said unit (14) and said receptacle (12) have a

shape which allows multiple orientations of said unit (14)
with respect to said receptacle (12), one of said multiple

orientations being a correct orientation, the remaining of
said orientations being incorrect orientations and wherein

said memory (22) stores instructions such that said
processor (20) determines, in response to said data signals,

if said unit (14) and said receptacle (12) are in one of
said incorrect orientations, and such that said processor

(20) instructs said interface (27) to broadcast a message to
indicate when said remote unit (14) is in said one of said

incorrect orientations.
The teaching toy of Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that
said shape is square.
The teaching toy of Claim 1, 2 or 3 characterized in
that said remote unit (14) further comprises a remote unit

dielectric (52) diposed on said first side for covering said
signal-in (S
in
) and said at least one code-out pad (50).
The teaching toy of any one of Claims 1 to 4
characterized in that said datum is a letter of the

alphabet.
The teaching toy of any one of Claims 1 to 4
characterized in that said datum is a digit.
The teaching toy of any one of Claims 1 to 4
characterized in that said datum is a color.
The teaching toy of any preceding Claim characterized by
a receptacle dielectric (48) disposed on said receptacle

(12) for covering said signal-out pad (S
out
) and said
plurality of code-in pads (46). 
The teaching toy of any preceding Claim characterized by
a multiplexer (24) in data communication with said processor

(20) and each of said plurality of code-in pads (46), for
coupling, in response to an address signal from said

processor (20), one of said code-in pads (46) to said
processor (20).
The teaching toy of any preceding Claim characterized by
at least one of a second remote unit (14) removable from

said receptacle (12) having multiple sides and a conductive
signal-in pad (S
in
) for capacitive coupling to a conductive
signal-out pad (S
out
) and at least one conductive code-out
pad (50) electrically connected to said signal-in pad (S
in
)
for capacitive coupling to said at least one code-in pad

(46), said signal-in pad (Sin) and said code-out pad (50)
being disposed on a first of said multiple sides of said

second unit (14), said remote unit (14) having a datum
disposed on a second of said multiple sides, said remote

unit (14) also having a remote processor (76) in electrical
communication with said code-out pad (50) and a signal

generator (77), whereby said remote processor (76) generates
a code signal to said code-out pad (50) in reponse to an

event signal generated by said signal generator (77); and
wherein said receptacle (12) further comprises:


said signal-out pad (S
out
) in electrical communication
with said processor (20),
said processor (20), in a first mode of operation, for
detecting said code signal from said code-in pad (46), for

associating said code signal with an event and for
generat
ing data representing said event, in a second mode of
operation, for generating a control signal to said signal-out

pad (S
out
), for detecting data signals from said code-in
pad (46), for associating said data signals with said datum

and for generating data representing said datum;
said interface device (27) for receiving said data from
said processor (20) and for communicating said datum to a

user.
The teaching toy of Claim 10 characterized by a mode
switch (41) for toggling said processor (20) between said

first and said second modes.
A method of teaching comprising the steps of:

inserting a remote unit (14) having multiple sides into
a receptacle (12) formed in a base (10), said unit (14)

having a datum recorded on a first side; and
communicating a message representing said datum to
a user,
characterized in that
 the method further comprises the
following steps which are inserted between the inserting

step and the communicating step:

generating a control signal (86, 88);
capacitively coupling said control signal from said
base (10) via a conductive signal-out pad (S
out
) to a
conductive signal-in pad (S
in
) disposed on a second side of
said remote unit (14);
electrically connecting said control signal from said
signal-in pad (S
in
) to a conductive code-out pad (50)
disposed on said second side to generate a data signal

corresponding to said datum;
capacitively coupling said data signal from said code-out
pad (50) to one of a plurality of conductive code-in

pads (46) disposed on said receptacle (12);
delivering said code signal to a processor (20); and
using said processor (20) and a memory (22) to
associate said code signal with said datum.
The method of Claim 12 characterized by the step of
multiplexing in response to an address signal from said

processor (20), one of said code-in pads (46) to said
processor (20).
The method of Claim 12 or 13 characterized by the steps
of:


shaping said remote unit (14) and said receptacle
(12) to allow multiple orientations of said remote unit (14) 

with respect to said receptacle (12);
inserting said remote unit (14) into said receptacle
(12) in one of said multiple orientations;
determining through which of said code-in pads (46)
said data signal is capacitively coupled from said code-out

pad (50);
determining whether said one of said multiple
orientations is a correct orientation;
communicating said message only if said one of said
multiple orientations is a correct orientation.
The method of Claim 12, 13 or 14, characterized in that
the step of diposing remote unit dielectric (52) on said

signal-in (S
in
) and code-out pads (50).
The method of any one of Claims 12 to 15 characterized
by the step of disposing a receptacle dielectric (48) on

said signal-out (S
out
) and said plurality of code-in pads
(46).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
