<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630016</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A system and method for synchronisation character detection in a data storage system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1108	G06F1108	G11B2010	G11B2010	G11B2012	G11B2012	G11B2730	G11B2730	H03M1300	H03M1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F11	G06F11	G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	G11B27	G11B27	H03M13	H03M13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a system and method for error 
tolerant detection of multibit synchronization characters within data 

blocks in a data storage system. Each detected prospective multibit 
synchronization character is compared to an expected multibit 

synchronization character for an identical match and for a match which 
includes a variation of no greater than a predetermined number of bits, 

for example two adjacent bits. A synchronization character is then 
considered to be 
identified in response to a successful exact comparison 
or, if relaxed detection is enabled, in response to a successful 

comparison indicating that the detected prospective multibit 
synchronization character does not differ from the expected multibit 

synchronization character by an error greater the predetermined number of 
bits. For Read While Write operation in which it is imperative that the 

synchronization characters be written initially without error, the 
relaxed detection scheme may be selectively disabled, requiring the 

synchronization characters to achieve an exact match with the expected 
synchronization character. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARANJAPE SUSHAMA MAHESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINTANA FERNANDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARANJAPE, SUSHAMA MAHESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINTANA, FERNANDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to data storage systems 
and in particular to systems and methods for detection of synchronization 
characters within data stored within a data storage system. Modern data processing systems often use digital signal recording 
devices attached to host processors to record records as addressable 
units within magnetic tape storage systems. Examples of systems which may be utilized to record records within 
a magnetic tape storage system are disclosed within Milligan et al., U.S. 
Patent No. 4,393,445; Milligan et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,435,762; Videki 
II, U.S. Patent No. 4,471,457; Cole et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,603,382; 
Bauer et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,423,480; and Fry et al., U.S. Patent No. 
4,403,286. Each of the aforementioned patents discloses a magnetic tape 
storage system which may be advantageously employed in carrying out the 
method and system of the present invention. In such data storage systems it is practically a necessity that 
each track of data within the recolding medium include multiple 
synchronization characters. Such bit/byte synchronization characters are 
necessary so that the data may be considered self-synchronizing. Without 
such self-synchronizing, data may not be successfully recovered. This 
self-synchronizing is typically accomplished by inserting various 
synchronization characters between small blocks or sets of data signals 
so that the data stored therein may be accurately and efficiently 
recovered. A problem which occurs in the detection of such synchronization 
characters is that data written to storage media often becomes difficult 
to recover at a later time due to various factors, such as media wear, 
head wear and errors introduced as a result of interchange of the media 
between two storage subsystems. Systems which utilize so-called "Block 
Error Correction" codes and modulation codes to recover bad data rely 
upon the detection of synchronization character patterns to achieve 
synchronization. Thus, a failure to detect synchronization characters as 
a result of even small errors contained therein will cause a loss of 
synchronization until the occurrence of the next synchronization  
 
character, severely degrading the correction capability of Error 
Correction Code (ECC). Additionally, higher linear track densities also 
make synchronization character detection sensitive to the channel and 
often results in an occasional bit error or bit shift error within a 
synchronization character. The use of error correction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A synchronization character detection system for identifying 
occurrences of synchronisation characters in a data storage system having 

multiple data blocks stored within multiple tracks therein in association 
with a plurality of multibit synchronization characters, said 

synchronization character detection system comprising: 
   track logic means (40) for identifying each expected multibit 

synchronization character within a data block; 
   first comparison means (70) for comparing a detected prospective 

multibit synchronization character with an expected multibit 
synchronization character and for generating a first output signal in 

response to an identical match therebetween; 
   the system being characterised by: 

   second comparison means (80) for comparing the detected prospective 
multibit synchronization character with the expected multibit 

synchronization character and for generating a second output signal in 
response to a variation between said detected prospective multibit 

synchronization character and said expected multibit synchronization 
character of not greater than a predetermined number of bits; and 

   synchronization character detection means (100) coupled to said 
first comparison means (70) and said second comparison means (80) for 

identifying an occurrence of a synchronization character in response to a 
presence of either said first output signal or said second output signal, 

thereby enabling the detection system to tolerate errors up to the 
predetermined number of bits. 
A synchronization character detection system according to claim 1, 
wherein the predetermined number of bits is set as two adjacent bits. 
A synchronization character detection system according to claim 1 
or claim 2, further including means for selectively disabling said second 

output signal. 
A synchronization character detection system according to claim 3, 
wherein said means for selectively disabling said second output signal 

comprises a selectable command bit and a logic gate (90) for combining 
said selectable command bit with said second output signal. 
A synchronization character detection system according to claim 4, 
wherein said data storage system includes multiple selectable modes of 

operation, and said selectable command bit is activated automatically in 
response to selection of a particular mode of operation of said data 

storage system. 
A synchronization character detection system according to any 
preceding claim, further including a multiple track synchronization 

detection vote circuit (50) for indicating a detection of a 
synchronization character in response to an identified occurrence of a 

synchronization character within a selected number of said multiple 
tracks. 
A synchronization character detection system according to any 
preceding claim, wherein said second comparison means (80) comprises 

means for exclusive ORing each bit of said detected prospective multibit 
synchronization character with an expected multibit synchronization 

character. 
A method of operating a synchronization character detection system 
to identify occurrences of synchronization characters in a data storage 

system having multiple data blocks stored within multiple tracks therein 
in association with a plurality of multibit synchronization characters, 

said method comprising the steps of: 

(a) identifying each expected multibit synchronization character 
within a data block; 
(b) comparing a detected prospective multibit synchronization 
character with an expected multibit synchronization character and 

generating a first output signal in response to an identical match 
therebetween; 

   the method being characterised by the further steps of: 
(c) comparing the detected prospective multibit synchronization 
character with the expected multibit synchronization character and 

generating a second output signal in response to a variation between said 
detected prospec
tive multibit synchronization character and said expected 
multibit synchronization character of not greater than a predetermined 

number of bits; and 
   employing a detection means to identify an occurrence of a 

synchronization character in response to a presence of either said first 
output signal or said second output signal, thereby enabling the 

detection system to tolerate errors up to the predetermined number of 
bits. 
A method according to in claim 8, wherein the predetermined number 
of bits is set as two adjacent bits. 
A method according to claim 8 or claim 9, further including the 
step of allowing said second output signal to be selectively disabled. 
A data storage system having multiple data blocks stored therein 
within multiple tracks on a removable data storage medium (34), each data 

block including a plurality of multibit synchronization characters, said 
data storage system having a transducing head (28), and means for moving 

said removable data storage medium (34) relative to said transducing head 
(28), the storage system being characterised in that it includes a 

synchronization character detection system as claimed in any of claims 1 
to 7. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
