<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631767</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sanitary articles.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1315	A61F1315	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	A61F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a disposable sanitary article, 
notably a diaper, formed from a composite fabric having a fluid 

impervious outer layer, an intermediate absorbent layer and an 
inner next-to-the-skin layer, characterised in that an axially 

elongated slit is formed in a first sheet in the next-to-the-skin 
layer of the fabric, preferably extending over the crotch 

area of the diaper, and in that the opposed axial lips of the 

slit are caused to adopt an inwardly directed and upstanding 
configuration, for example by elastication along the edges of 

the lips, and thereby provide a pair of opposed axial barrier 
cuff walls. 
The invention also provides a method for making such an 
article. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BREGER GIBSON LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BREGER GIBSON LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIPLEY ARTHUR ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIPLEY, ARTHUR ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to disposable sanitary articles, 
notably to a disposable diaper having upstanding cuffs to 
retain bodily fluids and/or solids excreted into the diaper by 
a wearer. Disposable diapers typically comprise a fluid permeable next-to-the-skin 
layer and a fluid impervious outer layer with an 
intermediate fluid absorbent pad or layer. The next-to-the-skin, or inner, layer is typically made from 
one or more sheets of a hydrophilic woven or non-woven 
material, for example a polypropylene or other resin sheet or 
a cellulosic tissue or other fluid permeable sheet made from 
randomly orientated fibres. The layer may have several such 
sheets laid one upon the other to vary the properties of the 
individual sheets. The term next-to-the-skin layer is 
therefore used herein to denote a layer of the composite diaper 
fabric which is located between the skin of the wearer and the 
absorbent pad or layer of the diaper construction. The next-to-the-skin 
layer functions to allow the bodily fluids to pass 
through the sheet so that they can be absorbed by the 
intermediate absorbent pad or layer. Various modification of such a next-to-the-skin layer have been 
proposed. These include treatment of part of the layer to form 
hydrophobic lateral portions and treatment to render the layer 
resistant to back flow of fluid once this has passed through 
the layer, so as to reduce re-wetting of the skin of a wearer. 
It has also been proposed the apply a coating of very fine 
fibres to the inner face of the layer to improve the 
hydrophilic nature of the layer and to aid transport of fluid  
 
through and away from the layer. The outer layer is a water impervious sheet, for example one or 
more sheets of a polyethylene or other polymer, and serves to 
retain fluid within the diaper. Again, modifications to such 
a layer have been proposed, for example to perforate the 
outermost sheet or otherwise permit the passage of vapour but 
not fluid, so that at least part of the fluid carried by the 
absorbent pad or layer can be lost by evaporation through the 
outer layer without the outer face of the outer layer becoming 
damp to the touch. The intermediate absorbent pad or layer is typically formed 
from a pad of cellulosic or other fibres, which may be solid or 
hollow, and serves to absorb fluid passing through the next-to-the-skin 
layer. Such a pad can be formed by fluffing up a 
layer of cellulosic fibres mechanically; by bonding together 
short lengths of fibres by heat, pressure or other
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A disposable sanitary article formed from a composite 
fabric comprising a fluid permeable next-to-the-skin layer, an 

outer fluid impermeable layer and an intermediate fluid 
absorbent layer or pad and having an axially elongated slit or 

aperture formed in a sheet to provide an apertured sheet in the 
next-to-the-skin layer of the composite fabric, the aperture or 

slit extending along or adjacent the centre line of the 
article, characterised in that: 


a. the aperture or slit having opposed axial lips is formed 
in a single sheet of the composite diaper fabric within 

the plan area of the underlying absorbent pad or layer; 
b. the opposed axial lips of the aperture or slit are 
provided with means for raising the distal edges of the 

lips with respect to the plane of the apertured sheet; and 
c. the distal edges of the lips are caused to adopt an 
inwardly directed and upstanding configuration with 

respect to the aperture or slit so as to provide a pair of 
opposed inwardly directed upstanding axially extending 

barrier cuffs in the next-to-the-skin face of the article. 
An article as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that 
the article is to be worn upon a person and extends over the 

crotch area of the person, and in that the aperture or slit is 

formed in the crotch area of the article. 
An article as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that 
the article is a disposable diaper; and in that the axially 

elongated aperture or slit is formed in said single sheet along 
or adjacent the centre line of the crotch area of the diaper; 

and in that the opposed axial lips of the aperture or slit are 
provided with elastication or other means whereby the distal 

edges of the lips are caused to adopt an upstanding and 
 

inwardly directed configuration with respect to the said 
aperture or slit so as to provide said pair of opposed barrier 

cuff walls over at least the crotch length of the diaper. 
An article as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the aperture or slit has a transverse 

dimension of at least 1 cm. 
An article as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the aperture or slit extends for from 25 

to 75% of the axial length of the article. 
An article as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the means for raising the distal edges of 

the lips comprises elastication adjacent the distal edge of the 
lips. 
An article as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that 
the elastication extends axially beyond the extremities of the 

aperture or slit. 
An article as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that a transverse cut is made in said first 

sheet at each end of the axial aperture or slit so as to form 
an axial flap of material along each axial edge of the aperture 

or slit, each of which flaps forms one of the barrier cuff 
walls; and in that the aperture or slit provides a generally 

rectangular aperture in said first sheet. 
An article as claimed in claim 8, characterised in that an 
initial axial aperture or slit is formed which has a transverse 

dimension of from 40 to 90% of the desired transverse width of 
the aperture, and in that the distal edges of said flaps are 

folded downwardly and under the remainder of the material to 
extend the initial axial aperture or slit to its desired 

 
transverse dimension. 
An article as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that there is provided a secondary sheet of 

material intermediate the apertured sheet and the absorbent pad 
or layer. 
An article as claimed in claim 10, characterised in that 
a third sheet is provided underlying said second sheet, and in 

that said third sheet carries particles of a super absorber 
material and is formed with an aperture therein which is at 

least in part in register with the aperture formed in said 
apertured sheet. 
An article as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that a recess is formed in said absorbent pad 

or layer, which recess is at least in part in register with the 
aperture formed in said apertured sheet. 
An article as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the layers of the composite fabric are 

adhered or otherwise bonded together, except that the said 
apertured sheet is not bonded to the underlying sheets in the 

composite fabric over at least the plan area of the aperture or 
slit. 
A method for forming a pair of barrier cuffs in a 
disposable sanitary article formed from a composite fabric 

comprising a fluid permeable next-to-the-skin layer, an outer 
fluid impermeable layer and an intermediate fluid absorbent 

layer or pad, characterised in that the method comprises: 

a. forming an axially elongated slit or aperture in a single 
sheet in the next-to-the-skin layer of the fabric to 

provide an apertured sheet, the aperture or slit having 
axial opposed lips along each axial edge thereof, the 

 
aperture or slit extending along or adjacent the centre 

line of the article and being located within the plan area 
of the underlying absorbent pad or layer; and 
b. providing the opposed axial lips of the aperture or slit 
with means for raising the distal edges of the lips with 

respect to the plane of the apertured sheet so as to 
provide a pair of opposed inwardly directed upstanding 

axially extending barrier cuffs in the next-to-the-skin 
layer of the article when the article is in its relaxed 

stated. 
A method for forming a pair of barrier cuffs in a 
disposable sanitary article formed from a composite fabric 

comprising a fluid permeable next-to-the-skin layer, an outer 
fluid impermeable layer and an intermediate fluid absorbent 

layer or pad, by forming an axial aperture in a sheet in the 
next-to-the-skin surface layer of the article along or adjacent 

the centre line of the article by removing material from said 
sheet, characterised in that: 


a. the next-to-the-skin sheet in which the aperture is formed 
is made from a non-woven fibrous material; 
b. the fibrous material of the next-to-the-skin sheet is 
partially cut through along the periphery of the intended 

aperture, whereby the material of the sheet within the 
intended aperture is removably retained within the sheet; 

and 
c. subsequently removing the material of the sheet within the 
intended aperture to form the aperture. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
