<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650166</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT AND DISC REPRODUCING DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B3312	G11B1704	G11B1704	G11B3312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B33	G11B17	G11B17	G11B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a 
disc reproducing device in which a table (2) 

loaded with a disc can be loaded in and/or 
unloaded from a cabinet (1). A flexible tape 

(15) connecting the table (2) to the cabinet 
(1) is folded into multiple layers along the 

longitudinal direction, and is designed to be 
formed into a curved shape along the full 

length thereof in a process where the table is 
loaded and/or unloaded. When the table (2) is 

loaded into the cabinet (1), a cam receiving pin 
on the rear side of the table (2) is guided by and 

held in a cam groove in a slider that is disposed 
rearwardly of the cabinet (1) and slides in a 

direction normal to the direction in which the 
table (2) is loaded and/or unloaded, whereby 

the table (2) is locked inside the cabinet (1). In 
a case where a disc loaded on a turn table (5) is 

not properly fixed to a disc chuck, a projecting 
portion (61) on a side of the cabinet (1) that 

confronts the disc is brought into abutment 
with the upper surface of the disc so as to 

press the disc downwardly so that the disc is 
set properly to the disc chuck. In addition, a 

stopper (12) of the cabinet (1) and a leaf spring 
(71) of the table (2) for locking the table (2) at 

a position where it is unloaded from the cabinet 
(1) have a function of grounding the cabinet 

(1) and the table (2) simultaneously. With this 
configuration, it is possible to provide a thin 

disc reproducing device. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a disc reproducing
apparatus for a CD-ROM drive or the like and an electronic
apparatus.In recent years, the size and weight of disc drives that
use optical discs as recording mediums have been reduced.
Thus, built-in type disc reproducing apparatuses that are
accommodated in computers have been actively developed. In
some disc reproducing apparatuses, a disc drive system, an
optical pickup, and so forth are disposed in a disc mounting
table that holds a disc. This table can be loaded into and
unloaded from the cabinet of the disc reproducing apparatus.In such disc reproducing apparatuses, a printed circuit
board disposed in the cabinet is connected to a printed
circuit board disposed in the table through a flexible cable.
Fig. 24 shows a connection of the flexible cable. In the
drawing, reference numeral 101 is the flexible cable.
Reference numeral 102 is the cabinet. Reference numeral 103
is the printed circuit board. Reference numeral 104 is the
table. The flexible cable 101 is flatly connected between the
printed circuit board 103 disposed on the cabinet 102 and the
printed circuit board (not shown) disposed on the table 104.Thus, when the table 104 is loaded into the cabinet 102, 
as shown in Fig. 24, the center portion of the flexible cable
101 swells upwardly. Consequently, the surfaces of the
flexible cable 101 contacts the cabinet 102 and other parts of
the apparatus and thereby the flexible cable 101 will be
damaged. To prevent the flexible cable 101 from being
damaged, the space for the flexible cable 101 should be
provided in the directions of the thickness of the cabinet
102. However, if such a space were provided, the thickness of
the apparatus would increase.In some recent disc reproducing apparatuses, to reduce
the thickness thereof, a clamper that secures an optical disc
to a turn table is omitted.However, in such disc reproducing apparatuses, the disc
may drop from the turn table. In addition, in such
apparatuses, if the disc is inclined on the turn table, when
the table is loaded into the cabinet, the surfaces of the disc
will frictionally contact adjacent parts of the apparatus and
thereby the disc will be damaged.On the other hand, in such disc reproducing apparatuses,
the table loaded into the cabinet should be secured at a
predetermined position of the cabinet so as to stably
reproduce data from the disc. Various mechanisms that secure
the table loaded into the cabinet have been proposed.
However, lock mechanisms that are small in size, have good
op
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A disc reproducing apparatus, comprising:

a cabinet (1);
a table (2) loadable into and unloadable from said cabinet (1) for
accommodating a disc in such a manner that a first surface thereof is exposed;
a disc chuck (62) inserted into a center hole of the disc accommodated in said
table (2) from a second surface of the disc for securing the disc; and
drive means for driving said disc chuck (62); characterised in that the apparatus
further comprises a compensating member (61) disposed on said cabinet (1) or a

member secured to said cabinet (1), said compensating member (61) facing the first
surface of the disc accommodated in said table (2) and adapted for contacting the first

surface of said disc and properly setting the disc on said disc chuck (62) if said disc is
dislocated from said disc chuck (62) when said table is inserted into said cabinet (1).
A disc reproducing apparatus according to claim 1, for reproducing digital data
from a disc, the disc having a clamp area and an information record area, the

information record area being formed at the outer periphery of the clamp area and
having information tracks of the digital data in a spiral shape or a concentric circle

shape along with a centre chucking hole. 
The disc reproducing apparatus as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein said
compensating member (61) is disposed inside the width of the clamp area of the disc in

directions perpendicular to the loading and unloading directions of the disc into and
from said cabinet (1).
The disc reproducing apparatus as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein the first
surface of the disc accommodated in said table (2) is a non-record surface.
The disc reproducing apparatus as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein the distance
between said compensating member (61) and said disc chuck (62) is minimum so as to

prevent said compensating member (61) from contacting the first surface of the disc
when the disc is correctly secured to said disc chuck (62).
The disc reproducing apparatus as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein the
minimum distance between said compensating member (61) and said disc chuck (62) is

less than the thickness of the disc.
The disc reproducing apparatus as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein said
compensating member (61) is disposed inside a WA width in directions perpendicular

to the loading and unloading direction of the disc into and from said cabinet (1), the
WA width being the width of a line that connects opposed innermost tracks of the disc

through the center hole thereof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
