<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652696</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Shielded arrangement
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K900	G02B642	G02B642	H05K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	G02B	G02B	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K9	G02B6	G02B6	H05K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shielded member includes a nonconductive housing (e.g., 20) for 
mounting on a substrate (e.g., 22). The housing (e.g., 20) includes a cavity (e.g., 6) 

and has a base to be received against the substrate (e.g., 22). The housing includes at 
least one integral mounting post (e.g., 62) extending beyond the base for reception in 

respective aperture (e.g., 64) in the substrate. A conductive coating extends over at 
least a portion of the housing and at least a portion of the integral mounting post. 

The conductive coating provides shielding for the cavity with currents induced in the 
conductive coating on the housing conductible to a trace (e.g., 82) on the substrate 

by way of the conductive coating on the integral mounting post. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENZONI ALBERT MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENZONI, ALBERT MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a shielded arrangement
such as a shielded member, a shielded transceiver or a shield
housing for an electro-optical circuit.Prior art metal housings for optical transceivers have been cast, molded,
formed, or machined from a variety of alloys, such as an aluminum alloy. Some
metal mounting posts were press inserted or threaded into holes in the housings.
Other metal housings had mounting posts that were integrally machined or cast
oversized and machined in a secondary operation. It has been found during wave
soldering of electrical leads and the mounting posts to traces on a substrate, that the
metal housing acts as a large heat sink with respect to the mounting posts. This has
caused cold solder joints to form at some mounting posts. The cold solder joints
decrease the reliability of a circuit path from the housing to an electrically
conductive trace on the substrate on which the housing is mounted, and reduce the
retention force of the solder joints that secure the housing to the substrate.
Concomitantly, a failed solder joint will reduce the shielding effectiveness of the
housing by including a high impedance in the path between the conductive housing
and an electrically conductive trace on the substrate.Prior art plastic housings for optical transceivers have included insert
molded, ultrasonically bonded, or threaded, screw inserted metal mounting posts.
The ultrasonically bonded mounting posts were typically plated, along with the
housing, after insertion. The threaded screw inserted mounting posts were typically
mounted into the housing after both the housing and the mounting posts were
individually plated. Inserting the mounting post subsequent to both the housing and
mounting posts being individually plated has caused the plating to crack.The above problems, coupled with tolerance requirements on the
positioning of the mounting posts, requires that each housing be inspected after
manufacture. This increases the cost of manufacturing housings for optical
transceivers. A need remains in the art for a cost effective technique for providing
shielding to a housing while simultaneously providing a reliable low impedance path
to conduct electrostatic energy or energy induced by electromagnetic radiation to an
electrically conductive trace. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention as claimed, a shielded
member includes a nonconductive housing for mounting on a substrate having a
conductive trace thereon. The housing includes a cavity and has a base adapted to be
po
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A shielded arrangement comprising a member including a
nonconductive housing (20) for mounting on a substrate (22) having an electrically

conductive trace (82), the housing defining a cavity (36) and having a base to be
received against the substrate, the housing (20) having at least one integral mounting

post (62) extending beyond the base for reception in an aperture (64) in the substrate,
the shielded member characterized by

   the housing (20) having an electrically conductive coating extending
over at least a portion thereof and at least a portion of the at least one integral

mounting post, whereby the conductive coating shields the cavity (36), with energy
induced in the conductive coating on the housing (20) being conductible to the

electrically conductive trace (82) on the substrate (22) when the housing (20) is
mounted thereon by way of the conductive coating on the integral mounting post

(62).
A shielded arrangement comprising a transceiver including a
nonconductive housing (20) for mounting on a substrate (22) having an electrically

conductive trace (82), the housing (20) defining a cavity (36), a receiver (76) and
transmitter (72) received in the cavity (36), the housing (20) having a base to be

received against the substrate, the housing having at least one integral mounting post
(62) extending beyond the base for reception in an aperture (64) in the substrate, the

shielded transceiver characterized by the housing having an electrically conductive
coating extending over a least a portion thereof and at least a portion of the at least

one integral mounting post, whereby the conductive coating provides shielding of
the receiver and transmitter from electrostatic and electromagnetic energy with

energy induced in the conductive coating on the housing conductible to the
electrically conductive trace on the substrate when the shielded transceiver is

mounted thereon by way of the conductive coating on the integral mounting post.
A shielded arrangement comprising a housing for an electro-optic
circuit, including a nonconductive housing (20) for mounting on a substrate (22)

having an electrically conductive trace (82), the housing having a cavity (36), an
electro-optic circuit (72,76) received in the cavity (36), the housing having a base to

be received against the substrate and an integral mounting post (62) extending
beyond the base for reception in an aperture (64) in the substrate, the shielded

housing characterized by the housing having an electrically conductive coating 
extending over at least a portion of the housing and at least a portion of the integral

mounting post, whereby the conductive coating shields the electro-optic circuit from
electrostatic or electromagnetic energy with any energy induced in the conductive

coating on the housing conductible to an electrically conductive trace on the
substrate by way of the conductive coating on the integral mounting post.
A shielded arrangement as recited in claim 1, 2 or 3, further
characterized in that the nonconductive housing (20) is molded of a material

containing electrically conductive particles.
A shielded arrangement as recited in claim 1, 2 or 3, further
characterized in that the nonconductive housing (20) and integral mounting post (62)

are molded.
A shielded arrangement as recited in claim 5, further characterized in
that the housing (20) and integral mounting post (62) are molded of a material

selected from polyether sulfone, polyetherimide, and liquid crystal polymer.
A shielded arrangement as recited in claim 1, 2 or 3, further
characterized in that the electrically conductive coating is a metal, for example

copper, applied by electroless plating, or as a conductive paint.
A shielded arrangement as recited in claim 1, 2 or 3, further
characterized by a lid (24), having an electrically conductive coating, the conductive

coating on the lid electrically commoned with the conductive coating extending over
a least a portion of the housing (20).
A shielded arrangement as recited in claim 8, wherein the lid is further
characterized by a partition member (52) extending into the cavity (36), the partition

member (52) having a conductive coating, the partition member (52) dividing the
cavity (36) into a first portion and a second portion, whereby emissions generated in

one of the portions are prevented from entering the other portion.
A shielded arrangement as recited in claim 8, further characterized in
that the lid further comprises a partition member (52) extending into the cavity (36),

the partition member having a conductive coating, the partition member dividing the 
cavity into a first portion receiving the transmitter (72) and a second portion

receiving the receiver (76), whereby digital switching noise in the form of
electromagnetic interference generated by the transmitter is prevented from radiating

into the second portion of the cavity.
A shielded arrangement as recited in claim 8, for an electro-optic
circuit, further characterized in that the lid (24) further comprises a partition member

(52) extending into the cavity (36), the partition member having a conductive
coating, the partition member dividing the cavity into a first portion for receiving a

first portion of the electro-optic circuit (72) and a second portion for receiving a
second portion of the electro-optic circuit (76), whereby digital switching noise

generated by the first portion of the electro-optic circuit is prevented from radiating

into the second portion of the cavity.
A shielded member as recited in claim 1, further characterized by
coating that is not electrically conductive extending over at least a portion of the

conductive coating, the nonconductive coating capable of providing a mask to limit
the flow of solder when the shielded member is mounted on and soldered to the

substrate.
A shielded member as recited in claim 1, further characterized in that
the at least one integral mounting post (62) extends from the base of the housing, or

a solder coating extends over the conductive coating on the mounting post.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
