<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621877</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ESTERS OF PECTIC AND PECTINIC ACID
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K811	A61K811	C08B3700	A61Q1900	C09K300	C09K300	A61K830	A61K849	A23L105	A23L105	A61K4736	A61K804	A61K873	A61Q1900	A61K841	A23L10524	C08B3700	A23L1052	C11D322	A61K872	A61K4736	A61K4748	A61K872	A61K804	C08B3706	A61K4748	A61K916	C11D322	A61K916	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C08B	A61Q	C09K	C09K	A61K	A61K	A23L	A23L	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61Q	A61K	A23L	C08B	A23L	C11D	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C08B	A61K	A61K	C11D	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K8	A61K8	C08B37	A61Q19	C09K3	C09K3	A61K8	A61K8	A23L1	A23L1	A61K47	A61K8	A61K8	A61Q19	A61K8	A23L1	C08B37	A23L1	C11D3	A61K8	A61K47	A61K47	A61K8	A61K8	C08B37	A61K47	A61K9	C11D3	A61K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Pectic acid and pectinic acid may be totally or partially esterified with aliphatic, arylaliphatic, cycloaliphatic or heterocyclic alcohols. When the acid is only partially esterified, the remaining free carboxyl groups may be salified with inorganic or organic bases. The esters may be used in the pharmaceutical, biomedical, alimentary and cosmetic fields. The esters may be prepared from a quaternary ammonium salt of pectic acid or pectinic acid and an esterifying agent such as a halogenide.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MURST ITALIAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
M.U.R.S.T. ITALIAN MINISTRY FOR UNIVERSITY AND SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CALLEGARO LANFRANCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRESCENZI VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CALLEGARO, LANFRANCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRESCENZI, VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to pectic and pectinic
acid (hereafter called PGA and PGA-Me-x respectively),
totally esterified or with a degree of esterification between
5% and 95%, salts of partially esterified PGA and
PGA-Me-x with metal ions or organic bases, a process
for the preparation thereof, pharmaceutical preparations
and/or medicaments comprising the total or partial
esters of PGA and PGA-Me-x or salts thereof and the
use of the total or partial esters or salts thereof in the
pharmaceutical, biomedical, alimentary and cosmetic
fields.In the specification and claims the term "partial ester"
is used to designate an acid with a degree of esterification
between 5% and 95%.In the specification and claims, wherever the meaning
does not clearly exclude this possibility, the term "esters
of PGA and PGA-Me-x" should be taken to mean
both the esters themselves and their salts, and the term
"ester" is used to designate both a total and a partial
ester unless otherwise explained.The invention describes more precisely esters and
processes for the preparation of:
natural demethoxylated pectins, pactic acids or polygalacturonic
acids (hereinafter known as PGA)
wherein all or only part of the carboxyl groups are
esterified and the salts of the partial esters with metal
ions and with organic bases which are acceptable
for pharmacological use or in foodstuffs.natural pectins, pectinic acids (hereinafter known
as PGA-Me-x), that is, PGA's in which a given fraction,
x%, of the carboxyl groups of the galacturonic
acid residues are naturally in the form of the methyl
ester, and wherein the non-methoxylated carboxyl
groups are partially ortotally esterified with alcohols
other than methyl alcohol, and the salts of the partial
esters with metal ions or with organic bases which
are acceptable for pharmacological use or as foodstuffs.These new esters possess, according to the nature
of their ester groups and to their degree of esterification,
interesting rheological, gelling, emulsifying, bioplastic,
film-forming properties respectively, and can be used in
numerous sectors of industry such as the biomedical,
sanitary, agroalimentary, and cosmetic fields. The invention
also includes compositions containing as active
ingredients one or more esters of PGA and/or PGA-Me-x
or one of their salts as defined above, as well as medicaments
containing:
a pharmacologically active substance or an association
of pharmacologically active substances and,a vehicle constituted by a partial or total ester of
PGA and/or PGA-Me-x.The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Pectic and pectinic acids totally esterified or with a degree
of esterification between 5% and 95%, in which the esterifying

component is derived from aliphatic, arylaliphatic,
cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic alcohols, and salts of such

partially esterified pectic and pectinic acids with inorganic or
organic bases, provided that the aliphatic alcohol is not

glycerol and in which the aliphatic alcohols have a maximum of 34
carbon atoms and are substituted by one or two functional units

selected from the group consisting of amino, mercapto, aldehydo,
keto, carboxyl, hydrocarbyl- and dihydrocarbylamino, ether,

ester, thioether, thioester, acetal, ketal, carbalkoxy, carbamide
and carbamide groups substituted by one or. two hydrocarbyl

groups, and in which such aliphatic alcohols may be interrupted
in the carbon atom chain by heteroatoms chosen from the group

formed by oxygen, sulphur and nitrogen, and wherein the chain
length of the pectic and pectinic acids is not substantially

decreased after esterification
Ester of pectic and pectinic acids and salts thereof
according to claim 1, in which the esterifying alcohol component

is derived from an alcohol with a maximum of 12 carbon atoms and
in the case of alcohols substituted by functional units, the

hydrocarbyl radicals of the amino, ether, ester, thioether,
thioester, acetal, ketal groups are C
1
-C
4
 alkyl groups and the
hydrocarbyl groups and in the substituting esterified carboxyl

groups and in the substituted carbamide groups are C
1
-C
4
 alkyl
groups, and wherein the substituted amino or carbamide groups may

also be alkylene amino or alkylene carbamide groups with a
maximum of 8 carbon atoms. 
Esters of pectic and pectinic acids and salts thereof
according to claim 1, wherein the esterifying arylaliphatic

alcohol component is derived from alcohols with only one benzene
residue and wherein the aliphatic chain has a maximum of 4 carbon

atoms and wherein the benzene residue may be substituted by 1 to
3 substituents selected from the group consisting of methyl,

hydroxy and halogen, and wherein the aliphatic chain may be
substituted by one or two units selected from the group consisting

of free amino groups, mono- or diethylated amino groups,
pyrrolidine and piperidine groups.
Esters of pectic and pectinic acids and salts thereof
according to claim 3, wherein the alcohol component is derived

from benzyl alcohol, phenethyl alcohol, ephedrine or adrenaline.
Esters of pectic and pectinic acids and their salts according
to claim 1, wherein the alcohol component is derived from

cycloaliphatic or aliphatic-cycloaliphatic or heterocyclic
alcohols, respectively, and are mono- or polycyclic with a

maximum of 34 carbon atoms.
Esters of pectic and pectinic acids according to one of
claims 1-5, wherein all the carboxyl groups of pectic and

pectinic acids are esterified.
Esters of pectic and pectinic acids and their salts according
to one of claims 1-5, wherein at least 5% and at the most 95% of

all the carboxyl groups of pectic and pectinic acid are
esterified.
Esters of pectic and pectinic acids and their salts according
to one of claims 1-5, wherein the esterifying alcohol component

is derived from more than one alcohol. 
Esters of pectic and pectinic acids and their salts
according to claim 8, which comprise two different esterifying

groups and the ratio between the number of said different ester
groups varies between 0.1:1 and 1:0.1.
Salts of unesterified carboxyl functions in pectic and
pectinic acid partially esterified according to an
y of claims 1-9,
which salts are derived from alkaline metals, alkaline earth

metals, ammonia or organic bases.
Salts according to claim 10 which are selected from the
group consisting of sodium salts, ammonium salts and magnesium

salts.
Salts according to claim 10 which salts are derived from
aliphatic, arylaliphatic, cycloaliphatic or heterocyclic amines.
Salts according to claim 12, wherein the amines are
therapeutically acceptable.
Pharmaceutical compositions containing as active ingredient
an ester or one of its salts defined in claim 1 together with an

excipient.
Pharmaceutical compositions containing as active ingredient
an ester of pectic and pectinic acids totally esterified or with

a degree of esterification between 5% and 95%, in which the
esterifying component is derived from aliphatic, arylaliphatic,

cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic alcohols, and salts of such
partially esterified pectic and pectinic acids with inorganic or

organic bases, provided that the aliphatic alcohol is not
methanol or glycerol and wherein the chain length of the pectic and pectinic

acids is not substantially decreased after esterification, or one
of its salts, together with an excipient. 
Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 14 or 15,
wherein the esterifying alcohol component is derived from a

pharmacologically active alcohol.
Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 14 or 15,
wherein the salt of the partial ester is formed with a

pharmacologically active compound.
Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 14 or 15 for
parenteral administration.
Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 14 or 15 for
subcutaneous administration.
Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 14 or 15 for
local or topical or intradermal administration.
Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 14 or 15 for
oral, rectal, vaginal or nasal administration.
Pharmaceutical compositions containing:

a pharmacologically active substance or an association of
pharmacologically active substances and;
a carrying vehicle constituted by a total or partial ester of
pectic or pectinic acid, with the exception of methanol and glycerol pectate,

or by a salt of said partial esters with inorganic or organic
bases.
Pharmaceutical compositions constituted by a partial ester
of pectic or pectinic acid, with the exception of methanol and glycerol pectate,

possibly salified by inorganic or organic bases, wherein at least
a fraction of the carboxyl groups salified by a therapeutically

active base. 
Pharmaceutical compositions according to one of claims 22 or
23, wherein the pharmacologically active substance is for topical

use.
Pharmaceutical composition according to one of claims 22-24,
wherein the pharmacologically active substance is an analgesic or

an anesthetic.
Pharmaceutical composition according to one of claims 22-24,
wherein the pharmacologically active substance is an

antiinflammatory.
Pharmaceutical composition according to one of claims 22-24,
wherein the pharmacologically active substance is a

vasoconstrictor.
Pharmaceutical composition according to one of claims 22-24,
wherein the pharmacologically active substance is an

antibiotic/antibacterial.
Pharmaceutical composition according to one of claims 22-24,
wherein the pharmacologically active substance is an antiviral.
The use of a partial ester of pectic or pectinic acid
derived from a polyvalent aliphatic alcohol, according to one of

claims 1-13, in the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition.
Cosmetic articles containing an ester of pectic and pectinic
acids totally esterified or with a degree of esterification

between 5% and 95%, in which the esterifying component is derived
from aliphatic, arylaliphatic, cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic

alcohols, and salts of such partially esterified pectic and
pectinic acids with inorganic or organic bases, provided that the

aliphatic alcohol is not glycerol or methanol and wherein the chain length of
the pectic and pectinic acids is not substantially decreased

after esterification, or one of its salts, or an ester of pectic 
or pectinic acid or one of its salts according to one of claims

1-13.
Cosmetic articles according to claim 31, wherein the ester
of pectic or pectinic acid is derived from a therapeutically and

pharmacologically inactive alcohol.
Cosmetic articles according to one of claims 31-32, wherein
the ester of pectic or pectinic acid is derived from aliphatic

alcohols with a maximum of 12 carbon atoms.
Sanitary or surgical articles containing an ester of pectic
and pectinic acids totally esterified or with a degree of

esterification between 5% and 95%, in which the esterifying
component is derived from aliphatic, arylaliphatic,

cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic alcohols, and salts of such
partially esterified pectic and pectinic acids with inorganic or

organic bases, provided that the aliphatic alcohol is not
methanol or glycerol and wherein the chain length of the pectic and pectinic

acids is not substantially decreased after esterification, or one
of its salts, or an ester of pectic or pectinic acid or one of

its salts according to one of claims 1-13.
Sanitary or surgical articles according to claim 34,
constituted by films of esters of pectic or pectinic acid derived

from therapeutically inactive alcohols.
Sanitary or surgical articles according to claim 34,
constituted by threads of esters of pectic or pectinic acid

derived from therapeutically inactive alcohols.
Films and threads of pectic or pectinic acid according to
one of claims 35 or 36 deriving from aliphatic alcohols with a

maximum of 12 carbon atoms. 
The use of films of esters of pectic or pectinic acid
according to claim 37 in the agricultural-alimentary sector.
The use of threads of esters of pectic or pectinic acid
according to claim 37 as suture threads in surgical operations.
A procedure for the preparation of films or threads of
esters of pectic or pectinic acid according to claim 37, wherein

the ester of pectic or pectinic acid is dissolved in a first
organic solvent, the solution is made into a sheet or film, or

spun into a thread, and then the organic solvent is eliminated by
treatment with a second suitable organic or aqueous solvent,

which is soluble in the first solvent, and in which the ester is
insoluble.
A procedure according to claim 40, wherein dimethylsulfoxide
is used as the first solvent.
Microspheres of esters of pectic or pectinic acids
containing an ester of pectic and pectinic acids totally

esterified or with a degree of esterification between 5% and 95%,
in which the esterifying 
component is derived from aliphatic,
arylaliphatic, cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic alcohols, and

salts of such partially esterified pectic and pectinic acids with
inorganic or organic bases, provided that the aliphatic alcohol

is not methanol or glycerol and wherein the chain length of the pectic and
pectinic acids is not substantially decreased after

esterification, or one of its salts, or an ester of pectic or
pectinic acid or one of its salts according to one of claims 1-13.
The use of microspheres of esters of pectic or pectinic acid
according to claim 42 in the biomedical sector.
The use of microspheres of esters of pectic or pectinic acid
according to claim 42 in the agricultural-alimentary sector. 
A process for the preparation of microspheres of esters of
pectic or pectinic acid according to claim 42 including a step

involving the incorporation of one or more chemical or biological
components in the micro-spheres.
Food articles containing one or more esters of pectic or
pectinic acid according to one of claims 1-13.
Articles for industrial use in the textile, printing and
paper industries, containing an ester of pectic and pectinic

acids totally esterified or with a degree of esterification
between 5% and 95%, in which the esterifying component is derived

from aliphatic, arylaliphatic, cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic
alcohols, and salts of such partially esterified pectic and

pectinic acids with inorganic or organic bases, provided that the
aliphatic alcohol is not methanol or glycerol and wherein the chain length of

the pectic and pectinic acids is not substantially decreased
after esterification, or one of its salts, or an ester of pectic

or pectinic acid or one of its salts according to one of claims
1-13.
Articles for household use and detergents containing an
ester of pectic and pectinic acids totally esterified or with a

degree of esterification between 5% and 95%, in which the
esterifying component is derived from aliphatic, arylaliphatic,

cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic alcohols, and salts of such
partially esterified pectic and pectinic acids with inorganic or

organic bases, provided that the aliphatic alcohol is not
methanol or glycerol and wherein the chain length of the pectic and pectinic

acids is not substantially decreased after esterification, or one
of its salts, or an ester of pectic or pectinic acid or one of

its salts according to one of claims 1-13.
Food articles according to claim 46 containing esters of
pectic or pectinic acid as gelling agents. 
Food articles according to claim 46 containing esters of
pectic or pectinic acid as preservative agents.
Food articles according to claim 46 containing esters of
pectic or pectinic acid as emulsifying agents or as emulsion

stabilizers.
Non-alimentary, industrial articles containing esters of
pectic or pectinic acids as emulsifiers except esters in which the

esterifying alcohol is methanol.
Industrial articles containing esters of pectic or pectinic
acid as frothers except esters in which the esterifying alcohol is

methanol.
A process for the preparation of esters of pectic or
pectinic acid, wherein a quaternary ammonium salt of pectic or

pectinic acid is reacted, in the absence of water and oxygen,
with an esterifying agent in an organic solvent, and, if desired,

in the esters obtained which have free carboxyl groups, such
groups are salified.
A process according to claim 54, wherein the organic solvent
is an aprotic solvent.
A process according to claim 55, wherein the aprotic solvent
is dimethylsulfoxide.
A process according to claim 54, wherein a lower tetraalkyl
ammonium salt is used as starting ammonium salt.
A process according to claim 54, wherein the quaternary
ammonium salt is the tetrabutylammonium salt.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
