<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614527</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GEL PARTICLE CONTRAST MEDIA FOR IMPROVED DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K916	A61K916	A61K4730	A61K4730	A61K4900	A61K4900	A61K4904	A61K4904	A61K4906	A61K4918	A61K4922	A61K4922	G01R3328	G01R3328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K47	A61K47	A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A contrast medium useful for diagnostic imaging is provided. The contrast medium comprises gel particles, preferably of less than about 90  mu  in mean diameter, the gel particles comprising at least one polymer entrapping at least one contrast enhancing metal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNGER EVAN C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNGER, EVAN C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNGER EVAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNGER, EVAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLEGel Particle Contrast Media For Improved Diagnostic ImagingREFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation-in-part of copending application Serial No. 507,125 filed April 10, 1990.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention There are a .variety of imaging techniques that have been used to diagnose disease in humans. One of the first imaging techniques employed was X-rays. In X-rays, the images produced of the patients' body reflect the different densities of body structure. To improve the diagnostic utility of this imaging technique, contrast agents are employed to increase the density between various structures, such as between the gastrointestinal tract and its surrounding tissue. Barium and iodinated contrast media, for example, are used extensively for X-ray gastro- intestinal studies to visualize the esophagus, stomach, intestines and rectum.Ultrasound is another imaging technique. In ultrasound, sound is transmitted into a patient via a transducer. When the sound waves propagate through the body, they encounter interfaces from tissues and fluids in the body, and the ultrasound sound waves are either reflected or absorbed. When sound waves are reflected by an interface they are detected by the receiver in the transducer and processed to form an image. The acoustic 

 properties of the tissues and fluids within the body determine the contrast which appears in the resultant image. Contrast agents have been sought which will increase the acoustic difference between the target area and the surrounding area. For example, heavy metals have been tested as contrast agents for ultrasound.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a relatively new imaging technique which, unlike X-rays, does not utilize ionizing radiation. As in computed tomography, MRI can make cross-sectional images of the body, however, MRI has the additional advantage of being able to make images in any scan plane (i.e., axial, coronal, sagittal or orthogonal) . Unfortunately, the full utility of MRI as a diagnostic modality for the body is hampered by the lack of effective contrast agents. Contrast agents have been developed for MRI to improve detection of disease, but most of these efforts have been directed to using chelates of paramagnetic ions as contrast agents. Traditionally employed chelates have the disadvantage of decreasing the relaxivity of the chelate ion as well as potentially causing toxicity, should the metal ion escape from the chelate. Such chelates have the further disadvantage that they are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is Claimed is:
1. A contrast medium comprising gel particles of less than about 90 μ in mean diameter, said gel particles comprising at least one polymer entrapping at least one contrast enhancing metal.
2. A contrast medium of Claim 1 wherein said gel particles are from about 5 nm to about 90 μ in mean diameter.
3. A contrast medium of Claim 2 wherein said gel particles are from about 1 μ to about 90 μ in mean diameter.
4. A contrast medium of Claim 2 wherein said gel particles are from about 5 nm to about 400 nm in mean diameter.
5. A contrast medium of Claim 4 wherein said gel particles are from about 10 nm to about 200 nm in mean diameter.
6. A contrast medium of Claim 1 wherein said polymer is a synthetic polymer.
7. A contrast medium of Claim 1 wherein said polymer is a natural or semisynthetic polymer.
8. A contrast medium of Claim 6 wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylenes, polypropylenes, polyurethanes, pluronic acids, pluronic alcohols, polyvinylε, nylon, polystyrene, polylactic acids, fluorinated hydrocarbons, fluorinated carbons, polyacrylates, polyacrylic acids and polyacrylamides. 


 9. A contrast medium of Claim 7 wherein the polymer is a polysaccharide.
10. A contrast medium of Claim 9 wherein said polysaccharide is selected from the group consisting of arabinans, fructans, fucans, galactans, galacturonans, glucans, mannans, xylans, levan, fucoidan, carrageenan, galactocarolose, pectins, pectic acids, amylose, pullulan, glycogen, amylopectin, cellulose, dextran, pustulan, chitin, agarose, keratin, chondroitin, dermatan, hyaluronic acid, alginic acid, xanthan gum, starch, carboxyl ethylcellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, methylcellulos , methoxycellulose, and polysaccharides containing at least one aldose, ketose, acid or amine selected from the group consisting of erythrose, threose, ribose, arabinose, xylose, lyxose, allose, altrose, glucose, mannose, gulose, idose, galactose, talose, erythrulose, ribulose, xylulose, psicose, fructose, sorbose, tagatose, glucuronic acid, gluconic acid, glucaric acid, galacturonic acid, mannuronic acid, glucosamine, galactosamine and neuraminic acid.
11. A contrast medium of Claim 10 wherein said polysaccharide is pectin.
12. A contrast medium of Claim 11 wherein said polysaccharide is a pectin which is a low methoxy pectin having less than about 30% methoxylation.
13. A contrast medium of Claim 10 wherein said polysaccharide is polygalacturonic acid.
14. A contrast medium of Claim 1 wherein said polymer is a phosphorylated polymer. 


 15. A contrast medium of Claim 1 wherein said contrast enhancing metal is selected from the group consisting of paramagnetic metals and heavy metals.
16. A contrast medium of Claim 15 wherein said contrast enhancing metal is a paramagnetic metal.
17. A contrast medium of Claim 16 wherein said paramagnetic metal is selected from the group consisting of gadolinium, manganese,
•
copper, chromium, iron, cobalt, erbium, nickel, europium, technetium, indium, samarium, dysprosium, ruthenium, ytterbium, yttrium, and holmium.
18. A contrast medium of Claim 17 wherein said paramagnetic metal is Mn .
19. A contrast medium of Claim 15 wherein said contrast enhancing metal is a heavy metal.
20. A contrast medium of Claim 19 wherein said heavy metal is selected from the group consisting of hafnium, lanthanum, ytterbium, dysprosium and gadolinium.
21. A contrast medium of Claim 1 wherein said contrast medium further comprises a gelling agent selected from the group consisting of polyvalent metal cations, sugars and polyalcohols.
22. A contrast medium of Claim 21 wherein said gelling agent is a polyvalent metal cation which is a calcium cation.
23. A contrast medium of Claim 1 wherein said polymer is crosslinked.
24. A contrast medium of Claim 1 wherein said polymer is non-crosslinked. 


 25. A contrast medium prepared by the process of combining at least one polymer and at least one contrast enhancing metal to form a gel wherein said polymer entraps said contrast enhancing metal, and particularizing the gel to form particles of less than about 90 μ in mean diameter.
26. A contrast medium of Claim 25 further comprising combining a gelling agent with said polymer and said contrast enhancing metal.
27. A contrast medium of Claim 26 wherein said gelling agent is selected from the group consisting of polyvalent metal cations, sugars and polyalcohols.
28. A contrast medium comprising gel particles, said gel particles comprising at least one polymer entrapping at least one contrast enhancing metal, wherein said polymer is non-crosslinked.
29. A contrast medium of Claim 28 wherein said polymer is a synthetic polymer.
30. A contrast medium of Claim 28 wherein said polymer is a natural or semisynthetic polymer.
31. A contrast medium of Claim 29 wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylenes, polypropylenes, polyurethanes, pluronic acids, pluronic alcohols, polyvinyls, nylon, polystyrene, polylactic acids, fluorinated hydrocarbons, fluorinated carbons, polyacrylates, polyacrylic acids, and polyacrylamides.
32. A contrast medium of Claim 30 wherein said polymer is a polysaccharide. 


 33. A contract medium of Claim 32 wherein said polysaccharide is selected from the group consisting of arabinans, fructans, fucans, galactans, galacturonans, glucans, mannans, xylans, levan, fucoidan, carrageenan,
5 galactocarolose, pectins, pectic acids, amylose, pullulan, glycogen, amylopectin, cellulose, dextran, pustulan, chitin, agarose, keratin, chondroitin, dermatan, hyaluronic acid, alginic acid, xanthan gum, starch, carboxylmethylcellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose,
10 hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, methylcellulose, methoxycellulose, and polysaccharides containing at least one aldose, ketose, acid or amine selected from the group consisting of erythrose, threose, ribose, arabinose, xylose, lyxose, allose, altrose, glucose, mannose, gulose,
15. idose, galactose, talose, erythrulose, ribulose, xylulose, psicose, fructose, sorbose, tagatose, glucuronic acid, gluconic acid, glucaric acid, galacturonic acid, mannuronic acid, glucosa ine, galactosamine and neuraminic acid.
34. A contrast medium of Claim 33 wherein said 20 polysaccharide is pectin.
35. A contrast medium of Claim 34 wherein said polysaccharide is a pectin which is a low methoxy pectin having less than about 30% methoxylation.
36. A contrast medium of Claim 33 wherein said 5 polysaccharide is polygalacturonic acid.
37. A contrast medium of Claim 28 wherein said polymer is a phosphorylated polymer.
38. A contrast medium of Claim 28 wherein said contrast enhancing metal is selected from the group 0 consisting of paramagnetic metals, and heavy metals. 


 39. A contrast medium of Claim 38 wherein said contrast enhancing metal is a paramagnetic metal.
40. A contrast medium of Claim 39 wherein said paramagnetic metal is selected from the group consisting of gadolinium, manganese, copper, chromium, iron, cobalt, erbium, nickel, europium, technetium, indium, samarium, dysprosium, ruthenium, ytterbium, yttrium, and holmium.
41. A contrast medium of Claim 40 wherein said paramagnetic metal is Mn +2.
42. A contrast medium of Claim 38 wherein said contrast enhancing metal is a heavy metal.
43. A contrast medium of Claim 42 wherein said heavy metal is selected from the group consisting of hafnium, lanthanum, ytterbium, dysprosium and gadolinium.
44. A contrast medium of Claim 28 wherein said gel particles are less than about 90 μ in mean diameter.
45. A contrast medium of Claim 44 wherein said gel particles are from about 5 nm to about 90 μ in mean diameter.
46. A contrast medium of Claim 45 which said gel particles are from about 1 μ to about 90 μ in mean diameter.
47. A contrast medium of Claim 45 wherein said gel particles are from about 5 nm to about 400 nm in mean diameter.
48. A contrast medium of Claim 47 wherein said gel particles are from about 10 nm to about 200 nm in mean diameter. 


 49. A contrast medium prepared by the process of combining at least one polymer and at least one contrast enhancing metal to form a gel wherein said polymer entraps said contrast enhancing metal, and particularizing the gel to form particles, wherein said polymer is non-cross- linked.
50. A contrast medium of Claim 49 further comprising combining a gelling agent with said polymer and said contrast enhancing agent.
51. A contrast medium of Claim 50 wherein said gelling agent is selected from the group consisting of polyvalent metal cations, sugars, and polyalcohols.
52. A method of providing an image of an internal region of a patient comprising (i) administering to the patient a contrast medium of Claim 1, and (ii) scanning the patient using magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound imaging or X-ray imaging to obtain visible images of the region.
53. A method for diagnosing the presence of diseased tissue in a patient comprising (i) administering to the patient a contrast medium of Claim l, and (ii) scanning the patient using magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound imaging or X-ray imaging to obtain visible images of any diseased tissue in the patient.
54. A method of providing an image of an internal region of a patient comprising (i) administering to the patient a contrast medium of Claim 28, and (ii) scanning the patient using magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound imaging or X-ray imaging to obtain visible images of the region. 


 55. A method for diagnosing the presence of diseased tissue in a patient comprising (i) administering to the patient a contrast medium of Claim 28, and (ii) scanning the patient using magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound imaging or X-ray imaging to obtain visible images of any diseased tissue in the patient.
56. A kit comprising a contrast medium of Claim 1 and conventional diagnostic kit components.
57. A kit of Claim 56 wherein said kit components are selected from the group consisting of buffering agents, antibacterial agents and stabilizing agents.
58. A kit comprising a contrast medium of Claim 28 and conventional diagnostic kit components.
59. A kit of Claim 58 wherein said kit components are selected from the group consisting of buffering agents, antibacterial agents and stabilizing agents.
60. A process for preparing a contrast medium comprising combining at least one polymer and at least one contrast enhancing metal to form a gel wherein said polymer entraps said contrast enhancing metal, and particularizing the gel to form particles of less than about 90 μ in mean diameter.
61. A process of Claim 60 further comprising combining a gelling agent with said polymer and said contrast enhancing agent.
62. A process of Claim 61 wherein said gelling agent is selected from the group consisting of polyvalent metal cations, sugars and polyalcohols. 


 63. A process for preparing a contrast medium comprising combining at least one polymer and at least one contrast enhancing metal to form a gel wherein said polymer entraps said contrast enhancing metal, and particularizing the gel to form particles, wherein said polymer is non- crossiinked.
64. A process of Claim 63 further comprising combining a gelling agent with said polymer and said contrast enhancing agent.
65. A process of Claim 64 wherein said gelling agent is selected from the group consisting of polyvalent metal cations, sugars and polyalcohols.
66. The contrast medium of Claim 1 wherein said polymer is polygalacturonic acid and said contrast enhancing metal is the paramagnetic metal Mn
*
 .
67. The contrast medium of Claim 28 wherein said polymer is polygalacturonic acid and said contrast enhancing metal is the paramagnetic metal Mn
*
 .
68. The kit of Claim 56 wherein said polymer is polygalacturonic acid and said contrast enhancing metal is the paramagnetic metal Mn
*
 .
69. The kit of Claim 58 wherein said polymer is polygalacturonic acid and said contrast enhancing metal is the paramagnetic metal Mn +2. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
