<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634047</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reverse stranding method and apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01B1300	H01B1302	H01B1302	H01B1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01B	H01B	H01B	H01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01B13	H01B13	H01B13	H01B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method and an arrangement in connection with reverse stranding, wherein conductors (2) for a cable to be produced are drawn from supply reels (1) through a divider means, torsion tubes (5) surrounding a central element peripherally and rotatable periodically in opposite directions about the central element, and a twisting head (6) rotatable in opposite directions into a nozzle (7). To achieve a constant pitch and to adjust the tension, the conductors (2) are guided so as to pass about an input capstan (8) before the divider means; a stranded group, strand or cable (9) is passed about an output capstan (10) immediately after the nozzle (7); and the input capstan (8) and the output capstan (10) are rotated so that the peripheral speeds thereof are constantly higher than the speed of the conductors or the cable.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAILLEFER NOKIA OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA-MAILLEFER OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARHU RAIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARHU, RAIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method of 
reverse stranding, wherein conductors for a cable 
to be produced, such as wires, groups or blocks, are 
drawn from supply reels or the like through a divider 
means, torsion tubes peripherally surrounding a 
central element and periodically rotatable in opposite 
directions about the central element, and a twisting 
head rotatable in opposite directions, into a nozzle 
or the like. In traditional reverse stranding, i.e. SZ 
stranding, conductors are drawn by a suitable drawing 
apparatus through a stationary divider means and a 
twisting means rotating periodically in opposite 
directions into a nozzle, whereafter the conductor is 
immediately bonded in a bonding device into a reversely 
stranded product, such as a cable. After the drawing 
apparatus, the cable is reeled, or the stranded 
cable is passed to the next production stage. In a 
traditional reverse stranding apparatus of this type, 
it is usual to position a tubular intermediate element 
rotating with the twisting means between the stationary 
divider means and the rotating twisting means. The 
intermediate element is attached centrally to the 
twisting means and mounted at one end rotatably with 
respect to the stationary divider means. This traditional arrangement, however, has the 
disadvantage that the rotation rate of the intermediate 
element between the divider means and the 
twisting means is constant, and therefore the twist in 
the conductors tends to accumulate at the end close to 
the twisting means. The pitch angle of the conductors 
thereby gets greater, and the angle deviation of the  
 
conductors in the twisting means increases. As a 
consequence, a greater force is required to draw the 
conductors, and so the stranded conductors tend to untwist. Several different solutions have been suggested to 
the above problem. U.S. Patent No. 4974408 (corresponding to the Finnish Patent Specification 78 576) for instance, 
discloses one prior art solution. The solution disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4974408 
works well in practice although it has certain 
disadvantages. A problem with the SZ twisting is that the 
friction increases with the twisting angle of the 
oscillating divider plate, and so the tension caused in the 
wires, conductors, groups or blocks varies. As a result, 
the pitch length varies, and locking at the direction 
reversion point becomes more difficult to carry out. This 
is significant particularly with telecommunication cables 
as the interference tolerance of the group
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of reverse stranding, wherein conductors for 
a stranded group, strand, or cable (9) to be produced, such as wires, groups or blocks 

(2), are drawn from supply reels (1) through a divider 
means, torsion tubes (5) peripherally surrounding a central 

element and periodically rotatable in opposite directions 
about the central element, and a twisting head (6) 

rotatable in opposite directions, into a nozzle (7), the 
central element being disposed between the divider means 

and the twisting head, characterised in that the conductors 
(2) are guided so as to pass about an input capstan (8, 12) 

before the divider means; that a stranded group, strand or 
cable (9) is passed about an output capstan (10, 13) 

immediately after the nozzle (7); and the input capstan 
(8, 12) and the output capstan (10, 13) are rotated so that 

the peripheral speeds thereof are constantly hiqher than 
the speed of the conductors (2) and of the stranded group, strand or cable (9) respectively. 
Method according to claim 1, characterised in that 
the input capstan (8, 12) is rotated so that the peripheral 

speed thereof is substantially 20 to 40% higher than that 
of the output capstan (10, 13). 
Method according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in 
that the output capstan (10, 13) is rotated so that the 

peripheral speed thereof is at least 100% higher than the 
speed of the stranded group, strand or cable (9) passing about said 

capstan. 
Method according to claim 1, characterised in that 
a very large difference is caused to occur instantaneously 

between the peripheral speed of the output capstan (10, 13)  
 

and the speed of the stranded group, strand or cable (9) passing 
about said capstan. 
Method according to claim 4, characterised in that 
the difference is effected by accelerating the output 

capstan (10, 13) drastically for a very short period of 
time. 
Method according to claim 1, characterised in that 
a constant braking force exerted on the stranded group, 

strand or cable (9) is adjusted by varying the distance 
between the twisting head (6) and the nozzle (7). 
Method according to claim 1 or 6, characterised in 
that the difference between the peripheral speed of the 

output capstan (10, 13) and the speed of the stranded group, strand 
or cable (9) passing about said capstan is adjusted in 

accordance with the twisting angle of the torsion tubes (5) 
so that the difference increases with increasing twisting 

angle. 
Method according to claim 7 characterised in that 
the output capstan (10, 14) is rotated so that the 

peripheral speed thereof is 20 to 120% higher than the speed 
of the stranded group, strand or cable (9) passing about said 

capstan. 
A reverse stranding apparatus for producing a stranded group, strand or cable (9), comprising a divider 
means at the inlet end; a twisting head (6) rotatable in 

opposite directions at the outlet end; a central element 
between the divider means and the twisting head (6); 

torsion tubes (5) periodically rotatable in opposite 
directions and surrounding peripherally the central 

element; and a nozzle (7) following the twisting head (6); 
conductors, such as wires, groups or blocks (2), being  

 
arranged to pass through at least the divider means, the 

torsion tubes (5) and the twisting head (6) into the nozzle 
(7) characterised in that the apparatus comprises an input 

capstan (8, 12) which is positioned before the divider 
means and about which the conductors (2) are arranged to 

pass; and an output capstan (10, 13) which is positioned 
immediately after the nozzle (7) and about which the 

stranded group, strand or cable (9) is arranged to pass; 
and that the input capstan (8, 12) and the output capstan 

(10, 13) are arranged to be rotated so that the peripheral 
speeds thereof are constantly higher than the speed of the 

conductors (2) and of the stranded group, strand or or cable (9), respectively. 
Apparatus according to claim 9, characterised in 
that the peripheral speed of the input capstan (8, 12) is 

set so as to be at least 20 to 40% higher than that of the 
output capstan (10, 13). 
Apparatus according to claim 9 or 10, characterised 
in that the peripheral speed of the output capstan (10, 13) 

is set so as to be at least 100% higher than the speed of 
the stranded group, strand or cable (9) passing about said capstan. 
Apparatus according to claim 9, characterised in 
that means (19) for varying the distance between the 

twisting head (6) and the nozzle (7) are positioned between 
the twisting head (6) and the nozzle (7) for adjusting a 

constant braking force exerted on the stranded group, 
strand or cable (9). 
Apparatus according to claim 9 or 12, characterised 
in that the peripheral speed of the output capstan (10, 13) 

is arranged to be 20 to 120% higher than the speed of the 
stranded group, strand or cable (9) passing about said 

capstan. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
