<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630467</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NANOMETER METROLOGY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B902	G01B902	G01B1500	G01B1500	G01D548	G01D548	G01J900	G01J904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01D	G01D	G01J	G01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B9	G01B9	G01B15	G01B15	G01D5	G01D5	G01J9	G01J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for measuring displacements of an object to nanometer accuracy, particularly for use in fabricating modern signal processing components. This comprises a radio frequency source for a primary electrical signal (50), a transducer (24) for generating an intermediate signal of lesser wavelength at least partly therefrom, a phase shifting means (56) interactive with the intermediate signal and associated with the object in such a way that a displacement of the object causes the phase shifting means (56) to change the path length of the intermediate signal by an amount directly related to the displacement, a phase transference means (60) for generating a secondary electrical signal using, at least partly, the intermediate signal so that the phase of the intermediate signal is transferred to the secondary signal, and a phase detector (62) for measuring the change of phase of the secondary signal relative to the primary on displacement of the object.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SECR DEFENCE BRIT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEFENCE IN HER BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS MEIRION FRANCIS CHURCHDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS, MEIRION, FRANCIS 5 CHURCHDOWN ROAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Nanometer MetrologyThe present invention relates to apparatus and methods for measuring displacements of an object to nanometer accuracy, particularly for use in fabricating modern signal processing components.In the manufacture of many modern signal processing components it is necessary to fabricate complex patterns to a precision measured on a micron scale. These components include semiconductor integrated circuits, surface acoustic wave (SAW) devices, magnetic and optical memories and many optical components such as DFB lasers, integrated optic devices and spatial light modulators. The ability to produce and measure displacements of the equipment used to fabricate such components to micron accuracy over an area of the order of several square centimetres is therefore essential. There is a trend in these technologies to miniaturise components as much as possible because, for example, not only do you get more transistors per unit area, but smaller transistors operate faster. Similarly, small features extend the frequency range and fidelity of lasers and SAW components. There is therefore a requirement for measuring displacements to a nanometer accuracy over an area of the order of several square centimetres.In the past such signal processing components were often made using mask making equipment employing large high precision mechanical translation stages followed by photographic reduction. More recently, laser interferometry has been used in which a laser beam reflected from a mirror mounted on a translation stage interferes with a reference laser beam to produce a fringe pattern. This fringe pattern will move one period for a displacement of the translation stage equal to half the wavelength of the laser light. Movement of the fringe pattern to an accuracy of half a fringe is easily measured so for a typical laser wavelength of 500nm anSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

 accuracy of 125nm is attainable. This accuracy can be improved by interpolation between fringes to an extent- ultimately determined by the signal to noise ratio. Laser interferometry enables the structure on a component or on a mask for a component to be written directly at final size, for example, by using electron-beam lithography.It is one object of the present invention to provide an apparatus capable of measuring displacements of an object over regions of at least several square centimetres, to nanometer accuracy. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method capable of measuring displacements of an object over regions of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. Apparatus for measuring displacements of an object including;
a radio frequency (rf) source for generating a primary stable rf electrical signal,
a transducing means for generating an intermediate signal using the primary rf electrical signal at least partly, said intermediate signal having a wavelength less than the wavelength of the primary rf electrical signal,
a phase shifting means interactive in use of the apparatus with the intermediate signal and associated with the object in such a way that a displacement of the object causes the phase shifting means to change the path length of the intermediate signal by an amount directly related to the displacement,
a phase transference means for generating a secondary stable rf electrical signal using, at least partly, the intermediate signal after its interaction with the phase shifting means, in such a way that the phase of the interacted intermediate signal is transferred to the secondary rf electrical signal,
and a phase detector for measuring the change of phase of the secondary rf electrical signal relative to the primary rf electrical signal on displacement of the object.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the intermediate signal is an optical signal.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


3- Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the transducing means includes an optical signal source for generating an optical signal, and a mixing means for mixing the optical signal with the primary rf electrical signal to generate a first optical signal that is frequency shifted and a second optical signal that is not frequency shifted, either of which may be the intermediate signal.
4. Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the mixing means is an acousto-optic cell in which bulk radio frequency acoustic waves are induced by an acoustic transducer driven by the primary rf electrical signal and into which the optical signal is directed to generate a deflected first optical signal and an undeflected second optical signal.
5- Apparatus according to any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein the phase shifting means is a mirror onto which the intermediate signal is directed and the mirror is rigidly secured to the object.
6. Apparatus according to any one of claims 3 to 5 wherein the phase transference means includes a means for mixing the first and second optical signals to produce a difference frequency signal which is the secondary rf electrical signal.
7. Apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the phase transference means includes a photo-diode and a means for directing the first and second optical signals onto the photo-diode in such a way that the said signals are overlapping with parallel wavefronts and the same polarisation.
8. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the intermediate signal is a rf acoustic wave.
. Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the transducing means includes
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 an acoustic medium and an acoustic transducer driven by the primary rf electrical signal for generating an rf acoustic wave (which is the intermediate signal) in the acoustic medium, and the phase shifting means is interactive in use of the apparatus with the acoustic wave and associated with the object in such a way that a displacement of the object changes the path length of the acoustic wave through the acoustic medium between the acoustic transducer and an acoustic wave probe which forms at least part of the phase transference means.
10. Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the phase shifting means includes the acoustic transducer and medium which are rigidly secured to the object and the acoustic wave probe is fixed, in such a way that displacement of the object displaces the acoustic transducer and medium relative to the acoustic wave probe by an amount directly related to the displacement.
11. Apparatus according to claim 9 or claim 10 wherein the intermediate signal is a rf bulk acoustic wave.
12. Apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the acoustic medium is an acousto-optic cell and the acoustic transducer is arranged to generate a rf bulk acoustic wave (which is the intermediate signal) in the acousto-optic cell and the phase transference means includes an optical signal source which generates an optical signal (which forms the acoustic wave probe) which is directed into the acousto-optic cell and interacts with the bulk acoustic wave to produce a first optical signal that is frequency shifted and a second optical signal that is not frequency shifted, the phase transference means further including a means for mixing the first and second optical signals to produce a difference frequency signal which is the secondary rf electrical signal.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 13. Apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the means for mixing the first and second optical signals to produce a difference frequency signal includes a photo diode and a means for directing the first and second optical signals onto the photo-diode in such a way that the said signals are overlapping with parallel wavefronts and the same polarisation.
14. Apparatus according to claim 
or
 claim 10 wherein the intermediate signal is a radio frequency surface acoustic wave.
15. Apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the acoustic medium is a surface acoustic wave substrate and the acoustic transducer is arranged to generate a surface acoustic wave in the substrate (which is the intermediate signal) and the phase transference means is a surface acoustic wave probe.
16. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the rf source for generating the primary rf electrical signal is frequency tuneable so that on displacement of the object the frequency of the primary rf electrical signal can be tuned to restore the relative phase between the primary and secondary rf electrical signals prior to the displacement.
17. Apparatus substantially as hereinbefore described with particular reference to the description and any one of Figures 1 to 3-
lδ. Method for measuring displacements of an object which includes;
generating a primary stable radio frequency (rf) electrical signal,
generating an intermediate signal using the primary signal at least partly, said intermediate signal having a wavelength less than the
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 wavelength of the primary rf electrical signal,
interacting the intermediate signal with a phase shifting means associated with the object, in such a way that a displacement of the object causes the phase shifting means to change the path length of the intermediate signal by an amount directly related to the displacement,
applying a displacement to the object,
generating a secondary stable rf electrical signal using, at least partly, the intermediate signal after its interaction with the phase shifting means, in such a way that the phase of the intermediate signal is transferred to the secondary rf electrical signal,
and measuring the change of phase of the secondary rf electrical signal on displacement of the object, relative to the primary rf electrical signal.
19. Method according to claim lδ wherein the intermediate signal is an optical signal.
20. Method according to claim 19 wherein generating the intermediate signal includes generating an optical signal and mixing the optical signal with the primary rf electrical signal to generate a first optical signal that is frequency shifted and a second optical signal that is not frequency shifted, either of which may be the intermediate signal.
21. Method according to claim 20 wherein the mixing of the optical signal with the primary rf electrical signal includes inducing bulk radio frequency acoustic waves in an acousto-optic cell using an acoustic transducer driven by the primary rf electrical signal and directing the optical signal into the acousto-optic cell to produce a deflected first
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 optical signal and an undeflected second optical signal.
22. Method according to claim 20 or 21 wherein generating the secondary rf electrical signal includes mixing the first and second optical signals to produce a difference frequency signal which is the secondary rf electrical signal.
23. Method according to claim 22 wherein generating the secondary rf electrical signal includes directing the first and second optical signals onto a photo-diode in such a way that the said optical signals are overlapping with parallel wavefronts and the same polarisation.
24. Method according to claim lδ wherein the intermediate signal is a radio frequency acoustic signal.
2 . Method according to claim 24 wherein generating the intermediate signal includes generating an acoustic signal (the intermediate signal) using an acoustic transducer driven by the primary rf electrical signal, and generating the secondary rf electrical signal includes interacting the acoustic signal with an acoustic probe.
26. Method according to claim 25 wherein displacement of the object displaces the acoustic transducer relative to the acoustic probe by an amount directly related to the displacement.
27. Method according to any one of claims 24 to 26 wherein the intermediate signal is a radio frequency bulk acoustic wave.
2δ. Method according to any one of claims 24 to 26 wherein the intermediate signal is a radio frequency surface acoustic wave.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


29. Method according to any one of claims lδ to 2δ wherein measuring the change of phase of the secondary rf electrical signal includes frequency tuning the primary rf electrical signal on displacement of the object to restore the relative phase between the primary and secondary rf electrical signals prior to the displacement.
30. Method substantially as hereinbefore described with particular reference to the description and any one of Figures 1 to 3-
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
