<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630426</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR MANTAINING A CATHODIC PROTECTION AGAINST CORROSION AND DEVICE FOR CARRYING OUT SAID PROCESS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23F1304	C23F1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23F	C23F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23F13	C23F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The cathodic protection process against corrosion according to the invention features a single electrode (12), the anode, which is connected to the positive pole of an electrical power supply, whose negative pole is connected to the object to be protected, e.g. to a boiler. According to an essential feature of the invention, the intensity of the current necessary for mantaining the process is periodically raised or lowered for a predetermined lapse of time about a predetermined percentage value relative to the steady condition value, and during this phase in which a higher or a lower current is delivered the potential difference between boiler and anode is gauged. This potential difference is compared, by means of a comparator, with a predetermined reference value, and the deviation is used for determining the current intensity during the next steady condition phase.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CGR DI CADIGNANI P I GINO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CGR DI CADIGNANI P.I. GINO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CADIGNANI GINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CADIGNANI, GINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for mantaining a cathodic protection 
agaist corrosion. More particularly, the present invention relates to a galvanic process for 
mantaining a cathodic protection against corrosion on metallic objects, particularly on 
boilers, using an electrode acting as anode which is crossed by an external current and an 
electronic control potentiometer. Furthermore, the invention relates to a device suitable for carrying out said 
process. The invention may be mainly applied in the fields of thermo-mechanical and 
electrochemical industries. Cathodic protection processes against corrosion in boilers or water heaters are 
known since long time. Italian patent n. IT-A-1.079.586 discloses a device for carrying out a method 
which provides for the use of two electrodes, respectively an anode and a reference 
electrode which, together with the boiler wall, are connected to the three input terminals 
of an electrical generator; more precisely, the anode is connected to the positive pole, the 
boiler wall is connected to the negative pole, and the reference electrode is connected to 
the connecting pole of a reverse feedback circuit. The system continuously gauges the potential difference appearing between the 
reference electrode and the boiler wall, without reducing nor interrupting the current. The gauged potential difference is compared with a reference value which is 
seeked for by means of suitable adjustments of the current which is delivered between the 
anode and the boiler wall.  
 This system implies some disadvantages and drawbacks, since the measure of 
potential difference is carried out under current, comprises an ohmic term which is 
variable with water conductivity and with temperature, and which may therefore not be 
determined in advance. In order to overcome this problem, the reference electrode is provided with a 
particular structure, according to which said electrode should be mounted close to the 
boiler wall. However, this causes further drawbacks for assemblying the boiler structure. EP-A-0 018 522 discloses a further cathodic protection method according to 
which a single electrode is used, acting as anode, which is connected to the positive pole 
of an electrical generator whose negative pole is connected to the boiler. According to this method, the current which is delivered is periodically interrupted 
(i.e. its value is set to zero) and, during this phase, the potential difference existing 
between anode and boiler wall is gauged. During the zero
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Process for maintaining a cathodic protection agaist corrosion, in which an electrode 
(12) acting as anode in which flows an external current is immerged in an electrolyte 

solution contacting a metallic object (11) to be protected, acting as cathode, said process 
using a module (22) at the terminals of which a reference potential (V
r
) is present, and an 
electronic circuit suitable for comparing data relative to the potential difference which is 

present between anode and cathode with said reference potential (V
r
), characterised in that 
it comprises: 


a phase, which is periodically repeated in the time, in which the steady condition 
of the intensity of the protection current (I
100%
) is raised or lowered to a predetermined 
value which is never equal to zero, said value being either comprised between 10% and 

50% relative to the value of the steady condition current value, or equal to 200% relative 
to the steady condition current value; 
a phase in which the potential difference (V₂) which is present between anode 
(12) and cathode is gauged during this condition in which the current intensity is varied 

relative to the steady condition intensity, and 
a phase in which said potential difference and said reference potential (V
r
) are 
compared to each other, the difference of values obtained in this way being used as 

control quantity for controlling the intensity of the protection current. 
Process according to claim 1, characterised in that the potential values which 
respectively correspond to a steady condition current intensity (V₁) and to a reduced 

current intensity (V₂) are processed by said electronic circuit by operating a linear 
correction extrapolation of the potential value (V₃) corresponding to a current equal to 

zero in the anode (12), said potential (V₃) being then compared with the reference 
potential (V
r
). 
Process according to claim 2, characterised in that during the phase in which the steady 
condition intensity of the protection current is lowered to a value comprised between 10% 

and 50%, the potential value (V₃) corresponding to a current intensity equal to zero in the 
anode (12) which is extrapolated by said electronic circuit is obtained by implementation 

of the following formula: 

V₃=V₁-2(V₁-V₂) 
 
in which V₁ represents the potential corresponding to the steady condition current 

intensity and V₂ represents the potential corresponding to the reduced current intensity.  
 
Process according to claim 1, characterised in that the potential values which 
respectively correspond to a steady condition current intensity (V₁) and to a reduced 

current intensity (V₂) are processed by said electronic circuit by operating a linear 
correction extrapolation of the potential value (V₄), this potential (V₄) being then 

compared with the reference potential (V
r
). 
Process according to claim 4, characterised in that said linearly corrected potential 
value (V₄) is obtained by the implementation of the following formula: 


V₄=V₁-(V₂-V₁) 
 
in which V₁ represents the potential corresponding to the steady condition current 

intensity and V₂ represents the potential corresponding to the raised current intensity. 
Device (10) for carrying out a process according to anyone of the preceding claims, 
comprising an electrode (12) acting as anode immerged in an electrolyte solution 

contacting an object (11) to be protected against corrosion which acts as cathode, 
characterised in that it further comprises a pair of Sample and Hold cells (14, 15) for 

recording and storing data relative to the potential difference existing between anode and 
cathode under different conditions of intensity of the current which flows through the 

anode, a reference potential (V
r
) source (22), first means (16, 17) for processing said 
data, second means (18) suitable for comparing the processed data with said reference 

potential (V
r
), a current generator (20) controlled by said second means (18) and 
switchable to a current intensity which is respectively higher or lower than 100% steady 

condition current, and third, timing, means (19, 21) suitable for respectively raising or 
lowering the intensity of current at predetermined instants of time. 
Device (10) according to claim 6, characterised in that said first means (16, 17) 
comprise a pair of differential amplifiers which are serially connected with respect to each 

other and which are suitably connected to said cells (14, 15). 
Device (10) according to anyone of claims 6 and 7, characterised in that said second 
means comprise a differential amplifier (18), an input terminal of which is connected to 

the output terminal of said first means (16, 17), the other input terminal of which is 
connected to said reference potential (V
r
) source, the output terminal of said amplifier 
(18) being connected to said current generator (20). 
Device according to anyone of claims 6 to 8, characterised in that said third, timing, 
means (19, 21) comprise an electronic switch (21) and an oscillator (19). 
Device (10) according to anyone of claims 6 to 9, characterised in that it is further 
provided with an electrolyte solution temperature sensor cooperating with said reference  

 
potential (V
r
) source (22) in order to control the value of said reference potential (V
r
) in 
accordance with temperature changes intervening in the electrolyte solution during 

operation. 
Device (10) according to anyone of claims 6 to 10, characterised in that it is further 
provided with an indicating device for displaying the state of the protection process. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
