<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637226</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SEALING VASCULAR PUNCTURES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1734	A61B1734	A61B1804	A61B1808	A61B1812	A61B1812	A61B1814	A61B1814	A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (7) for closing and sealing a vascular puncture is connected to an energy supply such that heat is generated in, or thermally conducted to, the tissue, thereby thermally fusing the vascular tissue together. The method for closing and sealing a vascular puncture comprises applying radio frequency or other energy to the tissue, the energy being sufficient to thermally fuse the tissue together, thus sealing the puncture.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMAN THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISCHE HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHANKERILI KEMAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAY SEW WAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMAN THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISCHE HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHANKERILI KEMAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAY SEW WAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SEALING VASCULAR PUNCTURESFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to an apparatus and method for closing and sealing vascular punctures. More particularly, the present invention relates to a novel apparatus and method for sealing a vascular puncture resulting from the use of a medical device, catheter system or the like by using radio frequency or other energy to effect closure and thermal fusing of a puncture.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONMany medical procedures require access into the vascular system of the patient. Although various means may be used to obtain access into a vein or artery, typically access is obtained by inserting a cannula or introducer sheath through the skin and into the selected blood vessel. A medical device or diagnostic instrument, such as a.guide wire, guiding catheter, balloon angioplasty device, atherectomy device, or the like is then inserted into the vascular system through the cannula or introducer sheath.In percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, for example, it is customary to introduce a catheter into the femoral artery at an entry site in a patient's leg and to advance the catheter through the artery to the coronary region. The artery, which may be located 

one half inch or more beneath the skin, is punctured with a needle or similar device. A guide wire is inserted through the needle and the needle is removed.An introducer sheath and dilator together are threaded over the guide wire. The introducer sheath is often twisted and otherwise manipulated as it is inserted into the vessel, thereby causing further enlargement of the vascular puncture. The dilator is then removed and the catheter is inserted.To permit the insertion of a medical device or instrument therethrough, the introducer sheath must be of a relatively large diameter. Introducer sheaths typically have a diameter in the range between one millimeter and six millimeters, thus creating a significant puncture in the artery. After the intravascular medical procedure is completed, this puncture must be closed and bleeding from the blood vessel stopped.At present, such bleeding is stopped by the application of direct digital pressure over the puncture site by a trained physician or other suitably trained medical personnel. Such direct pressure must be applied for a sufficiently long time for hemostasis to occur so that the opening is effectively closed and further bleeding is prevented. In the case of punctures into the femoral artery, the pressure is generally applied
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A method of sealing a vascular opening comprising the steps of: a) percutaneously inserting a probe adjacent to the vascular opening; b) conducting energy from said probe directly to tissue adjacent the probe in an amount sufficient to cauterize said tissue to thereby close said vascular opening; and c) removing said probe.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the probe transfers energy to the tissue by thermal conduction.
3. The method of Claim 1 wherein the probe conducts electrical energy to the tissue, and the tissue is heated due to its electrical resistance.
4. The method of Claim 1 wherein the probe conducts alternating current electrical energy to the tissue.
5. The method of Claim 4 wherein the alternating current conducted to the tissue is radio frequency energy.
6. The method of Claim 4 wherein the alternating current conducted to the tissue has a frequency between 25 kHz and 1,000 kHz.
7. The method of Claim 4 wherein the probe transfers microwave energy to cauterize the tissue.
8. The method of Claim 3 wherein the probe conducts direct current electrical energy to the tissue. 


 9. The method of Claim 8 wherein the direct current energy is provided in pulsed form.
10. The method of Claim 1 further comprising the step of spreading subcutaneous tissue above the vascular opening.
11. An apparatus for sealing a vascular opening comprising: a) a probe sized to be percutaneously inserted adjacent the vascular opening; and b) a connector for connecting the probe to an energy supply source; c) the probe being configured to conduct energy directly to tissue adjacent the probe to cause heating of tissue surrounding the vascular opening to close said opening.
12. The apparatus of Claim 11 further comprising a guide to direct the probe to the vascular opening.
13. A method of sealing a vascular opening comprising the step of: a) delivering energy to the vascular wall, resulting in local heating of bodily material external to the intima layer of the vessel to achieve hemostasis without substantially heating the intima layer of the vessel.
14. The method of Claim 13 wherein collagen present in the heated material fuses to seal the vascular opening. 


 15. The method of Claim 13 wherein the bodily material comprises tissue.
16. The method of Claim 13 wherein collagen and blood in the heated material is heated resulting in fusion of the collagen and coagulation of the blood to seal the vascular opening.
17. The method of Claim 13 wherein blood present in the heated material coagulates to seal the vascular opening.
18. An apparatus for sealing a vascular opening comprising an electrical conductor connectable to an electrical current and configured to deliver said electrical current through subcutaneous tissue to effect closing of the opening in the vessel wall.
19. A method of sealing an opening in a vessel wall comprising the step of delivering electrical current to the vascular tissue around the opening, said current effecting closure of the vessel wall to seal said opening.
20. The method of Claim 19 wherein the current is delivered by at least one electrode which is in direct contact with the vascular tissue that closes to seal said opening.
21. The method of Claim 19 wherein the vessel wall is surrounded by a vascular sheath and the current is delivered by at least one electrode that penetrates the vascular sheath to contact the vascular wall.
22. The method of Claim 19 wherein the vessel wall is surrounded by a vascular sheath and the 


current is delivered by an electrode that contacts and delivers energy to the vascular sheath.
23. The method of Claim 19 wherein heat is generated from delivery of the current and closure is effected by thermal conduction of said heat to the vessel wall.
24. A method of sealing an opening in a vessel wall surrounded by an arterial sheath having an opening therethrough above the opening in the vessel wall comprising the steps of: a) effecting a seal of the opening of the arterial sheath and b) creating an adhering plug to seal the opening in the vessel wall.
25. The method of Claim 24 wherein the plug is created below the arterial sheath and above the opening.
26. The method of Claim 24 wherein the plug is created on the arterial sheath.
27. A method of sealing an opening in a vessel wall surrounded by an arterial sheath comprising the step of delivering energy through the arterial sheath to the vessel wall sufficient to cauterize the vessel wall to seal the opening.
28. The method of Claim 27 wherein the energy comprises electrical current.
29. The method of Claim 28 wherein the electrical current is delivered by an electrode which is in contact with the arterial sheath. 


 30. The method of Claim 27 wherein the electrical current is delivered by an electrode which is in contact with the vessel wall.
31. An apparatus for sealing an opening in a vessel wall comprising: a) an energy delivery probe for conducting energy directly to tissue surrounding said opening, and b) means for spreading the subcutaneous tissue superficial to the surface of the vessel wall, said spreading means being capable of spreading the tissue to an opening dimension that is both larger than the opening in the vessel wall and larger than the dimension of the portion of the energy delivery probe used to contact the tissue surrounding the opening.
32. A method of sealing an opening in a vessel wall comprising the step of delivering energy to the vascular tissue, causing the vascular tissue to contract upon itself resulting in a sphinctering effect causing closure of said opening.
33. An apparatus for the percutaneous medical treatment of biological tissue, said apparatus comprising: a) a plurality of electrodes connectable to a radio frequency power source, said electrodes adapted to engage biological tissue at spaced points; and b) a lumen connected to the electrodes for guiding the electrodes to the biological tissue at said 


spaced points, said apparatus adapted to thermally fuse together said biological tissue.
34. An apparatus for the medical treatment of a percutaneous vascular puncture with an electrical current comprising: a) a cautery device comprising: i) a means for forcing together biological tissue surrounding a percutaneous vascular puncture; and ii) at least one electrode connectable to a radio frequency power source such that an electrical current may flow through the tissue, thermally fusing the tissue together.
35. The apparatus of Claim 34 wherein the means for forcing together the tissue comprises at least two forceps adapted to grasp and pull the tissue together.
36. The apparatus of Claim 35 wherein one of the forceps comprises the at least one electrode.
37. The apparatus of Claim 34 wherein the at least one electrode comprises a monopolar electrode.
38. The apparatus of Claim 34 wherein the at least one electrode comprises two bipolar electrodes.
39. The apparatus of Claim 34 further comprising an activating switch element wherein said switch element activates the electrical current flow to the at least one electrode.
40. The apparatus of Claim 34 wherein the radio frequency power source provides energy in the range of 300 kHz to 1,000 kHz. 


 41. The apparatus of Claim 34 wherein the cautery device is disposable.
42. The apparatus of Claim 34 further comprising a backstop element which provides positioning support to the vascular tissue surrounding a vascular puncture.
43. The apparatus of Claim 42 wherein the backstop element comprises a balloon occluder assembly comprising a balloon shaft having a balloon at the distal end thereof.
44. The apparatus of Claim 35 wherein the backstop element comprises an inverted T-shaped element adapted to be inserted into the lumen of the vessel, the horizontal portion of the T-shaped element being adapted for contacting with the interior surface of the lumen immediately proximate the puncture and the per¬ pendicular vertical portion of the T-shaped element being adapted to extend from the lumen of the vessel out through the skin.
45. The apparatus of Claim 35 wherein the forceps have gripping portions at the distal end thereof, said forceps comprising electrodes, and the device further comprises: a) a retaining tubular housing; b) a gripping handle; and c) an actuator element to move said metal forceps from a first position to a second position.
46. The apparatus of Claim 45 wherein the actuating element comprises a spring on the proximal end of the gripping handle and a thumb rest disposed at the proximal end of the spring. 


 47. The apparatus of Claim 45 wherein the gripping handle and actuating element comprise a pivoting element whereby a portion of the gripping handle actuates the forceps.
48. The apparatus of Claim 45 wherein the gripping handle and actuating element comprise a rack and pinion mechanism for actuating the metal forceps.
49. The apparatus of Claim 45 wherein the gripping handle and actuating element comprise a wedge which acts against an inclined plane to actuate the metal forceps.
50. The apparatus of Claim 42 further comprising a guiding shaft connected to the back stop element and a dilator and a cautery sheath, said dilator and cautery sheath adapted to be inserted over the guiding shaft.
51. The apparatus of Claim 43 wherein the balloon occluder assembly further comprises a balloon protector around the balloon.
52. The apparatus of Claim 43 wherein the balloon occluder assembly further comprises a check
•
 valve assembly at the proximal end of the balloon shaft.
53. The apparatus of Claim 43 wherein the balloon occluder assembly further comprises a removable hub.
54. The apparatus of Claim 43 further comprising a means for inflating said balloon. 


 55. A cautery device for cauterizing a puncture in a vessel within the body of a patient comprising: a) a gripping handle; b) a tubular retaining housing; c) metal forceps comprising electrodes disposed within said tubular retaining housing at a first position and extending beyond the distal end of said tubular retaining housing at a second position; d) an actuator element to move said metal forceps from said first to said second position; e) a connector element adapted to connect the forceps to a radio frequency power source; and f) a lumen associated with said tubular retaining housing for guiding said forceps to said puncture.
56. The device of Claim 55 wherein the connector element comprises detachable electrical leads.
57. The device of Claim 55 wherein the metal forceps are insulated except at the distal tip, said distal tip further comprising a gripping portion of a shape that is advantageous for gripping biological tissue.
58. The device of Claim 55 wherein the lumen extends through the gripping handle and the tubular retaining housing.
59. The device of Claim 55 wherein the lumen and the tubular retaining housing are formed together as a triple lumen tube.
60. The device of Claim 55 wherein the metal forceps comprise bipolar electrode elements. 


 61. An assembly for temporarily occluding a vascular puncture comprising an elongated shaft having markings thereon to determine the depth of the puncture from the surface of the skin and a balloon at the distal end thereof and a means at the proximal end of the shaft for inflating said balloon, said inflated balloon being sized and shaped to occluder the vascular puncture from within the vessel.
62. The assembly of Claim 61 further comprising a check valve assembly to prevent deflation of the balloon.
63. The assembly of Claim 62 wherein the diameter of the check valve assembly is less than 3 mm.
64. An assembly adapted to guide a hemostatic means to a puncture site, said assembly comprising an elongated shaft having markings thereon to determine the depth of the puncture from the surface of the skin and having a positioning mechanism at the distal end thereof, the distal end of said elongated shaft being insertable into the lumen of a vessel, the positioning mechanism being configured to anchor the distal end of the assembly inside the vessel and to prevent entry of the hemostatic means into the vessel through the puncture site.
65. The assembly of Claim 64 wherein the positioning mechanism comprises a balloon.
66. The assembly of Claim 64 wherein the positioning mechanism comprises a T-shaped occluder.
67. An assembly adapted to determine the depth of a percutaneous vascular puncture comprising an elongated shaft having markings thereon, a positioning 


mechanism at the distal end thereof, the assembly adapted to measure the depth of a percutaneous vascular puncture from the level of the skin when said distal end of said elongated shaft is inserted into the lumen of a vessel and said positioning mechanism is anchored in the vessel.
68. A method for closing and sealing a vascular opening comprising: a) holding the vascular tissue surrounding a vascular opening in a contacting position; and b) applying energy to the vascular tissue immediately proximate the opening, said energy being sufficient to thermally fuse the tissue and seal the vascular opening.
69. The method of Claim 68 wherein the steps are performed after a medical device has been removed from a vascular puncture.
70. The method of Claim 68 wherein the method is performed percutaneously.
71. The method of Claim 68 wherein the energy is radio frequency energy.
72. The method of Claim 71 wherein said radio frequency energy is sufficient to thermally fuse the tissue and seal the opening while avoiding coagulating the fluid in the vessel.
73. The method of Claim 68 wherein the method comprises grasping and bringing into a contacting position the vascular tissue surrounding the vascular opening. 


 74. The method of Claim 73 wherein two or more forceps are used to grasp the tissues surrounding the vascular opening.
75. The method of Claim 68 wherein the method comprises keeping the interior surfaces of the vascular tissue separated.
76. A method of closing and sealing a vascular puncture comprising: a) guiding a device comprising a cautery probe tip to the site of a puncture; b) grasping together the tissues immediately proximate the puncture site into a contacting position; and c) generating a cauterizing discharge from said probe tip to the tissues immediately proximate the puncture site, said cauterizing discharge being sufficient to thermally fuse the puncture.
77. The method of Claim 76 wherein the step of guiding a device to the site of a puncture includes the step of advancing the device through a cautery sheath.
78. The method of Claim 76 wherein positioning support is provided to the tissue immediately proximate the puncture.
79. The method of Claim 78 wherein a balloon occluder assembly is used to provide positioning support to the tissue.
80. The method of Claim 78 wherein a T- shaped occluder is used to provide positioning support to the tissue. 


 81. A method for medical treatment of a vascular puncture comprising the steps of: a) advancing an elongated cautery probe having two or more forceps at its distal end to a vascular puncture site, said forceps comprising electrodes; b) causing the forceps to grip and pull together the tissue surrounding the puncture; and c) establishing a current flow between said electrodes, whereby said tissue surrounding the vascular puncture is electrically heated by said current flow thereby thermally fusing the tissue together.
82. A method of treating a percutaneous opening in a vessel wall comprising the steps of: a) advancing a shaft having an inflatable balloon at the distal end thereof through a catheter introducer sheath wherein the distal end of the shaft extends through the opening into the lumen of the vessel; b) inflating said balloon to a size sufficiently large to occlude the opening; c) retracting said balloon and introducer sheath until the balloon abuts the tissue surrounding the opening in the vessel, thereby occluding the opening; d) removing the introducer sheath from the vessel; e) inserting the distal end of a cautery device into the body; f) grasping and pulling together the tissue surrounding the opening with the metal forceps, the inflated balloon providing a back stop for the forceps; g) deflating the balloon and withdrawing the shaft from the vessel after the tissue has been grasped and pulled together by the forceps; and 


 h) applying radio frequency energy to the tissue surrounding the opening, said energy being sufficient to thermally fuse and seal the tissue together.
83. The method of Claim 82 wherein the balloon shaft is used to guide the cautery device to the opening.
84. The method of Claim 82 wherein a dilator and a cautery sheath are introduced into the skin after the introducer sheath has been removed, the dilator being removed prior to the insertion of the cautery device.
85. The method of Claim 82 wherein the balloon shaft and the cautery sheath both contain a series of markings for determining the distance from the surface of the skin to the site of the vascular opening.
86. A method of using radio frequency energy to close a vascular puncture comprising the steps of: a) guiding a cautery device to the site of the vascular puncture, said cautery device having forceps at the distal end thereof and an actuating mechanism for causing the forceps to grasp the tissue surrounding the puncture; b) causing the forceps to grasp and pull together the tissues surrounding the puncture, said forceps comprising electrodes connected to a radio frequency energy source; c) activating the radio frequency energy source, thereby causing the tissue surrounding the puncture to fuse together; and d) removing the cautery device from the body. 


 87. The method of Claim 86 wherein the cautery device is guided to the site of the vascular puncture through a cautery sheath.
88. A method of using radio frequency energy to percutaneously close a vascular puncture comprising the steps of: a) applying pressure to the vessel to restrict blood flow therethrough; b) percutaneously inserting an electrode to a position proximate the puncture site; and c) using radio frequency energy to cause thrombosis of the blood to seal the opening.
89. The method of Claim 88 further comprising the step of forcing the vascular tissue surrounding the puncture site towards a closed position prior to using the radio frequency energy.
90. A method of temporarily occluding a vascular puncture comprising advancing a shaft having markings thereon to determine the depth of the puncture from the surface of the skin and an inflatable balloon at its distal end into the lumen of a vessel, inflating the balloon and retracting the inflated balloon until it abuts the puncture, thereby preventing fluid loss from the puncture.
91. A method of guiding a device for sealing vascular punctures to the site of a vascular puncture comprising advancing a shaft having a positioning mechanism at its distal end into the lumen of a vessel, anchoring the positioning mechanism so that it abuts the puncture, thereby locating and identifying the puncture site, and using the shaft to guide the sealing device to the puncture site. 


 92. A method for determining the depth of a percutaneous vascular puncture comprising the steps of advancing a shaft having markings thereon to determine the depth of the puncture from the surface of the skin and a positioning mechanism at its distal end into the lumen of a vessel, said shaft having on it a system for measuring length, anchoring the positioning mechanism so that it abuts the puncture, said system providing an indication of the depth of the vascular puncture from the surface of the skin. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
