<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625227</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CASTING SLABS OR BEAMS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02D3100	E02D3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02D	E02D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02D31	E02D31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORDEK LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORDEK LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER WILLIAM ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER, WILLIAM ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the casting of slabs or
beams on a substrate, which may be the ground, and is
especially concerned with allowing for the venting of any
gases, for example methane or radon, that may seep
through the substrate. More particularly, the invention
provides a vented structure including a cast slab or
beam and a method of casting a slab or beam over a substrate.Problems have been experienced when building
structures on certain sites from gas seeping through the
ground, emerging underneath the structure and becoming
trapped there. For example, when building on top of a
land fill site it is common to find that substantial
quantities of methane gas are seeping up through the
ground as a result of vegetable matter in the ground
decaying. If a slab is cast on such ground using
conventional techniques then there is a risk of methane
gas becoming trapped under the slab and, once a
significant volume of gas has become trapped, there is a
risk of an explosion. If a conventional building is
built on ground through which radon gas is seeping, then
there is a danger of that gas seeping up through the
building and having a deleterious effect on anyone
occupying the building. German Utility Model No. G91 15 235.6 describes an
apparatus for protecting buildings against the penetration
of dangerous gases from the substratum. The
apparatus comprises a blocking system arranged between
the building and the substratum. The blocking system has
a blocking layer, which has two impermeable layers
defining an air conducting portion. The blocking layer
prevents the passage of dangerous gas from the substratum
to the interior of the building. The air conducting
portion is connected to an air pipe. Ribs may be
provided between the two impermeable layers to give the
apparatus structural stability.It is an object of the present invention to provide
a vented structure in which gas emerging from a substrate
on which the structure is supported can be vented safely
away. It is a further object of the present invention to
provide a method of casting a slab or beam over a
substrate in which gas emerging from the substrate can be
vented safely away.The present invention provides a vented structure
supported on a substrate and comprising
shuttering,material cast over the shuttering, the shuttering
including
an upper surface for supporting the cast
material anda support structure including passageways 
and a plurality of spaced apart support members for
supporting the upper surface in a position above and
spaced from the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vented structure supported on a substrate
(10) and comprising


shuttering (1),
material (16) cast over the shuttering, the
shuttering (1) including


an upper surface (9) for supporting the cast
material (16) and
a support structure including passageways
(6,7,8) and a plurality of spaced apart support members

(3) for supporting the upper surface (9) in a position
above and spaced from the substrate (10), and
a vent passage which extends from the support
structure to a region from which gas is to be vented,

characterised in that

the spaced apart support members (3) rest on the
substrate (10),
the support structure includes openings defined by
gaps between the ends (5) of the spaced apart support

members (3), the openings being distributed across the
bottom face of the support structure, and
the passageways (6,7,8) of the support structure
provide a gas path across the support structure from the

substrate (10), via the opening to the vent passage.
A structure according to claim 1 in which
the top (2) of the shuttering (1) is devoid of any 

openings.
A structure according to claims 1 and 2 in

which the shuttering (1) is preformed.
A structure according to claim 3 in which
the shuttering (1) comprises a plurality of preformed

elements placed side by side, with passageways (6,7,8) in
adjacent elements of shuttering communicating with one

another.
A structure according to any preceding claim
in which the spaced apart support members (3) define a

grid of intersecting passageways (6,7,8).
A structure according to claim 5 in which
the intersecting passageways (6,7,8) are arranged at

right angles to one another.
A structure according to any preceding claim
in which the space occupied by the passageways (6,7,8)

between the support members (3) is more than twice as
great as the space occupied by the support members (3).
A structure according to any preceding claim
in which the shuttering (1) comprises an upper slab

portion (2), the top of which defines the upper surface
(9) of the shuttering and from the bottom of which extend

the plurality of spaced apart support members (3).
A structure according to any preceding claim
in which the ends (5) of the supporting members (3) are

free ends.
A structure according to any preceding claim
in which the portion of the shuttering (1) defining the 

upper surface (9) and the supporting structure are
integral with one another.
A structure according to any preceding claim
in which the shuttering (1) is formed from an expanded

plastics material.
A structure according to claim 11 in which
the expanded plastics material is expanded polystyrene.
A method of casting a slab (16) or beam over
a substrate (10), the method comprising the steps of


placing shuttering (1) on the substrate (10) with an
upper surface (9) of the shuttering providing a support

for the slab (16) or beam and with a support structure
supporting the upper surface (9) in a position above the

substrate (10), the support structure including a
plurality of spaced apart support members (3) and

passageways (6,7,8),
providing a vent passage which extends from the
support structure to a region from which gas is to be

vented and
casting the slab (16) or beam over the substrate,

characterised in that

the spaced apart support members (3) rest on the
substrate (10),
the support structure includes openings defined by
gaps between the ends (5) of the spaced apart support

members (3), the openings being distributed across the
bottom face of the support structure, and
the passageways (6,7,8) of the support structure 
provide a gas path across the support structure from the

openings to the vent passage, thereby enabling any gas
emerging from the substrate (10) to be vented.
A method according to claim 13 further
including the step of inserting a pipe (11) defining at

least a portion of the vent passage in working
relationship to the shuttering (1) before casting

material over the shuttering to form the slab (16) or
beam.
A method according to claim 13 or 14 in
which the vent passage is extended upwardly above the

substrate (10) to a level at least 3m above ground
level.
A method according to any one of claims 13
to 15 in which the step of placing shuttering (1) on the

substrate (10) comprises placing a plurality of preformed
elements of shuttering adjacent to one another with

passageways (6,7,8) in adjacent elements (1A,1B) of
shuttering communicating with one another.
A method according to any one of claims 13
to 16 further comprising the step of providing a barrier

(12) to cast material, before casting of the slab (16) or
beam, in the region of the junction of the vent passage

and support structure.
A method of building a vented structure
according to any one of claims 1 to 12 using a method

according to any one of claims 13 to 17.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
