<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619177</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device to reduce volume particularly in the recovery of metal cans.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B30B932	B30B932	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B30B	B30B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B30B9	B30B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Device to reduce volume, particularly in the recovery of metal cans, 
being made up of a hanging accessory (A), comprising an external 

body (1) and a niche, inside which a can to be crushed is able to be 
inserted, impinging upon extractable means of support and in 

which, guided in the said niche, a perpendicularly mobile group (10) is 
provided, supplied with an interchangeable punch (9), the said 

group (10) 
being movable from the exterior by means of a lever (17) and relative 

handle (18). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERFORM S R L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERFORM S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANDOLFI STEFANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANDOLFI, STEFANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a device to reduce volume, 
particularly in the recovery of metal cans. The innovation finds particular even if not exclusive 
application in the sector of the recycling of metal, as a hanging 
domestic accessory, integrated in a rational environmentally 
friendly system, for example in the recovery of aluminium cans. At the present state of the art there are no devices known 
able to fulfil this scope, but nevertheless cans as packaging are 
somewhat common, so much so that an indefinite quantity are 
thrown away daily. The cans, as is commonly known, have found 
wide use mainly in the supply of slightly alcoholic drinks, as for 
example beers, but also for the majority of non-alcoholic beverages 
to which carbon dioxide has also been added. However, their wide circulation has created and is creating 
notable elimination problems causing evident concern not only to 
the most ardent environmentalists. In this regard, it is certainly 
true that these cans in most cases end up in the traditional rubbish 
dumps together with common refuse, such as daily household 
refuse, made up of paper and plastic material that is more or less 
biodegradable, food wastes, etc. But while the latter can easily be 
burnt in incinerators, or being buried, may in time disintegrate, 
cans together with other scrap metals do not disintegrate and 
therefore greatly contribute to environmental pollution. The 
necessity thus arises to provide a selection process for refuse, as far 
as possible, which is mainly carried out manually or with the  
 
assistance of operating machines. It is logical to expect little from 
such a selection process, which is mostly carried out superficially 
and never with particular dedication, to the detriment of a 
satisfactory result. A noticeable drawback of metal cans is also due to their 
bulkiness, as they are cylindrical in shape and generally of two 
sizes, which may nevertheless be considerable in relation to other 
refuse, and to the normal capacity of collection in a domestic bin. 
The bulkiness of the can is already a sufficient motive in itself, to 
justify its immediate elimination, even to the detriment of good 
manners. So it is a daily event to see cans left everywhere or filling 
plastic bags to the brim to then be thrown away. With the intention of resolving some of the problems 
highlighted, following the trail of recycling consortia, 
differentiated containers for the collection firstly of paper then of 
plastics and glass and finally even for cans have
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device to reduce volume, particularly in the recovery of metal 
cans, characterized by the fact that it comprises an external body 

and a niche, on the inside of which a can to be crushed is able to be 
inserted, impinging on an extractable support means and in which, 

guided in said niche, a perpendicularly mobile group is provided, 
supplied with an interchangeable punch, the said group being 

movable from the outside by means of a lever with relative handle. 
Device according to claim 1., characterized by the fact that it 
consists of: 


a shell acting as an external body (1), essentially parallelepiped, 
associable to an underlying support frame (2) of the device (A); 
a support frame, comprising a back, two parallel and opposite 
flanks, as well as at least one support base for the can; 
a means able to compress the can, the said means being movable 
perpendicularly with respect to the support base for the can; 
and a movement group for the means that is mobile 
perpendicularly with respect to the support base for the can, the 

said group, comprising at least one lever operable manually that 
transmits the rotary motion to a conversion means of the said 

motion, into the vertical. 
Device according to claims 1. and 2., characterized by the fact that 
a means able to compress the can constitutes a punch (9), 

removable, being fixed to the base of the mobile group (10), and by 
rack beams (13), of which there is at least one per side that are 

integral to said mobile group (10). 
Device according to preceding claims, characterized by the fact 
that the rack beams (13) are guided along the sides of the frame (2), 

 
impinging upon corresponding slides (12). 
Device according to preceding claims, characterized by the fact 
that there are small openings (14) on the base of the frame (2), 

corresponding with the rack beams (13) above. 
Device according to preceding claims, characterized by the fact 
that the rack beams (13) are moved by a pair of corresponding 

toothed wheels (20) keyed to a first transverse shaft (16'), and 
immediately beneath which, second wheels (15) are provided that 

couple to the said first wheels, keyed to a transverse shaft (16), on 
whose ends, each of which extrudes from the sides of the body (1), 

external transmissions of the movement are provided, impressed to 
the same by means of levers (17) connected to the frame (2) in an 

adjacent position. 
Device according to claim 6., characterized by the fact that on the 
ends of said shaft (16) that extrude from the frame (2), a second pair 

of toothed wheels (8) are keyed externally to the first, engaged 
with teeth (17') provided by the lever (17). 
Device according to preceding claims, characterized by the fact 
that externally to the body (1), two levers (17) are engaged joined 

by a transverse handle (18), respectively one on each side and 
connected to the frame (2) anteriorly with regard to the position of 

the shaft (16). 
Device according to claims 7 and 8, characterized by the fact that 
the levers (17), in correspondence with their attachment to the 

body (1), have a circular shape peripherally provided with teeth 
(17') which impinge on the respective toothed wheels (8) keyed to 

the shaft (16) . 
Device according to preceding claims, characterized by the fact 
 

that the base of the frame (2), is provided on the inside with a guide 
(4) for the extraction of a drawer (5) analogously shaped in 

negative, on the end of which a hollow (5') is obtained, the said 
drawer (5) being supplied with an elastic recoil. 
Device according to preceding claims, characterized by the fact 
that, on its upper side, the extractable drawer (5) provides a place 

for containing the base of the can, the said place being made up of 
two containing edges, a first external semicircular edge (7) and a 

second circular edge (7'), internal and less pronounced than the 
external one, defining between the two an annular place (7''). 
Device according to preceding claims, characterized by the fact 
that an elastic recoil group is provided, operating on the inside of 

the shaft and/or co-operating with the levers and the external 
recoils, allowing the resetting of the device in the rest position. 
Hanging device according to preceding claims, characterized by 
the fact that the back (2') of the frame (2) is provided both above, as 

well as below, with a pair of appendices (2''') per side, conveniently 
drilled, which constitute anchorage stirrups of the wall frame (2). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
