<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621956</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF AND APPARATUS FOR OBTAINING NMR INFORMATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3354	G01R3348	G01R3354	A61B5055	G01R3320	G01N2408	G01R3320	G01R3348	G01N2400	A61B5055	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	A61B	G01R	G01N	G01R	G01R	G01N	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	A61B5	G01R33	G01N24	G01R33	G01R33	G01N24	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BTG INT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BTG INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONERGAN ANDREW RALPH GOODMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCDONALD PETER JOHN PENTREATH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONERGAN, ANDREW, RALPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCDONALD, PETER, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of and apparatus for
obtaining nuclear magnetic resonance information from a sample,
and more particularly from a solid or other sample having a short
spin-spin relaxation time (T2). T2 may, for example, be less
than 100, 500 or 800 µs.Hitherto in solid state imaging, images have conventionally
been reconstructed from profiles using back projection
algorithms. The essence of back projection is the use of just
one magnetic field gradient in the profile direction. A common
way to obtain a profile is to record the free induction decay
signal or echo as a function of time in the presence of a
gradient which is linear in space and then to Fourier transform
the decay signal or echo. This procedure is commonly known as
frequency encoding. The gradient is rotated and the experiment
repeated until sufficient profiles are available for an image to
be constructed using back projection algorithms. In the
(reciprocal) k-space description of NMR imaging which has now
been widely adopted as the means of describing NMR imaging
techniques, data is recorded radially outwards from the centre of
k-space. An alternative to frequency encoding is phase encoding,
where the angle through which a spin precesses during a fixed
encoding time is recorded as a function of gradient strength. A
useful review paper on back projection techniques has been
written by P. Mansfield and is entitled "Imaging by Nuclear
Magnetic Resonance" (J. Phys. E. Sci. Instrum., 21 (1988) 18-30).Although back projection methods have been conventionally
used in solid state NMR imaging, it would be advantageous to use
two dimensional Fourier transform (2DFT) techniques since these
might be expected to lead to an improvement in image quality.
2DFT techniques have been used with great success in liquid state
NMR imaging (see, for example, the paper by A. Kumar, D. Welti
and R.R. Ernst in J. Magn. Reson. 18 (1975) 69).The essence of such 2DFT techniques is a period of phase (or 
less often frequency) encoding in one direction followed
immediately by a period of frequency encoding in an orthogonal
direction during which the data is read out. The experiment is
repeated for incremented values of the phase gradient. k-space
is sampled on a rectilinear grid of points allowing
reconstruction of the image by two dimensional Fourier
Transformation. The improvement in image quality for liquid
state NMR imaging has been found to be substantial, partly
because k-space is covered more uniformly and partly because the
image reconstruction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of obtaining NMR information from a solid or other sample having a short spin-spin relaxation time, comprising:-

providing production means for producing a magnetic field in the sample;
energising the production means to produce a static field component and to
produce first and second gradient field components in first and second directions

respectively for the encoding of two-dimensional spatial information about the
sample;
applying a recurring cycle of high frequency excitation pulses to the sample
to cause line narrowing, the period over which the energisation for the first gradient

field component is reduced in amplitude from its maximum value to zero and the
period over which the energisation for the second gradient field component is

increased in amplitude from zero to its maximum value both being longer than the
cycle time; and
detecting the spatially encoded NMR signal from the sample resulting from
the high frequency excitation pulses;

   
characterised by :
energising the production means such that the energisation for the first
gradient field component is reduced in amplitude to zero sufficiently smoothly and

slowly and such that the energisation for the second gradient field component is
subsequently increased in amplitude from zero sufficiently smoothly and slowly,

that spurious eddy current fields do not distort the spatially encoded NMR signal.
A method according to Claim 1 wherein the energisation is such as to
produce periodically varying first and second gradient field components, the oscillation

periods of these components being, respectively, less than the period over which the
energisation for the first gradient field component is reduced in amplitude from its

maximum value to zero and less than the period over which the energisation for the second
gradient field component is increased in amplitude from zero to its maximum value.
A method according to either of the preceding claims wherein the energisation is
such that the amplitude of the first gradient field component reduces approximately linearly

as it approaches zero and the amplitude of the second gradient field component increases
approximately linearly from zero. 
A method according to Claim 3 wherein the energisation is such that the amplitude
of the first gradient field component reduces, and the amplitude of the second gradient field

component increases, according to a sine or cosine function.
Apparatus for obtaining NMR information from a solid or other sample having a short spin-spin relaxation time, the apparatus comprising:-

production means for producing a magnetic field in the sample;
means for energising the production means to produce a static field
component and to produce first and second gradient field components in first and

second directions respectively for the encoding of two-dimensional spatial
information about the sample;
means for applying a recurring cycle of high frequency excitation pulses to
the sample to excite selected nuclei therein so as to cause line narrowing, the period

over which the energisation for the first gradient field component is reduced in
amplitude from its maximum value to zero and the period over which the

energisation for the second gradient field component is increased in amplitude from
zero to its maximum value both being longer than the cycle time; and
means for detecting the spatially encoded NMR signal from the sample
resulting from the high frequency excitation pulses;

   
characterised in that:
the energising means is arranged such that the energisation for the first
gradient field component is reduced in amplitude to zero sufficiently smoothly and

slowly and such that the energisation for the second gradient field component is
subsequently increased in amplitude from zero sufficiently smoothly and slowly,

that spurious eddy current fields do not distort the spatially encoded NMR signal.
Apparatus according to Claim 5 wherein the energisation is such as to produce
periodically varying first and second gradient field components, the oscillation periods of

these components being, respectively, less than the period over which the energisation for
the first gradient field component is reduccd in amplitude from its maximum value to zero

and less than the period over which the energisation for the second gradient field
component is increased in amplitude from zero to its maximum value.
Apparatus according to Claim 5 wherein the energisation is such that the amplitude
of the first gradient field component reduces approximately linearly as it approaches zero 

and the amplitude of the second gradient field component increases approximately linearly
from zero.
Apparatus according to Claim 7 wherein the energisation is such that the amplitude
of the first gradient field component reduces and the amplitude of the second gradient field

component increases, according to a sine or cosine function.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
