<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631247</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AIRLINE-BASED VIDEO GAME AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F1312	G06F1900	G06F1900	A63F1312	B64D1100	B64D1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	G06F	G06F	A63F	B64D	B64D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F13	G06F19	G06F19	A63F13	B64D11	B64D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An airline-based video game system includes a 
multitasking master computer (2), which preferably stores 

video game and other application programs on its hard 
disk. The master computer is coupled to a set of airplane 

zone control computers ADBl to ADBN which also perform conventional 
cabin management tasks. The zone control computers 

receive data from the master control computer and couple 
data to identified seat controlling processing units 

(SEBs). Each SEB receives data from, and couples data to, 
a set of unique seat display units which are associated 

with each seat in the airplane. The system downloads 
application software to the seat display units from the 

master computer. After receipt of a downloading request, 
the master computer responds by setting up an application 

program transmission for generating the display menu which 
appears on each SDU. The initial applications program 

downloading results in a menu display at every passenger 
seat which initiated a request. The applications program 

is then coupled to each SDU for display on its liquid 
crystal display screen. The display menu advantageously 

permits each passenger to select between various operating 
modes including: movies, games, shopping, survey forms, 

language selection, communication/data processing 
services. Communication or data processing services 

permit selection of in-flight phone services, word 
processing services, and facsimile services. If a user 

opts for video game play, then the available game titles 
and/or descriptions thereof are displayed. The SDU 

includes interface processors and associated hardware and 
software which enable high speed downloading operations to 

be efficiently performed. The master computer initiates a 
high speed video game program downloading process to 

enable the user to play the selected video game. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NINTENDO CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NINTENDO CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCARTEN DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIZAWA KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAVANPEY RAMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH DARREN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCARTEN, DAVID J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIZAWA, KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAVANPEY, RAMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, DARREN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to a digital
communications and entertainment/video game system. More
particularly, the invention relates to an airline-based
distributed processing video game and communications system
associated with substantially every seat in an airplane.For the vast majority of airplane passengers, travel time
is largely filled with passive activities such as reading
magazines, newspapers, or watching a movie provided by an
airline during a lengthy flight. Individual passengers who
wish to participate in video game play have brought their own
portable video game units onto the plane, such as the Nintendo
Gameboy product. Similarly, passengers who desire to use a
data processor during travel have had to use their own portable
laptop computer.At least one airline has provided limited video game
services to first class passengers. This system, however, is
believed to be a centrally controlled system in which video
game programs are executed by a master computer. EP-A-0 277
014 discloses a service and entertainment system in an airplane
that permits transmission of video signals, audio signals, and
game signals from a central transmitter to selected terminal
units. That prior art is reflected in the preambles of Claims 1 and 22. According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a
passenger seat display unit for a passenger entertainment system having a
master control unit having a memory for storing a plurality of programs, said
passenger seat display unit, in use, being coupled to said master control unit
and including a passenger seat display,
a memory system for receiving at least one of said plurality of
programs from the master control unit memory and a processor for executing at
least one of said plurality of programs characterised in that said processor has a memory system address
space having a plurality of different memory address space configurations,
each memory address space configuration having a different memory
addressing scheme, and in that said display unit (SDU) includes memory configuration control circuitry for selectively
defining one of the different memory address space configurations.According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided
a passenger entertainment system having a master control unit having a
memory for storing a plurality of programs and at least one passenger seat
display unit according to said first aspectAccording to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a
method of operating a passenger
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A passenger seat display unit (SDU) for a passenger entertainment
system having a master control unit (2) having a memory (3) for storing a plurality of

programs, said passenger seat display unit (SDU), in use, being coupled to said
master control unit (2) and including a passenger seat display (90),

a memory system (102)
for receiving at least one of said plurality of programs from the master control

unit memory
and a processor (220) for executing at least one of said plurality of programs


characterised in that
 said processor (220) has a memory system address space having a plurality of different
memory address space configurations (Figs. 7A-7H), each memory address

space configuration having a different memory addressing scheme, and
in that said display unit (SDU) includes memory configuration control circuitry (Fig. 6) for selectively defining

one of the different memory address space configurations.
A passenger seat display unit in accordance with claim 1, wherein said
at least one of said plurality of programs is a video game program.
A passenger seat display unit in accordance with claim 1 or claim 2,
wherein said display (90) is arranged to display videographics data resulting

from the execution of said at least one of said plurality of programs.
A passenger seat display unit in accordance with any preceding claim,
wherein said configuration control circuity includes a boot read-only memory (180)

for storing a program to be executed by said processor upon the power being
turned on. 
A passenger seat display unit according to any preceding claim, wherein
the memory system is included on a first circuit board (102) and the processor

is included on a second circuit board (100), the passenger seat display unit
further including an interface control processor (190) included on the first

circuit board for receiving downloaded information to be coupled to said
processor for processing.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 5, further including a
display interface processor (84) coupled to said interface control processor.
A passenger seat display unit in accordance with claim 5, wherein the
interface control processor (190) included on the first circuit board is coupled

to said processor on the second circuit board and performs interfacing tasks for
said processor including interfacing with the memory system and the master

control computer and receiving said at least one of said plurality of programs to
be executed by said processor.
A passenger seat display unit in accordance with claim 7, further
including a display processing unit (222) included on the second circuit board

coupled to said processor for generating a video signal for displaying on said
display.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 7, wherein the
interface control processor provides data indicative of the type of program

download operation which is to be attempted.
A passenger seat display unit in accordance with any preceding claim,
wherein said plurality of programs includes at least an application program and 

a game program, and wherein the memory configuration control circuitry
detects whether information to be downloaded is an application program, a

game program, or data and configures at least one memory in said memory
system differently depending on whether the information being downloaded is

detected as an application program, a game program, or data, and storing the
downloaded information in the configured one memory.
A passenger seat display unit in accordance with claim 10, further
comprising:


a picture processing unit (222) coupled to the processor for generating a
video signal which is coupled to the passenger seat display unit,
wherein the memory system includes an interface control processor (190) for
receiving information to be processed by the processor and memory for storing

program information and moving object and background character data such
that when the processor executes a program stored in a memory, a

videographics display is generated at a passenger seat display unit and moving
object and background character data stored in the memory are processed.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 10 or claim 11,
wherein the memory configuration control circuitry configures a number of

memory banks in the memory system based on whether an application program,
game program, or data is detected.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 10 or claim 11,
wherein the memory configuration control circuitry configures a memory bank

number corresponding to one of plural memory banks in the memory system
based on whether an application program, game program, or data is detected. 
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 13, wherein the
memory configuration control circuitry configures a starting address for the one

memory bank based on whether an application program, game program, or data
is detected.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 13, wherein the
memory configuration control circuitry configures a number of bytes in the one

memory bank based on whether an application program, game program, or data
is detected.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 10, wherein the
memory system includes:


a pseudo-static RAM (174) for storing either a downloaded game program or
a downloaded applications program, and
another RAM (176) for storing downloaded data.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 10, wherein the
memory system includes plural memory mapped modes, and wherein the

memory configuration control circuitry includes one or more registers (162) for
configuring the memory system in accordance with one of the plural memory

mapped modes.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 10, wherein the
memory configuration control circuitry includes one or more registers (158) for

controlling a speed at which a downloaded program is executed.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 10, wherein the
memory configuration control circuitry includes a boot ROM program that 

when executed initiates and controls the downloading of information from the
master control computer.
A passenger seat display unit according to claim 19, wherein the
memory configuration control circuitry includes one or more registers (164) for

determining whether the boot ROM program or the downloaded program is to
be executed.
A passenger entertainment system having a master control unit (2)
having a memory (3) for storing a plurality of programs and at least one

passenger seat display unit (SDU) according to any one of claims 1 to 20.
A method of operating a passenger entertainment system having a host
computer, an array of videographics processing systems, and a plurality of

passenger seat display devices, said method including displaying a display
menu at one or more of said passenger seat display devices (90) to permit the

selection of one or a plurality of videographics program options and
downloading a videographics program in response to a passenger selection from

said host computer to a videographics processing system (220) associated with
said one or more of said passenger seat display devices, said method further


characterised by
:

modifying the configuration of memory address space (Figs. 7A-7H) in said videographics
processing system (220) using configuration control circuitry (Fig.6) depending upon

the downloaded videographics program;
storing the downloaded videographics program in accordance with the
modified memory address space configuration; and
executing the videographics program.
A method according to claim 22, further comprising:

initiating a program download request in response to the execution of a
program at said at least one seat display unit (SDU) , and
requesting the program to be downloaded by file number,
wherein the requested program having the requested file number is
downloaded along with configuration information indicating how the requested

program should be stored in a memory.
A method according to claim 22, further comprising:

monitoring information that is downloaded, and
aborting the downloading operation if the information being monitored
is not in a predetermined format.
A method according to claim 24, wherein said monitoring step includes
checking to determine whether a starting address identifying the memory

location at which a downloaded program is expected to be stored has been
transmitted.
A method according to claim 24, wherein said monitoring step includes
checking information that is downloaded to determine whether a predetermined

number indicative of the expected number of memory banks has been
transmitted.
A method according to claim 22, further comprising:

checking said seat display unit memory (102) for the presence of the
selected videographics program;
initiating by said seat display unit of a program downloading operation
of the selected videographics program from said master control unit if the 

selected videographics program is not present or if said videographics program
may not be validly executed; and
executing the selected videographics program if the selected
videographics program is resident in said seat display unit (SDU) non-volatile

memory and may be validly executed.
A method according to claim 22, wherein a number of memory banks in
the memory system is configured based on the information to be downloaded.
A method according to claim 22, wherein the modifying step includes
changing a program execution speed depending upon the program to be

downloaded.
A method according to claim 22, wherein the modifying step includes

   configurating one of plural memory banks in the memory system based
on the information to be downloaded.
A method according to claim 30, wherein the modifying step includes

   configuring a starting address based on the information to be
downloaded.
A method according to claim 30, wherein the modifying step includes

   configurating a number of bytes in one of plural memory banks in the
memory system based on the information to be downloaded.
A method according to claim 22, further comprising:

   controlling a speed at which a downloaded program is executed.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
