<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651667</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEDICATION ADMINISTERING DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M3100	A61J	A61M3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61J	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M31	A61J	A61M31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A medication administering device includes a housing (2) introducible into a body cavity and of a material insoluble in the body cavity fluids, but formed with an opening (4) covered by a material which is soluble in body cavity fluids. A diaphragm (8) divides the interior of the housing (2) into a medication chamber (C1) including the opening (4), and a control chamber (C2). An electrolytic cell (10) in the control chamber (C2) generates a gas when electrical current is passed therethrough to deliver medication from the medication chamber (C1) through the opening (4) into the body cavity at a rate controlled by the electrical current. The device can be in the form of a pill or capsule to be taken orally.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELAN MED TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELAN MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROSS JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROSS, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a medication administering 
device. The invention is particularly useful when embodied in the 
form of a pill or capsule to be taken orally, and is therefore described 
below with respect to this application, but it will be appreciated that the 
invention could be embodied in other types of medication administering 
devices, such as suppositories to be taken other than orally, or devices 
to be introduced into a body cavity surgically. A number of different types of medication administering devices 
have been developed for administering medication in a controlled 
manner and/or at a predetermined location, in order to maximize the 
efficacy of the medication. One type, called a "smart" pill, as briefly 
described in Popular Science, May 1992, Page 25, includes a capsule 
which is adapted to be swallowed. The capsule contains a tiny radio 
transmitter that transmits a continuous signal as it passes through the 
body to thereby permit its location in the body to be detected. When it 
reaches a predetermined location, a computer signals the pill to release 
its payload, by actuating a piston within the capsule to force out 
medication contained within a chamber in the capsule.  
 International patent publication WO 91/00753 discloses an 
implantable or ingestible device for delivery of an active principle, 
comprising two chambers separated by a flexible inner wall. The first 
chamber contains an electrolyte which produces a gaseous emission 
when a voltage is applied to a pair of electrodes disposed therein, and 
the second chamber contains the active principle and is provided with an 
aperture leading to the outside of the device. When a gas is generated in 
the first chamber, the first chamber expands and the second chamber is 
forced to contract, thereby delivering the active principle to the exterior 
of the device.  
 A broad object of the present invention is to provide medication 
administering devices for administering medication in a controlled 
manner, and/or at a predetermined location, in order to maximize the 
efficacy of the medication. A more specific object of the invention is 
to provide other "smart" pill constructions.  
 According to the present invention, there is provided a 
medication administering device, comprising: a housing of a size 
enabling it to be introduced into a body cavity of a subject; said housing 
being of a material insoluble in body cavity fluids, but being formed 
with an opening; a displaceable member in the interior of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A medication administering device, comprising: 

a housing (2) of a size enabling it to be introduced into a body 
cavity of a subject; 
said housing (2) being of a material insoluble in body cavity 
fluids, but being formed with an opening (4); 
a displaceable member (8) in the interior of the housing (2) and 
defining first and second expansible-contractible chambers (C1, C2) 

therein; 
said first chamber (C1) including said opening (4) and being 
adapted to receive medication to be delivered through said 

opening (4) when said device is in the body cavity; 
and gas generating means (10) for supplying a gas to said 
second chamber (C2) to expand it and thereby to force medication 

from said first chamber (C1) out through said opening (4) into the body 
cavity, characterised in that said gas generating means (10) is enclosed in a gas 

permeable, liquid impermeable membrane. 
A device according to Claim 1, wherein said displaceable 
member (8) is a diaphragm. 
A device according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein said opening (4) 
is initially closed by a material (6) which is soluble in the body cavity 

fluids. 
A device according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein said 
gas generating means (10) includes electrically-controlled means (11-14) for 

generating a gas when energized.  
 
A device according to Claim 4, wherein said electrically-controlled 
means (11-14) includes an electrolytic cell (11-13) having an electrolyte (11) 

generating a gas in accordance with the electrical current passed 
through the electrolyte (11). 
A device according to Claim 5, wherein said device 
further includes a pre-programmable microprocessor (14) for controlling 

the electrical current to said electrolytic cell (11-13) and thereby the time and 
rate at which medication is forced out of said first chamber (C1). 
A device according to Claim 4, wherein the outer surface 
of the housing (2) includes spaced, diverse metal elements (16, 18) which are 

bridged by the body cavity fluids to generate an electromotive force 
for supplying current to the electrically-controlled means (11-14). 
A device according to Claim 7, wherein said diverse metal 
elements (16, 18) are in the form of spaced strips wound on the outer surface of 

said housing. 
A device according to any one of Claims 4-6, wherein said 
housing (2) includes a battery for supplying current to the electrically-controlled 

means. 
A device according to any one of Claims 4-9, wherein said 
housing (2) includes a sensor for sensing a condition in the body cavity and 

for controlling said electrically-controlled means (11-14) in response thereto. 
A device according to any one of Claims 4-9, wherein said 
housing (2) further includes a radio frequency receiver for receiving a 

radio frequency signal for controlling said electrically-controlled 
means (11-14). 
A device according to any one of Claims 4-9, wherein said 
housing (2) further includes an electrical switch manually actuatable from 

externally of the housing (2) for actuating said electrically-controlled 
means (11-14).  

 
A device according to any one of Claims 4-9, wherein said 
electrically-controlled means (11-14) includes an electrical switch magnetically 

actuated by a magnetic field externally of the subject. 
A device according to any one of Claims 1-13, wherein 
said housing (2) includes an outer sheath of a liquid-swellable material 

which swells when in contact with body cavity fluids and disintegrates 
over a period of time in the body cavity, to thereby control the 

residence time of the device in the body cavity. 
A device according to any one of Claims 1-14, wherein 
said gas generating means (10) in said second chamber. 
A device according to any one of Claims 1-14, wherein 
said gas generating means is included in a second housing which is 

attached to the first-mentioned housing when introduced into the body 
cavity of a subject and which is also of a material insoluble in the body 

cavity fluids, the two housings being formed with aligned openings for 
feeding gas generated in said second housing into said second chamber 

of the first-mentioned housing. 
A device according to any preceding claim, further comprising 

a plug (6) which is soluble in the body cavity fluids closing 
said opening (4). 
A device according to any preceding claim, wherein 
said device further includes a pre-programmable microprocessor (14) for 

controlling the time and rate of gas generation by said gas generating 
means (10), and thereby the time and rate at which said medication is forced 

out of said first chamber (6). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
