<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632296</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Amplitude and phase optical filtering binary diffractive optical element.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B518	G02B518	G02B2742	G02B2744	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G02B27	G02B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A binary diffractive optical element (100) filters the amplitude intensity 
and the phase of an incident light beam by only transmitting a specified percentage 

and specified phase of the incident light beam into a zero order, non-diffracted 
beam while the rest is diffracted into the first or higher orders. The phase level (110) 

of the binary surface relief phase grating structure can be adjusted relative to the 
total period (P) of the grating to adjust the amount of diffraction and thus control 

the amplitude of intensity and the phase of the incident beam transmitted through 
and diffracted by the grating structure. The phase of the zero order, non-diffracted, 

transmitted light beam cycles from 0 to Π to 0 while the optical transmittance of the 
intensity cycles from 100% to 0% to 100%. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS ELLIS D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS, ELLIS D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a binary diffractive optical element, and, more 
particularly, to amplitude and phase optical filtering with a binary diffractive optical 
element. The propagation of a light beam can be changed by three basic means: 
reflection by a mirror, refraction by a lens and diffraction by a grating. Optical 
systems traditionally rely on reflection and refraction to achieve the desired optical 
transformation. Optical design, based on mirror and lens elements, is a well-established 
and refined process. Until recently, the problems with diffraction and 
fabricating high efficiency diffractive elements have made diffractive elements 
unfeasible components of optical systems. The diffractive process does not simply redirect a light beam. Diffraction, 
unlike refraction and reflection, splits a light beam into many beams -- each of which 
is redirected at a different angle or order. The percentage of the incident light 
redirected by the desired angle into some given diffraction order is referred to as the 
diffraction efficiency for that order. The diffraction efficiency of a diffractive 
element is determined by the element's surface profile. If the light that is not 
redirected by the desired angle is substantial, the result will be an intolerable 
amount of scatter in the image or output plane of the optical system. Theoretically, on-axis diffractive phase elements consisting of a grating 
having a given period can achieve 100 percent diffraction efficiency. To achieve this 
efficiency, however, a continuous phase profile within any given period is necessary. 
The theoretical diffraction efficiency of this surface profile is also relatively sensitive 
to a change in wavelength. By contrast, refractive elements are relatively 
wavelength insensitive. The technology for producing high quality, high efficiency, 
continuous phase profiles of the diffraction does not presently exist. A compromise that results in a relatively high diffraction efficiency and 
ease of fabrication is a multi-level phase grating. The larger the number of discrete 
phase levels, the better the approximation of the continuous phase function. These  
 
multi-level phase profiles can be fabricated using standard semiconductor 
integrated circuit fabrication techniques. As disclosed in Binary Optics Technology: The Theory and Design of Multi-level 
Diffractive Optical Elements by G.J. Swanson of the Lincoln Laboratory 
at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (Technical Report 854, 14 August 1989) 
herewithin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A binary diffractive optical element (100) for modulating the 
amplitude and the phase of an incident light beam including 

   a binary surface relief phase grating structure upon an optical substrate 
(102), said binary surface relief phase grating structure having a plurality of gratings, 

each of said plurality of gratings having a reference level (138) and a phase level 
(110), said phase level being perpendicularly offset by a specified depth from said 

reference level (108), wherein the ratio of the width of said phase level to the period 
of said grating determines the amount of said incident beam diffracted by said one 

grating of said binary surface relief phase grating structure and the amount of said 
amplitude and said phase of the zero order, non-diffracted light beam transmitted 

by said binary diffractive optical element. 
A binary diffractive optical element for modulating the amplitude 
and the phase of an incident light beam as claimed in claim 1, wherein said specified 

depth said phase level is perpendicularly offset from said reference level is 
λ / 2(n-1)  

where λ is the wavelength of said incident light beam in air and n is the 
index of 

refraction of said optical substrate. 
A binary diffractive optical element for modulating the amplitude 
and the phase of an incident light beam as claimed in claim 2, wherein when said 

ratio of the width of said phase level to the total period of said one of said plurality 
of gratings is zero, said zero order, non-diffracted light beam transmitted by said 

binary diffractive optical element is 100 % of said incident beam and has a phase of 
0; or wherein when said ratio of the width of said phase level to the total period of 

said one of said plurality of gratings is 0.5, said zero order, non-diffracted light beam 
transmitted by said binary diffractive optical element is 0 % of said incident beam 

and has a phase of 0, or wherein when said ratio of the width of said phase level to 
the total period of said one of said plurality of gratings is one, said zero order, non-diffracted 

 
light beam transmitted by said binary diffractive optical element is 100 % 

of said incident beam and has a phase of Π; or wherein when said ratio of the width 
of said phase level to the total period of said one of said plurality of gratings is 0.5, 

said zero order, non-diffracted light beam transmitted by said binary diffractive 
optical element is 0 % of said incident beam and has a phase of Π, or wherein when 

said ratio of the width of said phase level to the total period of said one of said 
plurality of gratings is between zero and 0.5, the optical transmittance of said 

incident beam to said zero order, non-diffracted light beam is decreasing and said 
zero order, non-diffracted light beam has a phase of 0. 
A binary diffractive optical element for modulating the amplitude 
and the phase of an incident light beam as claimed in claim 2 wherein when said 

ratio of the width of said phase level to the total period of said one of said plurality 
of gratings is between 0.5 and one, the optical transmittance of said incident beam 

to said zero order, non-diffracted light beam is increasing and said zero order, non-diffracted 
light beam has a phase of Π. 
A binary diffractive optical element for modulating the amplitude 
and the phase of an incident light beam as claimed in claim 2 wherein when said 

ratio of the width of said phase level to the total period of said one of said plurality 
of gratings is between one and 0.5, the optical transmittance of said incident beam 

to said zero order, non-diffracted light beam is decreasing and said zero order, non-diffracted 
light beam has a phase of Π. 
A binary diffractive optical element for modulating the amplitude 
and the phase of an incident light beam as claimed in claim 2 wherein when said 

ratio of the width of said phase level to the total period of said one of said plurality 
of gratings is between 0.5 and zero, the optical transmittance of said incident beam 

to said zero order, non-diffracted light beam is decreasing and said zero order, non-diffracted 
light beam has a phase of 0. 
A binary diffractive optical element for modulating the amplitude 
and the phase of an incident light beam as claimed in claim 2 wherein when said 

ratio of the width of said phase level to the total period of said one of said plurality 
of gratings is between zero and 0.5, the optical transmittance of said incident beam 

to said zero order, non-diffracted light beam is decreasing and said zero order, non-diffracted 
light beam has a phase of 0. 
A binary diffractive optical element for modulating the amplitude 
and the phase of an incident light beam as claimed in any one of 1 to 7, wherein for 

a given optical transmission percentage, the relative width, d, of said phase level to 
said grating period is 

d = ((square root of T) + 1)/2  
where T is the optical transmission percentage which ranges from zero to one. 
A binary diffractive optical element for modulating the amplitude 
and the phase of an incident light beam of claim 2 wherein for a given optical 

transmission percentage, the relative width, d, of said phase level to said grating 
period is 

d = ((square root of T) + 1)/2  
where T is the optical transmission percentage which ranges from zero to one. 
The binary diffractive optical element for modulating the amplitude 
and the phase of an incident light beam of claim 1 wherein said plurality of gratings 

has at least two different ratios of the width of said phase level to the total period of 
one of said plurality of gratings. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
