<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636276</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEMICONDUCTOR WAFER TEMPERATURE DETERMINATION BY OPTICAL MEASUREMENT OF WAFER EXPANSION IN PROCESSING APPARATUS CHAMBER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J500	G01J500	G01J504	G01J504	G01J508	G01J508	G01K500	G01K552	G01N2500	G01N2516	H01L2100	H01L2100	H01L2102	H01L21324	H01L2166	H01L2166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01K	G01K	G01N	G01N	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01K5	G01K5	G01N25	G01N25	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus are provided for measuring the temperature of articles such as semiconductor wafers (14) in a sealed chamber (12) of a processing apparatus such as a batch preheating module (10) of a semiconductor wafer processing cluster tool. Wafers (14) of generally known nominal diameter and coefficient of thermal expansion are placed at a known initial temperature into a processing chamber (12) which is then sealed. A pair of beams (40) of parallel light are passed by opposite edges of the wafer and the uninterrupted light from both beams are detected (48) and summed (60). When the wafer is heated in processing, ligth from the beams (40) is measured again. Expansion of the wafers (14) changes the amount of uninterrupted light detected, and the changed amount of light is measured. From the measurement, the initial temperature, the nominal diameter and the known coefficient of expansion, processing temperature is calculated.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATERIALS RESEARCH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATERIALS RESEARCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHIKAWA HIROICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOLESA MICHAEL STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHIKAWA, HIROICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOLESA, MICHAEL, STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SEMICONDϋCTO WAFER TEMPERATURE DETERMINATIONBY OPTICAL MEASUREMENT OF WAFER EXPANSION IN PROCESSING APPARATUS CHAMBERThe present invention relates to the temperature determination of articles such as semiconductor wafers being processed in sealed chambers, and more particularly, to noncontact methods of instantaneously determining wafer temperature for the monitoring and control thereof.Background of the InventionIn the processing of thin, flat articles such as semiconductor wafers, the articles are frequently heated to elevated temperatures for processing in sealed vacuum chambers. Thermal treatment of the wafers is sometimes a necessary or incidental component of a coating or etching process and at other times is the essence of the process itself, such as in rapid thermal processing, annealing or degassing.In sealed chambers such as vacuum processing chambers, where semiconductor wafers areSUBSTITUTESHEET 

usually processed, various temperature schemes have been employed. Thermcouples, for example, attached to or are held in contact with the wafer, or mounted in the wafer support are slow to respond to temperature changes and are often introduce a source of wafer contamination. Pyrometers, on the other hand, may avoid direct contact with the articles being processed, but have the disadvantage of being sensitive to the e issivity of the material of which the wafer or coatings added to it are made. Emissivity is also subject to change during processing.Optical methods for indirectly measuring the temperature of an article by measuring its thermal expansion have been proposed. These optical methods provide an advantage of being related only to the coefficient of thermal expansion of the material that forms a structural core of the wafer, which is constant and can be reliably determined. Such proposed methods have, for example, included the formation of images of the article, and have required equipment such as optical sensors placed close to the article where their accuracy is affected by the process within the chamber. Such methods are in practice used off-line, and where so used, atmospheric refraction can detract from the accuracv of the measurementSUBSTITUTESHEET 

process.Where articles such as semiconductor wafers are mounted on a support within a sealed chamber for processing, particularly where wafers are processed in batches, as is often the case in degassing or other thermal treatment processes, misalignment or distortion of the support may alter the wafer position and render optical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
l. A method of determining the temperature of and thermally processing wafers, of a material having a known coefficient of thermal expansion, stacked in parallel planes on an axis in a vacuum processing chamber of a wafer processing apparatus, the method comprising the steps of: placing a wa er stack in the chamber at a reference temperature; passing a spaced pair of beams of parallel light from at least one light source and along respective paths such that at least a portion of the light from each light beam is interrupted by opposite edges of one wafer of the stack when at the reference temperature, the paths being inclined at an angle to the axis and the planes; sensing with at least one light sensor, positioned opposite the light source, uninterrupted light from the beams and generating a reference signal, representative of the positions of the edges, in response to the sensed light; storing the reference signal; changing the temperature of the wafers of the stack to a processing temperature; further passing a spaced pair of beams of parallel light along the paths from the source and through the chamber such that at least a portion of the light from each light beam is interrupted by 


the opposite edges of the one wafer when at the processing temperature; sensing with the sensor uninterrupted light from the beams, when at the processing temperature, and generating, in response to the sensed light, a measurement signal representative of the positions of the edges; generating, from the stored reference signal and from the measurement signal, a dimension change signal responsive to the difference between the dimensions of the one wafer at the reference temperature and at the processing temperature; and deriving the processing temperature from the known coe ficient of expansion of the material and the dimension change signal. 

2. The method of claim 1 wherein: the reference and measurement signal generating steps each include the step of generating an analog signal responsive to the amount of light uninterrupted by the edges; the step of generating the dimension change signal is responsive to the difference between the magnitudes of the reference signal and the measurement signal; and 
* •
 the deriving step includes the steps of producing a digital form of the dimension change signal and digitally deriving the processing temperature therefrom.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: generating a control signal in response to the derived processing temperature; and controlling the processing temperature in response to the control signal.
4. The method of claim l further comprising the step of: adjusting the position of the stack on its axis, when the wafers are at the reference 5 temperature, until the uninterrupted light sensed at is at a minimum. 


 5. The method of claim l wherein: the beams are passed from at least one source outside of the chamber and along respective paths through the chamber, and the uninterrupted light is sensed by at least one sensor positioned outside of the chamber opposite the light source.
6. The method of claim l wherein: the uninterrupted light from each beam is sensed by a separate sensor; and the reference and measurement signals are generated in response to the sums of the uninterrupted light sensed by the sensors. 

7. A method of determining the temperature of and thermally processing a thin flat article, of a material having a known coefficient of thermal expansion, lying in a plane in a processing chamber of a processing apparatus, the method comprising the steps of: supporting an article in the chamber at a known reference temperature; passing a spaced pair of beams of parallel light from a pair of light sources, positioned outside of the chamber, and along respective paths through the chamber such that a portion of the light from each light beam is interrupted by opposite edges of the article when at the reference temperature; sensing with a pair of light sensors, positioned opposite the light sources, uninterrupted light from the beams and generating an analog reference signal, having a magnitude representative of the positions of the edges, in response to the sensed light; storing a digital representation of the reference signal; changing the temperature of the article to a processing temperature; further passing a spaced pair of beams of parallel light along the paths from the sources and
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


through the chamber such that a portion of the light from each light beam is interrupted by the opposite edges of the article when at the processing temperature; sensing with the sensors uninterrupted light from the beams, when at the processing temperature, and generating, in response to the sensed light, a measurement signal representative of the positions of the edges; generating, from the stored representation of the reference signal and from the measurement signal, a digital dimension change signal responsive to the difference between the magnitudes of the reference and measurement signals and representative of the difference between the dimensions of the article at the reference temperature and at the processing temperature; and digitally deriving the processing temperatur from the known coefficient of expansion of the material and the dimension change signal.
-
**
-
*
 £ .
<
 iτ--_-
~
ϊ 


 8. The method of claim 7 wherein: the path is inclined at an angle to the plane.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein: the path is inclined at an angle to an axis perpendicular to the plane.
10. The method of claim 7 further comprising the steps of: generating a control signal in response to the derived processing temperature; and controlling the processing temperature n response to the control signal.
11. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of: adjusting the position of the stack on its axis, when the article is at the reference temperature, until the uninterrupted light sensed at is at a minimum.
12. The method of claim 7 wherein: the reference and measurement signals are generated in response to the sums of the uninterrupted light sensed by the sensors. 


 13. An apparatus for processing semiconductor wafers of a material having a known coefficient of thermal expansion, the apparatus having a chamber in which a wafer is maintained at a processing temperature to be monitored, the apparatus comprising: a wafer support for supporting a wafer, the temperature of which is to be monitored, in a plane within the chamber, the wafer having a pair of generally opposite edge sections lying in the plane when supported on the support; light source means spaced from the edge sections of the wafer for directing a spaced pair of beams of parallel light therefrom and along respective paths fixed in relation to the support such that a portion of the light of each light beam is interrupted by the generally opposite edge sections of the wafer in an amount of corresponding to the position of the edge sections transverse the path ; light sensor means each positioned opposite the edge sections of the wafer from the light source means for detecting the amount of uninterrupted light from the beams and generating monitoring signal in response to the amount of uninterrupted light from the beams impinging on th sensors; 


 storage means for storing information in response to a monitoring signal generated with the wafer at a first temperature; temperature changing means for changing the temperature of the wafer on the support to a second temperature; and circuit means responsive to the stored information, the known coefficient of thermal expansion and a monitoring signal generated with the wafer at a second temperature for generating an output signal representative of the difference between the first temperature and the second temperature. 


14. The apparatus of method of claim 13 wherein: the wafer support includes means for supporting a plurality of wafers, including the wafer the temperature of which is to be monitored, stacked in parallel planes on an axis in the chamber of the apparatus; the sensor means being oriented such that the paths are inclined at an angle to the axis so 
•
 that the light therefrom is interrupted by edge sections of only one wafer of the stacked plurality.
15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the monitoring signal generating means includes means for generating an analog signal responsive to the amount of light uninterrupted by the edge sections; and the output signal generating means includes means for producing a digital signal and digitally deriving the output signal therefrom.
Qi
UBSTΓΓ 


 16. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising: means for generating a control signal in response to the output signal; and said temperature controlling means being, responsive to the control signal.
17. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the light source means and the light sensor means are located outside of the chamber at opposite ends of the paths.
18. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the light sensor means includes a pair of light sensors, each for sensing the uninterrupted light from a respective beam; and the output signal generating means is responsive to the sums of the uninterrupted light sensed by the sensors.
■
 
<
- r T-'— t—
•
— \ t?— — 


 19. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the path is inclined at an angle to the plane of the wafer of which the temperature is to be monitored.
20. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the sensor means includes at least one laser for generating the beams of light along the paths. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
