<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627827</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of controlling transmission on a same radio channel of variable-rate information streams in radio communication systems, and radio communication system using this method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04J1300	H04B726	H04Q738	H04L100	H04L100	H04B726	H04J1300	H04Q738	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04J	H04B	H04Q	H04L	H04L	H04B	H04J	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04J13	H04B7	H04Q7	H04L1	H04L1	H04B7	H04J13	H04Q7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a radio communication system, in particular a mobile communication 
system, variable-rate information flows originating from different sources 

(CV1, CS1; CV2, CS2) and relative to a same communication are transmitted 
on a same radio channel. Each mobile station (M1...Mh) and the fixed part 

(B1...Bn; RNC) of the system comprise a unit for the control of the variable-rate 
transmission, which dynamically allocates the available bits to the 

different streams by taking into account the needs of the sources (CV1, CS1; 
CV2, CS2), the conditions of the channel (6) and the system occupancy. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELECOM ITALIA LAB SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELECOM ITALIA LAB S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERRUTO ERMANNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELLWIG KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SERENO DANIELE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERRUTO, ERMANNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELLWIG, KARL "
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SERENO, DANIELE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to radio communication systems and more
particularly it concerns a method of controlling transmission on the same
channel of variable-rate information streams in these systems, and a system
using this method.Preferably, but not exclusively, the communication system is a mobile
communication system, and the information streams are represented by
coded speech signals and control signals of a speech communication on the
user channel of such a system.In the framework of research concerning future developments of mobile
communications, it is being attempted to define general characteristics of
systems presenting a high flexibility, so as to allow the introduction of
services which today are even completely unknown or cannot be foreseen.One example is that known as the 'Universal Mobile Telecommunications
System'.A performance which is considered as suitable is that these systems
should be able to process variable-rate information streams. In fact,
considering the preferred application, the two information streams (speech
and control signals, meaning by the latter term both the conventional
telephone signalling and the other signals, e.g. measurement results, handover 
commands, etc., typical of a mobile communication system) are variable-rate
streams. The variability of the speech stream is due to the nature of the
speech itself, the characteristics of which change during time, to the existence
of pauses during a conversation, to the characteristics of the speaker, etc.Also control signals comprise information of different nature, some of
which must be transmitted periodically (e.g. results of measurements) while
others (e.g. handover commands) are to be transmitted whenever necessary.
Moreover, redundancy to be introduced to protect information may vary for
both streams depending on the conditions of the radio channel.Keeping this into account, access techniques to radio channels have been
examined which are well suited to variable information stream processing,
specially techniques of the type known as Code Division Multiple Access
(CDMA). When these techniques are used, system capacity is linked to the
average interference generated by active users: therefore each reduction of
data transmitted at a given moment allows increasing the overall number of
users served, and vice-versa, a reduction of traffic allows satisfying the
requests for greater resources by certain communications.In the case of a speech communication between a mobile station and a
base station, it is possible
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of controlling transmission, on a same radio channel, of variable-rate
information streams relative to the same communication and originated from different

sources, in which each stream is emitted by a source (CV1, CS1; CV2, CS2) at a rate (r
1
,
r
2
) which, in a given time interval, is chosen within a respective set of source rates and the
stream is associated, before being sent on the channel (6), with a redundancy which is

chosen within a set of possible redundancy schemes and which determines an increment
(r
3
, r
4
) in the stream rate, 
characterized in that
 during the said interval there are assessed
the source needs in terms of the emission rate suited to the stream characteristics,

the channel needs in terms of the redundancy to be associated with the individual
streams, and the system needs in terms of channel rate, wherein, for guaranteeing a

predetermined quality of the particular communication and of the service offered by the
system, each stream is allocated the emission rate and the redundancy which meet the

respective needs if the total rate (r
tot
) resulting from the combination of the streams on the
channel, expressed as the sum of the stream emission rates and the rate increments due

to the redundancies, does not exceed a rate (r
5
) imposed by the system conditions, and
otherwise each stream is allocated such an emission rate and such a redundancy as to

minimize a cost of the communication, linked to the quality of the particular communication
and of the service offered by the system, and given by the sum of the costs resulting from

the individual needs.
Method according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that
 the radio channel is the
communication channel between a mobile station and a base station of a mobile communication

system, and the assessment of said needs is performed separately in the mobile
station and in a fixed part of the system, respectively for the direction from the mobile station

towards the fixed part and for the opposite direction.
Method according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that
, for each direction of the
communication, the information on said needs are represented by indices (I1 ... I5), linked

to one of the possible source rates of each stream, to one of the possible redundancy
schemes and to one of the possible channel rates.
Method according to Claim 3, 
characterized in that
 said indices constitute reading
addresses for accessing stored information on the emission and channel transmission rates

and on the rate increments caused by the redundancies, as well as on the costs associated
with the rates and redundancies actually allocable.
Method according to Claim 4, 
characterized in that
 the information on the channel 
needs is represented by a single index for all information streams.
Method according to any of Claims 3 to 5, 
characterized in that
 the stored
information relative to the source rates and to the channel rates consists of vectors with as

many components as there are possible rate values, and the information on the rate
increments caused by the redundancies is represented by matrices in which each component

is associated with a combination of source/redundancy rates.
Method according to any of Claims 3 to 6, 
characterized in that
 the stored
information relative to costs is in the form of digital values, normalized with respect to a

common base and organized into matrices in which each component is associated with a
combination of rates/redundancies required and rates/redundancies allocable.
Method according to Claim 7, 
characterized in that
 said cost matrices are
constant matrices.
Method according to any of Claims 3 to 6, 
characterized in that
 the information
stored relative to costs related to the source and channel needs is in the form of digital

values organized into vectors, updated at every time interval.
Method according to any preceding claim, 
characterized in that
 the information
streams are digitally coded speech signals and control signals of a speech communication.
Method according to any of Claims 1 to 9, 
characterized in that
 the information
streams are data and control signals of a variable-rate data transmission.
Method according to claim 2 or any of claims 3 to 11 if referred to claim 2,
characterized in that
 the mobile communication system is a system in which channel access
occurs according to code division techniques and the transmission period on the channel

is divided into frames, and 
in that
 the determination of the rate and of the redundancy to
be allocated to the individual streams is made at each frame.
Method according to claim 2 or any of claims 3 to 11 if referred to claim 2,
characterized in that
 the communication system is a system in which channel access for
variable-rate transmissions occurs according to time division technique.
Communication system including at least two stations (M1 ... Mh; RNC; B1 ...
Bn) connected via radio channels and including:


sources (CV1, CS1; CV2, CS2) of variable-rate information streams relative to
a single communication which streams must be combined on a single radio channel (6),

each source being able to operate, in a given time interval, with a rate (r
1
, r
2
) chosen within
a respective set of rates;
means (CC1, CC2; CC3, CC4) to introduce into each stream, in said time
interval, a redundancy chosen from a set of possible redundancy schemes, each of which 

causes an increment (r
3
, r
4
) in the rate of the stream emitted by the source;
means (MX1, MX2) to combine the individual streams into a single stream to
be transmitted on the channel (6);
management units (MM, BM, RNCM) of the stations;
characterized in that
 said stations are associated with a variable-rate stream control unit
(UC1, UC2) which, for each communication: receives from the sources (CV1, CS1; CV2,

CS2) information on the source needs in terms of the emission rate suited to the characteristics
of the respective information stream 
in that
 interval; receives from the management
units (MM, RNCM) information on the needs of the channel (6) and of the entire system 
in
that
 interval, expressed in terms of redundancy and respectively of transmission rate on
the channel; determines a particular source rate and a particular redundancy for each

stream which rate and redundancy guarantee the attainment of a predetermined quality of
the particular communicaton and of the service offered by the system, and provides the

sources (CV1, CS1; CV2, CS2) and the means (CC1, CC2; CC3, CC4) for redundancy
introduction with commands for the choice of that particular source rate and of that

redundancy, the rates and redundancies chosen being those which satisfy the source and
channel needs 
in that
 interval, if the total rate (r
tot
) of the stream resulting from the combination,
expressed as the sum of the emission rates of the streams and the rate increments

caused by the redundancies, does not exceed a rate (r
5
) determined by the system
conditions, while otherwise the rates and redundancies are chosen so as to minimize a total

cost of the communication, linked to the quality of the particular communication and of the
service offered by the system, and given by the sum of the costs resulting from the

individual needs.
Communication system according to Claim 14, 
characterized in that
 each control
unit (UC1; UC2) includes:


a first group of memories (ME1-1 ... ME1-5), which store information relative to
the possible rates of the streams emitted by the sources, to the combinations of each of

these rates with each of the redundancies foreseen for the respective stream, and to the
possible rates on the channel, and which are addressed respectively by the information on

the needs of the sources (CV1, CS1; CV2, CS2), of the channel (6) and of the system
supplied by the sources (CV1, CS1; CV1, CS2) and the management units (MM, RNCM),

respectively;
a second group of memories (ME2-1 ... ME2-5), which store information on the
costs associated with the possible choices of rates of the streams flowing from the sources,

of the redundancy required by the channel conditions and of the rate on the channel (6), 
and are addressed in reading at least by the information provided by the sources (CV1,

CS1; CV2, CS2) and by the management units (MM, RNCM);
a processing unit (EL), which receives from the sources (CV1, CS1; CV2, CS2)
and from the management units (MM, RNCM) information on the source, channel and

system needs, and from the first and second group of memories (ME1-1 ... ME1-5, ME2-1
... ME2-5) information on the rates, redundancies and costs, and provides the sources (CV1,

CS1; CV2, CS2) and the means (CC1 ... CC4) of redundancy introduction with commands
for the choice of the emission rate and of the redundancy.
Communication system according to Claim 14 or 15, 
characterized in that
 the
sources (CV1, CS1; CV2, CS2) and the management units (MM, RNCM) provide the

information on the source, channel and system needs in the form of indices (I1 ... I5) which
constitute reading addresses or parts of the reading addresses in said memories (ME1-1

... ME2-5).
Communication system according to Claim 15 or 16, 
characterized in that
, in
the first group of memories (ME1-1 ... ME1-5), the memories (ME1-1, ME1-2, ME1-5) for

the information on the source and channel needs store rate values organized into vectors,
each having as many components as there are possible values for the source and channel

rates, and the memories (ME1-3, ME1-4) for information on the channel needs store rate
values organized into matrices in which each row is associated with one of the rate values

of the respective source, and each column with one of the possible increments caused by
the redundancy.
Communication system according to any of Claims 15 to 17, 
characterized in
that
 the memories of the second group (ME2-1 ... ME2-5) store numerical cost values
organized into matrices, and each memory location is addressed jointly by one of the said

indices (I1 ... I5) and by a further index, generated by said processing unit (EL) during the
determination of the rates and of the redundancies and associated with a rate or a redundancy

that can be actually allocated to the individual streams emitted by the source or
respectively to the total rate of the stream resulting from the combination.
Communication system according to Claim 18, 
characterized in that
 said cost
matrices are constant matrices.
Communication system according to any of Claims 15 to 17, 
characterized in
that
 the memories of the second group (ME2-1 ... ME2-4) storing costs related to the source
and channel needs store numerical values organized into vectors, updated at each time

interval.
Communication system according to any of Claims 14 to 20, 
characterized in 
that
 the information streams are speech signals coded in digital form and control signals
of a speech communication.
Communication system according to any of Claims 14 to 20, 
characterized in
that
 the information streams are data and control signals of a variable-rate data transmission.
Communication system according to any of Claims 14 to 22, 
characterized in
that
 the communication system is a mobile communication system comprising a plurality
of mobile stations (M1 ... Mh) and a fixed part (RNC; B1 ... Bn), consisting of base stations

(B1 ... Bn) and of radio network control units (RNC), and the unit (UC1, UC2) controlling
the variable rate streams is provided in each mobile station (M1 ... Mh) and in the fixed part

(RNC; B1 ... Bn).
Communication system according to Claim 23, 
characterized in that
 the mobile
communication system is a system in which channel access occurs through code division

techniques.
Communication system according to Claim 23, 
characterized in that
 the mobile
communication system is a system in which channel access for a variable-rate transmission

occurs through time division techniques.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
