<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615816</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Coated abrasive article having diluent particles and shaped abrasive particles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B24D300	B24D1100	B24D334	B24D334	B24D328	B24D302	B24D1100	C09K314	B24D320	B24D300	C09K314	B24D302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B24D	B24D	B24D	B24D	B24D	B24D	B24D	C09K	B24D	B24D	C09K	B24D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B24D3	B24D11	B24D3	B24D3	B24D3	B24D3	B24D11	C09K3	B24D3	B24D3	C09K3	B24D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Coated abrasive articles containing particles 
having specified shapes. The coated abrasive article 

comprises: 

a. a backing having two major surfaces; 
b. at least one binder; 
c. an abrasive coating comprising shaped 
abrasive particles and diluent particles said at least 

one binder serving to bond the abrasive coating to the 
backing. The diluent particles can comprise (1) a 

plurality of individual abrasive particles bonded 
together by an adhesive to form an agglomerate, (2) a 

plurality of individual non-abrasive particles bonded 
together by an adhesive to form an agglomerate, (3) a 

plurality of individual abrasive particles and a 
plurality of individual non-abrasive particles bonded 

together by an adhesive to form an agglomerate, (4) 

individual non-abrasive particles, (5) individual 
abrasive particles, or (6) combinations of the 

foregoing. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROBERG DAVID E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROBERG, DAVID E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to coated abrasive
articles, and, more particularly, to coated abrasive
articles containing particles having specified shapes.Three basic technologies that have been employed
to produce abrasive grains having a specified shape are
(1) fusion, (2) sintering, and (3) chemical ceramic.In the fusion process, abrasive grains can be
shaped by a chill roll, the face of which may or may
not be engraved, a mold into which molten material is
poured, or a heat sink material immersed in an aluminum
oxide melt. U.S. Patent No. 3,377,660 discloses a
process comprising the steps of flowing molten abrasive
material from a furnace onto a cool rotating casting
cylinder, rapidly solidifying the material to form a
thin semisolid curved sheet, densifying the semisolid
material with a pressure roll, and then partially
fracturing the strip of semisolid material by reversing
its curvature by pulling it away from the cylinder with
a rapidly driven cooled conveyor, whereupon the
partially fractured strip is deposited onto a collector
in the form of large fragments, which, upon being
rapidly cooled and solidified, break up into smaller
fragments capable of being reduced in size to form
conventional abrasive grains. U.S. Patent Nos.
4,073,096 and 4,194,887 disclose a process comprising
the steps of (1) fusing an abrasive mix in an electric
arc furnace, (2) dipping a relatively cold substrate
into the molten material, whereby a layer of solid
abrasive material is quickly frozen (or plated) on the 
substrate, (3) withdrawing the plated substrate from
the molten material, and (4) breaking the solidified
abrasive material away from the substrate and
collecting it for further processing to produce
abrasive grains.In the sintering process, abrasive grains can be
formed from refractory powders having a particle size
of up to 10 micrometers in diameter. Binders can be
added to the powders along with a lubricant and a
suitable solvent, e.g., water. The resulting mixtures,
pastes, or slurries can be shaped into platelets or
rods of various lengths and diameters. The resulting
shaped grains must be fired at high temperatures, e.g.,
1,400°C to 1,800°C, at high pressures, or for long soak
times, e.g., up to 10 hours. Crystal size may range
from under one micrometer up to 25 micrometers. To
obtain shorter residence times and/or smaller crystal
size, either the pressure or temperature must be
increased. U.S. Patent No. 3,079,242 discloses a
method of making abrasive grains from calcined bauxite
material comprising the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A coated abrasive article comprising:

a. a backing having two major surfaces;
b. at least one binder;
c. an abrasive coating comprising shaped abrasive particles
and diluent particles,

wherein said at least one binder serves to bond said abrasive
coating to at least one major surface of said backing, and

wherein at least a portion of said shaped abrasive particles
have shapes that can be characterized as rods having a length

and a maximum cross-sectional dimension, the ratio of said
length to said maximum cross-sectional dimension being at

least 1 to 1 and wherein the diluent particles are selected
from the group consisting of (1) a plurality of individual

abrasive particles bonded together by an adhesive to form an
agglomerate, (2) a plurality of individual non-abrasive

particles bonded together by an adhesive to form an
agglomerate and (3) a plurality of individual abrasive

particles and a plurality of individual non-abrasive
particles bonded together by an adhesive to form an

agglomerate, wherein the agglomerate containing abrasive particles
has irregular or random shape.
A coated abrasive article according to claim
1, wherein said rods have a length and a cross-sectional

dimension, the ratio of said length to said
cross-sectional dimension being at least 2 to 1.
A coated abrasive article according to any of claims 1 and 2,
wherein said shaped abrasive particles comprise

alpha alumina.
A coated abrasive article according to claim
3, wherein said shaped abrasive particles comprise

alpha alumina and a metal oxide selected from the group
consisting of magnesia, zinc oxide, iron oxide, silicon

oxide, cobalt oxide, nickel oxide, zirconia, hafnia,
chromia, yttria, praseodymium oxide, samarium oxide,

ytterbium oxide, neodymium oxide, lanthanum oxide, gadolinium
oxide, ceria, dysprosium oxide, erbium oxide, titanium

oxide, and mixtures thereof.
A coated abrasive article according to claim
3, wherein said shaped abrasive particles comprise

alpha alumina and a nucleating agent.
A coated abrasive article according to claim
5, wherein said nucleating agent is selected from the

group consisting of alpha alumina, alpha
ferric oxide or its precursors thereof, titanium

oxides, titanates, and chromia. 
A coated abrasive article according to any of claims 1 to 6,
wherein said adhesive is selected from the group consisting

of phenolic resins, urea-formaldehyde resins, ethylenically
unsaturated resins, acrylated isocyanurate resins,

isocyanurate resins, acrylated methane resins, acrylated
epoxy resins, bismaleimide resins, fluorene modified epoxy

resins, epoxy resins, urethane resins, and aminoplast resins.
A coated abrasive article according to any of claims 1 to 7,
wherein said abrasive particles bonded together by an adhesive

to form an agglomerate are selected from
the group consisting of fused alumina, heat treated

aluminum oxide, ceramic aluminum oxide, diamond, cubic
boron nitride, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, ceria,

alumina zirconia, and garnet.
A coated abrasive article according to any of claims 1 to 8,
wherein the Mohs' hardness of said non-abrasive

particles is less than about 7.
A coated abrasive article according to any of claims 1 to 9,
wherein said non-abrasive particles are selected

from the group consisting of metal carbonates, silica,
silicates, metal sulfates, gypsum, vermiculite, wood 

flour, aluminum trihydrate, carbon black, metal oxides,
metal sulfites, halide salts, sulfur, organic sulfur

compounds, graphite, and metallic sulfides.
A coated abrasive article according to any of claims
1 to 10, wherein said abrasive coating comprises at least two

layers.
A coated abrasive article according to claim 11,
wherein at least one layer of said two layers

comprises diluent particles and the other layer of said
at least two layers comprises shaped abrasive

particles.
A coated abrasive article according to claim 12,
wherein said at least one layer comprising shaped

abrasive particles overlies said at least one layer
comprising diluent particles.
A coated abrasive article according to any of claim 1 to 13,
wherein said at least one binder comprises a make

coat.
A coated abrasive article according to claim 14,
further including a size coat.
A coated abrasive article according to any of claims 1 to 15,
wherein the ratio of the size of said shaped

abrasive particles to the size of said diluent
particles ranges from about 2.5:1 to about 0.5:1. 
A method for preparing a coated abrasive
article according to any of claims 1 to 16 comprising the steps of:


a. providing said backing;
b. applying a first binder over one major
surface of said backing;
c. applying said diluent particles onto
said first binder;
d. applying said shaped abrasive particles
onto said coated diluent particles; and
e. at least partially curing said first
binder.
A method of according to claim 17, further
including the steps of:


a. applying a second binder over said
shaped abrasive particles, said diluent

particles, and said first binder after
said first binder is at least partially

cured; and
b. curing said second binder.
A method according to claim 17 or 18 wherein said
diluent particles are applied by means of drop coating.
A method according to claim 17 or 18 wherein said
shaped abrasive particles are applied by means of

electrostatic coating.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
