<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610456</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TWO-LAYER MEMBRANE SWITCH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H1370	H01H13702	H01H13703	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A two-layer membrane switch particularly suited for application as a keyswitch in low-profile keyboard applications, such as keyboards for notebook or laptop type personal computers. When used as a keyswitch, the switch comprises a first conductor layer including a conductive ink patterned as an electrical contact on a polyester dielectric film around an opening through the film. A second conductor layer, also includes a conductive ink patterned as an electrical contact on a polyester dielectric film. With the electrical contact of the second conductor layer located under the corresponding opening in the first conductor layer, a moveable, conductive elastomer switch closure means is used to establish electrical contact between the electrical contact of the first conductor layer and the electrical contact of the second conductor layer through the opening in the first conductor.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAGAN MARK W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAGAN, MARK, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TWO-LAYER MEMBRANE SWITCHBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention is directed to a new two-layer membrane switch. This switch ^ 5 may be used to define keyswitches for use in keyboards, particularly keyboards where' a low-profile is desirable.In particular, this invention utilizes two conductive membranes of a type commonly used in membrane keyboards and other applications, in combination with a conductive elastomeric contact, wherein the elastomeric contact is used to contact 10 predefined areas on each of the two conductive membrane layers, thereby providing a circuit path between these layers and defining a switch. In this switch configuration, the conductive portions on both membrane layers are aligned in the same direction. The result is that these membranes can be stacked directly on top of one another without the need for a separate dielectric spacer. 15 In related art, membrane switches have been utilized which have two conductive layers as illustrated in Figure 1. In Figure 1 there are two conductive membranes, conductive membrane 2 and conductive membrane 4. Each membrane has a conductor attached to one surface, conductor 6 and conductor 8. Conductive membrane 2 and conductive membrane 4 are separated by a dielectric spacer 10.20 Switch contact is made by applying a downward force on one of the conductive membranes, in this illustration, conductive membrane 2. This force can be applied in a number of ways. When such switches are used in keyboard applications it is typically applied via a keystem 12 passing through keystem guide 14, which is typically attached to a keycap, and is actuated by a user depressing the keycap 25 associated with keystem 12 with his finger. Upon actuation, conductor 6 and conductor 8 contact one another, thereby completing an electrical circuit between them, and providing a switch output.The switch structure illustrated in Figure 1 has been shown to provide reliable switch contacts in keyboard applications, however, this structure also has a30 number of associated disadvantages.A first disadvantage has to do with the cost of dielectric spacer 10. Dielectric spacer 10 has both a material cost for the dielectric material and a cost to assemble the dielectric spacer into the switch configuration, such as this keyboard i assembly. 35 A second disadvantage associated with the switch structure illustrated inFigure 1 has to do with limitations imposed on the switch structure by keystem guide 14. In related art keyboard switches, a plurality of keystem guides 14 are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. An electrical switch, comprising: a first conductor attached to a top surface of a first dielectric substrate and 5 adjacent to an opening in the first dielectric substrate; a second conductor attached to a top surface of a second dielectric substrate, said second conductor positioned below the first dielectric substrate such that a portion of said second conductor is located under the opening in the first dielectric substrate; and l o means for opening and closing an electrical conduction path between said first conductor and said second conductor.
2. The electrical switch of claim 1, wherein the first dielectric substrate comprises a flexible dielectric layer.
15
3. The electrical switch of claim 2, wherein the flexible dielectric layer comprises a polyester membrane.
4. The electrical switch of claim 3, wherein said first conductor comprises a 20 conductive ink.
5. The electrical switch of claim 1, wherein said second conductor comprises a conductive ink.
25 6. The electrical switch of claim 5, wherein the second dielectric substrate comprises a flexible dielectric layer.
7. The electrical switch of claim 6, wherein the flexible dielectric layer comprises a polyester membrane.
30
8. The electrical switch of claim 1, wherein the means for opening and closing an electrical conduction path comprises a movable conductive contact located directly above said first conductor and said second conductor, wherein said moveable conductive contact may be moved to contact said first conductor and said second
35 conductor by extending through the opening in the first dielectric substrate, thereby acting as a conductive path between said first and second conductors. 


9. The electrical switch of claim 8, wherein said moveable electrical contact comprises a moveable conductive ring.
10. The electrical switch of claim 9, wherein the moveable conductive ring is a conductive elastomer.
11. The electrical switch of claim 10, wherein said moveable electrical contact is located above said first and second conductors by attachment to a biased spring located above said conductors.
12. The electrical switch of claim 11, wherein the biased spring comprises an elastomeric dome.
13. An electrical switch, comprising: a first conductor located on a top surface of a polyester film adjacent to an opening in said film; a second conductor located on a top surface of a dielectric substrate; said second conductor positioned below the polyester film such that a portion of said second conductor is located under the opening in the polyester film; and means for opening and closing an electrical conduction path between said first conductor and said second conductor.
14. The electrical switch of claim 13, wherein said means for opening and closing an electrical conduction path comprises a conductive elastomeric contact biased by a spring directly above said first conductor and said second conductor, wherein said moveable conductive elastomeric contact may be moved to contact said first conductor and said second conductor by compressing the spring and moving the moveable conductive elastomeric contact into electrical contact with said first and second conductors, thereby acting as a conductive path between said first and second conductors.
15. A keyboard, comprising: a first conductor means having a plurality of first electrical contacts each adjacent to an opening through said first conductor means and defining a keyswitch location; a second conductor means having a plurality of second electrical contacts each corresponding to one of the keyswitch locations defined on said first conductor means, said second conductor means located under and in contact with said first 


conductor means such that each of the plurality of second electrical contacts on said second conductor means are aligned under the openings in said first conductor means; and a switch closure means having a plurality of moveable conductive switch closures corresponding to the keyswitch locations defined on said first conductor means, said switch closure means located above said first conductor means such that each of the plurality of moveable conductive switch closures can be moved so as to provide a conduction path between one of the first electrical contacts and one of the second electrical contacts.
16. The keyboard of claim 15, wherein said first conductor means comprises a conductive ink deposited in a pattern on a top surface of a polyester dielectric film, such that the pattern defines the plurality of first electrical contacts adjacent to the openings defining the keyswitch locations.
17. The keyboard of claim 16, wherein said second conductor means comprises a conductive ink deposited in a pattern on a top surface of a polyester dielectric film, such that the pattern defines the plurality of second electrical contacts.
18. The keyboard of claim 17, wherein said switch closure means comprises an elastomeric sheet having a plurality of truncated, generally frusto-conical, elastomeric domes, each directed away from said first conductor means and containing the moveable conductive switch closures, such that each of the elastomeric domes can be compressed to move the moveable conductive switch closures into contact with the first and second electrical contacts.
19. The keyboard of claim 18, wherein at least one of the truncated, generally frusto-conical, elastomeric domes has a cylindrical portion at the truncated end adapted to receive one of the moveable conductive switch closures.
20. A keyboard having a plurality of keyswitches, at least one of the keyswitches comprising: a first conductor located on a top surface of a polyester film adjacent to an opening in said film; a second conductor located on a top surface of a dielectric substrate; said second conductor positioned below the polyester film such that a portion of said second conductor is located under the opening in the polyester film; and 


 means for opening and closing an electrical conduction path between said first conductor and said second conductor.
21. The keyboard of claim 20, wherein said means for opening and closing an electrical conduction path comprises a conductive elastomeric contact biased by an elastomeric spring directly above said first conductor and said second conductor, wherein said moveable conductive elastomeric contact may be moved into contact with said first conductor and said second conductor by compressing the elastomeric spring. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
