<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626767</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EMC filter for a balanced multi-wired telecommunication line
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B302	H04B330	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B3	H04B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An EMC filter for a balanced multi-wired telecommunication 
line has an oblong closed magnetic path core 50 having at least 

one first core arm 50a with a first length and second core arms 
50b with a second length which is equal to or shorter than the 

first length, and a plurality of coils 51 constituted by at 
least one pair of wires. The at least one first core arm 50a 

and the second core arms 50b constitute a closed magnetic path. 
The wires of each pair are closely positioned each other and 

wound around the at least one first core arm 50a so as to 
produce magnetic fluxes in the first core arm 50a flowing 

toward the same direction when a common-mode current flows 
through the wires. Each of the coils 51 has a signal input end 

and a signal output end, and the wires run in a one-way 
direction from the signal input ends to the signal output ends, 

respectively. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON TELEGRAPH 
&
 TELEPHONE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKAYASU RYOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAGI KUSUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKAYASU, RYOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAGI, KUSUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an EMC (electromagnetic
compatibility) filter for suppressing common-mode noise
currents flowing through a balanced multi-wired
telecommunication line over a wide frequency range.Recently, as ISDN communication systems spread, many
electromagnetic noise problems of telecommunication equipments
such as malfunction or performance degradation have occurred
due to external electromagnetic disturbances introduced into
each of the equipments through a balanced multi-wired
telecommunication line such as standard home bus, a high speed
digital bus, an interface cable and an extension bus.In order to reduce these electromagnetic noise problems,
particularly of communication equipments such as telephones or
facsimiles which will be mostly used without being grounded, an
appropriate noise suppressing (EMC) filter having following
characteristics will become necessary.
(1) an effective suppressing characteristics against 
various high frequency disturbance currents (common-mode noise
currents) under non-grounded state,(2) a small transmission loss against information signals
(differential-mode or normal-mode currents), and(3) a small crosstalk between pair wires in a multi-wired
telecommunication line.As conventional EMC filters for preventing common-mode
noise currents which will flow in the same direction through
wires of a balanced multi-wired telecommunication line such as
a balanced multi-pairs cable or a flat cable, choke coils with
a toroidal core or a passing through core have been known.In Figs. 1a and 1b which show an oblique view and a
sectional view of a schematic structure of a conventional choke
coil filter using a toroidal core, a reference character 10
denotes the ring toroidal core, 11 denotes n-coils wound around
the toroidal core 10 in the same winding direction and
connected to n-wires of a telecommunication line not shown, T1,
T2, T3,..., Tn denote input terminals of the coils, and T1',
T2', T3',..., Tn' denote output terminals of the coils. It is
known that a performance for preventing the common-mode noise
current of such the choke coil is determined by a self-inductance
L of the coil, and that the inductance L is
proportional to a square of turn N of the coil 11 wound around
the core 10. Therefore, in general, the turn N will be
selected to a large number as much as possible. However, as shown in Fig. 1b, since many coiled wires pass
through the inner circular open of the ring toroidal core 10
and thus they are close together, a stray capacitance Cs will
be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An EMC filter for a balanced multi-wired
telecommunication line comprising :


an oblong closed magnetic path core (50) having
at least one first core arm (50a) with a first

length and a second core arms (50b) with a
second length equal to or shorter than said

first length, said at least one first core arm
(50a) and said second core arms (50b)

constituting a closed magnetic path ; and
a plurality of coils (51a, 51b, 51c)
constituted by at least one pair of wires, said

wires of each pair being closely positioned
each other and wound around said at least one

first core arm (50a) so as to produce magnetic
fluxes in the first core arm flowing toward the

same direction when a common-mode current flows
through the wires, each of said coils (51a,

51b, 51c) having a signal input end (Ti, Tj)
and a signal output end (T'i, T'j), said wires

running in a one-way direction from said signal
inputs end (Ti, Tj) to said signal output ends

(T'i, T'j), respectively,

said EMC filter being 
characterized in that
 said
plurality of coils (51a, 51b, 51c) consists in two

sections (Sb, Sc) wherein each pair of said wound wires
(51b, 51c) is distributed with a space between its

neighbour windings and in another section (Sa) wherein
each pair of said wound wires (51a) is concentrated

with no space between its neighbour windings. 
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
each pair of said wires is constituted by a parallel

pair wires (W1, W2, W3) contacted with each other.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
each pair of wires is constituted by a twisted pair

wires (W1, W2, W3).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said first core arm consists of a first section (Sb,

Sc) and a second section (Sa), and wherein each pair of
said wound wires is distributed with a space between

its neighbour windings in said first section (Sb, Sc)
of said first core arm (50a).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 4, wherein
each pair of said wound wires is concentrated with no

space between its neighbour windings in said second
section (Sa) of said first core arm (50a).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said signal input ends (Ti, Tj) are positioned at one

end of said first core arm (50a) and said signal output
ends (T'i, T'j) are positioned at the other end of said

first core arm (50a), so that each said wires is
started from said signal input end, wound around said

first core arm (50a) along its axis, and arrived at
said signal output end.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 6, wherein
each pair of said wires is constituted by a parallel

pair wires contacted with each other (W1, W2, W3). 
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 6, wherein
each pair of said wires is constituted by a twisted

pair wires (W1, W2, W3).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said second section (Sa) is positioned near a center of

said first core arm (50a) and said first section is
positioned at both sides of said second section (Sb,

Sc).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said first section (Sb, Sc) is positioned near a center

of said first core arm (50a) and said second section
(Sa) is positioned at both sides of said first section.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said closed magnetic path core (50) is constituted by

two parallel first core arms (200a, 210a, 230a, 240a,
250a, 380a, 410a) and two parallel second core arms

(200b, 210b, 230b, 240b, 250b, 380b, 410b) connected
each other to form a rectangular loop core.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 3, wherein
said filter further comprises an additional closed

magnetic path core (212, 232, 242, 382, 412) laid
across said second sections of said two first core arms

(380a, 410a), and wherein said pair wires are wound
around said additional closed magnetic path core in

common with said second sections of said first core
arms.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 9, wherein
said closed magnetic path core is constituted by two

first core arms (140a, 220a, 350a, 390a) and two second 
core arms (140b, 220b, 350b, 390b) connected each other

to form a rhombus-like loop core (140, 220, 350, 390).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 13, wherein
said filter further comprises an additional closed

magnetic path core (222, 392) laid across said second
sections of said two first core arms, and wherein said

pair wires are wound around said additional closed
magnetic path core in common with said second sections

of said first core arms.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 9, wherein

said closed magnetic path core (150, 360, 400) is
constituted by two first core arms (150a, 360a, 400a)

and two second core arms (150b, 360b, 400b) connected
each other to form an oval loop core.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 9, wherein
said closed magnetic path core consists of a center

core arm (160c, 290a
2
, 310a
2
) and at least two side core
arms (160a, 160b, 290a
1
, 310a
1
, 310a
2
 290a
3
) connected
to both ends of said center core arm, and wherein said

first core arm is constituted by the center core arm
and said second core arm is constituted by said side

core arm.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said closed magnetic path core (170, 180, 190) consists

of a center core arm (180a), side core arms (180b) in
parallel with said center core arm and second core arms

connected to both ends of said center core arm and of
said side core arms, and wherein said first core arm is

constituted by the center core arm (180a). 
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 17, wherein
said closed magnetic path core (170, 180) is

constituted by a center core arm (170a, 180a), two side
core arms (170b, 180b) in parallel with said center

core arm, and two parallel second core arms, connected
each other to form two rectangular shaped loops.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 18, wherein
said filter further comprises an additional closed

magnetic path core laid across said two side core arms
through said second sections of said center core arm,

and wherein said pair wires are wound around said
additional closed magnetic path core in common with

said second sections of said center core arm.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 6, wherein
each pair of said wound wires is distributed with a

space between its neighbour windings in said first core
arm (470c, 480c), and wherein each pair of said wound

wires is concentrated with no space between its
neighbour windings in said second core arm (471c,

481c).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 20, wherein
said filter further comprises two additional closed

magnetic path cores arranged at said second core arms,
respectively, and wherein said pair wires are wound

around said additional closed magnetic path cores in
common with said second core arms.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said first core arm (50a) consists of at least input

side and output side first core arms, and wherein said
signal input ends (Ti, Tj) are positioned along said

input side first core arm and said signal output ends 
(T'i, T'j) are positioned along said output side first

core arm, so that each of said wires is started from
said signal input end, wound around said input side

first core arm toward a first axial direction,
introduced to said output side first core arm, wound

around said output side first core arm toward a second
axial direction opposite to said first axial direction,

and arrived at said signal output end.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 22, wherein
each pair of said wires is constituted by a parallel

pair wires contacted with each other (W1, W2).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 22, wherein
each pair of said wires is constituted by a twisted

pair wires (W1, W2).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 22, wherein
each of said input side and output side first core arms

consists of a first section (Sb, Sc) and a second
section (Sa), and wherein each pair of said wound wires

is distributed with a space between its neighbour
windings in said first sections (Sb, Sc) of said input

side and output side first core arms.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 25, wherein
each pair of said wound wires is concentrated with no

space between its neighbour windings in said second
sections (Sa) of said input and output side first core

arms.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 26, wherein
said second sections (Sa) are positioned near centers

of said input side and output side first core arms and 
said first sections (Sb, Sc) are positioned at both

sides of said second sections, respectively.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 27, wherein
said closed magnetic path core is constituted by

parallel input side and output side first core arms and
two parallel second core arms connected each other of

form a rectangular loop core.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 22, wherein
each pair of said wound wires is distributed with a

space between its neighbour windings in said input side
and output side first core arms.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 29, wherein
said closed magnetic path core is constituted by

parallel input side and output side first core arms and
two parallel second core arms connected each other to

form a rectangular loop core.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 29, wherein
said closed magnetic path core is constituted by

parallel input side and output side first core arms, a
center core arm parallel to the first core arms and two

parallel second core arms, connected each other to form
two rectangular loop cores.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said first core arm consists of at least input side and

output side first core arms, and wherein said signal
input ends (T1, T2, ..., Tm, Tn) are positioned at a

center of said input side first core arm and said
signal output ends (T'1, T'2, ..., T'm, T'n) are

positioned at a center of said output side first core
arm, so that each of said wires is started from said 

signal input end, wound around said input side first
core arm (410a) toward one end of said input side first

core arm, introduced to said output side first core
arm, wound around said output side first core arm, and

arrived at said signal output end.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 32, wherein
each pair of said wires is constituted by a parallel

pair wires contacted with each other (W1, W2).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 32, wherein
each pair of said wires is constituted by a twisted

pair wires.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 32, wherein
each of said input side and output side first core arms

consists of a first section and a second section, and
wherein each pair of said wound wires is distributed

with a space between its neighbour windings in said
first sections (Sb, Sc) of said input side and output

side first core arms.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 35, wherein
each pair of said wound wires is concentrated with no

space between its neighbour windings in said second
sections (Sa) of said input side and output side first

core arms.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 36, wherein
said second sections (Sa) are positioned near centers

of said input side and output side first core arms and
said first sections (Sb, Sc) are positioned at least

one sides of said second sections, respectively. 
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 37, wherein
said closed magnetic path core is constituted by

parallel input side and output side first core arms and
two parallel second core arms connected each other to

form a rectangular loop core.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 38, wherein
said filter fu
rther comprises an additional closed
magnetic path core (412) laid across said second

sections of said input side and output side first core
arms, and wherein said pair wires are wound around said

additional closed magnetic path core in common with
said second section of said input said first core arm

or said output side first core arm.
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 37, wherein
said closed magnetic path core is constituted by input

side and output side first core arms (350a) and two
second core arms (350b) connected each other to form a

rhombus-like loop core (350).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 37, wherein
said closed magnetic path core is constituted by two

first core arms (360a) and two second core arms (360b)
connected each other to form an oval loop core (360).
The EMC filter as claimed in claim 32, wherein
each pair of said wound wires is distributed with a

space between its neighbour windings in said input side
and output side first core arms, and wherein each pair

of said wound wires is concentrated with no space
between its neighbour windings in said second core

arms.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
