<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642706</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POWER DRIVEN VENTING OF A VEHICLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60J100	B60J100	B60J117	B60J117	B60J704	B60J7057	E05F1500	E05F1500	E05F1516	E05F1516	F16P300	F16P314	H02P706	H02P706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60J	B60J	B60J	B60J	B60J	B60J	E05F	E05F	E05F	E05F	F16P	F16P	H02P	H02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60J1	B60J1	B60J1	B60J1	B60J7	B60J7	E05F15	E05F15	E05F15	E05F15	F16P3	F16P3	H02P7	H02P7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An obstruction detection apparatus (44) is provided for use in closing a power driven vent, such as a window, that is located in an opening. The vent includes a first closing edge that moves as the vent is closed and the opening includes a second closing edge that is contacted by the first closing edge when the vent is in a fully closed position. The apparatus includes a detector (52) configured to detect an obstruction at points all along the second closing edge without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent and to deliver a detection signal when an obstruction is detected. A controller (46) is connected to the detector for receiving the detection signal and delivering a corresponding alarm signal (48).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROSPECTS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROSPECTS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN ZIQIANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUANG CLIFF L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI JAMES S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LU MICHAEL Y
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAN PETER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAO YONGBO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG CHONGTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHANG JAINJUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHANG JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, ZIQIANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUANG, CLIFF, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI, JAMES, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LU, MICHAEL, Y.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAN, PETER, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAO, YONGBO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, CHONGTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHANG, JAINJUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHANG, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 POWER DRIVEN VENTING OF A VEHICLEBackground of the Invention The invention relates to power driven venting of a vehicle.Early automobiles for example, included stationary windows that allowed an occupant of the automobile to view regions outside of the automobile. Over time, these stationary windows evolved into adjustable windows that could be opened to provide ventilation to the interior of the automobile. The adjustable windows, which were initially hand lifted, were followed first by manually cranked windows, and then by the power operated windows commonly found in automobiles today.Eventually, it was discovered that the power operated windows could be automatically opened to provide ventilation when the interior of the automobile became too hot and automatically closed when rain was detected. This automatic venting system, which is described in United States Patent No. 4,852,469 and incorporated by reference, then evolved into the automobile environment management system described in United States Patent No. 5,054,686 and also incorporated by reference. Summary of the InventionIn general, in one aspect, the invention features an obstruction detection technique for use in closing a power driven vent, such as a window, that is located in an opening. The vent includes a first closing edge that moves as the vent is closed and the opening includes a second closing edge that is contacted by the first closing edge when the vent is in a fully closed position. A detector is configured to detect an obstruction at points all along the second closing edge without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent. 

When the detector detects such an obstruction, the detector delivers a detection signal to a controller. The controller receives the detection signal and delivers a corresponding alarm signal that is used, for example, to open the window. The technique ensures that powered vents such as windows or sunroofs can be automatically closed without risk of injury to children, pets, or other occupants of a vehicle in which the vents are installed. Embodiments of the invention may include the following features. The detector may include an optical detector, an infrared detector, ar. ultrasound detector, or similar devices. The detector may deliver the detection signal in response to an increase in energy received at the detector, and there may also be an emitter that emits energy so that the detector delivers the detection signal in response to an increase or a decrease in a reflected portion of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. Apparatus for closing a power driven vent within an opening, the vent including a first closing edge that moves as the vent is closed and the opening including a second closing edge that is contacted by the first closing edge when the vent is in a fully closed position, the apparatus comprising: a detector configured to detect an obstruction at points all along the second closing edge without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent and to deliver a detection signal when an obstruction is detected, and a controller connected to the detector for receiving the detection signal and delivering a corresponding alarm signal.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detector comprises an optical detector.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detector detects infrared energy.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detector delivers the detection signal in response to an increase in energy received at the detector.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising an emitter that emits energy, and wherein the detector delivers the detection signal in response to an increase in a reflected portion of the energy received by the detector.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the detection signal has a characteristic which represents the intensity of the energy received. 


 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the detector produces pulses having durations related to the intensity of the energy received by the detector, and wherein the detector delivers the detection signal when the duration of one pulse exceeds a predetermined value.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the detector produces pulses having durations related to the intensity of the energy received by the detector, and wherein the detector delivers the detection signal when the durations of a predetermined number of consecutive pulses exceed the predetermined value.
9. The apparatus of claim 7 or 8, wherein the predetermined value is related to the duration of a pulse when no obstruction is present.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the predetermined value is related to the average duration of pulses produced when no obstruction is present and the vent moves between an opened position and a closed position.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the predetermined value includes a correction factor that accounts for variations in the duration of pulses produced when no obstruction is present.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the predetermined value varies based on the position of the vent.
13. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the detector and the emitter comprise an integral unit. 


 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the detector and the emitter share a common lens.
15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising initialization means for storing a value indicative of an obstruction free opening.
16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detector delivers the detection signal in response to a decrease in energy received at the detector.
17. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an emitter that emits energy, and wherein the detector receives at least a portion of the energy.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the energy signal is modulated at a first modulation frequency and wherein the detector includes a band pass filter that passes energy modulated at the first modulation frequency.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the energy signal has a first wavelength and wherein the detector includes a second band pass filter that passes energy having the first wavelength.
20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the energy signal has a first wavelength and wherein the detector includes a band pass filter that passes energy having the first wavelength.
21. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the emitter includes a light emitting diode. 


 22. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the emitter includes a laser device.
23. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the emitter includes a lens that emits the energy signal as a fan shaped energy curtain.
24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the energy curtain only covers a portion of the vent.
25. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the vent comprises a window and wherein the emitter and detector are both positioned in one corner of the opening.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the vent comprises an automobile window and wherein the emitter and detector are both positioned in the lower front corner of the opening.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the vent comprises an automobile front window and wherein the emitter and detector are positioned next to each other in a vertical plane.
28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the vent comprises an automobile rear window and wherein the emitter and detector are positioned next to each other in a horizontal plane.
29. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising means for activating the detector and the emitter only when the vent is closing. 


 30. The apparatus of claim 29, further comprising means for testing the emitter immediately after the activating means activate the emitter.
31. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second detector configured to detect an obstruction at any point along the second closing edge without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent and to deliver a second detection signal when an obstruction is detected.
32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the first and second detectors are arranged so that they are not caused to deliver the first and second detection signals as a result of energy received at the same time.
33. The apparatus of claim 31, further comprising: a first emitter positioned to emit a first energy signal toward the first detector, and a second emitter positioned to emit a second energy signal toward the second detector, wherein the first and second emitters produce the first and second energy signals in an alternating manner, and wherein the controller is connected to the second detector and delivers the alarm signal in response to the first or second detection signals.
34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein: when the first emitter is emitting the first energy signal, the first detector delivers the first detection signal in response to a decrease in energy received at the first detector, and the second detector delivers the second detection signal in response to a decrease in energy received at the second detector; and 


 when the second emitter is emitting the second energy signal, the first detector delivers the first detection signal in response to an increase in energy received at the first detector, and the second detector delivers the second detection signal in response to an increase in energy received at the second detector.
35. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the first detector is screened from the second emitter and the second detector is screened from the first emitter.
36. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the first detector and the second emitter, and the second detector and the first emitter, comprise respective integral units.
37. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vent comprises a window.
38. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vent comprises a sunroof.
39. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for opening the vent in response to the alarm signal.
40. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detector only detects obstructions located in a portion of the opening.
41. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for activating the detector when the vent is closing. 


 42. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a motor for closing the vent.
43. The apparatus of claim 42, further comprising a manual switch, wherein the motor is activated in response to the manual switch.
44. The apparatus of claim 42, further comprising a rain sensor, wherein the motor is activated in response to a signal from the rain sensor.
45. The apparatus of claim 42, further comprising a temperature sensor, wherein the motor is activated in response to a signal from the temperature sensor.
46. The apparatus of claim 42, further comprising a motion detector, wherein the motor is activated in response to a signal from the motion sensor.
47. The apparatus of claim 42, further comprising a light sensor, wherein the motor is activated in response to a signal from the light sensor.
48. Apparatus for closing a power driven vent within an opening, comprising: a first detector configured to detect an obstruction within the opening without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent and to deliver a first detection signal when an obstruction is detected, a second detector configured to detect an obstruction within the opening without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent and to deliver a second detection signal when an obstruction is detected, and 


 a controller connected to the first and second detectors for combining the first and second detection signals to produce a combined detection signal and delivering a corresponding alarm signal in response to the combined detection signal, wherein the first and second detectors respond differently to a given obstruction.
49. The apparatus of claim 48, further comprising: a first emitter positioned to emit a first energy signal toward the first detector, and a second emitter positioned to emit a second energy signal toward the second detector.
50. The apparatus of claim 49, wherein the first and second emitters alternatingly emit the first and second energy signals.
51. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein: when the first emitter is emitting the first energy signal, the first detector delivers the detection signal in response to a decrease in energy received at the first detector, and the second detector delivers the detection signal in response to a decrease in energy received at the second detector; and when the second emitter is emitting the second energy signal, the first detector delivers the detection signal in response to an increase in energy received at the first detector, and the second detector delivers the detection signal in response to an increase in energy received at the second detector. 


 52. The apparatus of claim 49, wherein the first detector is screened from the second emitter and the second detector is screened from the first emitter.
53. The apparatus of claim 49, wherein the first detector and the second emitter, and the second detector and the first emitter, each comprise a respective integral unit.
54. The apparatus of claim 49, wherein the vent comprises a sunroof and the first detector and the second emitter are located in a corner of the opening and the second detector and the first emitter are located in another corner of the opening.
55. The apparatus of claim 49, wherein the energy signals are modulated at modulation frequencies and wherein the detectors include band pass filters that pass energy modulated at the modulation frequencies.
56. The apparatus of claim 48, further comprising means for opening the vent in response to the alarm signal.
57. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein the detector only detects obstructions located in a portion of the opening.
58. The apparatus of claim 48, further comprising means for activating the detector only when the vent is closing.
59. The apparatus of claim 48, further comprising a motor for closing the vent. 


 60. The apparatus of claim 59, further comprising a manual switch, wherein the motor is activated in response to the manual switch.
61. The apparatus of claim 59, further comprising a rain sensor, wherein the motor is activated in response to a signal from the rain sensor.
62. The apparatus of claim 59, further comprising a temperature sensor, wherein the motor is activated in response to a signal from the temperature sensor.
63. The apparatus of claim 59, further comprising a motion detector, wherein the motor is activated in response to a signal from the motion sensor.
64. The apparatus of claim 59, further comprising a light sensor, wherein the motor is activated in response to a signal from the light sensor.
65. Apparatus for providing a signal when an obstruction is present in an automobile opening within which a power driven vent is being closed, comprising an emitter that emits a fan shaped energy curtain within the opening.
66. The apparatus of claim 65, further comprising: a detector that receives at least a portion of the energy curtain and is configured to detect an obstruction in the opening without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent and to deliver a detection signal when an obstruction is detected, and 


 a controller connected to the detector for receiving the detection signal and delivering a corresponding alarm signal.
67. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein the detector delivers the detection signal in response to an increase in energy received at the detector.
68. The apparatus of claim 67, wherein the emitter emits the energy curtain away from the detector and the detector delivers the detection signal in response to an increase in a reflected portion of the energy curtain received by the detector.
69. The apparatus of claim 67, wherein the detection signal has a characteristic which represents the intensity of the energy received.
70. The apparatus of claim 69, wherein the detector produces pulses having durations related to the intensity of the energy received by the detector, and wherein the detector delivers the detection signal when the duration of one pulse exceeds a predetermined value.
71. The apparatus of claim 69, wherein the detector produces pulses having durations related to the intensity of the energy received by the detector, and wherein the detector delivers the detection signal when the durations of a predetermined number of consecutive pulses exceed the predetermined value.
72. The apparatus of claim 70 or 71, wherein the predetermined value is related to the duration of a pulse when no obstruction is present. 


 73. The apparatus of claim 72, wherein the predetermined value is related to the average duration of pulses produced when no obstruction is present and the vent moves between an opened position and a closed position.
74. The apparatus of claim 73, wherein the predetermined value includes a correction factor that accounts for variations in the duration of pulses produced when no obstruction is present.
75. The apparatus of claim 72, wherein the predetermined value varies based on the position of the vent.
76. The apparatus of claim 68, wherein the detector and the emitter comprise an integral unit.
77. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein the detector delivers the detection signal in response to a decrease in energy received at the detector.
78. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein the energy curtain is modulated at a first modulation frequency and wherein the detector includes a band pass filter that passes energy modulated at the first modulation frequency.
79. The apparatus of claim 78, wherein the energy curtain has a first wavelength and wherein the detector includes a second band pass filter that passes energy having the first wavelength.
80. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein the energy curtain has a first wavelength and wherein the detector 


includes a band pass filter that passes energy having the first wavelength.
81. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein the emitter includes a cylindrical lens that emits the energy curtain.
82. Apparatus for closing a power driven vent within an opening, comprising a detector positioned to detect an obstruction in the opening by receiving energy reflected from the obstruction, the detector producing pulses having durations related to the intensity of the energy received by the detector.
83. The apparatus of claim 82, wherein the detector delivers the detection signal when the duration of at least one pulse exceeds a predetermined value.
84. The apparatus of claim 83, wherein the detector delivers the detection signal when the durations of a predetermined number of consecutive pulses exceed the predetermined value.
85. The apparatus of claim 83, wherein the predetermined value is related to the duration of a pulse when no obstruction is present.
86. The apparatus of claim 85, wherein the predetermined value is related to the average duration of pulses produced when no obstruction is present and the vent moves between an opened position and a closed position.
87. The apparatus of claim 86, wherein the predetermined value includes a correction factor that 


accounts for variations in the duration of pulses produced when no obstruction is present.
88. The apparatus of claim 85, wherein the predetermined value varies based on the position of the vent.
89. Apparatus for controlling power driven windows of an automobile comprising: driver control switches accessible at the driver's position, separate passenger control switches accessible at a passenger position, and microprocessor control circuitry for responding to switching of the driver and passenger control switches for controlling the power driven windows, the microprocessor control circuitry being programmable in response to the driver control switches and separately programmable in response to the passenger control switches.
90. The apparatus of claim 89, wherein the microprocessor control circuitry responds to switching of the driver control switches when a conflict arises between the driver control switches and the passenger control switches.
91. The apparatus of claim 89, further comprising additional passenger control switches located at two additional passenger positions.
92. The apparatus of claim 91, further comprising a lockout switch at the driver's position, wherein the microprocessor control circuitry ignores switching of the 


additional passenger control switches in response to the lockout switch.
93. Apparatus for controlling power driven vents in an automobile comprising: driver control switches, and a microprocessor controller connected to the driver control switches to respond to the driver control switches to trigger a circuit for delivery of power to the power driven vents, wherein the driver control switches are not connected directly in the circuit for delivery of power to the power driven vents.
94. The apparatus of claim 93, wherein the microprocessor controller is located remotely from the driver control switches.
95. The apparatus of claim 93, wherein the driver control switches are connected to the microprocessor controller by 20 gauge or finer wire.
96. Apparatus for closing a power driven vent within an opening, comprising: an automatic vent actuator for automatically activating the power driven vent, a manual vent actuator for manually activating the power driven vent, a detector configured to detect an obstruction in the opening without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent and to deliver a detection signal when an obstruction is detected, and a controller connected to the detector for receiving the detection signal, wherein: 


 when the power driven vent is activated by the automatic vent actuator and the detection signal is received, the controller deactivates the vent, and when the power driven vent is activated by the manual vent actuator, the controller ignores the detection signal.
97. A method of closing a power driven vent within an opening, comprising: activating the vent with a manual actuator or an automatic actuator, detecting an obstruction in the opening without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent, delivering a detection signal when an obstruction is detected, and when the vent has been actuated by the automatic activator, responding to the detection signal by deactivating the vent, when the vent has been actuated by the manual activator, ignoring the detection signal.
98. A method for conditioning a vehicle to reduce air pressure build up when closing a door of the vehicle, comprising automatically opening a power driven vent in response to the opening of the door.
99. The method of claim 98, further comprising initiating automatic closing of the power driven vent in response to all doors being closed.
100. The method of claim 99, wherein the power driven vent is located within an opening, the method further comprising, after initiating automatic closing of the power driven vent: 


 monitoring the opening for an obstruction in the opening, and opening the power driven vent when an obstruction is detected.
101. The method of claim 100, wherein the obstruction is detected without requiring contact between the obstruction and the vent.
102. The method of claim 98, wherein the vehicle has two front windows and two rear windows, and wherein the power driven vent opened in response to the opening of the door is a rear window.
103. The method of claim 102, wherein both rear windows are opened in response to the opening of the door.
104. A method of monitoring the position of a power driven vent, comprising generating a count of current ripples in a circuit that moves the vent.
105. The method of claim 104, further comprising: generating a measure of current ripples that occur as the power driven vent moves from a first known position to a second known position, and determining the position of the power driven vent by comparing the count of current ripples to the measure of current ripples.
106. The method of claim 105, further comprising incrementing the count when a current ripple occurs and the power driven vent is moving in a first direction, and decrementing the count when a current ripple occurs and the power driven vent is moving in a second direction. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
