<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626747</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electric motor with encased housing.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K508	H02K508	H02K510	H02K510	H02K522	H02K522	H02K1512	H02K1512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K15	H02K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sealed electric motor is formed by means of interfitting metallic 
housing members and an overmoulded plastic casing (66). A housing includes an 

annular groove (74) into which the casing extends to improve both retention and 
sealing. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASALI DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INESON DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNOR EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASALI, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INESON, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNOR, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electric motor which is protected against 
environmental conditions, and in particular to a motor which must be sealed against 
liquid contaminants. In some applications, electric motors are exposed to liquids which would 
adversely affect their operation if allowed to reach the interior electrical and mechanical 
components. A typical application is in automotive vehicles, where electric motors are 
often used to control engine functions and are continually exposed to liquids such as 
fluids used in the automobile itself and salt-contaminated water from the road. In such 
applications, the liquid seal must remain intact in a hostile environment where the 
sealed motor is repeatedly subjected to vibration, shock, and thermal stress. It is desirable to enclose the motor components in a sealed housing. 
However, the housing must have separable parts to enable insertion of the motor 
components. It is difficult to form a long-lasting seal between these parts which will 
prevent passage into the housing of low viscosity fluids, such as water, solvents, 
lubricating oil, etc. It is generally known to overmould motor components with a plastic 
material. This, however, leads to a number of difficulties. For example, it is difficult to 
prevent the plastic moulding material (which is typically injection moulded under 
pressure) from itself leaking into the interior of the motor. This could restrict movement 
of the motor's rotor or could damage other internal parts of the motor. Further, the 
pressure applied to the motor components during moulding could force them to distort 
or misalign. Also, if the moulding material and the motor parts onto which it is applied 
have different temperature coefficients of expansion, the overmoulded material could 
separate from the motor at temperature extremes. It is an object of the invention to provide a substantially sealed electric 
motor which overcomes the above-described difficulties. The motor is of the type 
comprising an electromechanical assembly including a stator, a plurality of windings, 
and a rotor electromagnetically coupled to the windings and the stator and mounted for  
 
rotation relative to the stator in response to the application of electrical current to the 
windings. The motor also includes a shaft, having a longitudinal axis, which is driven 
by the rotor and is accessible externally of the motor. In accordance with the invention, the electromechanical assembly is 
enclosed in a housing having a plurality of separable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A substantially sealed electric motor comprising: 

a. an electromechanical assembly including a stator, a plurality of windings, and a 
rotor electromagnetically coupled to the windings and the stator and mounted for 

rotation relative to the stator in response to the application of electrical current to 
the windings; 
b. electrical connection means facilitating external electrical connection to the 
windings; 
c. a shaft driven by the rotor and accessible externally of the motor, said shaft having 
a longitudinal axis; and 
d. a housing having a plurality of separable parts, said housing substantially enclosing 
the electromechanical assembly and including: 


(1) a drive portion having an opening through which a length of the shaft extends out 
of the housing and having a flange with a face that extends transversely from an outer 

surface of the housing and circumvents the shaft axis; and 
(2) a body portion extending from the flange face and around a distal end of the 
electromechanical assembly, said body portion including at least one junction between 

said separable parts, each said junction being substantially impervious to a 
predetermined moulding material; 
 
   a casing comprising said predetermined material moulded over a 

substantial area of the body portion which includes each said at least one junction; and 
   at least one irregularity in an outer surface of the housing, to which an 

inner surface of the moulded casing conforms, for retaining the casing on said housing. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 1 where the casing is 
injection moulded over said substantial area of the body portion. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 1 or 2 where the casing 
is moulded over substantially the entire body portion. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 1 or 2 where an end of 
the casing abuts the flange face. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 1 or 2 where the at least 
one irregularity comprises an indentation in the body portion of the housing. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 5 where the indentation 
in the body portion comprises an annular channel circumventing the longitudinal axis of 

the shaft. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 6 where the annular 
channel is disposed between the flange face and the at least one junction which is 

closest to said flange face. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 7 where the annular 
channel is disposed immediately adjacent the flange face. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 1 or 2 where the flange 
is an integral part of the drive portion. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 1 or 2 where the housing 
comprises a material which has a coefficient of expansion that is different than the 

casing material coefficient of expansion. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 10 where the housing 
comprises a metallic material and the casing comprises a plastic material. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 1 or 2 where the housing 
includes at least one opening for the electrical connection means and where said means 

comprises: 

a. circuit board means disposed within the housing and having a plurality of 
conductive tracks electrically connected to the windings; 
b. a plurality of conductive terminals attached to said circuit board means and 
electrically connected to respective ones of said tracks, said terminals extending 

through the at least one opening in the housing; and 
c. a connector of insulating material integrally moulded as part of the casing, said 
connector being moulded around the terminals where they extend out of the 

housing. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 12 including terminal 
barrier means for substantially closing areas of the at least one opening which are not 

occupied by the terminals extending through said at least one opening. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 13 where the terminal 
barrier means includes a plate-shaped portion for covering the at least one opening and 

at least one plug portion extending into said at least one opening and surrounding 
lengths of the terminals disposed in said at least one opening. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 1 or 2 where said motor 
is a stepper motor. 
A substantially sealed electric motor comprising: 

a. an electromechanical assembly including a stator, a plurality of windings, and a 
rotor electromagnetically coupled to the windings and the stator and mounted for 

rotation relative to the stator in response to the application of electrical current to 
the windings; 
b. a shaft driven by the rotor and accessible externally of the motor, said shaft having 
a longitudinal axis; 
c. a tubular member disposed around the stator, 
d. a first end cover attached to a first end of the tubular member at a first junction 
for substantially closing said first end, said first junction being substantially 

impervious to a predetermined moulding material; 
e. a second end cover attached to a second end of the tubular member at a second 
junction for substantially closing said second end, said second junction being 

substantially impervious to the predetermined moulding material, and said second 
end cover including: 


(1) an axially extending portion having an outer surface with a radially inwardly 
directed channel circumventing the shaft axis; 
(2) a flange including a face extending transversely from the outer surface adjacent the 
channel and circumventing the shaft axis; 
(3) an end surface having an opening through which the shaft extends out of the 
motor; 
f. a casing comprising said predetermined material moulded over the first end cover, 
the tubular member and that portion of the second end cover extending from the 

second end of the tubular member to the flange face, said over moulded casing 
extending into the channel; and 
g. electrical connection means facilitating external electrical connection to the 
windings. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 16 where the casing is 
injection moulded. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 16 where said outer 
surface of the axially extending portion of the second end cover is cylindrical. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 16 where the channel is 
disposed immediately adjacent the flange face. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 16 where the flange is 
an integral part of the second end cover. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 16 where the tubular 
member, the first end cover, and the second end cover comprise respective materials 

which have coefficients of expansion that are different than the casing material 
coefficient of expansion. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 21 where the tubular 
member, the first end cover, and the second end cover comprise respective metallic 

materials and where the casing comprises a plastic material. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 22 where the first and 
second end covers comprise aluminum. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 23 where the tubular 
member comprises cold-rolled steel. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 16 where each of said 
first and second junctions is formed by mating annular members, one of said members 

in each junction surrounding the other. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 25 where: 

a. the mating annular members forming the first junction comprise a rim at an end of 
the first end cover and a lip at the first end of the tubular member; and 
b. the mating annular members forming the second junction comprise a rim at an end 

of the second cover and a lip at the second end of the tubular member. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 16 where one of the 
tubular member, the first end cover, and the second end cover includes at least one 

opening for the electrical connection means and where said means comprises: 

a. circuit board means disposed adjacent the stator and having a plurality of 
conductive tracks electrically connected to the windings; 
b. a plurality of conductive terminals attached to said circuit board means and 
 

electrically connected to respective ones of said tracks, said terminals extending 
through the at least one opening for the electrical connection means; and 
c. a connector of insulating material integrally moulded as part of the casing, said 
connector being moulded around the terminals where they extend through the at 

least one opening. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 27 including terminal 
barrier means for substantially closing areas of the at least one opening which are not 

occupied by the terminals extending through said at least one opening. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 28 where the terminal 
barrier means includes a plate-shaped portion for covering the at least one opening and 

at least one plug portion extending into said at least one opening and surrounding 
lengths of the terminals disposed in said at least one opening. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 27 where the at least one 
opening is in the first end cover. 
A substantially sealed electric motor as in claim 16 where said motor is a 
stepper motor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
