<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657077</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING A HAND-OFF IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W3600	H04W3618	H04W5600	H04W5600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W36	H04W36	H04W56	H04W56	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for performing a hand-off in a wireless communication system (100) comprise a plurality of fixed communication units (102) and a controller (104) coupled to the plurality of fixed communication units (102), and further comprise a portable communication unit (120). The method comprises the steps of: receiving (504) from the controller a common master synchronization signal, and receiving (524) from the controller a request to monitor receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit (120) on the original channel. The method further comprises perfoming (526) synchronous monitoring of the receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit (120) on the original channel, the synchronous monitoring being synchronized by the common master synchronization signal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRISHNA PRATHIVADHI B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARKO PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATSIOKAS STELIOS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WADIN CRAIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRISHNA, PRATHIVADHI, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARKO, PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATSIOKAS, STELIOS, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WADIN, CRAIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING A HAND-OFF IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEMField of the InventionThis invention relates in general to wireless communication systems, and more specifically to wireless communication systems having the capability of handing-off a portable communication unit from a first fixed communication unit to a second fixed communication unit.Background of the InventionTwo-way radio communication systems that support hand- off are well known in the art. An example of such a system is a cellular mobile telephone system. Other systems such as those based on the Digital European Cordless Telecommunications (DECT) standard have been proposed and are under development by equipment vendors around the world.Conventional analog radio communication systems that have a plurality of radio coverage areas defined by a limited transmission distance of a fixed communication unit in each of the radio coverage areas use a controller to support hand-off. Whenever a need for handing-off a first portable communication unit is determined by a first fixed communication unit handling a call with the first portable communication unit, the controller commands other fixed communication units near the first fixed communication unit to measure the received signal strength of the first portable communication unit on a transmission channel on which the first portable communication unit is transmitting. To avoid a possibility of erroneously measuring a signal transmitted from a second portable communication unit, the identity of the portable communication unit transmitting the received signal also must be determined. 

 Digital communication systems based on second generation cordless telephony (CT2) technology are becoming popular. A problem exists in executing a hand-off in the conventional CT2 system, because only a fixed communication unit that has established a link with a portable communication unit can identify the portable communication unit. Other fixed communication units can measure the strength of a signal present on a channel that the portable communication unit is known to be using, but cannot confirm that the signal is coming from the "correct" portable communication unit. Worse yet, because the CT2 system is a time-division-duplex system, it is equally likely that a monitored signal may be coming from another fixed communication unit. The cause of the identification problem is that in the conventional CT2 system there is no frame synchronization information transmitted while transmitting user
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method in a plurality of fixed communication units for performing a hand-off from an original channel in a wireless communication system comprising a portable communication unit and a controller coupled to the plurality of fixed communication units, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving from the controller a common master synchronization signal;
(b) receiving from the controller a request to monitor receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit on the original channel; and
(c) performing in response to step (b) synchronous monitoring of the receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit on the original channel, the synchronous monitoring being synchronized by the common master synchronization signal.
2. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
(d) measuring received signal strength of the receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit monitored synchronously in step (c) ; and (e) reporting to the controller the measured received signal strength in response to the measured received signal strength being greater than a pre¬ determined amount .
3. A method in one of a plurality of fixed communication units for obtaining a hand-off from an original channel in a wireless communication system comprising a portable communication unit and a controller coupled to the plurality of fixed communication units, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving a common master synchronization signal transmitted from the controller; and 


 (b) establishing a wireless link with the portable communication unit on the original channel, the link being synchronized with the master synchronization signal .
4. The method in accordance with claim 3, further comprising the steps of:
(c) periodically monitoring received signal strength from the portable communication unit with which the wireless link is established; and
(d) transmitting a hand-off request to the controller in response to determining in step (c) that the received signal strength is less than a pre-determined level .
5. The method in accordance with claim 4, further comprising the steps of:
(e) receiving from the controller in response to step (d) a command to send a link re-establishment message for a new channel with a new channel identifier to the portable communication unit; and
(f) sending in response to step (e) the link re- establishment message and the new channel identifier to the portable communication unit.
6. The method in accordance with claim 4, further comprising the steps of:
(g) receiving from the controller in response to step (d) a command to stop sending radio transmissions to the portable communication unit; and
(h) terminating radio transmissions to the portable communication unit in response to step (g) .
7. The method in accordance with claim 4, further comprising the steps of:
(i) receiving a hand-off denial message from the controller in response to step (d) ; and 


 (j) sending an audible indication to the portable communication unit in response to step (i) .
8. A method in one of a plurality of fixed communication units for receiving a hand-off from an original channel in a wireless communication system comprising a portable communication unit and a controller coupled to the plurality of fixed communication units, the method comprising the steps of: (a) receiving from the controller a common master synchronization signal;
(b) receiving from the controller a request to monitor receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit on the original channel; and (c) performing in response to step (b) synchronous monitoring of the receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit on the original channel, the synchronous monitoring being synchronized by the common master synchronization signal.
9. The method in accordance with claim 8, further comprising the step of:
^ (d) measuring received signal strength of the receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit monitored synchronously in step (c) ; and
(e) reporting to the controller the measured received signal strength in response to the measured received signal strength being greater than a pre¬ determined amount .
10. The method in accordance with claim 8, further comprising the steps of:
(f) receiving from the controller a command to find a channel for accepting the hand-off; (g) measuring the received signal strength on a plurality of channels in response to step (f) ; and 


 (h) selecting the one of the plurality of channels measured in step (g) having the lowest received signal strength; and
(i) identifying to the controller the channel found in step (g) .
11. The method in accordance with claim 8, further comprising the steps of:
(j) monitoring a channel identified by the controller for a link request from the portable communication unit, the channel identified being different from the original channel; and
(k) beginning radio transmissions immediately on the channel identified by the controller, the channel identified being the original channel.
12. A method for performing a hand-off from an original channel in a wireless communication system comprising a portable communication unit and a controller coupled to a plurality of fixed communication units, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) sending a common master synchronization signal from the controller to the plurality of fixed communication units; (b) receiving a hand-off request sent from a first one of the plurality of fixed communication units;
(c) sending in response to step (b) from the controller to the plurality of fixed communication units a request to synchronously monitor receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit on the original channel, the synchronous monitoring being synchronized by the common master synchronization signal sent in step (a) ;
(d) receiving in response to step (c) signal strength measurements sent from ones of the plurality of fixed communication units; and
(e) handing-off a call from the first one of the plurality of fixed communication units to a second one of 


the plurality of fixed communication units having sent the highest signal strength measurement in step (d) .
13. The method in accordance with claim 12, wherein step (e) comprises the steps of:
(f) determining an optimum channel to use for the hand-off;
(g) coupling a second digital communication path between the call and the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units;
(h) commanding the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units to monitor for a link request message on the optimum channel determined in step (f) , the optimum channel being different from the original channel; (i) commanding in response to executing step (h) the first one of the plurality of fixed communication units to send a link re-establishment message identifying the optimum channel to the portable communication unit;
(j) commanding the first and second ones of the plurality of fixed communication units to end and begin, respectively, radio transmissions simultaneously with the start of a designated future frame, the optimum channel being the same as the original channel; and
(k) uncoupling the call from the first one of the plurality of fixed communication units in response to determining completion of the hand-off .
14. The method in accordance with claim 13, wherein step (f) comprises the steps of: (1) commanding the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units to measure received signal strength on a plurality of channels and to report the one of the plurality of channels having the lowest measured received signal strength; (m) receiving in response to step (1) from the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units a report of the one of the plurality of channels having the lowest measured received signal strength; and 


 (n) defining the reported one of the plurality of channels reported in step (m) to be the optimum channel to use for the hand-off.
15. The method in accordance with claim 13, wherein step (f) comprises the steps of:
(o) maintaining a current record of the in-use channels and the available channels for ones of the plurality of fixed communication units; (p) selecting from the available channels for the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units a channel that minimizes interference with channels currently in use by ones of the plurality of fixed communication units within interfering range of the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units.
16. The method in accordance with claim 15, wherein step (p) comprises the steps of:
(q) avoiding channels currently in use by ones of the plurality of fixed communication units within co- channel interfering range of the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units;
(r) avoiding channels adjacent to channels currently in use by ones of the plurality of fixed communication units within adjacent-channel interfering range of the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units; and
(s) avoiding channels that will produce interfering intermodulation products with channels currently in use by ones of the plurality of fixed communication units within intermodulation interfering range of the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units.
17. An apparatus in a controller for performing a hand- off in a wireless communication system comprising a portable communication unit and the controller coupled to a 


plurality of fixed communication units, the apparatus comprising: synchronization means for generating a common master synchronization signal for the plurality of fixed communication units; controller interface means coupled to the synchronization means for interfacing with ones of the plurality of fixed communication units; telephone interface means for interfacing the controller to a telephone system; switch means for handing-off a call from a first one of the plurality of fixed communication units to a second one of the plurality of fixed communication units; and channel optimization means for optimizing the selection of a channel for the hand-off.
18. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the channel optimization means 
^
comprises: data base means for maintaining a current record of the in-use channels and the available channels for ones of the plurality of fixed communication units; and channel selection means for selecting from the available channels for the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units a channel that minimizes interference with channels currently in use by ones of the plurality of fixed communication units within interfering range of the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units, wherein the channel selection means comprises: co-channel avoidance means for avoiding channels currently in use by ones of the plurality of fixed communication units within co-channel interfering range of the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units; adjacent-channel avoidance means for avoiding channels adjacent to channels currently in use by ones of the plurality of fixed communication units within 


adjacent-channel interfering range of the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units; and intermodulation-channel avoidance means for avoiding channels that will produce interfering intermodulation products with channels currently in use by ones of the plurality of fixed communication units within intermodulation interfering range of the second one of the plurality of fixed communication units .
19. An apparatus in a fixed communication unit for performing a hand-off in a wireless communication system comprising a portable communication unit and a controller coupled to a plurality of fixed communication units, the apparatus comprising: synchronization means for synchronizing with a common master synchronization signal transmitted from the controller; and wireless link establishment means coupled to the synchronization means for establishing a wireless link with the portable communication unit, the link being synchronized with the master synchronization signal; and synchronous monitoring means coupled to the synchronization means for synchronously monitoring receivable transmissions from the portable communication unit.
20. The apparatus in accordance with claim 19, further comprising: controller interface means coupled to the synchronization means for interfacing with the controller; transceiver means coupled to the synchronization means for transmitting and receiving information to and from the portable communication unit; and processor means coupled to the controller interface means and to the transceiver means for controlling the fixed communication unit. 


 21. The apparatus in accordance with claim 19, further comprising: received signal strength measurement means for measuring the signal strength of a received signal; and channel selection means coupled to the received signal strength measurement means for selecting a channel having the lowest received signal strength measurement. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
