<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0498846</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CAPTURE/BERTHING SYSTEM FOR SPACECRAFT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B64G164	B64G164	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B64G	B64G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B64G1	B64G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPACE IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPACE INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON CALDWELL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, CALDWELL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a method 
and apparatus for coupling spacecraft, and more 
particularly to a method and apparatus which combines 
capture and berthing techniques to effect coupling 
between spacecraft. Spacecraft coupling apparatus provide a practical 
way for mechanically joining spacecraft for the 
logistical support and transfer of crew members between 
two or more spacecraft, for the mutual support of two 
or more spacecraft by a sharing of their individual 
facilities and capabilities, and for the on-orbit repair 
or assembly and structural expansion of spacecraft. 
Other on-orbit operations that require spacecraft to be 
joined include the addition or exchange of modules 
containing expendable supplies and equipment needed for 
space-borne experiments and manufacturing processes, the 
collection of products and byproducts of space-borne 
experiments and manufacturing processes, and the on-orbit 
repair and maintenance of spacecraft. Many of these on-orbit operations can optimally be 
implemented by crew members moving between the 
spacecraft through a passage extending between the 
coupling apparatus of the joined spacecraft. The use of 
properly designed coupling apparatus for creating a 
pressurized, shirt-sleeve environment in the passageway 
between the joined spacecraft is particularly important 
to the safety of the crew, as the joining of such 
coupling apparatus can preclude the need for potentially 
hazardous extravehicular excursions performed by crew 
members. Furthermore, by eliminating the need for  
 
wearing cumbersome space suits when traveling between 
spacecraft, crew members will be less restricted in 
their work environment and, therefore, better able to 
perform a variety of tasks, many of which require the 
use of a considerable degree of manual dexterity that 
would otherwise be hindered by the wearing of a 
cumbersome space suit. In the past, spacecraft have generally been coupled 
to one another in one of two ways: docking and 
berthing. In both processes, the interfacing surface of 
coupling apparatus carried by respective spacecraft must 
be fully coupled, or superimposed, by a force supplied 
to the spacecraft. The processes of docking and 
berthing differ from one another principally in the 
manner in which the coupling force is applied to the 
spacecraft to be joined thereby. In general, a docking 
process between two spacecraft is initiated by 
purposefully colliding the spacecraft with one another 
so as to obtain the necessary coupling
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for coupling a first vehicle (14) with a 
second vehicle (18), comprising:
 
   a first coupling unit (12) comprising a ring assembly 

(34) mountable to the first vehicle and defining a first 
interface surface (44), means (60) extensible from said 

ring assembly, and means (64) mounted to the periphery of 
said ring assembly for reciprocably extending said 

extensible means between an extended position and a 
retracted position; and
 
   a second coupling unit (16) mountable to the second 

vehicle (18) for coupling with said first coupling unit 
(12), said second coupling unit comprising a generally 

cylindrical rigid probe (80) extending outwardly from the 
second vehicle and defining a second interface surface (88) 

adapted to be brought into contact with said first 
interface surface (44), said probe having means (100) 

mounted thereon for engagement and capture by said first 
coupling unit extensible means (60) upon sliding 

advancement of said extensible means along said probe-mounted 
means (100). 
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first 
coupling unit extensible means (60) comprises a generally 

rigid extensible member (60a,b,c) which defines an aperture 
for receiving said probe (80). 
The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said 
extensible member is provided with a generally triangular 

configuration having three apices (70a,b,c). 
The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said 
probe-mounted means (80) for capturing said extensible 

member comprises an array of engagement arms (100) 
positioned along said probe in a configuration generally  

 
complementary to the configuration of said extensible 

member (60a,b,c). 
The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein at least 
one of said engagement arms comprises means (108) for 

guiding said extensible member into a predetermined 
orientation with respect to said engagement arms. 
The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said 
guiding means comprises a distal edge (108) of at least one 

of said engagement arms (100). 
The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said 
extensible member (60a,b,c) is provided with a plurality of 

sides that correspond in number to the number of extensible 
member engagement arms (100) mounted to said probe (80). 
The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the 
extensible member (60a,b,c) is provided with a generally 

triangular configuration and said engagement arms (100) are 
positioned along the probe in a generally triangular 

configuration complementary to the configuration of said 
extensible member, at least one of said engagement arms 

being provided with means (108) for directing the apices 
(70a,b,c) of the generally triangular extensible member 

into a generally opposed orientation with a corresponding 
one of said engagement arms. 
The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein at least 
one of said engagement arms (100) comprises extensible 

member retaining means (110) formed at a distal, free end 
of the engagement arm. 
The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein at least 
one of said engagement arms (100) comprises latch means 

(112) for retaining said extensible member on said 
engagement arm.  

 
The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said 
latch means is selectively retractable from said engagement 

arm. 
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means 
(64) for reciprocably extending said first coupling unit 

extensible means comprises at least one strut (64a-f) that 
is coupled at one end to the ring assembly (34) and at a 

second, opposite end to the extensible means (60). 
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means 
(64) for reciprocably extending said first coupling unit 

extensible means (60) is selectively operable to displace 
said extensible means between the extended and retracted 

positions. 
The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said 
means (64) for reciprocably extending said extensible means 

(60) is operable to displace said first coupling unit (12) 
toward said probe (80) following capture thereof by said 

first coupling unit. 
The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said 
second coupling unit (18) further comprises a ring assembly 

(82) coupleable with the ring assembly (34) of said first 
coupling unit (12). 
The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein at least 
one of said ring assemblies (34,82) defines a ring aperture 

(46,90) dimensioned to receive the passage of supplies 
therethrough. 
The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein each of 
the ring assemblies (34,82) of the first and second 

coupling units defines a ring aperture (46,90), said ring 
apertures being alignable so as to provide a passageway 

extending between the first and second coupling units.  
 
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said 
extensible means (60) is generally coplanar with respect to 

said first coupling unit ring assembly (34) when said 
extensible means is in the retracted position. 
An apparatus for effecting coupling between a first 
vehicle (14) and a second vehicle (18) spaced apart from 

the first vehicle, comprising:
 
   a first vehicle coupling unit (12) comprising a ring 

assembly (34) defining a first interface surface (44) and 
a ring aperture (46) dimensioned to receive the passage of 

vehicle crew members therethrough, said ring assembly being 
mountable to the first vehicle; a generally rigid, 

open-ended member (60a,b,c) selectively extensible from 
said ring assembly and defining a generally cylindrical 

aperture, and means (64) for selectively displacing said 
extensible member relative to said first ring assembly 

between an extended and a retracted position; and
 
   a second vehicle coupling unit (16) comprising an 

open-ended, generally cylindrical rigid probe (80) 
extending outwardly from said second vehicle (18) and 

defining a second interface surface (88) adapted to be 
brought into contact with said first interface surface 

(44), said probe having a plurality of generally rigid 
engagement arms (100a,b,c) mounted thereto for engagement 

and capture by said first coupling unit extensible member 
(60a,b,c) upon sliding advancement of said extensible 

member along said engagement arms. 
The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said 
extensible member (60a,b,c) is provided with a plurality of 

sides (60a,b,c) that correspond in number to the number of 
engagement arms (100a,b,c) mounted to said probe (80). 
The apparatus according to claim 20, wherein at least 
one of said engagement arms (100) comprises means (108) for 

guiding said extensible member (60a,b,c) into a  
 

predetermined orientation with respect to said engagement 
arms. 
The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said 
guiding means comprises a distal edge (108) of at least one 

of said engagement arms. 
The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the 
extensible member (60a,b,c) is provided with a generally 

triangular configuration and said engagement arms 
(100a,b,c) are positioned along the probe in a generally 

triangular configuration complementary to the configuration 
of said extensible member, at least one of said engagement 

arms being provided with means (108) for directing the 
apices (70a,b,c) of the generally triangular extensible 

member into a generally opposed orientation with a 
corresponding one of said engagement arms. 
The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein at least 
one of said engagement arms (100) comprises latch means 

(112) for retaining said extensible member (60a,b,c) on 
said engagement arm. 
The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein said 
latch means (112) is selectively retractable from said 

engagement arm (100). 
The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said 
means (64) for selectively extending said extensible member 

(60a,b,c) comprises at least one strut (64a-f) that is 
coupled at one end to said first coupling unit ring 

assembly (34) and at a second, opposite end to the 
extensible member. 
The apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said at 
least one strut (64a-f) is coupled to said ring assembly  

 
through a support bracket (62a-c) extending generally 

radially outwardly from said ring assembly. 
The apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said at 
least one strut (64a-f) is operable to displace said probe 

(80), following probe capture, toward said ring assembly. 
The apparatus according to claim 28, wherein said 
second coupling unit (18) comprises a second ring assembly 

(82) mounted at a distal, free end of said probe. 
The apparatus according to claim 29, wherein said 
second ring assembly (82) defines a ring aperture (90) that 

is generally alignable with and superposable over said ring 
aperture (46) of said first coupling unit (12). 
The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said 
first coupling unit (12) is coupled to said first vehicle 

(14) through an intermediary unit (22). 
The apparatus according to claim 31, wherein said 
intermediary unit (22) defines a passageway (24) that 

communicates with said aperture (46) of said first ring 
assembly. 
A method for coupling first (14) and second (18) 
vehicles, each of the vehicles having mutually engageable 

coupling apparatus (12,16) mounted thereon, the coupling 
apparatus of the first and second vehicles having 

respective interface surfaces (44,88) adapted to be brought 
into contact with one another, the method comprising the 

steps of:
 
   positioning the first and second vehicles (14,18) such 

that their respective coupling apparatus (12,16) are 
generally aligned with one another and are spatially 

separated by a generally fixed, predetermined distance; 
extending a generally rigid extensible member (60a,b,c)  

 
from the periphery of the first coupling apparatus toward 

a generally cylindrical probe (80) of the second coupling 
apparatus;
 
   sliding said extensible member (60a,b,c) along a 

fixed, rigid probe surface member (100);
 
   engaging and capturing the second coupling apparatus 

(16) with said generally rigid extensible member (60a,b,c) 
upon advancement of said member beyond a predetermined 

position along said probe surface member (100);
 
   retracting the generally rigid extensible member 

(60a,b,c) and second vehicle coupling apparatus (16) 
captured thereby toward said first coupling apparatus (12); 

and
 
   superimposing said second coupling apparatus (16) over 

said first coupling apparatus (12) to bring said interface 
surfaces into contact with one another. 
The method according to claim 33, further comprising 
the step of structurally joining said first and second 

coupling apparatus (12,16). 
The method according to claim 33, wherein said first 
coupling apparatus (12) is rotatably alignable with said 

second coupling apparatus (16) upon engagement with said 
second coupling apparatus. 
The method according to claim 33, further comprising 
the step of releasing the captured second coupling 

apparatus (16), re-aligning the respective coupling 
apparatus, and re-engaging and capturing the second 

coupling apparatus. 
The method according to claim 33, wherein said step of 
engaging and capturing the second coupling apparatus (16) 

comprises further the step of depressing latch means (112) 
carried by said second coupling apparatus (16).  

 
The method according to claim 37, wherein said latch 
means (112) is selectively retractable so as to release 

said extensible member (60a,b,c). 
The method according to claim 33, wherein said step of 
second coupling apparatus engagement and capture comprises 

advancing said generally rigid extensible member (60a,b,c) 
along an outer surface (108) of the second coupling 

apparatus. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
