<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640126</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF CULTURING VIABLE CELLS AND METHOD OF REGULATING THE LEVEL OF A COMPOUND IN A BODY FLUID.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F202	A61F202	A61K900	A61K900	A61K3512	A61K3512	A61K3537	A61K3539	A61L2700	A61L2738	C08G1800	C08G1812	C08G1848	C08G1866	C12N500	C12N500	C12N506	C12N506	C12N508	C12N508	C12N510	C12N510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61L	A61L	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61K9	A61K9	A61K35	A61K35	A61K35	A61K35	A61L27	A61L27	C08G18	C08G18	C08G18	C08G18	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of culturing live viable cells comprises culturing the cells under the conditions effective for cells to survive in the presence of a non-porous, semi-permeable biocompatible film of predefined characteristics having a tensile strength of 350-10,000 psi, an ultimate elongation of 300-1,500 %, a water absorption such that the sum of the volume fraction of absorbed water in the hydrophilic volume fraction of the soft segment is 100-2,000 % of the dried polymer volume and 50-95 % of the wet polymer volume. The film permeability can be changed to have different cut-off molecular weights while being substantially impermeable to cells and particulate matter as well as high molecular weight molecules. A method of regulating the level of a compound in a body fluid of the subject afflicted with an endogenous defect resulting in abnormal levels of the compound in the body fluid, in the substantial absence of a detrimental immunological reaction comprises: enclosing cells lacking the endogenous defect of the patient's cells in a biocompatible, implantable device, wherein at least one portion thereof comprises a non-porous, semi-permeable, biocompatible film substantially enclosing the cells, the film formed from a copolymer comprising about 5 to 45 wt% of at least one hard segment, and about 95 to 55 wt% of at least one soft segment comprising at least one hydrophilic, hydrophobic or amphipathic oligomer selected from the group consisting of aliphatic polyols, aliphatic and aromatic polyamines and mixtures thereof; the film having a tensile strength greater than about 350 psi and up to about 10,000 psi, an ultimate elongation greater than about 300 % and up to about 1,500 % and a water absorption such that the sum of the volume fraction of absorbed water and the hydrophilic volume fraction of the soft segment exceeds about 100 % and up to about 2,000 % of the dry polymer volume and exceeds about 50 % and up to about 95 % of the wet polymer volume, and the film being permeable to molecules of up to about 6,000 to 600,000 molecular weight and substantially impermeable to cells and particulate matter; implanting the device comprising the cells into a site in the subject's body where the cells are in contact with the subject's body fluid; and allowing the cells to grow at the implantation site where they are in direct interactive contact with the compound and act to regulate its level in the body fluid.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYMER TECHNOLOGY GROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOMATIX THERAPY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOMATIX THERAPY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE POLYMER TECHNOLOGY GROUP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUHN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONAHAN JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARD ROBERT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUHN, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONAHAN, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARD, ROBERT, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD OF CULTURING VIABLE CELLS AND METHOD OF REGULATING THE LEVEL OF A COMPOUND IN A BODY FLUID.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention This invention relates, in general, to culturing viable cells in the presence of a non-porous, semi- permeable, biocompatible film formed from a copolymer of specific tensile strength, ultimate elongation and water absorption characteristics which can permeate molecules of up to 6,000 - 600,000 molecular weight while being impermeable to cells and particulate matter. In the method of the invention the nutrients and the medium from without are permeated through the film into the cells' environment, and any cell products from within are permeated through the film away from the cells' environment.Description of the BackgroundStandard immune suppression poses acute risks for, e.g., a diabetic patient such as nephrotoxicity from the use of cyclosporin, and is extremely- difficult to justify in the case of, e.g., young diabetic patients.Four methods of immunological isolation used up to the present time are as follows:(1) . Extravascular diffusion chambers. (2) . Intravascular diffusion chambers. (3) . Intravascular ultrafiltration chambers. (4) . Microencapsulation. All these approaches have detrimental features that are summarized below. 

 I. They produce host fibrotic response to the implant and material's instability, e.g., in alginate microencapsulation.II. There are limitations to the diffusion of nutrients across semi-permeable membranes of the prior art with decreasing permeability as protein deposition, blood clotting or fibrous ingrowth block the passage of nutrients through the pores of the membrane. • III. A lag time is observed in the permeability and diffusion of glucose and insulin across prior art semi-permeable membrane barriers, resulting in a delay of a reaction by the cells to the host's glucose levels in blood. Membranes used in prior art implants and methods, with the possible exception of microencapsulation with friable gels, have employed microporous semi-permeable membranes. Such membranes have been fabricated from impermeable polymers with pores being introduced into the material through processing conditions and/or leachable additives. MILLIPORE® and NUCLEOPORE®, or polycarbonate microporous membranes utilized by the prior art are made from inherently impermeable polymers and do not support long-term cell viability. Other semi- permeable membranes demonstrate poor blood compatibility as well as low permeability proficiency for the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of culturing live viable cells, comprising culturing live viable cells under conditions effective for the continuous survival of cells in the presence of a non-porous, semi- permeable, biocompatible film formed from a copolymer comprising about 5 to 45 wt% of at least one hard segment,and about 95 to 55 wt% of at least one soft segment comprising at least one hydrophilic, hydrophobic or amphipathic oligomer selected from the group consisting of aliphatic polyols, aliphatic and aromatic polyamines and mixtures thereof; the film having a tensile strength greater than about 350 psi and up to about 10,000 psi, an ultimate elongation greater than about 300% and up to about 1,500%, and a water absorption such that the sum of the volume fraction of absorbed water and the hydrophilic volume fraction of the soft segment exceeds about 100% and up to about 2,000% of the dry polymer volume and exceeds about 50% and up to about 95% of the wet polymer volume and the film being permeable to molecules of up to about 6,000 to 600,000 molecular weight and substantially impermeable to cells and particulate matter; wherein the film is in the presence of a nutrient medium, the medium comprising nutrients and medium's components, the nutrients and medium's components being permeated through the film into the cells' environment, and any cell products from within are permeated through the film outside of the cells' environment.
The method of claim 1, 


wherein the cells comprise product-secreting cells.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the cells comprise insulin-producing cells.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the production of insulin by the cells is regulatable by changes in the level of glucose in the medium.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the cells are selected from the group consisting of unmodified mammalian islets of Langerhans, insulin producing recombinant prokaryotic cells, and glucose-regulated insulin-producing eukaryotic cells arising from homolgous recombination or mutation.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are selected from the group consisting of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the cells are selected from the group consisting of immortalized cells, live tissue cells and primary culture cells.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the device substantially encloses the cells.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the medium comprises a detrimental or undesirable component that when in direct interactive contact with the cells is 


 transformed into a harmless or desireable component that is returned to the medium.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising implanting the device comprising the cells into a subject's body; and wherein the culturing step is conducted in vivo and in the substantial absence of a detrimental immunological response.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the cells are the subject's own defective cells; and the cells are genetically engineered to overcome the defect prior to implantation.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the device comprising the cells is implanted intradermally, subcutaneously, intracavitarily, mtraperitoneally, mtravascularly, in or around an organ, in or around the omental pouch or intravaginally.
13. A method of regulating the level of a compound in a body fluid of a subject afflicted by an endogenous defect resulting in abnormal levels of the compound in the body fluid, in the substantial absence of a detrimental immunological reaction, comprising: enclosing cells lacking the endogenous defect of the patient's cells in a biocompatible, implantable device, wherein at least one portion thereof comprises a non-porous, semi-permeable, biocompatible film substantially enclosing the cells, the film formed from a copolymer comprising about 5 to 45 


wt% of at least one hard segment, and about 95 to 55 wt% of at least one soft segment comprising at least one hydrophilic, hydrophobic or amphipathic oligomer selected from the group consisting of aliphatic polyols, aliphatic and aromatic polyamines and mixtures thereof; the film having a tensile strength greater than about 350 psi and up to about 10,000 psi, an ultimate elongation greater than about 300% and up to about 1,500% and a water absorption such that the sum of the volume fraction of absorbed water and the hydrophilic volume fraction of the soft segment exceeds about 100% and up to about 2,000% of the dry polymer volume and exceeds about 50% and up to about 95% of the wet polymer volume, and the film being permeable to molecules of up to about 6,000 to 600,000 molecular weight and substantially impermeable to cells and particulate matter; implanting the device comprising the cells into a site in the subject's body where the cells are in contact with the subject's body fluid; and allowing the cells to grow at the implantation site where they are in direct interactive contact with the compound and act to regulate its level in the body fluid.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the body fluid comprises blood; and the endogenous defect is a substantially higher than normal level of a compound in blood.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein 


the effect of the cells on the level of the compound in the body fluid is inversely regulatable by the level of the compound.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the cells are selected from the group consisting of immortalized cells, live tissue cells, and primary culture cells.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the patient is a diabetic; and the cells comprise glucose-regulatable, insulin producing cells.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the cells are selected from the group consisting of unmodified mammalian islets of Langerhans, and glucose-regulated insulin-producing eukaryotic cells arising from homologous recombination or mutation.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the cells are the subject's own insulin- defective cells; and the cells are isolated from the subject's body and are genetically engineered to glucose- regulatably produce insulin prior to implantation.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein the body fluid comprises a detrimental or undesirable compound that when in direct interactive contact with the cells is transformed into a harmless or desireable compound that is returned to the body fluid. 


 21. The method of claim 13, wherein the cells comprise product-producing cells.
22. A kit for correcting a metabolic defect in a subject, comprising a biocompatible, implantable device wherein at least one portion thereof comprises a non- porous, semi-permeable, biocompatible implantable film formed from a copolymer comprising about 5 to 45 wt% of at least one hard segment, and about 95 to 55 wt% of at least one soft segment comprising at least one hydrophilic, hydrophobic or amphipathic oligomer selected from the group consisting of aliphatic polyols, aliphatic and aromatic polyamines and mixtures thereof; the film having a tensile strength greater than about 350 psi and up to about 10,000 psi, an ultimate elongation greater than about 300% and up to about 1,500% and a water absorption such that the\ sum of the volume fraction of absorbed water and the hydrophilic volume fraction of the soft segment exceeds about 100% and up to about 2,000% of the dry polymer volume and exceeds about 50% and up to about 95% of the wet polymer volume and being permeable to molecules of up to about 6,000 to 600,000 molecular weight and substantially impermeable to cells and particulate matter; syringe; needles; and instructions for use of the kit to insert preselected cells lacking the metabolic defect into the device and implant of the device in the body of a subject afflicted with the metabolic defect so that the cells may interact with the 


 subject's body fluids and alleviate the symptoms associated with the defect.
23. The insulin-producing kit of claim 22, further comprising cell culture medium.
24. The method of claim 1 wherein the live viable cells are suspending the cells in a hydrogel comprising greater than about 35% water.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein the hydrogel is an alginate.
26. The method of claim 24 where the hydrogel is polyethylene glycol.
27. The method of claim 24, wherein the cells comprise product-secreting cells.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the cells comprise insulin-producing cells.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the production of insulin by the cells is regulatable by changes in the level of glucose in the medium.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein the cells are selected from the group consisting of unmodified mammalian islets of Langerhans, insulin producing recombinant prokaryotic cells, and glucose-regulated insulin-producing eukaryotic cells arising from homolgous recombination or mutation.
31. The method of claim 24, wherein 


the cells are selected from the group consisting of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the cells are selected from the group consisting of immortalized cells, live tissue cells and primary culture cells.
33. The method of claim 24, wherein the device substantially encloses the cells.
34. The method of claim 24, wherein the medium comprises a detrimental or undesirable component that when in direct interactive contact with the cells is transformed into a harmless or desireable component that is returned to the medium.
35. The method of claim 33, further comprising implanting the device comprising the cells into a subject
'
s body; and wherein the culturing step is conducted in vivo and in the substantial absence of a detrimental immunological response.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the cells are the subject's own defective cells; and the cells are genetically engineered to overcome the- defect prior to implantation.
37. The method of claim 35, wherein the device comprising the cells is implanted intradermally, subcutaneously, intracavitarily, mtraperitoneally, mtravascularly, in or around 


 an organ, in or around the omental pouch or intravaginally.
38. A method of regulating the level of a compound in a body fluid of a subject afflicted by an endogenous defect resulting in abnormal levels of the compound in the body fluid, in the substantial absence of a detrimental immunological reaction, comprising: suspending cells lacking the endogenous defect of the patient's cells in a hydrogel wherein the hydrogel comprises greater than about 35% water; enclosing the suspended cells in a biocompatible, implantable device, wherein at least one portion thereof comprises a non-porous, semi-permeable, biocompatible film substantially enclosing the cells, the film formed from a copolymer comprising about 5 to 45 wt% of at least one hard segment, and about 95 to 55 wt% of at least one soft segment comprising at least one hydrophilic, hydrophobic or amphipathic oligomer selected from the group consisting of aliphatic polyols, aliphatic and aromatic polyamines and mixtures thereof; the film having a tensile strength greater than about 350 psi and up to about 10,000 psi, an ultimate elongation greater than about 300% and up to about 1,500% and a water absorption such that the sum of the volume fraction of absorbed water and the hydrophilic volume fraction of the soft segment exceeds about 100% and up to about 2,000% of the dry polymer volume and exceeds about 50% and up to about 95% of the wet polymer volume, and the film being permeable to molecules of up to about 6,000 to 600,000 


molecular weight and substantially impermeable to cells and particulate matter; implanting the device comprising the cells into a site in the subject's body where the cells are in contact with the subject's body fluid; and allowing the cells to grow at the implantation site where they are in direct interactive contact with the compound and act to regulate its level in the body fluid.
39. The method of claim 38 wherein the hydrogel is an alginate.
40. The method of claim 38 wherein the hydrogel is- polyethylene glycol.
41. The method of claim 38, wherein the body fluid comprises blood; and the endogenous defect is a substantially higher than normal level of a compound in blood.
42. The method of claim 38, wherein the effect of the cells on the level of the compound in the body fluid is inversely regulatable by the level of the compound.
43. The method of claim 38, wherein the cells are selected from the group consisting of immortalized cells, live tissue cells, and primary culture cells.
44. The method of claim 38, wherein the patient is a diabetic; and the cells comprise glucose-regulatable, insulin producing cells. 


 45. The method of claim 44, wherein the cells are selected from the group consisting of unmodified mammalian islets of Langerhans, and glucose-regulated insulin-producing eukaryotic cells arising from homologous recombination or mutation.
46. The method of claim 44, wherein the cells are the subject's own insulin- defective cells; and the cells are isolated from the subject's body and are genetically engineered to glucose- regulatably produce insulin prior to implantation.
47. The method of claim 38, wherein the body fluid comprises a detrimental or undesirable compound that when in direct interactive contact with the 


 is transformed into a harmless or desireable compound that is returned to the body fluid.
48. The method of claim 38, wherein the- cells comprise product-producing cells.
49. A kit for correcting a metabolic defect in a subject, comprising: a hydrogel comprising greater than about 35% water; a biocompatible, implantable device wherein at least one portion thereof comprises a non- porous, semi-permeable, biocompatible implantable film formed from a copolymer comprising about 5 to 45 wt% of at least one hard segment, and about 95 to 55 wt% of at least 


one soft segment comprising at least one hydrophilic, hydrophobic or amphipathic oligomer selected from the group consisting of aliphatic polyols, aliphatic and aromatic polyamines and mixtures thereof; the film having a tensile strength greater than about 350 psi and up to about 10,000 psi, an ultimate elongation greater than about 300% and up to about 1,500% and a water absorption such that the sum of the volume fraction of absorbed water and the hydrophilic volume fraction of the soft segment exceeds about 100% and up to about 2,000% of the dry polymer volume and exceeds about 50% and up to about 95% of the wet polymer volume and being permeable to molecules of up to about 6,000 to
600,000 molecular weight and substantially impermeable to cells and particulate matter; syringe; needles; and instructions for use of the kit to suspend the preselected cells lacking the metabolic defect in the hydrogel, to insert the cells into the device and implant of the device in the body of a subject afflicted with the metabolic defect so that the cells may interact with the subject's body fluids and alleviate the symptoms associated with the defect.
50. The insulin-producing kit of claim 49, further comprising cell culture medium. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
