<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637967</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K67027	A01K67027	A61K3532	A61K3532	A61K4900	A61K4900	C12N510	C12N510	C12N1500	C12N1500	C12N1587	C12N1590	C12Q118	C12Q118	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K67	A01K67	A61K35	A61K35	A61K49	A61K49	C12N5	C12N5	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method for determining the effect of a drug or a treatments, comprising introducing, in a non-human vertebrate recipient which may be an immunodeficient, e.g. a nude mouse, cells from a donor vertebrate, e.g. a human, which mediate the disease, the donor cell or cells of the recipient being modified, e.g. marked with a genetic marker such as lacZ gene, administering the drug or the treatment to the non-human recipient vertebrate, and determining the effect of the drug or the treatment. When the genetic marker is lacZ gene, the detection is performed by staining with the chromogenic substrate X-gal resulting in a blue staining of the labelled cell. In a further aspect, the invention relates to a method for controlling the progression of cancer cells in a human or animal patient, comprising administering to the patient fibroblasts which have been transformed with a genetic construct expressing a gene product inhibiting the progression of cancer cells.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRUENNER NILS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPANG THOMSEN MOGENS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRUENNER, NILS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUENNER NILS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPANG-THOMPSEN MOGENS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON ERIK C O LOMBARDI CAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWIEBEL JAMES C O LOMBARDI CAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUENNER, NILS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPANG-THOMPSEN, MOGENS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON, ERIK C/O LOMBARDI CANCER CENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWIEBEL,JAMES C/O LOMBARDI CANCER CENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AN IMPROVED DRUGSCREENING METHODThe present invention relates to improvements in the fields of expe¬ rimental animals, drug screening and drug development, and to related developments, including new means and a new method for treating can- cer.The environment in which the present invention was made is cancer research, in particular research related to the invasion of cancer cells into other tissue.Dissemination of cancer involves escape of cells from the primary tumour, degradation of the normal tissue and migration, intravasa- tion, homing, extravasation, and colonization in an environment potentially different from the original location. Although cancer cells are known to produce proteolytic enzymes, adhesion molecules and integrins which may all contribute to the invasive and metastatic phenotype, the mechanisms involved in the metastatic process are not fully understood.Human cancer cell invasion studies have mainly been confined to in vitro conditions (Albini et al., 1987, and Mignatti et al. , 1986). A major limitation of in vitro models for this type of study, however, is the lack of the many host factors which participate in the physio¬ logical and pathological mechanisms contributing to the malignant phenotype. Important interactions that occur between the cancer cells and the surrounding non-malignant tissue include the interaction of the cancer cells with extracellular matrix and stromal cells, i.e. fibroblasts, endothelial cells, parenchymal cells and other host cells capable of non-immune host reactions (Hakim et al., 1989; Basset et al., 1990; Grøndahl-Hansen et al. , 1991). Thus, the cancer cells exist in a competitive microenvironment with surrounding normal cells as well as non-malignant tumour-infiltrating cells, and the ability of the cancer cells to dominate and evade host non-immune and immune responses determines their invasive/metastatic capacity.Only a few experimental models have been available for in vivo inves¬ tigations of human cancer cell invasion and metastasis (Dagg et al. , 

 1956, Kozlowski et al. , 1984). One model is the athymic nude mouse (Fidler, 1986, and Neulat-Duga et al. , 1984). However, most studies in this model have been based on injections of tumour cells intra¬ venously (iv) , and this approach involves only the later steps of the metastatic process. Subcutaneously (sc) inoculated or serially trans¬ planted tumours demonstrating local invasion and spontaneous metasta¬ tic spread are a more adequate model for the invasive and metastatic behaviour of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for detecting, in a non-human recipient vertebrate, a cell which has the genotype of a donor vertebrate, and which is identical to or derived from a cell transferred from a donor of the vertebrate genotype into the non-human recipient vertebrate, the donor being a vertebrate of the donor vertebrate genotype or a cell line comprising cells from such vertebrate, the method comprising using, as the donor cell, a cell labelled with a genetic marker which, either directly or latently, permits or facilitates distinc- tion between the donor cell genotype and cells of the recipient and, when the marker is one which latently permits distinction, developing the latent distinction, with the proviso that when the donor cell genotype is a murine genotype, then either 1) the donor is a mouse and not a cell culture, or 2) the donor cell is from an immunodeficient mouse.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the donor vertebrate cells further comprises a second transgene which is different from the genetic marker.
3. A method for detecting, in a non-human recipient vertebrate, a cell which has the genotype of a donor vertebrate, and which is identical to or derived from a cell transferred from a donor of the vertebrate genotype into the non-human recipient vertebrate, the donor being a vertebrate of the donor vertebrate genotype or a cell line comprising cells from such vertebrate, the method comprising using, as the recipient vertebrate, a vertebrate cells of which are marked with a genetic marker which, either directly or latently, permits distinction between the donor cell genotype and cells of the recipient and, when the marker is one which latently permits distinc¬ tion, developing the latent distinction.
4. A method according to claim 3, wherein substantially all cells of the recipient vertebrate are labelled with the genetic marker. 


5. A method according to claim 3 or 4 wherein the recipient verte¬ brate cells further comprises a second transgene which is different from the genetic marker.
6. A method according to any of claims 1-5, wherein the genetic marker is linked to a promoter and a transcription terminator which are capable of functioning in substantially all cells of the ver¬ tebrate in such a way that the genetic marker is expressed in sub¬ stantially all cells of the vertebrate.
7. A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the non-human recipient vertebrate is immunodeficient.
8. A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the non-human recipient vertebrate is a mammal.
9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the non-human recipient mammal is a rodent, in particular a rat or a mouse.
10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the recipient rodent is a thymus-deficient rodent.
11. A method according to claim 10, wherein the thymus-deficient rodent is a nude mouse.
12. A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the donor cell genotype is mammalian.
13. A method according to claim 12, wherein the donor cell genotype is human.
14. A method according to claim 12, wherein the donor cell genotype is a rodent genotype, in particular a rat or mouse genotype.
15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the donor cell is from a immunodeficient rodent, in particular a thymus-deficient rodent. 


 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein the thymus-deficient rodent is a nude mouse.
17. A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the second transgene is a gene encoding encoding a polypeptide, such as a growth factor or a growth factor receptor, a cytokine or an oncogene product.
18. A method for determining the effect of a drug or a treatment with respect to preventing, diminishing, controlling or Inhibiting a dis¬ ease mediated by cells, comprising introducing, in a non-human verte- brate recipient, cells from a donor vertebrate which mediate the dis¬ ease, the donor cells or cells of the recipient being modified to either directly or latently permit distinction between on the one hand cells which are identical to the donor or cells derived there¬ from, and on the other hand cells of the non-human recipient verte- brate, administering the drug or applying the treatment to the non- human recipient vertebrate, and determining the effect of the drug or the treatment on the basis of detection or investigation, in the recipient vertebrate, of cells identical to or derived from the donor cells, utilizing, In the detection or investigation, the distinction obtained through modification of the donor cells or of cells of the recipient, whereby, when the modification is one which latently per¬ mits distinction, the latent distinction Is developed prior to or in connection with the detection or investigation.
19. A method according to claim 18 wherein the modified donor or recipient cells further comprises a second transgene which is dif¬ ferent from the genetic marker.
20. A method according to claim 18 or 19, wherein the recipient ver¬ tebrate is immunodeficient.
21. A method according to any of claims 18-20, wherein the modifl- cation of the donor cells or the cells of the recipient comprises labelling the cells with a genetic marker which, either directly or latently, permits or facilitates distinction between the donor cell genotype and cells of the recipient vertebrate. 


22. A method according to any of the preceding claims, in which the genetic marker is a gene encoding a product which in itself is vi¬ sually distinguishable from non-marked cells, or which is capable of being made visually distinguishable from the non-marked cells.
23. A method according to claim 22, wherein the gene product is a coloured or fluorescent product or a product which can be converted into a coloured or fluorescent product.
24. A method according to claim 22, wherein the genetic marker is a lacZ gene, and the conversion of the gene product thereof into a coloured product is performed by staining with the chromogenic sub¬ strate 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl-
/
S-D-galactopyranoside (X-gal) resul¬ ting in a blue staining of the labelled cell.
25. A method according to any of claims 18-24, wherein the investiga¬ tion of the cells identical to or derived from the donor cells invol- ves transferring such cells, after the recipient has been subjected to the drug or the treatment, to another non-human recipient verte¬ brate and determining any effect of the drug or treatment conferred to the cells identical to or derived from the donor cells and mani¬ festing itself after the transfer to the other non-human recipient vertebrate.
26. A method according to claim 25, wherein the other non-human recipient vertebrate is immunodeficient.
27. A method according to claim 25 or 26, wherein the donor cells or cells of the recipient are modified to either directly or latently permit distinction between on the one hand cells which are identical to the donor or cells derived therefrom, and on the other hand cells of the other non-human recipient vertebrate, the determination of any effect of the drug or the treatment being performed on the basis of detection or investigation, in the other recipient vertebrate, of cells identical to or derived from the donor cells, utilizing, in the detection or investigation, the distinction obtained through modifi¬ cation of the donor cells or of cells of the recipient, whereby, when 



 the modification is one which latently permits distinction, the latent distinction is developed prior to or in connection with the detection or Investigation.
28. A method according to claim 27, wherein the cells transferred
'
 from the first non-human recipient vertebrate or cells of the second recipient vertebrate are modified to either directly or latently permit distinction between on the one hand cells which are identical to or derived from the cells from the first non-human recipient vertebrate, and on the other hand cells of the other non-human reci- pient vertebrate, the determination of any effect of the drug or the treatment being performed on the basis of detection or investigation, in the other non-human recipient vertebrate, of cells identical to or derived from the cells from the first non-human recipient vertebrate, utilizing, in the detection or investigation, the distinction ob- tained through modification of the cells from the first non-human recipient vertebrate or of cells of the second non-human recipient vertebrate, whereby, when the modification is one which latently permits distinction, the latent distinction is developed prior to or in connection with the detection or investigation.
29. A method according to any of claims 18-28 for the assessment of the usefulness of drug or a treatment for preventing, diminishing, controlling or Inhibiting the progression of metastases in a donor vertebrate, in particular a human, comprising introducing, into an immunodeficient non-human recipient vertebrate in which cancer cells of the donor vertebrate genotype are capable of invading and meta¬ stasizing, cancer cells of the donor vertebrate genotype, the donor cancer cells or cells of the recipient being modified to either directly or latently permit distinction between on the one hand cells which are identical to or derived from the donor cells, and on the other hand cells of the non-human recipient vertebrate, administering the drug or applying the treatment to the non-human recipient verte¬ brate, and determining the effect of the candidate drug on the pro¬ gression of metastases in the animal, utilizing, in the detection or investigation, the distinction obtained through the modification of the donor cells or of cells of the recipient, whereby, when the modification is one which latently permits distinction, the latent 


 distinction is developed prior to or in connection with the detection or investigation.
30. A method according to claim 29, wherein the modified donor or recipient cells further comprise a second transgene which is dif- ferent from the genetic marker.
31. A method according to claim 29 or 30, wherein primary tumours are removed from the non-human recipient vertebrate before or after the drug is administered to or the treatment applied to the non-human recipient vertebrate.
32. A method according to claim 31, in which the donor cancer cells have been marked with lacZ in such a manner that it is expressed by the cancer cells, and removal of the primary tumours is performed substantially at a time where metastasizing in the non-human recipi¬ ent vertebrate has just begun to be visually detectable by staining with X-gal and metastazing is still undetectable in a reference non- human vertebrate animal the cells of which are not labelled and to which non-labelled cancer cells of otherwise the same kind as the donor cancer cells have been transferred.
33. A method according to any of claims 29-32, wherein the cancer cells are selected from the group consisting of the human cell lines MDA-MB-231 MDA-MB-435 and OVCAR-3, and the immunodeficient recipient vertebrate is a mammal, in particular a nude mouse, in which at least one of the cell lines MDA-MB-231, MDA-MB-435 or OVCAR-3 is capable of metastasizing.
34. A method according to claim 33, wherein the immunodeficient mammal is a mammal, in particular a nude mouse, in which at least one of the cell lines MDA-MB-231, MDA-MB-435 or OVCAR-3 is capable of metastasizing.
35. A method according to claim 33 or 34, wherein the immunodeficient mammal is a thymus-deficient mouse. 


 36. A method according to claim 35, wherein the thymus-deficient mouse has a chromosomal analysis substantially as shown in Table 1 herein.
37. A human cell which is labelled with a genetic marker in the form of a gene encoding a product which in itself Is visually distinguish¬ able from non-marked cells, or which is capable of being made visual¬ ly distinguishable from the non-marked cells.
38. A human cell according to claim 37 which is a cancer cell.
39. A human cell according to claim 37 which further comprises a second transgene which is different from the genetic marker.
40. Human cancer cells according to claim 39 which are selected from the group consisting of the cell lines MDA-MB-231, MDA-MB-435 and 0VCAR-3.
41. The use of human cancer cells as defined in any of claims 37-41 as a tool in an experimental model for the assessment of the capabi¬ lity of a drug candidate of preventing or inhibiting human cancer cell progression.
42. A method for determining the effect of a drug or a treatment with respect to preventing, diminishing, controlling or inhibiting a dis- ease mediated by cells, comprising introducing intraperitoneally, in a non-human vertebrate recipient, cells from a a cell line as claimed in claim 40, administering the drug or applying the treatment to the non-human recipient vertebrate, and determining the effect of the drug or the treatment on the basis of the determination of the sur- vival (increased life span (ILS)) or weight of the non-human recipient vertebrate.
43. A method for controlling the progression of cancer cells in a human or animal patient, comprising administering, locally or sys- temically, to the patient, fibroblasts which have been transformed with a genetic construct expressing a gene product inhibiting the progression of cancer cells. 


44. A method according to claim 43, wherein the fibroblasts are tumour-infiltrating fibroblast cells which are capable of finding cancer cells in the patient.
45. A method according to claim 43 or 44, wherein the fibroblasts are fibroblasts of a tissue type which is compatible with the tissue type of the patient.
46. A method according to claim 45, wherein the fibroblasts are fibroblasts from the patient.
47. A method according to any of claims 42-45, wherein the gene pro- duct is one which is capable of controlling the progression of cancer cells of the patient genotype in a recipient vertebrate into which the cancer cells have been transferred.
47. A method according to claim 46, wherein the gene product is one which is capable of controlling the progression of the cancer cells of the patient genotype when the gene product is expressed by tumour- infiltrating fibroblasts of the recipient vertebrate genotype.
48. A method according to claim 46, wherein the gene product is one which is capable of controlling the progression of the cancer cells of the patient genotype when the gene product is expressed in the recipient immunodeficient vertebrate by tumour-infiltrating fibro¬ blasts of the donor genotype.
49. Fibroblasts which are capable of finding and infiltrating a malignant tumour in a mammal and which contain, and are capable of expressing, a gene producing a gene product which is capable of controlling the progression of cancer cells in the mammal.
50. Fibroblasts which are capable of finding and infiltrating a malignant tumour of a mammal genotype, in particular human genotype, in an immunodeficient non-human recipient vertebrate into which cancer cells of the said mammal genotype have been introduced, the fibroblasts containing 1) a gene which, when it is expressed in the 


 immunodeficient recipient vertebrate by fibroblasts which are capable of finding and colonizing, in the recipient vertebrate, colonies of cancer cells of the said mammal genotype, is capable of controlling the progression of the cancer cells of the said mammal, and 2) a pro- moter securing expression of the gene product when the fibroblasts
'
 have been transferred to the said mammal.
51. A cell culture comprising fibroblasts according to claim 49 or 50.
52. A collection of cell cultures comprising fibroblasts according to claim 49 or 50, the collection comprising fibroblasts of a multitude of human tissue types.
53. A method of producing a transgenic non-human vertebrate cells of which are marked with a genetic marker which, either directly or latently, permits distinction between cells having the genotype of the non-human vertebrate and cells which are donated to the non-human vertebrate said method comprising chromosomally incorporating a gene¬ tic marker Into the genome of a non-human mammal.
54. A method according to claim 53 comprising injecting a transcrip¬ tion unit comprising said genetic marker into a fertilized egg or a cell of an embryo of a vertebrate so as to incorporate the transcrip¬ tion unit into the germline of the vertebrate and developing the resulting injected fertilized egg or embryo into an adult vertebrate.
55. A transgenic non-human vertebrate whose germ cells and somatic cells contain a genetic marker which, either directly or latently, permits distinction between cells having the genotype of the non- human vertebrate and cells which are donated to the non-human verte¬ brate, as a result of chromosomal incorporation of the genetic marker into the non-human vertebrate genome, or into the genome of an ances¬ tor of said non-human vertebrate.
56. A transgenic non-human vertebrate according to claim 55 in which the genetic marker is a lacZ gene. 


57. A transgenic non-human vertebrate according to claim 55 or 56 which is immunodeficient.
58. A vertebrate according to claim 56 or 57 which is selected from the group consisting of mice, rats and rabbits.
59. A non-human immunodeficient mammal according to any of claims 55- 58, the genome of which further comprises a second transgene which is different from the genetic marker.
60. A non-human immunodeficient mammal produced by crossing a mammal according to any of claims 55-59 with another mammal of the same species the genome of which does not comprise a genetic marker or with another transgenic mammal of the same species the genome of which does not comprise the genetic marker.
61. A method for the assessment of the usefulness of drug or a treat¬ ment for preventing, diminishing, controlling or inhibiting a disease in a vertebrate, in particular a human, comprising introducing, into a non-human recipient vertebrate, cells of a transgenic animal as claimed in any of claims 55-60, the cells of the transgenic animal being modified to either directly or latently permit distinction between on the one hand cells which are identical to or derived from the transgenic animal, and on the other hand cells of the non-human recipient vertebrate, administering the drug or applying the treat¬ ment to the non-human recipient vertebrate, and determining the effect of the candidate drug utilizing, in the detection or inves¬ tigation, the distinction obtained through the modification of the donor cells whereby, when the modification is one which latently permits distinction, the latent distinction is developed prior to or in connection with the detection or investigation.
62. A method for determining the carcinogenicity of a substance or a treatment on cells of a vertebrate donor genotype, comprising either
1) exposing the cells of the vertebrate donor genotype to the substance or the treatment followed by introduction of the cells into a non-human vertebrate recipient, or 


 2) Introducing the cells of the vertebrate donor genotype into a non-human recipient vertebrate, followed by exposure of the recipient to the substance or the treatment,
the donor cells being modified by labelling with a genetic marker 
"
to either directly or latently permit distinction between on the one hand cells which are identical to the donor or cells derived there¬ from, and on the other hand cells of the non-human recipient verte¬ brate, and determining any capability of the substance or the treat¬ ment to convert the donor cells into cancer cells by examining the invasive and metastatic activity of the donor cells, either in the recipient, or after transfer of the donor cells to another recipient, or in vitro , on the basis of detection of any metastasis utilizing the distinction obtained through the modification of the donor cells.
63. The use of a drug, the effect of which with respect to prevent- ing, diminishing, controlling or inhibiting a disease has been estab¬ lished using the method according to any of claims 18-28, for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for preventing, diminish¬ ing, controlling or inhibiting the disease.
64. The use of a drug, the effect of which with respect to prevent- ing, diminishing, controlling or inhibiting the progression of meta¬ stases has been established using the method according to any of claims 29-36, for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for preventing, diminishing, controlling or inhibiting the progression of metastases.
65. A method for preventing, diminishing, controlling or inhibiting a disease, comprising administering, to a patient in need thereof, an effective amount of a drug the effect of which for preventing, dimi¬ nishing, controlling or inhibiting the disease has been established using the method according to any of claims 18-28.
66. A method for preventing, diminishing, controlling or inhibiting the progression of metastases, comprising administering, to a patient in need thereof, an effective amount of a drug the effect of which for preventing, diminishing, controlling or inhibiting the progres- 


sion of metastasis has been established using the method according to any of claims 29-36. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
