<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624227</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GAS TURBINE CONTROL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02C900	F02C928	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02C	F02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02C9	F02C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for control of power (P) generated by a gas turbine (1), which drives an electric generator (2) with a rectifier (3) connected thereto, comprises a control member (6) adapted to control the fuel supply of the gas turbine (1) in such a way that the inlet temperature (T) of the gas turbine is caused to correspond, at least substantially, to a predetermined value (TR). A direct-voltage network (4) with controllable voltage (U) is connected to the rectifier (3) and the control member (6) generates a voltage control signal (URs) which is supplied to the direct-voltage network (4).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASEA BROWN BOVERI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASEA BROWN BOVERI AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALMQUIST ANDERS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REHN JOHNNY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALMQUIST, ANDERS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REHN, JOHNNY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for control of 
power generated by a gas turbine which drives an electric 
generator with a rectifier connected to the generator, as 
well as a device for carrying out the method. The device comprises a direct-voltage network, connected to 
the rectifier, with controllable voltage. For generation of electric power both in tractional and in 
stationary applications, it is known to use gas turbines for 
driving electric generators. In applications with a varying 
power requirement, however, gas turbines exhibit certain 
disadvantages in that, at partial load, their efficiency is 
greatly deteriorated while at the same time the contents of 
environmentally harmful constituents in the exhaust gases 
are increased. It is also known that these disadvantages can 
be avoided by means of a control adapted to maintain the 
inlet temperature of the gas turbine at an even and high 
value. Thus, a system has been suggested where the guide 
vanes of the compressor in dependence on the load requirement 
are oriented such that the inlet temperature of the 
turbine is maintained substantially constant [Bulletin de 
l'Académie Royale de Belgique. 5e Série. Tome XLI, 1955. 
Jaumotte, A: Regulation à vitesse et témperature maximum 
constantes des turbines á gaz en circuit ouvert à une ligne 
d'arbre]. The suggested solution means a mechanically complicated 
design owing to the fact that the generator driven 
by the gas turbine is connected to a stiff alternating-voltage 
network and the speed of the gas turbine thus bound 
to the frequency thereof. Therefore, particularly in 
applications where the speed of the gas turbine can be  
 
allowed to vary, a mechanically simpler solution is 
desirable. The invention aims to provide a method of the kind described 
in the introductory part, which, particularly for a gas 
turbine with a stationary stator part, allows a control of 
its power while maintaining a high efficiency and minimal 
emissions of harmful exhaust gases, as well as a device for 
carrying out the method. According to the invention, this is achieved by controlling 
the fuel supply of the gas turbine in such a way that the 
inlet temperature of the gas turbine is caused to correspond, 
at least substantially, to a predetermined value and 
by connecting to the rectifier a direct-voltage network with 
controllable voltage. By variation of the voltage of the 
direct-voltage network, the power of the gas turbine can 
thereby be controlled. Advantageous further developments of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for control of power (P) generated by a gas turbine 
(1) which drives an electric generator (2) with a rectifier 

(3) connected thereto, 
characterized
 in that 
the fuel supply of the gas turbine (1) is controlled in such 

a way that the inlet temperature (T) of the gas turbine is 
caused to correspond, at least substantially, to a 

predetermined value (TR) and that the voltage (U) of a 
direct-voltage network (4) with controllable voltage, 

connected to the rectifier (3), is varied for control of the 
power (P).  

 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the network (4) 
comprises a controllable direct-voltage converter (42), 


characterized in that
 the voltage (U) is varied by 
controlling the direct-voltage converter (42). 
A method according to any of the preceding claims, 

characterized in that
 the rate of change of the voltage 
(U) is limited. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims, 

characterized in that
 the fuel supply of the gas turbine 
(1) is limited in dependence on the difference between the 

exhaust temperature (TEX) of the gas turbine (1) and a 
predetermined exhaust gas temperature (TEXR). 
A method according to any of the preceding claims, 

characterized in that
 the voltage (U) is generated in 
dependence on a predetermined relationship between the power 

(P) and the voltage (U). 
A method according to any of the preceding claims, 

characterized in that
 the fuel supply of the gas turbine 
(1) is limited in dependence on the difference between the 

speed (N) of the gas turbine (1) and a speed (NRP) generated 
in dependence on a predetermined relationship between the 

power (P) and the speed (N).  
 
A method according to claim 6, 
characterized in that
 
the relationship between the power (P) and the speed (N) is 

modified in dependence on sensed values of the ambient 
pressure (Pa) and/or ambient temperature (Ta). 
A method according to any of the preceding claims, 

characterized in that
 the power (P) is sensed and that 
the voltage (U) is varied in dependence on the deviation of 

the power (P) from a desired power (PR). 
A method according to claim 8, wherein at least part (PL) 
of the power (P) of the gas turbine (1) is transmitted over 

a controllable converter (51), connected to the rectifier 
(3), for supply of a motor (52) for propulsion of a vehicle 

(53), 
characterized in that
 the power (PR) desired from 
the gas turbine is selected as the greatest of 


a) the running mean value over a predetermined period of 
time of the power (PL) supplied to the converter (51), 
b) the instantaneously desired value (PLR) of the power 
(PL) supplied to the converter (51), 
c) a value (PR') corresponding to the current value (PR) of 
power desired from the gas turbine, decreasing by a predetermined 

rate of change. 
A device for control of power (P) generated by a gas 
turbine (1) which drives an electric generator (2) with a 

rectifier (3) connected thereto, 
characterized in that
 it 
comprises a control member (6) adapted to control the fuel 

supply of the gas turbine (1) in such a way that the inlet 
temperature (T) of the gas turbine is caused to correspond, 

at least substantially, to a predetermined value (TR) and a 
direct-voltage network (4), connected to the rectifier 
(3), 
with a voltage (U) which is controllable in dependence on a 

voltage control signal (URs) generated by the control member 
(6).  

 
A device according to claim 10, 
characterized in that
 
the network (4) comprises a direct-voltage converter (42) 

which is controllable in dependence on the voltage control 
signal (URs). 
A device according to any of the preceding claims 10-11, 

characterized in that
 it comprises means (442, 6311) 
adapted to limit the rate of change of the voltage (U) to a 

predetermined value. 
A device according to any of the preceding claims 10-12, 

characterized in that
 the control member (6) is adapted 
to limit the fuel supply of the gas turbine (1) in dependence 

on the difference between the exhaust gas temperature 
(TEX) of the gas turbine (1) and a predetermined exhaust gas 

temperature (TEXR). 
A device according to any of the preceding claims 10-13, 

characterized in that
 the control member (6) is adapted 
to generate the voltage control signal (URs) in dependence 

on a predetermined relationship between the power (P) and 
the voltage (U). 
A device according to any of the preceding claims 10-14, 

characterized in that
 the control member (6) is adapted 
to limit the fuel supply of the gas turbine (1) in dependence 

on the difference between the speed (N) of the gas 
turbine (1) and a speed (NRP) generated in dependence on a 

predetermined relationship between the power (P) and the 
speed (N). 
A device according to claim 15, 
characterized in that
 
the control member (6) is adapted to modify the relationship 

between the power (P) and the speed (N) in dependence on 
sensed values of the ambient pressure (Pa) and/or ambient 

temperature (Ta).  
 
A device according to any of the preceding claims 10-16, 

characterized in that
 the control member (6) is adapted 
to sense the power (P) and to generate the voltage control 

signal (URs) in dependence on the deviation of the power (P) 
from a desired power (PR). 
A device according to claim 17, wherein at least part 
(PL) of the power (P) of the gas turbine (1) is transmitted 

over a controllable converter (51), connected to the 
rectifier (3), for supply of a motor (52) for propulsion of 

a vehicle (53), 
characterized in that
 the control member 
(6) is adapted to generate a reference value for the power 

(PR) desired from the gas turbine (1) as the greatest of 

a) the running mean value over a predetermined period of 
time of the power (PL) supplied to the converter (51), 
b) the instantaneously desired value (PLR) of the power 
(PL) supplied to the converter (51), 
c) a value (PR') corresponding to the current value (PR) 
of power desired from the gas turbine, decreasing by a 

predetermined rate of change. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
