<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634106</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for treating water-soluble dietary fiber with beta-glucanase
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L110	A21D236	A23L110	A23G334	A23L1308	A23G952	A23G334	A23L124	A23L1105	A23L124	A23G952	A21D200	A23L1308	A23L1105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A21D	A23L	A23G	A23L	A23G	A23G	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23G	A21D	A23L	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	A21D2	A23L1	A23G3	A23L1	A23G9	A23G3	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23G9	A21D2	A23L1	A23L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an improved process 
for producing a water-soluble dietary fiber composition 

wherein an aqueous dispersion of a gelatinized, milled, 
beta-glucan containing grain-based substrate is treated with 

alpha-amylase under conditions which will hydrolyze the 
substrate and yield a soluble fraction and an insoluble 

fraction, said soluble fraction is separated from said 
insoluble fraction, and said water-soluble dietary fiber is 

recovered from said soluble fraction substantially free of 
water-insoluble fiber, wherein the improvement to such 

process comprises treating beta-glucans released from the 
grain-based substrate with beta-glucanase under conditions 

which will hydrolyze the beta-glucans. The present 
invention further comprises dietary fiber compositions 

produced by the above-described process and a method of 
preparing edible food compositions containing the dietary 

fiber compositions produced by the above-described process. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUAKER OATS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, JOHN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for treating
water-soluble dietary fiber with beta-glucanase. The
present invention further relates to the product of said
treatment process and a method for preparing edible
compositions utilizing the product of said treatment
process.Dietary fat intake has been associated with a number of
undesired health problems such as obesity, cardiovascular
disease, increased cholesterol levels, etc. Thus, there is
a great desire to find edible ingredients which are capable
of partially or totally replacing fats in foods, and a
number of fat replacements are known in the art. However,
there are a number of problems associated with many of these
fat replacements. One such problem is that some fat
replacements may not provide a final product having the same
texture and/or mouthfeel as a product prepared with fat.
For example, when certain fat replacements are used to
prepare baked products, the final baked product is tougher,
dryer (less moist) and has a lower volume than a product
prepared with fat. Other examples of such problems include
fat replacements which lack heat stability or exhibit 
undesirable physical effects on consumers, for example anal
leakage.Thus, a most desired fat replacement would mimic fats
in all these areas, i.e., would provide products having the
same or similar taste, feel, texture, heat stability and
cooking properties as products prepared from fats, and yet
would not possess or cause any of the undesirable properties
or effects described above and would not have any additional
undesirable physical effects of their own. Such is the case
of the beta-glucanase treated water-soluble dietary fiber
composition prepared in accordance with the present
invention.Alternatively, there are those who are unconcerned
about fat in their diets and wish to maximize the mouthfeel
and textural properties associated with fats. The beta-glucanase
treated water-soluble dietary fiber compositions
of the present invention, when used as a food additive
instead of as a fat replacement, act in concert with any
fats present in food products to amplify the texture and
mouthfeel properties associated with such fats.Enzymes have long been used in food processing, one
example being the use of yeast for fermentation.
Furthermore, it has been known that particular enzymes are
useful for specific applications since at least the middle
of the 19th century. The use of the enzyme beta-glucanase in food processing
is also known. The Kirk-Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical
Technology,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for producing a water-soluble
dietary fiber composition wherein an aqueous dispersion of

a gelatinized, milled, beta-glucan containing grain-based
substrate is treated with an alpha-amylase under

conditions which will hydrolyze said substrate and yield a
soluble fraction and an insoluble fraction, including

separating said soluble fraction from said insoluble
fraction, and recovering from said soluble fraction said

water-soluble dietary fiber free of
water-insoluble fiber, characterized by treating

beta-glucans released from the grain-based substrate with
beta-glucanase under conditions which will hydrolyze the

beta-glucans.
A process according to claim 1, characterized
in that the beta-glucans are treated by the addition of

beta-glucanase to the aqueous dispersion of gelatinized,
milled grain-based substrate.
A process according to claim 1, characterized
in that the beta-glucans are treated by the addition of

beta-glucanase after the soluble fraction is separated
from the insoluble fraction.
A process according to claim 1, characterized
in that the beta-glucans are treated by the addition of

beta-glucanase after the water-soluble dietary fiber is
recovered from the soluble fraction free of

water-insoluble fiber.
A process according to any of claims 1 to 4,
characterized in that the beta-glucan containing

grain-based substrate is selected from the group
comprising oat flour, oat bran, barley flour, barley bran,

or mixtures thereof.
A process according to any of claims 1 to 5,
characterized in that the beta-glucanase is derived from a

bacterial source. 
A process according to claim 6, characterized
in that the beta-glucanase is derived from 
Bacillus
subtilis
.
A process according to any of claims 1 to 7,
characterized in that the weight ratio of beta-glucanase

to beta-glucan containing substrate is in the range of
from 4x10
-6
:1 to 2x10
-2
:1.
A process according to any of claims 4 to 8,
characterized by an aqueous suspension of the

water-soluble dietary fiber recovered from milled products
of beta-glucan containing grain-based substrates being

prepared after enzymatic hydrolysis with alpha-amylase of
the milled products; preparing a slurry by adding the

beta-glucanase to the aqueous suspension; and incubating
the slurry.
A process according to claim 9,
characterized in that the aqueous suspension comprises

from 10% to 40% by weight of water-soluble
dietary fiber recovered from milled beta-glucan containing

grain-based substrates after enzymatic hydrolysis with
alpha-amylase.
A process according to claim 9 or 10,
characterized in that the aqueous suspension is maintained

at a temperature in the range of from 10°C to
60°C.
A process according to claim 9, 10 or 11,
characterized in that the slurry comprises from

0.005% to 0.2% by weight beta-glucanase.
A process according to any of claims 9 to

12, characterized in that the slurry is incubated at a
temperature in the range of from 30°C to

60°C.
A process according to claim 13,
characterized in that the slurry is incubated for a length

of time in the range of from 5 minutes to 120
minutes and at a pH in the range of from 5 to

7. 
A process according to any of claims 9 to
14, characterized in that the beta-glucanase is

inactivated by heat treatment.
A process according to claim 15,
characterized in that the beta-glucanase is inactivated by

heating the slurry to a temperature above 90°C for
a length of time in the range of from 5 to 45

minutes.
A process according to any of claims 1 to
16, characterized by combining said beta-glucanase treated

water-soluble dietary fiber composition with edible
ingredients.
A process according to claim 17,
characterized in that the edible ingredients comprise food

and/or food products selected from the group comprising
processed meat and meat products; dairy products; baked

goods; doughs and dry mixes for preparing baked goods,
fillings for baked goods and griddle products; pancakes;

doughnuts; condiments; confectionery items; desserts; egg
substitutes; dry mixes; snack foods; soft drinks; malt

beverages; sports beverages; dietary beverages; salad
dressings; spreads; soups, sauces and gravies; juice

drinks; and frozen and solidified foods.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
