<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637187</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Two-way communications earset
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R110	H04M160	H04R110	H04M160	H04R1900	H04R1901	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04M	H04R	H04M	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R1	H04M1	H04R1	H04M1	H04R19	H04R19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A one piece two way voice communications earset which is 
situated in or at the ear of the user and which includes either 

two unidirectional microphones having their outputs combined or a 
single bi-directional microphone. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a one-piece two-way simultaneous
voice communication signals transmitting and receiving device.Modern wireless technologies have advanced to the extent that
portable, wireless and mobile telephones have become small in size
and are used widely. Such portable telephones typically include a
handset requiring the use of at least one hand for communication.A disadvantage of the handset type of telephone is that they
are inconvenient to use in front of a computer or while driving a
car. In such instances, the user must use a hand to hold the
handset while typing at the keyboard, which is very difficult to
do, or while holding the steering wheel of a car, which is
dangerous. Alternatively, the user must hold the telephone
handset to their ear with their shoulder, which is very
uncomfortable.In order to solve this drawback, hands-free telephones have
been developed. A conventional two-way communications apparatus
used with hands-free telephones comprises a headband including a
speaker positioned in front of one ear and a boom attached to the
headband with a small microphone at one end of the boom. With the
boom connected to the headband, the microphone extends in front of
the mouth of the user. However, this type of hands-free telephone
is not convenient to use because it is cumbersome and because it
disturbs the hair of the user. Another conventional two-way communications system used with
hands-free telephones includes a structure which hangs from the
ear of the user. This type of communications system includes a
speaker positioned in front of the user's ear and a boom having a
microphone extending in front of the mouth of the user. Again,
such a structure is not convenient for the user because it
typically does not hang well at the ear and because it is bulky to
carry owing to the boom.Alternatively, as shown in Fig. 1, yet another conventional
two-way communications system includes a receiver section 1 with a
speaker 1a which is placed in the user's ear canal. Sound is
transmitted to the user via an opening 1b in the back of the
speaker 1a. The two way communications system also includes a
transmitter section 3 which is located relatively close to the
user's mouth. The transmitter section 3 includes a microphone 3a.In the conventional two-way communications system shown in
Fig. 1, however, the transmitter section 3 is attached to the
receiver section 1 by a cord 2. The cord 2 also extends past the
transmitter section 3 and is connected to a telephone terminal
(not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A one-piece two-way simultaneous voice communication signals transmitting and
receiving device comprising:


a receiver responding to an incoming electrical signal of the two-way simultaneous
voice communication signals to emit sound to the ear canal of a user; and
a transmitter (179) attached to the receiver (20) for generating an outgoing
electrical signal of the two-way simultaneous voice communication signals and

located outside the ear canal,
characterized in that

said transmitter comprises:

a microphone (179) having two sound receiving ends and having bi-directional
directivity for sound pickup with one of the two directions of the bi-directional

directivity aimed toward the mouth of the user;
a cavity housing (171) containing the microphone (179) substantially at a central
portion thereof and having first and second sound receiving ends (171e1,171e2)

corresponding to respective ones of the two sound receiving ends of the
microphone; one of the sound receiving ends of the

cavity housing being directed toward the mouth of the user;
two acoustically absorbing elements (172) placed within the housing between the
two sound receiving ends of the microphone and the first and second sound

receiving ends of the housing, respectively, and absorbing signals that cause
leaked sound feedback from the receiver to the microphone; 
amplifying means (220) coupled to the microphone (179) for amplifying a signal
from the microphone with an amplification in a first range of values of a sound

level in the area of the ear canal of less than 70 dBSPL and amplifying the
outgoing signal with an amplification in a second range of values when the

sound level is greater than 70 dBSPL, the values in the first range of values all
being less than the values in the second range of values.
The one piece two-way simultaneous voice transmitting and receiving device
according to claim 1, wherein the cavity comprises a sound pipe which extends

less than 5 cm from each of the sound receiving ends of the microphone. 
The one piece two-way simultaneous voice communication signals transmitting
and receiving device according to claim 1, wherein the receiver includes an

adapter to fit within the ear canal of the user.
The one piece two-way simultaneous voice communication signals transmitting
and receiving device according to claim 1, wherein the receiver includes an

adapter to hang at the ear of the user.
A two-way simultaneous voice communication signal transmitting and receiving
device according to claim 1 comprising an ear cover adapted to hang at the

auricle of a user's ear, wherein said speaker is attached to an inside portion of
the ear cover and facing the entrance of the user's ear canal and said

transmitter section is located outside the user's ear.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
