<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639767</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrochemical sensor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2728	G01N2740	G01N2740	G01N27401	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrochemical sensor wherein the salt bridge is 
a unitary plug (12) of semipermeable material which is 

saturated with an electrolyte. The plug (12) has a spiral 
cut (28) from its outer surface to the central bore (14) of 

the plug. The spiral (28) has at least one complete turn 
and starts at or near one end (18) of the plug (12) and 

stops at or near the other end (20) of the plug. A layer 
of impermeable material is deposited in the plug to thereby 

form an ion impermeable spiral barrier. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT CONTROL AUTOMATION FINANCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL CONTROL AUTOMATION FINANCE S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTNER KURT W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOENI STEWART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTNER, KURT W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOENI, STEWART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to instruments for sensing the 
characteristics of a fluid, more particularly to 
electrochemical sensors and particularly, but not 
exclusively, to reference cells used in pH, ORP, or other 
specific ion sensors. The reference cell used in pH, ORP, or other specific 
ion sensors typically utilizes a metal-metal salt (e.g., 
Ag/AgCl) element. Since this reference element must 
maintain a common electrical potential with the specimen 
fluid, a suitable electrolyte in the form of a salt solution 
links the element to the specimen fluid. This electrolyte 
provides the conductive, i.e., salt, bridge to the specimen 
fluid and surrounds the reference element with an 
electrochemically stable environment. The region where the 
electrolyte and the specimen fluid meet is called the liquid 
junction and usually takes the form of a porous material. The ideal liquid junction would provide a conductive 
link to the specimen fluid and prevent any mixing of the 
specimen fluid with the electrolyte. Usually, mixing is 
unavoidable, which can cause undesirable effects. Thus, 
the liquid junction is typically the weakest point of a 
reference cell design. Current liquid junction designs employ various porous 
material such as wood, Teflon, ceramic frits, wicks, ground 
glass joints, or even just a small hole. These junctions  
 
either separate the specimen fluid from a reservoir of 
electrolyte containing the reference element or are 
saturated with the electrolyte fluid and house the reference 
element in a location far removed from the specimen fluid. A common problem with liquid junctions is maintaining 
a conductive path between the specimen fluid and the 
reference element. Liquid junctions with small openings can 
easily be plugged by solids contained within the specimen 
fluid or by crystallization of the specimen fluid with the 
electrolyte through some type of chemical reaction. To 
reduce plugging problems, large junction surfaces have been 
employed. In U.S. Patent No. 3,440,525 ("the '525 Patent") to 
Cardeiro, he discloses a liquid junction that employs a 
large junction surface created by a single wood or porous 
ceramic plug. The structures of these materials maintain 
electrolyte contact through small capillaries extending 
longitudinally between the specimen fluid and reference 
electrolyte. The liquid junction of the '525 Patent 
possesses a very high density of electrically conductive 
salt links to the specimen fluid via the capillary structure 
of the wood or ceramic plug.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for use in connection with measuring 
ionic properties in a specimen fluid, which comprises: 


(a) a salt bridge comprising an electrolyte-impregnated 
unitary semipermeable plug (12) 

having 

(i) a central bore (14) and a first end (18) 
adapted to contact the specimen fluid, 
(ii) a second end (20) opposite the first end, 
(18) 
(iii) a longitudinal axis extending between said 
first end (18) and said second end, (20) and 
(iv) an outer surface radially outward of said 
longitudinal axis, 
 
   wherein said plug (12) has a spiral cut (28) in 

said outer surface and penetrating into said 
central bore (14), said spiral (28) having at 

least one complete turn and starting at or near 
said first end (18) and ending at or near said 

second end (20); and 
(b) an impermeable material deposited in said spiral 
(28) to substantially fill said spiral (28) 

thereby forming an ion impermeable spiral 
barrier. 
The device of Claim 1 wherein said semipermeable 
plug (12) is wood impregnated with an electrolyte. 
The device of Claim 1 wherein said impermeable 
material is epoxy. 
The device of Claim 1 further comprising a housing 
(24) for closely receiving said plug (12) therein. 
The device of Claim 4 further comprising a 
reference electrode (22) in electrochemical connection with 

said plug (12) first end (18) and physically separated from 
direct communication from said specimen fluid by said plug 

(12). 
The device of Claim 5 further comprising a sensing 
electrode (16) in said housing (24). 
The device of Claim 6 wherein said sensing 
electrode (16) extends axially through said plug (12) and 

protrudes outwardly from said first end (18) and said device 
further comprises a cavity (78) formed in said plug (12) 

second end (20) in which said reference electrode (76) is 
located. 
An electrochemical sensor, comprising: 

(a) a reference electrode (22); 
(b) a sensing electrode (16); 
(c) a salt bridge comprising a unitary plug (12) made 
of semipermeable material and saturated with an 

electrolyte, 

(i) said plug (12) having a central axial bore 
(14) for holding said sensing electrode (16) 

therein, 
(ii) said plug (12) having an outer surface and 
a first end (18) and a second end (20) 

between which said central axial bore (14) 
extends and 
(iii) having a spiral cut (28) in said outer 
surface and penetrating into said central 

axial bore (14), said spiral having at least 
one complete turn and starting at or near 

said first end (18) and ending at or near 
said second end (20) so that said spiral 

interrupts the direct axial capillary path 
from said first end (18) to said second end 

(20); and 
(d) a layer made of impermeable material deposited in 
said spiral (28), wherein said first end (18) of 

said plug (12) and said sensing electrode (16) 
are adapted to contact a specimen fluid to be 

measured, and said second (20) end of said plug 
(12) is in electrochemical contact with said 

reference electrode (22) and serves to separate 
said reference electrode (22) from said specimen 

fluid. 
The electrochemical sensor of Claim 8 wherein said 
semipermeable material is wood impregnated with an 

electrolyte. 
The electrochemical sensor of Claim 8 wherein said 
impermeable material is epoxy. 
The electrochemical sensor of Claim 8 further 
comprising a housing (24) for receiving said plug therein. 
The electrochemical sensor of Claim 11 wherein 
said sensing electrode (16) protrudes outwardly from said 

first end (18). 
A method for physically separating a reference 
electrode (22) from a specimen fluid during measurement of 

the ionic properties of said fluid, comprising the steps of: 

(a) interposing a salt bridge between said reference 
electrode (22) and said specimen fluid, wherein 

said salt bridge is formed of unitary 
semipermeable material (12) having a central bore 

(14), said unitary material (12) impregnated with 
electrolyte and has axially separated first (18) 

and second ends (20) and axially extending 
capillary passageways; and 
(b) inhibiting ion transfer through said passageways 
by providing in said salt bridge a spiral cut 

(28) penetrating into said central bore (14) and 
having at least one complete turn and starting at 

or near said first end (18) and ending at or near 
said second end (20) extending transversely 

across said capillary passageways but not all the 
way through said salt bridge, so that said spiral 

(28) cuts through substantially all of said 

capillary passageways, wherein a layer of 
impermeable material is provided in said spiral 

 
(28) to inhibit ion transfer longitudinally in 

said axially extending capillary passageways and 
allows ion flow only transversely through the 

capillary walls of said unitary semipermeable 
material (12). 
An electrochemical sensor, comprising: 

(a) a unitary semipermeable plug (12) impregnated 
with an electrolyte, said plug having a central 

bore (14) and axially separated first (18) and 
second ends (20) and functioning as a salt 

bridge; 
(b) a sensing electrode (16) positioned at said first 
end (18) and adapted to contact a specimen fluid; 
(c) a reference electrode (22) positioned at said 
second end (20); and 
(d) a spiral cut (28) in the surface of said plug 
(12) and penetrating into said central bore (14), 

said spiral having at least one complete turn and 
starting at or near said first end (18) and 

ending at or near said second end (20) and filled 
with an impermeable material. 
The electrochemical sensor of Claim 14 wherein 
said unitary semipermeable plug (12) is wood impregnated 

with an electrolyte. 
The electrochemical sensor of Claim 14 wherein 
said impermeable material is epoxy. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
