<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654727</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Keyboard incorporating pointing and tilting devices.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J500	B41J510	G06F302	G06F302	G06F3023	G06F3023	H01H1370	H01H1384	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J5	B41J5	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	H01H13	H01H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A keyboard is split into left and right key banks. The key banks are separated
by a key bank split angle preferably within the range of 20° to 36°. The key bank split angle

opens towards the front of the keyboard, forming an intermediate wedge-shaped
area from

which an optional integrated trackball projects. The left and right key banks slope upwardly
toward each other from the left and right sides of the keyboard, respectively, forming lateral

angles preferably within the range of 8° and 15°. The left and right key banks are tilted
toward the front side of the keyboard at a tilt angle preferably within the range of 5° and 18°.

A palm support extends outwardly from and along the entire front edge of the keyboard. An
elongated support is longitudinally retained at the bottom surface of the keyboard, proximate

to the front side. The elongated support may be pivoted downward, toward the front side of
the keyboard, from a retracted position, to an extended position, to thereby produce a

declination angle that changes the tilt angle to a neutral or a negative value.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS EDIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIES THOMAS E JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANEKO STEVEN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAULL MIKE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS, EDIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIES, THOMAS E., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANEKO, STEVEN T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAULL, MIKE M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application 
Serial No. 08/157,822, filed November 24, 1993. The present invention generally relates to input devices for computers, 
and more specifically, to keyboards. Keyboards are used as input devices for computers, word processors, 
and various other systems requiring alphanumeric input by a user. Most keyboards are 
arranged with four rows of keys in the standard "QWERTY" layout used in the first 
typewriters: a home row consisting of keys A, S, D, F, G, H, J, K, L and ";"; an upper 
row consisting of keys Q, W, E, R, T, Y, U, I, O and P; a lower row consisting of keys 
Z, X, C, V, B, N, M, "," and "."; and a numeric row above the upper row, consisting of 
keys 1 through 0. A space bar is positioned below the lower row. Additional keys have been added to the standard QWERTY typewriter 
layout as a result of computers. For example, function keys have been added above the 
numeric key row or to the left of the standard layout. Edit, cursor movement, and other 
special keys have been added and located, as a set of keys or key bank, to the right of 
the standard four key rows. Furthermore, a numeric keypad has been added to the right 
of the special keypad. The numeric keys include the standard 0 through 9 keys, with 
standard arithmetic function keys (e.g., +,-, etc.). In the standard geometric layout, the keys are often staggered in each 
row rather than being aligned in columns, such that, for example, the "B" key in the 
bottom row is positioned between the "G" and "H" keys in the home row. The keys are 
in a plane parallel to the work surface upon which the keyboard rests or are slightly 
inclined towards the typist. Most keyboard users or typists assume a typical posture when using the 
standard keyboard layout for tasks such as word processing and data entry. These 
typists conventionally maintain their hands over the home row of keys, keeping their 
forearms horizontal at the keyboard height, with their palms horizontal and parallel to 
the plane of the keys.  In this posture, typists suffer from the following strains: (1) extension or 
flexion of the arms and hands to reach the keys, as measured by the angle of hand and 
wrists, possibly resulting in pressure or increased stress on the tendons and nerves 
through the carpal tunnel of the wrist; (2) pronation of the forearms to keep the palms 
facing downward, parallel to the keys; and (3) static loads on the forearms, upper arms 
and back, possibly causing muscle fatigue when the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A keyboard for entering commands into a computer, the keyboard 
having left, right and front sides, the keyboard comprising: 

   a left key bank and a right key bank, the left and right key banks having keys 
arranged in a QWERTY layout, the left and right key banks separated by a key bank split 

angle within a range of 23° and 27° opening toward the front side of the keyboard, the key 
bank split angle forming a wedge-shaped area, the left key bank upwardly sloping at a first 

lateral slope angle from the left side of the keyboard, the right key bank upwardly sloping at a 
second lateral slope angle from the right side of the keyboard, the left and right key banks 

tilted toward the front side of the keyboard at a tilt angle within a range of 5° and 15°; and 
   a palm support extending outwardly from the front side of the keyboard. 
A keyboard for entering commands into a computer, the keyboard 
having left, right and front sides, the keyboard comprising: 

   a left keybank and a right keybank, the left and right keybanks having keys 
having a QWERTY layout, the left and right keybanks separated by a keybank split angle 

within a range of 23° and 27° opening toward the front side of the keyboard, the keybank 
split angle forming a wedge-shaped area; 

   the left and right keybanks sloping downwardly toward the left and right sides 
of the keyboard, respectively, forming a lateral slope angle within a range of 8° and 10°; 

   the left and right keybanks tilted toward the front side of the keyboard at a tilt 
angle within a range of 5° and 15°; 

   the force per travel distance of each key defined by a double-peaked 
curve; 

   each key displaceable within a range of 2 and 5 mm; 
   each key capable of activation and where activation of a key provides auditory 

feedback; and 
   a palm support extending outwardly from the front side of the keyboard. 
The keyboard according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the keys in the left 
bank are arranged in a concave pattern and the keys in the right key bank are arranged in a 

concave pattern. 
The keyboard according to claim 1 or 2 wherein each key in the key 
banks has a key top, the key top having a concave contour, the concave contour having a 

concave radius within the range of 25 and 40 mm. 
The keyboard according to claim 4 wherein the key top has a front 
edge and a rear edge, and wherein the rear edge is raised at a height higher than the height of 

the front edge. 
The keyboard according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the keys can be 
activated by a force between 40 and 75 grams. 
The keyboard according to claim 1 or 2 wherein each key is capable of 
activation and wherein activation of a key provides auditory feedback. 
The keyboard according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the keys in the left 
key bank are arranged in columns, and the keys in the right key bank are arranged in 

columns. 
The keyboard according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising an input 
device including a rotatable ball, the input device located between the left keybank and the 

right keybank, the rotatable ball extending upwardly from the wedge-shaped 
area. 
The keyboard according to claim 9, further comprising an input button 
for use with the input device, the input button located proximate to the input device. 
The keyboard according to claim 10 wherein the input button has an 
upwardly protruding bump. 
The keyboard according to claim 9 wherein the left and right key 
banks comprise a home row of keys, an upper row of keys, and a lower row of keys and 

wherein the rotatable ball is located between the upper row of keys and the lower row of 
keys. 
The keyboard according to claim 9 wherein the rotatable ball has a 
diameter within a range of 25 and 30 mm. 
The keyboard according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the palm support has a 
width within the range of 20 to 28 cm, measured from the home row of keys. 
The keyboard according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising at least one 
indicator light positioned at the wedge-shaped area. 
A keyboard for entering commands into a computer, the keyboard 
having left, right and front sides and being capable of resting on a surface, the keyboard 

comprising: 
   a housing supporting a plurality of keys, the housing having a bottom side 

with front, rear, left, and right portions; 
   a left keybank and a right keybank, the left and right keybanks having keys 

arranged in a QWERTY layout, the left and right keybanks separated by a keybank split 
angle within a range of 23° and 27° opening 
toward the front portion, the keybank split angle 
forming a wedge-shaped area, the left keybank upwardly sloping at a first lateral slope angle 

from the left portion, the right keybank upwardly sloping at a second lateral slope angle from 
the right portion, the left and right keybanks tilted toward the front portion at a tilt angle 

within a range of 5° and 15°; 
   a palm support extending outwardly from the front portion; and 

   at least one supporting member retained by the housing at a position 
proximate to the front portion, the supporting member being selectively movable from a first 

position where the bottom side is approximate parallel to the surface when resting thereon, to 
a second position where the supporting member protrudes from the bottom side so that the 

keyboard declines away from a user at a declination angle sloping downward from the front 
portion to the rear portion when the keyboard rests on the surface. 
A keyboard for entering commands into a computer or other device, 
the keyboard being capable of resting on a surface, the keyboard comprising: 

   a housing supporting a plurality of keys and having a bottom side, the bottom 
side having front and rear portions; and 

   at least one supporting member retained by the housing at a position 
proximate to the front portion, the supporting member movable from a first position where 

the bottom side is approximately parallel to the surface when resting thereon, to a second 
position where the supporting member protrudes from the bottom side so that the keyboard 

declines away from a user at a declination angle sloping downward from the front portion to 
the rear portion when the keyboard rests on the surface. 
The keyboard of claim 16 or 17 wherein the supporting member is an 
elongated support having an elongated first edge, the elongated first edge being pivotally 

retained by the housing within an elongated, downward opening recess in the bottom side 
extending between the left and right portions. 
The keyboard of claim 18 wherein the elongated recess is sized to 
substantially fully receive the elongated support therewithin when in the first position and not 

protrude from the elongated recess. 
The keyboard of claim 16 or 17 wherein the declination angle between 
the bottom side and the surface is within a range of about 8° and 15°. 
The keyboard of claim 16 or 17 wherein the supporting member 
includes left and right supporting members retained by the housing toward the left and right 

portions, respectively, proximate to the front portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
