<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612957</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrode boilers with automatic control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F22D100	F22B100	F22B130	F22D130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F22D	F22B	F22B	F22D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F22D1	F22B1	F22B1	F22D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrode boiler comprising a container (11) for 
containing water and electrodes (14 and 15) within the 

container (11) which serve to pass electrical current 
through such water and which are generally upright when in 

use. Feed and drain means (20 to 25) are connected to the 
container (11) to enable water to be fed to and drained 

therefrom. Outlet means (16) are provided through which 
steam generated inside the container (11) can pass. An 

electrode current indicator (32) provides an indication of 
the value of the electrical current passing through the 

electrodes (14 and 15). Control means (40) are connected 
to the feed and drain means (20 to 25) and the electrode 

current indicator (32). The control means (40) are such as 
to cause the feed means (20 to 23) to open when a 

predetermined drop in the electrode current has occurred 
owing to a boiling away of water from the boiler, and then 

to cause the feed means (20 to 23) to close when a 
predetermined increase in the electrode current has 

occurred owing to the introduction of water into the 
boiler. Current-increase-rate measuring means (80) are 

provided in the control means (40) to provide a measure of 
the rate of increase of electrode current when the feed 

means (20 to 23) are open. The control means (40) are such 
as to open the drain means (23 to 25), for a drain period, 

in dependence upon the said measure. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON WILLIAMS GROUP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON-WILLIAMS GROUP LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES HOWARD CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, HOWARD CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to electrode boilers
with automatic control, for example for use in controlling
the humidity of the air in a building.One such electrode boiler is disclosed in EP-A-0,333,357.
This boiler is for use at or near ambient
atmospheric pressure for the humidification of air. It has
two or more electrodes connected to an electrical supply
source between which current flows through the water in
order to heat the water. There is also a steam outlet,
means for feeding water into the boiler, means for
discharging water from the boiler, means for sensing the
current in one or more electrodes, and control means
responsive to the sensed electrode current arranged to
initiate the feed water means when the electrode current is
below a predetermined lower value and to initiate the water
discharge means after the electrode current has risen above
a predetermined higher value. Following the initiation of
the feed water means and the electrode current subsequently
rising to a predetermined intermediate value between the
said lower and higher values, the control means effects the
introduction, into the boiler, of a fixed measured quantity
of feed water.A further such electrode boiler has previously been
proposed, for example, in US-A- 4,347,430, in which current
is supplied to its electrodes to cause the water held
therein to boil away. When the water in the boiler has 
boiled away to a certain level, fresh water is supplied to
the boiler container, which is generally in the form of a
cylinder, to refill it. This process is repeated. As a
result the concentration of electrolytes in the water
increase until a desired current level is reached when the
cylinder is full as indicated by a cylinder full pin, which
causes a signal to be issued when the water in the
cylinder reaches that pin. Thereafter, the water in the
cylinder is boiled away. As a result, the water level
drops, the lengths of the electrodes which are immersed in
the water decreases, and so thus does the current through
the electrodes. Once the current falls to a predetermined
percentage of the desired current below that current value,
fresh water is introduced into the cylinder until the
desired current value is restored. This boil / fill cycle
is repeated to produce the desired amount of steam from the
cylinder. A lower demand can be satisfied simply by
reducing the level of the water in the cylinder relative to
the maximum demand. However, as time progresses, the
electrolytic content of the water increases, so that a
given
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrode boiler comprising a container (11) for
containing water, electrodes (14 and 15, within the

container (11) which serve to pass electrical current
through such water and which extend in a generally vertical

direction when the boiler is in use, feed and drain means
(20 to 25) connected to the container (11) tc enable water

to be fed to and drained from the container (11), outlet
means (16) of the container (11) through which steam

generated inside the container (11) can pass when the
boiler is in use, an electrode current indicator (32)

arranged to provide an indication of the value of the
electrical current passing through the electrodes (14 and

15), control means (40) connected to the feed and drain
means (20 to 25) and the electrode current indicator (32),

in which the control means (40) are such as to cause the
feed means (20 to 23) to open when a predetermined drop in

the electrode current has occurred owing to a boiling away
of water from the boiler, and then to cause the feed means

(20 to 23) to close when a predetermined increase in the
electrode current has occurred owing to the introduction of

water into the boiler through the feed means (20 to 23),
and current-increase-rate measuring means (80) provided in

the control means (40) to provide a measure of the rate of
increase of electrode current when the feed means (20 to

23) are open, in which the control means (40) are such as
to open the drain means (23 to 25), for a drain period, in 

dependence upon the said measure, 
characterised in that

comparison means (84) are provided in the control means
(40) to compare two successive measures of the rate of

increase of electrode current as provided by the current-increase-rate
measuring means (80), the control means (40)

being such as to open the drain means (23 to 25), for a
drain period, upon the occurrence of the later of the two

successive measures being lower than the earlier.
An electrode boiler according to claim 1,

characterised in that
 the said measure is provided by the
time it takes for the said predetermined increase in

electrode current to occur.
An electrode boiler according to claim 1,

characterised in that
 the said measure is provided by the
increase in electrode current that occurs over a

predetermined interval while the feed means (20 to 23) are
open.
An electrode boiler according to claim 1,

characterised in that
 the said measure is the gradient of
electrode current as a function of time when the feed means

(20 to 23) are open.
An electrode boiler according to any preceding claim,

characterised in that
 a value of the said measure is
provided every time the feed means (20 to 23) are open, and

an inhibit latch (88) is provided in the control means (40)
to inhibit opening of the drain means (23 to 25) until a

predetermined number of boil / fill cycles have occurred
after a desired electrode current has been reached. 
An electrode boiler according to claim 5,

characterised in that
 the said predetermined number is
fifteen.
An electrode boiler according to any preceding claim,

characterised in that
 the said measure is a rolling average
of values taken from a predetermined number of the most

recent boil / fill cycles.
An electrode boiler according to claim 7,

characterised in that
 the predetermined number referred to
in that claim is five.
An electrode boiler according to any preceding claim,

characterised in that
 the said measure is given by the
expression REF/FT, in which REF is a reference value stored

in the control means (40), and FT is the feed time for
which the feed means (20 to 23) are open during a boil /

fill cycle.
An electrode boiler according to claim 9,

characterised in that
 REF is the value of the feed time at
the start of operation of the boiler once the desired

electrode current has been reached so that REF/FT is an
indication of the concentration of the electrolytic

contents of the water in the boiler in terms of the initial
value it had at start-up with the desired current having

been reached.
An electrode boiler according to any one of claims 1
to 8, 
characterised in that
 the said measure is given by
CN=REF/FT
RA
 in which REF is the value of the feed time at
the start of operation of the boiler once the desired 

electrode current has been reached, CN is the value of the
measure, and FT
RA
 is a rolling average of the feed time.
An electrode boiler according to any one of claims 1
to 8, 
characterised in that
 the said measure is given by
CN=REF/10(FT
RA
/ΔI) in which REF is the value of the feed
time at the start of operation of the boiler once the

desired electrode current has been reached, ΔI is,
expressed as a percentage, the said predetermined drop

and/or the said predetermined increase, the said

predetermined increase in any case being substantially
equal to the said predetermined drop whilst the boiler is

operating in a state of dynamic equilibrium.
An electrode boiler according to claim 12,

characterised in that
 the said predetermined drop and/or
the said predetermined increase is substantially 10%.
An electrode boiler according to any one of claims 9
to 13, 
characterised in that,
 in the event that such a
decrease in the value of the said measure occurs before the

value of that measure has reached a predetermined value,
the value of REF is reset.
An electrode boiler according to claim 14,

characterised in that
 the said predetermined value is
substantially 1.5.
An electrode boiler according to claim 14 or claim 15,

characterised in that
 the new value to which REF is reset
is given by the equation:


REF
new
 = 10 (REF
init
 - FT
RA current
) / CF,

in which REF
new
 is the new reference value, REF
init
 is the 
value it had, FT
RA current
 is the most recent value of FT
RA
, and
CF is a value of concentration which is dependent upon the

set value of the electrode current.
An electrode boiler according to claim 16,

characterised in that
 the value of CF is given by a table
of values stored in a memory of the control means.
An electrode boiler according to claim 16 or claim 17,

characterised in that
 CF has a value of substantially 3 for
operation conditions in which the electrode current is set

to be 100% of the desired maximum current when the boiler
is full, and a value of substantially 1.5 for operation

conditions in which the electrode current is set to be at
substantially 22% of that desired maximum current, the

values of CF between those points increasing exponentially.
A method of operating an electrode boiler comprising
a container (11) for containing water, electrodes within

the container (11) which serve to pass electrical current
through such water and which extend in a generally vertical

direction when the boiler is in use, feed and drain means
(20 to 25) connected to the container (11) to enable water

to be fed to and drained from the container (11), outlet
means (16) of the container (11) through which steam

generated inside the container (11) can pass when the
boiler is in use, an electrode current indicator (32)

arranged to provide an indication of the value of the
electrical current passing through the electrodes (14 and

15), and control means (40) connected to the feed and drain
means (20 to 25) and the electrode current indicator (32), 

the method comprising the steps of:

(a) causing the feed means (20 to 23) to open when a
predetermined drop in the electrode current has occurred

owing to a boiling away of water from the boiler;
(b) causing the feed means (20 to 23) to close when
a predetermined increase in the electrode current has

occurred owing to the introduction of water into the boiler
through the feed means (20 to 23); and
(c) opening the drain means (23 to 25), for a drain
period, in dependence upon the rate of increase of

electrode current when the feed means (20 to 23) are open;

characterised in that
 the method further comprises the step
of:

   opening the drain means (23 to 25) for a drain period
upon the occurrence of a measure of the rate of increase of

electrode current when the feed means (20 to 23) are open,
being lower than a preceding such measure.
A method according to claim 19, using apparatus as
claimed in any one of claims 2 to 18.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
