<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642127</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magneto optical recording method and magneto optical recording medium used therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1100	G11B1110	G11B11105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B11	G11B11	G11B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magneto-optical recording medium includes a 
magnetizable amorphous alloy film having a perpendicular 

magnetic anisotropy to the film surface. The film is 
formed from rare earth metals and transition metal, such 

that the film has a Curie point that increases as the 
proportion of the transition metals increases. A magneto-optical 

recording method includes establishing a recording 
magnetic field and magneto-optically recording onto the 

film such that even if there are compositional changes in 
the film, little influence on recording sensitivity 

results. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON KOGAKU KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIKON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a magneto-optical 
recording medium and magneto-optical recording method 
wherein the recording, erasure, and reproduction of data 
is magnetically accomplished in a heated state by means of 
irradiation with a laser beam. More particularly, the 
present invention relates to an over-write capable 
magneto-optical recording medium and an over-write capable 
magneto-optical recording method. Recently, optical recording and reproduction 
methods have been developed that satisfy demands for high 
density, high capacity, high access speed, high recording 
speed, high reproduction speed, etc. In addition, 
recording devices in the form of reproduction devices and 
recording mediums have been developed using the recently-developed 
recording and reproduction methods for these 
stated purposes. Among the many optical reproduction methods, the 
magneto-optical. method is capable of over-write operation. 
That is, the magneto-optical method is capable of erasing 
data that has already been recorded on the recording 
medium. Following erasure, the magneto-optical method has 
the advantage of being capable of again recording new data 
on the recording medium, a capability that has a great 
deal of appeal. Generally, the magneto-optical method is 
accomplished through the irradiation of a laser beam on a 
medium that possesses a perpendicularly magnetized film 
recording layer. The direction of magnetization of the 
recording layer is predirected either upwardly or 
downwardly, as the case may be, in advance of recording. 
When recording, a portion of the recording layer is heated 
to a temperature close to that of the Curie point, at 
which magnetization becomes zero, by means of a laser beam 
having a very small diameter of about 1 µm. This small  
 
diameter laser beam forms a mark that has an opposite 
direction of magnetization by reducing the coercivity (Hc) 
of the locally heated portion of the recording medium to a 
value below the magnetic recording bias field (Hb). The 
data is manifest on the recording medium by means of the 
existence or nonexistence of, and the length of, the 
resulting mark. Reproduction of the recorded data is 
accomplished by irradiating polarized light beams onto the 
recording layer of the recording medium. The polarized 
light is rotated by ϑK degrees in the recording layer 
according to the direction of magnetization, a principle 
known as the magnetic Kerr effect. The reflected light is 
then detected, analyzed and converted to an electric 
signal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A magneto-optical recording medium comprising 
a magnetizable amorphous alloy film having a perpendicular 

magnetic anisotropy to the film surface, said film 

comprising rare earth metals and transition metals in 
proportions such that a Curie point of said film increases 

as the proportion of the transition metals increases. 
A magneto-optical recording medium as in 
claim 1, wherein said film has a compensation temperature 

higher than room temperature and lower than the Curie 
point. 
A magneto-optical recording medium as in 
claim 1, wherein a variation in relative amounts of the 

rare earth metals and the transition metals from a 
predetermined proportion in said film results in little or 

no change in a temperature at which the film has a 
predetermined coercivity. 
A magneto-optical recording medium as in 
claim 1, wherein the composition of said film satisfies 

the formula: 
Dyx(Fe100-yCoy)100-x 

wherein 26 ≦ x ≦ 29 and 15 ≦ y ≦ 25, as expressed in terms 
of atomic percent. 
A magneto-optical recording medium as in 
claim 1, wherein the composition of said film satisfies 

the formula: 
(Tb100-zDyz)x(Fe100-yCoy)100-x 

wherein 26 ≦ x ≦ 29, 15 ≦ y ≦ 25 and 50 ≦ z ≦ 95, as 
expressed in terms of atomic percent. 
A magneto-optical recording medium as in 
claim 1, wherein said film is formed by a sputtering 

method or by an evaporation method. 
A magneto-optical recording method, 
comprising: 


(a) providing a magneto-optical recording medium 
comprising a magnetizable amorphous alloy film having a 

perpendicular magnetic anisotropy to the film surface, 
said film comprising rare earth metals and transition 

 
metals in proportions such that a Curie point of said film 

increases as the proportion of the transition metals 
increases, 
(b) irradiating a laser beam on said film, said 
laser beam modulated according to the information to be 

recorded on said film, and 
(c) establishing a recording magnetic field around 
said film; 
 
   wherein the variation in relative amounts of the 

rare earth metals and the transition metals from a 
predetermined proportion in said film results in little or 

no influence on recording sensitivity. 
A magneto-optical recording method according 
to claim 7, wherein the recording magnetic field is 

established at a magnitude of from 300 Oe to 600 Oe. 
A magneto-optical recording method according 
to claim 7, wherein said film has a compensation 

temperature higher than room temperature and lower than 
the Curie point. 
A magneto-optical recording method according 
to claim 7, wherein the composition of said film satisfies 

the formula: 
Dyx(Fe100-yCoy)100-x 

wherein 26 ≦ x ≦ 29 and 15 ≦ y ≦ 25, as expressed in terms 
of atomic percent. 
A magneto-optical recording method according 
to claim 7, wherein the composition of said film satisfies 

the formula: 
(Tb100-zDyz)x(Fe100-yCoy)100-x 

wherein 26 ≦ x ≦ 29, 15 ≦ y ≦ 25 and 50 ≦ z ≦ 95, as 
expressed in terms of atomic percent. 
A magneto-optical recording method according 
to claim 7, wherein said film is formed by a sputtering 

method or by an evaporation method. 
A recording medium comprising a 
metallic compound including at least one rare earth 

type metal and at least one transitional metal, the 
compound having a Curie temperature which varies with 

the relative quantities of the metals in the compound 
such that the sensitivity of the medium to a recording 

operation is not affected substantially by the 
relative quantities of the metals. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
