<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615637</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR PROJECTION UPON A THREE-DIMENSIONAL OBJECT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B2100	G03B2100	G03B3300	G03B3300	G03B3518	G03B3518	G06F3041	G06F3041	G06T1700	G06T1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G06F	G06F	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B21	G03B21	G03B33	G03B33	G03B35	G03B35	G06F3	G06F3	G06T17	G06T17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A projection apparatus and method for realistic projection with applications to amusement, optical engineering, video shopping and cosmetics. Graphics data is entered into a user interface (32, 42, 52) and is processed to generate an output (24) representing an image to be projected onto a three-dimensional object (12). This output controls a light filter (68), such as a plurality of optically superposed color composite liquid crystal panels, to selectively filter projected light so that an image having a desired appearance is projected upon the object (12). The projected image may be interactively modified, stored in memory and projected as part of an image sequence to create apparent motion in the object.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WALT DISNEY PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONROE MARSHALL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONROE, MARSHALL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR PROJECTIONUPON A THREE-DIMENSIONAL OBJECTA portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to projection devices and, more particularly, to an apparatus and method for projection upon a three-dimensional object.The projection of an image onto a three-dimen- sional object having various contours and shapes is not an easy task. It is generally known that the correction of all optical distortion problems inherent in flat, two- dimensional image projection is especially difficult when working with three-dimensional projection surfaces. These problems include proper image registration on the object, proper keystoning, corrections to ensure appropriate perspective appearances and focusing of the image within a specified range of depth.Through the years, various attempts have been made to project images onto three-dimensional objects. For example, from the days of early artists it has been known to transfer three-dimensional images to two-dimen¬ sional images by using a pane of glass and tracing the three-dimensional image by eye onto the glass. In general, these three-dimensional images could not be accurately reconstituted from the glass by projection, because the human eye cannot reproduce the optical distortions induced by the condensing and objective lens systems used in most projectors. This is due in large 

 part to the fact that the human eye generally cannot perceive depth or perspective in projected images.In recent times, artists have nevertheless used projection in an effort to recreate three dimensional images. Attempts have been made, for example, to use two distinct but overlapping image projections of polarized light to create an illusion of depth. In these circum¬ stances, special three-dimensional viewing glasses are worn for viewing the polarized image projections. These viewing glasses filter the polarized light to present one of the image projections to each eye. The discrepancies between these image projections create the impression of depth in the image.Other approaches, such as holography, present a three-dimensional image through the interference patterns of two distinct projections of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. An image display apparatus, comprising: a three-dimensional object; projection means aligned so as to project light upon the three-dimensional object; interface means for receiving data from a user, said data representative of a portion of an image to be projected upon the three-dimensional object; and, data processing means for processing, in response to data received by the interface means, data corresponding to the image to be projected upon the three- dimensional object and for controlling the projection means so as to project the image.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the projection means comprises a projector and includes addressable light filter means for selectively filtering the light of the projector so that an image is projected upon the three-dimensional object.
3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the projector has a condensing lens and an objective lens and wherein the addressable light filter means includes a plurality of optically superposed separately addressable liquid crystal panels which themselves are individually optically superposed with a color filter, said addressable light filter means positioned between the objective and condensing lens of the projector.
4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the separately addressable liquid crystal filters are three in number and are individually optically superposed with yellow, magenta and cyan filters.
5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the interface means comprises 


 user interface means for receiving data to create regions corresponding to said image, and simplified guest interface means for selecting among regions projected upon the three-dimensional object by the image display apparatus and for selectively changing the graphical content of a selected region; and wherein the data processing means is responsive to data from the user interface means to create said regions and to control the addressable light filter means to cause the projection of said image upon the three-dimensional object, and is also responsive to the simplified guest interface means to select one of said regions, to selectively paint that region with graphical data and to project corresponding graphical information within the region projected upon the three-dimensional object.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the data processing means includes a color pattern generator that is responsive to the simplified guest interface means to selectively generate a color pattern that may be painted in the region.
7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the simplified guest interface is a polhemus device having an output that is representative of a position on the three dimensional object and a decision to paint a region corresponding to said position with graphical data.
8. An image display apparatus comprising: a three-dimensional object; a projector having a lens system and being aligned so as to project light upon the three-dimensional object, said projector including addressable light filter 


 means for selectively filtering the light of the projector so that an image is projected upon the three-dimensional obj ct; user interface means for receiving data from a user to create at least one region corresponding to said image; simplified guest interface means for selecting among regions corresponding to the three- dimensional object and for selectively changing the graphical content of a selected region; a color pattern generator that is responsive to the simplified guest interface means to selectively generate a current color pattern that may be painted in the selected region; and, data processing means responsive to the user interface means for creating regions for filling a region with the color pattern in response to the an impetus to draw or fill a region from the simplified guest interface means and in response to the color pattern generator, and for controlling the addressable light filter means to cause the projection of the image upon the three-dimensional object.
9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the simplified guest interface means includes a guest data input indicates of a guest's decision either to change the current color pattern or a decision to paint a particular region of the three-dimensional object with the current color pattern, and wherein the addressable light filter means may be driven by the computer's monitor output signal.
10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the simplified guest interface means includes a polhemus device having an output that corresponds to a selected position on the three-dimensional object. 


 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the data processing means includes a memory for storing a plurality of images for sequential projection upon the three- dimensional object.
12. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the simplified guest interface means includes a joystick having an output that corresponds to a selected position on the three-dimensional object.
13. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the simplified guest interface includes a stylus and a digitizing pad having an output that corresponds to a selected position on the three-dimensional object.
14. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the simplified guest interface includes a mouse having an output that corresponds to a selected position on the three-dimensional object.
15. A method of projecting an image onto a three-dimensional object, comprising the steps of:
(a) entering data into a user interface to create at least one region that corresponds to a portion of the object;
(b) entering data into the user interface to select a current color pattern corresponding to a region;
(c) processing the data to generate an output representing an image corresponding to the object;
(d) projecting the image onto the object such that selected color patterns for each region are projected upon each portion of the object corresponding to 


 said regions; and
(e) controlling the projection in response to the output such that the image is projected on the object as desired.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of storing the output representing the image in a buffer and then processing that stored output to inter¬ actively modify the image.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of (f) storing the output representing the image in a memory such that it may be recalled and subsequently projected onto the object as desired.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising the steps of
Cg) storing the output representing the image in a buffer and then processing that stored output to interactively modify the image storing a plurality of outputs to form a sequence of different but related images for sequential projection upon the object, and
(h) performing steps (f) and (g) a plurality of times to form a sequence in memory of related images for sequential projection upon the object.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein: the step of projecting the image onto the object includes the step of projecting light through a light filter, and the step of controlling the projection in response to the output includes the step of controlling the light filter to subtract projected light so as to project the image on the object as desired. 


 20. The method of claim 19, wherein: the step of projecting light through the light filter includes the step of projecting light through optically superposed liquid crystal panels to project the image onto the object, and the step of controlling the light filter includes the step of controlling two or more optically superposed liquid crystal panels in response to the output to thereby reproduce corresponding color components of the image.
21. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of processing the graphics data to generate an output repre¬ senting the image corresponding the object includes the step of displaying the image upon a monitor for viewing by the user.
22. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of entering data into a user interface to select color pattern information includes the steps of entering, via a simplified guest interface, data to select a current color pattern for projection upon selective portions of the object, and of entering, via the simplified guest interface, data to select a particular area of the object, wherein the step of processing the data to generate an output includes the step of identifying a region corresponding to the area of the object selected and painting the region with the current color pattern, and wherein the step of controlling the projection in response to the output includes the step of projecting the color pattern upon the portion of the object corresponding to said region.
23. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of entering data into a 


 user interface to select a current color pattern includes the steps of entering, via a simplified guest interface, data to indicate a decision to projectively draw upon the object and of entering, via the simplified guest interface, data corresponding to a point on the object, wherein the step of processing the data to generate an output includes the step of identifying a pixel within a region corresponding to the point on the object and painting that pixel with a selected current color pattern, and wherein the step of controlling the projection in response to the output includes the step of projecting the selected color pattern upon an area of the object corresponding to said pixel.
24. A method of projecting light onto a three- dimensional object comprising the steps of:
(a) entering, via a user interface, graphics data defining a region corresponding to a portion the three-dimensional object;
(b) retrieving data from a simplified guest interface indicative of a point on the object, said simplified guest interface being manipulable by a guest to identify various points on the object;
(c) retrieving data entered by the guest at the simplified guest interface indicative of a decision by the guest to select a current color pattern to be projected upon the object and processing said data indicative of a decision to select a current color pattern;
(d) retrieving data entered by the guest at the simplified guest interface indicative of a decision to project the current color pattern upon an area on the 


 object and processing said data indicative of a decision 20 to project the current color pattern upon an area of the object and said data indicative of a point on the object to select a region corresponding to said point and to paint that region with the current color pattern;
(e) processing the data received to format 25 an image containing the region to be projected upon the object; and
(f) projecting the image upon the object.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein the step of projecting the image upon the object includes the steps of projecting light through individual addressable liquid crystal filters that are individually optically superposed
5 with color filters and with each other, of separating out color components of the image to be projected corresponding to the number of individual liquid crystal filters and of controlling the liquid crystal filters such that the image is projected upon the object.
26. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of retrieving data entered by the guest at the simplified guest interface indicative of a decision to projectively draw upon the object and processing said data
'
 5 indicative of a point on the object to select a pixel corresponding to said point so as to paint that pixel with a selected color pattern, said selected color pattern being predefined as one of the current color pattern or a user defined color pattern.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising the steps of:
(a) performing a plurality of times the step of 


retrieving data entered by the guest at the simplified guest interface indicative of a decision to projectively draw upon the object and processing said data indicative of a point on the object to select a pixel corresponding to said point so as to paint that pixel with a selected color pattern, so as to generate a set of pixels,
(b) determining whether said set of pixels forms one of a closed contour or in combination with a region's boundaries a closed contour, and
(c) defining said closed contour as a region. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
