<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619756</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PERVAPORATION APPARATUS AND PROCESS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D6136	B01D6136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D61	B01D61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pervaporation apparatus and process adapted to handle a diverse range of feed stream compositions and volumes. The apparatus includes a pervaporation unit (1) and condenser (8) one or more tanks, for instance a process tank (5), a holding tank (10), a second process tank (16), a concentrate tank (24), and a control system (28) to direct liquid flows within the apparatus according to the chosen processing scheme. The apparatus and process can achieve separation performance comparable to a one-stage, two-stage, two-step or more complicated pervaporation system, including those in which two-phase permeates are produced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEMBRANE TECH 
&
 RES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEMBRANE TECHNOLOGY AND RESEARCH, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASCHEMEKAT JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIJMANS JOHANNES G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER, RICHARD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASCHEMEKAT, JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIJMANS, JOHANNES, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PERVAPORATION APPARATUS AND PROCESSFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe invention relates to pervaporation. More particularly, the invention relates to a pervaporation apparatus and process adapted to handle a diverse range of feed stream compositions and volumes.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONPervaporation is a separation technology that is beginning to achieve commercial success. The pervaporation process itself has been known since the 1950s, and is described, for example, in U.S. Patents 2,913,507 and 2,953,502 to Binning et al. Organic- selective pervaporation is described in a general way in U.S. Patent 4,218,312 to Perry.Despite the theoretical knowledge embodied in these patents, many years elapsed before commercially viable pervaporation systems could be contemplated, because the technology to make high performance membranes and modules had not been developed. This technology has begun to emerge in the last few years. The design of a pervaporation system depends on the nature of the stream to be treated, the desired compositions of the permeate and residue streams and the properties of the available membranes. One pass through a single bank of pervaporation modules may be adequate to achieve a sufficiently concentrated permeate and a sufficiently depleted residue, so long as the starting concentration is within a particular range, and so long as the membrane is intrinsically capable of that level of separation. It is frequently the case, however, that either the permeate stream or the residue stream emerging from the module bank, or both, will need to pass through a second module bank before reaching the target concentration. Often, recycling of streams between module banks will be necessary. It is generally necessary, therefore, to make a custom-designed system for each application. For large industrial plants with feed streams of a constant composition and steady, high- volume flow rates, this is acceptable. To date, however, the benefits of pervaporation as an efficient separation technology have not been readily available to potential users who do not fit this description, particularly small industries, those with streams whose flow 

 rate and/or composition is variable, or those whose stream flow rates are low. Such potential users may not have the resources of large plants to pool, adjust or pretreat feed streams to bring them within tight starting parameters for treatment- They may also encounter problems using other separations and waste-treatment technologies, such as distillation, carbon
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. An apparatus, comprising in combination: a pervaporation unit, including at least one membrane having a feed side and a permeate side; a first process tank, connected to said feed side to form a first liquid loop, such that liquid is transferrable to and from said feed side; a condenser, having an inlet and outlet, said inlet being connected to said permeate side; a second process tank, connected to said feed side to form a second liquid loop, such that liquid is transferrable to and from said feed side, and connected to said outlet such that liquid is transferrable from said outlet to said second process tank; a holding tank, connected to said first process tank such that liquid is transferrable between said holding tank and said first process tank, connected to said second process tank such that liquid is transferrable between said holding tank and said second process tank and connected to said outlet such that liquid is transferrable from said outlet to said holding tank; a concentrate tank, connected to said outlet such that liquid is transferrable from said outlet to said concentrate tank; means for removing liquid from said first liquid loop; means for removing liquid from said concentrate tank; controlling means for controlling fluid flows within said apparatus.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a programmable controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding, concentrate and second process tanks.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by an electronic controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, 


 between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding, concentrate and second process tanks.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by an electromechanical controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding, concentrate and second process tanks.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a mechanical controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding, concentrate and second process tanks. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of automatic valves, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding, concentrate and second process tanks. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of manually operated valves, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding, concentrate and second process tanks.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controlling means is activated by one or more sensors, connected to one or more of said first process tank, said second process tank and said concentrate tank, to monitor the concentrations of liquids therein.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controlling means is activated by one or more level switches, connected to one or more of said holding tank, said first process tank, said 


second process tank and said concentrate tank, to monitor the volume of liquids therein.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controlling means is time activated.
11. An apparatus, comprising in combination: a pervaporation unit, including at least one membrane having a feed side and a permeate side; a first process tank, connected to said feed side to form a first liquid loop, such that liquid is transferrable to and from said feed side; a condenser, having an inlet and outlet, said inlet being connected to said permeate side; a second process tank, connected to said feed side to form a second liquid loop, such that liquid is transferrable to and from said feed side, and connected to said outlet such that liquid is transferrable from said outlet to said second process tank; a holding tank, connected to said first process tank such that liquid is transferrable between said holding tank and said first process tank, connected to said second process tank such that liquid is transferrable between said holding tank and said second process tank and connected to said outlet such that liquid is transferrable from said outlet to said holding tank; means for removing liquid from said first liquid loop; means for removing liquid from said outlet; controlling means for controlling fluid flows within said apparatus. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a programmable controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding and second process tanks.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a electronic controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, 


 between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding and second process tanks.
14. The apparatus of claim 11 , wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a electromechanical controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding and second process tanks.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a mechanical controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding and second process tanks. 16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of automatic valves, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding and second process tanks. 17. The apparatus of claim 11 , wherein said controlling means comprises a set of manually operated valves, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said first process tank, between said pervaporation unit and said second process tank, between said holding tank and said first process tank, between said holding tank and said second process tank and between said condenser and said holding and second process tanks. 18. The apparatus of claim II, wherein said controlling means is activated by one or more sensors, connected to one or more of said first process tank and said second process tank, to monitor the concentrations of liquids therein.
1 . The apparatus of claim 11 , wherein said controlling means is activated by one or more level switches, connected to one or more of said holding tank, said first process tank and said second process tank, to monitor the volume of liquids therein. 


20. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said controlling means is time activated.
21. An apparatus, comprising in combination: a pervaporation unit, including at least one membrane having a feed side and a permeate side; a process tank, connected to said feed side to form a liquid loop, such that liquid is transferrable to and from said feed side; a condenser, having an inlet and outlet, said inlet being connected to said permeate side; a holding tank, connected to said process tank such that liquid is transferrable between said holding tank and said process tank and connected to said outlet such that liquid is transferrable from said outlet to said holding tank; a concentrate tank, connected to said outlet such that liquid is transferrable from said outlet to said concentrate tank; means for removing liquid from said liquid loop; means for removing liquid from said concentrate tank; controlling means for controlling fluid flows within said apparatus.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a programmable controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank, between said holding tank and said process tank, between said condenser and said holding tank and between said condenser and said concentrate tank.
23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by an electronic controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank, between said holding tank and said process tank, between said condenser and said holding tank and between said condenser and said concentrate tank.
24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by an electromechanical controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank, between said holding tank and said process tank, between said condenser and said holding tank and between said 


 condenser and said concentrate tank.
25. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a mechanical controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank, between said holding tank and said process tank, between said condenser and said holding tank and between said condenser and said concentrate tank.
26. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of automatic valves, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank, between said holding tank and said process tank, between said condenser and said holding tank and between said condenser and said concentrate tank.
27. The apparatus of claim 21 , wherein said controlling means comprises a set of manually operated valves, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank, between said holding tank and said process tank, hetween said condenser and said holding tank and between said condenser and said concentrate tank. 28. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said controlling means is activated by one or more sensors, connected to one or more of said process tank and said concentrate tank, to monitor the concentrations of liquids therein.
29. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said controlling means is activated by one or more level switches, connected to one or more of said holding tank, said process tank and said concentrate tank, to monitor the volume of liquids therein.
30. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said controlling means is time activated.
31. An apparatus, comprising in combination: a pervaporation unit, including at least one membrane having a feed side and a permeate side; a process tank, connected to said feed side to form a liquid loop, such that liquid is transferrable to and from said feed side; a condenser, having an inlet and outlet, said inlet being connected to said permeate side; a holding tank, connected to said process tank such that liquid is transferrable between said holding tank and said process tank; 


means for removing liquid from said liquid loop; means for removing liquid from said outlet; controlling means for controlling fluid flows within said apparatus.
32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a programmable controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank and between said holding tank and said process tank.
33. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by an electronic controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank and between said holding tank and said process tank.
34. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by an electromechanical controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank and between said holding tank
*
 and said process tank.
35. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of valves whose operation is controlled by a mechanical controller, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank and between said holding tank and said process tank. 36. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of automatic valves, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank and between said holding tank and said process tank.
37. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said controlling means comprises a set of manually operated valves, said set comprising valves located between said pervaporation unit and said process tank and between said holding tank and said process tank.
38. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said controlling means is activated by one or more sensors, connected to said process tank to monitor the concentrations of liquids therein.
39. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said controlling means is activated by one or more level switches, connected to said process tank to monitor the volume of liquids therein. 40. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said controlling means is time activated. 


 41. A pervaporation process, comprising the steps:
(a) passing a solution containing a component from a holding tank to a process tank;
(b) circulating said solution across the feed side of a membrane having a feed side and a permeate side; (c) withdrawing a permeate vapor from said permeate side, condensing said permeate vapor to form a permeate liquid and discharging said permeate liquid;
(d) when the concentration of said component in said solution has dropped to a first value, passing said permeate liquid to said holding tank;
(e) when the concentration of said component in said solution has dropped to a second value, discontinuing said circulating step and discharging said solution from said process tank.
42. A pervaporation process, comprising the steps:
(a) passing a solution containing a component from a holding tank to a first process tank;
(b) circulating said solution across the feed side of a membrane having a feed side and a permeate side;
(c) withdrawing a first permeate vapor from said permeate side, condensing said first permeate vapor to form a first permeate liquid and passing said first permeate liquid to a second process tank;
(d) when the concentration of said component in said solution has dropped to a first value, discontinuing said circulating step (b) and at any time thereafter discharging said solution from said process tank;
(e) circulating said first permeate liquid across said feed side;
(f ) withdrawing a second permeate vapor from said permeate side, condensing said second permeate vapor to form a second permeate liquid and discharging said second permeate liquid;
(g) when the concentration of said component in said first permeate liquid has dropped to a second value, discontinuing said circulating step (e) and discharging said first permeate liquid from said second process tank. 


43. A pervaporation process, comprising the steps:
(a) passing a solution containing a component from a holding tank to a process tank;
(b) circulating said solution across the feed side of a membrane having a feed side and a permeate side; (c) withdrawing a first permeate vapor from said permeate side, condensing said first permeate vapor to form a permeate liquid and discharging said permeate liquid;
(d) when the concentration of said component in said solution has dropped to a value, discontinuing said circulating step and discharging said solution from said process tank;
(e) controlling one or more of said steps (a)-(d) by means of a process control system. 44. The process of claim 43, wherein said process control system comprises a programmable controller.
45. The process of claim 43, wherein said process control system comprises an electronic controller.
46. The process of claim 43, wherein said process control system comprises an electromechanical controller.
47. The process of claim 43, wherein said process control system comprises a mechanical controller.
48. The process of claim 43, wherein said process control system is activated by one or more sensors, connected to said process tank to monitor the concentrations of liquids therein.
49. The process of claim 43, wherein said process control system is activated by one or more level switches, connected to said process tank to monitor the volume of liquids therein.
50. The process of claim 43, wherein said process control system is time activated.
51. A pervaporation process, comprising the steps:
(a) circulating a solution containing a component between a process tank and the feed side of a membrane having a feed side and a permeate side;
(b) withdrawing a first permeate vapor from said permeate side and condensing said first permeate vapor to form a permeate liquid; 


 (c) when the concentration of said component in said solution has dropped to a value, discontinuing said circulating step and discharging said solution from said process tank;
(d) controlling one or more of said steps (a)-(c) by means of a process control system.
52. The process of claim 51, wherein said process control system comprises a programmable controller.
53. The process of claim 51, wherein said process control system comprises an electronic controller.
54. The process of claim 51, wherein said process control system comprises an electromechanical controller. 55. The process of claim 51, wherein said process control system comprises a mechanical controller.
56. The process of claim 51, wherein said process control system is activated by one or more sensors, connected to said process tank to monitor the concentrations of liquids therein. 57. The process of claim 51, wherein said process control system is activated by one or more level switches, connected to said process tank to monitor the volume of liquids therein.
58. The process of claim 51, wherein said process control system is time activated.
59. A pervaporation process, comprising using a one-stage pervaporation system to perform a separation operation characterized by a separation performance equivalent to that of a system chosen from the group consisting of a multistage system, a multistep system and combinations of multistage and multistep systems.
60. The process of claim 59, wherein said separation performance is equivalent to that of a two-stage system. 61. The process of claim 60, wherein said separation operation comprises:
(a) circulating a solution containing a component across the feed side of a membrane having a feed side and a permeate side and thereby forming a residue liquid that is depleted in said component compared with said solution; withdrawing a first permeate vapor from said permeate side and condensing said permeate 


vapor to form a first permeate liquid that is enriched in said component compared with said solution; then
(b) circulating said first permeate liquid across the feed side of said membrane and thereby forming a second residue liquid that is depleted in said component compared with said first permeate liquid; withdrawing a second permeate vapor from said permeate side and condensing said second permeate vapor to form a second permeate liquid that is enriched in said component compared with said first permeate liquid.
62. The process of claim 61, further comprising repeating steps (a) and (b) using said second residue liquid as at least a part of said solution.
63. The process of claim 59 wherein said separation performance is equivalent to that of a two-step system.
64. The process of claim 63, wherein said separation operation comprises
(a) circulating a solution containing a component across the feed side of a membrane having a feed side and a permeate side and thereby forming a residue liquid that is depleted in said component compared with said solution; withdrawing a first permeate vapor from said permeate side and condensing said permeate vapor to form a first permeate liquid that is enriched in said component compared with said solution; then (b) continuing said circulating but forming a second permeate liquid discrete from said first permeate liquid.
65. The process of claim 64, further comprising repeating steps (a) and (b) using said second permeate liquid as at least a part of said solution.
66. A pervaporation process, comprising the steps: (a) passing a solution containing a component from a holding tank to a process tank;
(b) circulating said solution across the feed side of a membrane having a feed side and a permeate side;
(c) withdrawing a first permeate vapor from said permeate side and condensing said first permeate vapor to form a permeate liquid; 


 (d) decanting said permeate liquid to form two separate liquid phases;
(e) when the concentration of said component in said solution has dropped to a value, discontinuing said circulating step and discharging said solution from said process tank;
(f ) passing one of said two liquid phases to said holding tank; (g) controlling one or more of said steps (a)-(f) by means of a process control system.
67. The process of claim 66, wherein said process control system comprises a programmable controller.
68. The process of claim 66, wherein said process control system comprises an electronic controller. 69. The process of claim 66, wherein said process control system comprises an electromechanical controller.
70. The process of claim 66, wherein said process control system comprises a mechanical controller.
71. 
"
The process of claim 66, wherein said process control system is activated by one or more sensors, connected to said process tank to monitor the concentrations of liquids therein.
72. The process of claim 66, wherein said process control system is activated by one or more level switches, connected to said process tank to monitor the volume of liquids therein. 73. The process of claim 66, wherein said process control system is time activated. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
