<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621626</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Flexible auxiliary deflection coil
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J2952	H01J2970	H04N332	H01J2952	H01J2976	H01J2976	H04N310	H01J2970	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H04N	H01J	H01J	H01J	H04N	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J29	H01J29	H04N3	H01J29	H01J29	H01J29	H04N3	H01J29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cathode ray tube display with scanning beam velocity modulation 
comprises a cathode ray tube with a neck (30), and gun (40) for 

generating an electron beam (42). A deflection yoke (80) is 
mounted on the cathode ray tube for electron beam deflection. A 

first flexible support (L10) having a side for conductor fabrication 
and a second flexible support (L20) having a side for conductor 

fabrication are superimposed and wrapped to conform to the neck 
circumference. A first coil pattern (P1) is formed as a conductor 

(L1) on the first conductor fabrication side and a second coil pattern 
(P3) is formed as a conductor(L3) on the second conductor 

fabrication side. A conductive connection (H10 H20) couples 
between the first coil pattern (P1) and the second coil pattern (P3). 

A connector (88) couples scanning velocity modulation current to 
energize said first coil pattern (P1) and said second coil pattern (P3) 

for scanning beam velocity modulation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON TUBES 
&
 DISPLAYS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON TUBES 
&
 DISPLAYS S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DESCOMBES JEAN-PHILIPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOSSOT ALAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DESCOMBES, JEAN-PHILIPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOSSOT, ALAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of beam scan velocity 
modulation apparatus for cathode ray tube displays, and in 
particular to a flexible conductor auxiliary deflection coil. Scan velocity modulation (SVM) is known in beam deflection of 
cathode ray tubes, and is employed to enhance the perceived 
sharpness of the displayed picture. EP-A-0 484 606 describes a 
scan velocity modulation (SVM) apparatus with SVM-coils 
on the deflection unit. The basic concept of scan 
velocity modulation is the modulation of the horizontal scanning 
velocity of the electron beam at a light to dark or dark to light image 
transitions. For example, when a scan crosses a bright vertical bar on 
a dark background, the objective is a display where the screen 
brightness rises instantly to a maximum as the horizontal scan 
crosses the bright vertical bar and then drops instantly to the 
minimum level after passing the bar. However, the rise and fall 
times of the electron beam current are not instantaneous. In a 
display without scan velocity modulation, there are shades of gray at 
the transitions which blur the edges and are perceived as a 
softening, or lack of sharpness. With beam scan velocity modulation, circuitry is 
provided to anticipate a transition in the luminance signal, and to 
modify the horizontal scanning speed such that the beam is 
accelerated at the dark area adjacent the transition, i.e., scanned at 
a rate in excess of the average scan rate. The time gained by this 
acceleration of the beam is used on the bright side of the transition, 
where the beam is decelerated to below the average scanning rate, 
thus the total time taken to scan horizontal lines remains constant, 
with the acceleration and deceleration canceling one another. The 
effect of increasing the scanning beam velocity in the dark area 
prior to the bright transition results in less beam current hitting the 
phosphor and consequently less phosphor excitation which makes 
the dark area darker. The slowed scanning velocity in the bright 
area causes the beam to excite the phosphors for a slightly longer 
period and results in an additional brightening immediately after 
the transition. The overall effect of the velocity modulation at an  
 
edge transition is to cause the transition to appear sharper than if 
scanned at a constant rate. At transitions from a light background 
to a dark area the process is reversed. The net effect is to increase 
the perceived sharpness of image edges, and thus the picture 
appears to be sharper and of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cathode ray tube display with scanning beam velocity 
modulation comprising: 


a cathode ray tube having a neck (30) and gun (40) for 
generating an electron beam (42); 
a deflection yoke (80) mounted on said cathode ray 
tube for electron beam (42) deflection; 
 
   characterized by a flexible layer (L2) having a first side 

(L1) and a second side (L3) for conductor fabrication, being 
wrapped to conform to a circumference of said neck (30); 


a first coil pattern (P1) formed as a conductor in 
contact with said first side (L1) and a second coil pattern (P3) 

formed as a conductor in contact with said second side (L3) 
which coil patterns are used to modify the horizontal 

deflection ; 
conductive holes (H10, H20) coupling via said layer 
(L2), pads (H1, H2) on said first coil pattern (P1) on said first side 

(L1) and pads (H11, H21) on said second coil pattern (P3) on said 
second side (L3); and 
a connector (88) for coupling scanning velocity 
modulation current for energizing said first coil pattern (P1) and 

said second coil pattern (P3) for scanning beam velocity 
modulation. 
The apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that said first 
coil pattern conductor (P1) and said second coil pattern conductor 

(P3) further comprise conductors formed in a plurality of concentric 
loops. 
The apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that said first 
coil pattern conductor (P1) and said second coil pattern conductor 

(P3) are dimensionally similar such that when in superimposed said 
first coil pattern (P1) and said second coil pattern (P3) overlay. 
The apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that said 
flexible layer (L2) is conformed and positioned on said tube neck 

(30) under a static electron beam convergence device (52).  
 
The apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that said 
flexible layer (L2) is conformed and positioned on said tube neck 

(30) under a deflection yoke (80). 
A cathode ray tube display with scanning beam velocity 
modulation comprising: 


a cathode ray tube having a neck (30) and gun (40) for 
generating an electron beam (42); 
a deflection yoke (80) mounted on said cathode ray 
tube for electron beam (42) deflection; 
 
   characterized by a first flexible layer (L10) having a 

side for conductor formation, and a second flexible layer (L20) 
having a side for a conductor formation, said first (L10) and second 

(20) flexible layer being superimposed and wrapped to coaxially 
conform to a circumference of said neck (30); 


a first coil pattern (P1) formed as a conductor (L1) in 
contact with said first flexible layer conductor formation side and a 

second coil pattern (P3) formed as a conductor (L3) on said second 
flexible layer conductor formation side which coil patterns are used to 

modify the horizontal deflection ; 
conductive holes (H10, H20) couple pads (H1, H2) on 
said first coil pattern conductor (L1) and pads (H11, H21) on said 

second coil pattern conductor (L3) through said first flexible layer 
(L10); and 
a connection (88) coupling scanning beam velocity 
modulation current to said first coil (L1) and said second coil (L3) 

for scanning beam velocity modulation. 
The apparatus of claim 6, characterized in that said first 
coil pattern conductor (L1) and said second coil pattern conductor 

(L3) further comprise conductors formed in a plurality of concentric 
loops. 
The apparatus of claim 6, characterized in that said first 
coil pattern conductor (L1) and said second coil pattern conductor 

(L3) are dimensionally similar such that when superimposed, said  
 

first coil pattern conductor (L1) and said second coil pattern 
conductor (L3) overlay. 
The apparatus of claim 6, characterized in that said 
wrapped flexible layer is positioned on said tube neck (32) under a 

static electron beam convergence device (52). 
The apparatus of claim 6, characterized in that said 
wrapped flexible layer is positioned on said tube neck under a 

deflection yoke (80). 
The apparatus of claim 7, characterized in that said neck 
(30) and gun (40) define a Z axis of said cathode ray tube, said coil 

pattern conductor loops on said layer conforming to said neck 
circumference such that a part of said loops are parallel with said Z 

axis. 
The apparatus of claim 11, characterized in that said 
part of said loops that are parallel with said Z axis have dimensions 

such to locate the parallel part at a circumferential angle of ±120 
degrees and symmetrical about a Y axis orthogonal to said Z axis. 
The apparatus of claim 12, characterized in that the 
parallel part of said loops is positioned circumferentially to be 

symmetrical about an axis orthogonal to said Z axis and said Y axis. 
The apparatus of claim 11, characterized in that said 
conductor coil pattern loops are rectangular with a pair of sides of 

said rectangle parallel with said Z axis. 
The apparatus of claim 14, characterized in that said 
rectangular dimensions locate said pair of sides at a circumferential 

angle of ±120 degrees and symmetrical about said Y axis orthogonal 
to said Z axis. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
