<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651887</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AMBIGUITY RESOLUTION IN A DOPPLER RADAR SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1320	G01S13528	G01S1395	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The pulsed Doppler weather radar system reduces ambiguities in measured parameters by staggering at least one pulse of each frame of n pulses transmitted by the radar system. The staggered pulse creates an isolated pulse doublet pair to provide three or more independent and auxiliary Doppler parameter estimates. The parameter estimates are combined optimally in a neuromorphic processor (420) matched to the phenomena of interest, particularly capitalizing on multiparameter volumetric correlations to improve data quality.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV CORP ATMOSPHERIC RES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY CORPORATION FOR ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORNELIUS RICHARD HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAGNON RICHARD W P O BOX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRATTE JULES FRANCIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORNELIUS, RICHARD, HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAGNON, RICHARD, W. P.O. BOX 244
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRATTE, JULES, FRANCIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AMBIGUITY RESOLUTION IN A DOPPLER RADAR SYSTEMFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to pulsed Doppler radar systems and in particular to a system that has an improved method and apparatus for determining parameters relating to detected objects.PROBLEMIt is a problem in the field of Doppler radar systems to resolve ambiguities in the received signals. In a pulsed Doppler weather radar system, one of the most serious causes of data quality degradation is range aliased echoes from distant storms. This range contamination can occur in the immediate vicinity of a meteorological event and this contamination can be significant enough to obscure the meteorological event. Alternatively, range alias contaminated data can present a radar signature similar to that of a wind shear hazard, thereby generating false alarms in wind shear detection systems. Velocity aliasing also occurs when the radar system cannot distinguish between actual Doppler shifts and aliases that are spaced in frequency by the pulse repetition frequency. Range and velocity ambiguities are inherent in Doppler radar systems. Doppler radars are typically operated with a uniform pulse repetition frequency and when targets have a range that is great enough, the echoes (return signals) of the nth transmitted pulse are 

received after the (n+ 1)st pulse is transmitted and in subsequent range intervals (n+2, n+3). Therefore, echoes from distant targets are received during the same time interval that echoes are received from close-in targets, thereby creating an ambiguity with respect to the location of the target.One potential solution to the parameter ambiguity problem is to provide a series of transmitted pulses that vary in pulse position. Staggered pulses can be used for this purpose, wherein two streams of constant pulse repetition frequency pulses are merged to produce alternating pulses of differing frequencies. This produces two sets of return echo signals, each at a different distinguishable frequency to thereby reduce the parameter ambiguities in the received echo signals. A difficulty with such an arrangement is that the complexity of the computations required to process the received echo signals is significantly increased, even though a significant improvement is made in the elimination of ambiguity. The complexity and cost of the entire system: antenna, transmitter, receiver, processors, can rapidly increase. This is especially true in the field of meteorological radars since these improvements add significant system complexity
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. In a Doppler radar system that transmits a train of pulses of radio frequency energy and receives return echo signals from objects in response thereto, apparatus for reducing ambiguity in said return echo signals comprising: means (408) for generating a series of output pulse signals at a predetermined pulse repetition frequency; means (101-104, 106) for transmitting a pulse of radio frequency energy in response to each of said series of output pulse signals; and means (407) for controllably shifting in time j pulse signals of selected sequences of n output pulse signals, where n is a positive integer greater than two and j is a positive integer greater than 0 and less than n/2, to create j pulse doublet pairs, a pulse of each said pulse doublet pairs having a frequency that differs from said predetermined pulse repetition frequency to enable said
Doppler radar system to produce estimates based upon more than one pulse repetition frequency from said return echo signals.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said controllably shifting means (407) comprises: means (800) for shifting in time each of said pulse signals in a position in said sequence of n output pulse signals that is predetermined for each of said j pulse signals.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said controllably shifting means (407) comprises: means (800) for shifting in time each of said j pulse signals in a position in said sequence of n output pulse signals that is variable for each of said j pulse signals. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means (800) for regulating the operation of said controllably shifting means (407) as a function of at least one predetermined parameter.
5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said Doppler radar system includes an antenna (101) that executes a scan pattern over a predetermined volume, said regulating means (800) comprises: means (807) for storing data indicative of at least two segments of said predetermined volume; and means (805) for generating a control signal to enable said controllably shifting means (407) when said antenna scan pattern is presently executing in a first of said at least two segments of said predetermined volume.
6. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said regulating means (800) further comprises: means (805) for disabling said generating means (408) when said antenna scan pattern is presently executing in a second of said at least two segments of said predetermined volume.
7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said regulating means (800) comprises: means (807) for storing data indicative of return echo signals representative of return echo signals typically received from at least one predetermined object; means (803) for comparing said stored data with return echo signals presently received by said Doppler radar system; and means (805) for generating a control signal to enable said controllably shifting means (407) when said comparing means 


(803) identifies a match between said stored data and said return echo signals presently received by said Doppler radar system.
8. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said regulating means (800) comprises: means (807) for storing data indicative of a predetermined time interval, having a start time and a stop time; and means (805) for generating a control signal to enable said controllably shifting means (407) as long as a present time matches said predetermined time interval.
9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means (101, 102, 106, 105) for receiving said return echo signals; means (411-419) for computing a parameter of a detected object using said return echo signals, comprising: means (411-414) for computing a first parameter estimate for said detected object using said received return echo signals produced in response to said ones of said sequence of n output pulse signals generated at said predetermined pulse repetition frequency, and means (411,415) for computing additional parameter estimates for said detected object using said received return echo signals produced in response to said j shifted output pulse signals.
10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said additional parameter estimate computing means (411,415) comprises: means (415) for computing a second parameter estimate for said detected object using a received return echo signal 


produced in response to a first pulse of said pulse doublet pair for a one of said j shifted output pulse signals.
11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said parameter computing means (411-419) further comprises: means (416-419), responsive to said first and said second parameter estimates, for determining a parameter of said detected object.
12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said additional parameter estimate computing means (411,415) further comprises: means (415) for computing a third parameter estimate for said detected object using a received return echo signal produced in response to a second pulse of said pulse doublet pair for said one of said at least one shifted output pulse signal.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said parameter computing means (411-419) further comprises: means (416-419), responsive to said first, said second and said third parameter estimates, for determining a parameter of said detected object.
14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said parameter computing means (411-419) further comprises: means (416-419), responsive to said first and said third parameter estimates, for determining a parameter of said detected object.
15. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said first parameter estimate computing means (411-414) comprises: 


 means (412-414), responsive to a receipt of said return echo signals resulting from a said sequence of n output pulse signals including said j shifted output pulse signals, for extrapolating a return echo sinal that would have been received from each of said j shifted output pulse signals had it not been shifted to thereby create a series of n return echo signals from a sequence of n unshifted output pulse signals.
16. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said additional parameter estimate computing means (411,415) comprises: means (415) for averaging said received return echo signals produced in response to at least one of said j shifted output pulse signals in m successively occurring sequences of output pulse signals to produce said additional parameter estimate.
17. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said additional parameter estimate computing means (411,415) comprises: means (415) for averaging said received return echo signals produced in response to at least one of said j shifted output pulse signals over a plurality of sequences of output pulse signals, which sequences vary in range and azimuth dimensions, to produce said additional parameter estimate.
18. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said parameter computing means (411-419) further comprises: means (416), responsive to said first parameter estimate and said additional parameter estimates, for identifying the nature of an object from which said return echo signals are received. 


 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said object nature identifying means (411) comprises a parallel distributed processor (420) that identifies a valid object in response to said first and said additional parameter estimates for each of said return echo signals.
20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said parameter computing means (411-419) further comprises: means (417,418), responsive to said object nature identifying means (416) and to said first parameter estimate and said additional parameter estimates, for calculating said parameter of said detected object.
21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said calculating means (417,418) comprises a parallel distributed processor (420) that computes said parameter in response to said first and said additional parameter estimates for each of said return echo signals.
22. In a Doppler radar system that transmits a train of pulses of radio frequency energy and receives return echo signals from objects in response thereto, a method for reducing ambiguity in said return echo signals comprising the steps of: generating a series of output pulse signals at a predetermined pulse repetition frequency; transmitting a pulse of radio frequency energy in response to each of said series of output pulse signals; and controllably shifting in time j pulse signals of selected sequences of n output pulse signals, where n is a positive integer greater than two and j is a positive integer greater than 0 and less than n/2, to create j pulse doublet pairs, a pulse of each of said 


pulse doublet pairs having a frequency that differs from said predetermined pulse repetition frequency to enable said Doppler radar system to produce estimates based upon more than one pulse repetition frequency from said return echo signals.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein said step of controllably shifting comprises: shifting in time each of said j pulse signals in a position in said sequence of n output pulse signals that is predetermined for each of said j pulse signals.
24. The method of claim 22 wherein said step of controllably shifting comprises: shifting in time each of said j pulse signals in a position in said sequence of n output pulse signals that is variable for each of said j pulse signals.
25. The method of claim 22 further comprising the step of: regulating the operation of said step of controllably shifting as a function of at least one predetermined parameter.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein said Doppler radar system includes an antenna that executes a scan pattern over a predetermined volume, said step of regulating comprises: storing data indicative of at least two segments of said predetermined volume; and generating a control signal to enable said controllably shifting means when said antenna scan pattern is presently executing in a first of said at least two segments of said predetermined volume. 


 27. The method of claim 26 wherein said step of regulating further comprises: disabling said generating means when said antenna scan pattern is presently executing in a second of said at least two segments of said predetermined volume.
28. The method of claim 25 wherein said step of regulating comprises: storing data indicative of return echo signals representative of return echo signals typically received from at least one predetermined object; comparing said stored data with return echo signals presently received by said Doppler radar system; and activating said step of controllably shifting when said comparing means identifies a match between said stored data and said return echo signals presently received by said Doppler radar system.
29. The method of claim 25 wherein said step of regulating comprises: storing data indicative of a predetermined time interval, having a start time and a stop time; and activating said step of controllably shifting as long as a present time matches said predetermined time interval.
30. The method of claim 22 further comprising the steps of: receiving said return echo signals; computing a parameter of a detected object using said return echo signals, comprising: computing a first parameter estimate for said detected object using said received return echo 



 signals produced in response to said ones of said sequence of n output pulse signals generated at said predetermined pulse repetition frequency, and computing additional parameter estimates for said detected object using said received return echo signals produced in response to at least one of said j shifted output pulse signals.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein said step of additional parameter estimate computing comprises: computing a second parameter estimate for said detected object using a received return echo signal produced in response to a first pulse of said pulse doublet pair for a one of said j shifted output pulse signals.
32. The method of claim 31 wherein said step of parameter computing further comprises: determining, in response to said first and said second parameter estimates, a parameter of said detected object.
33. The method of claim 31 wherein said step of additional parameter estimate computing further comprises: computing a third parameter estimate for said detected object using a received return echo signal produced in response to a second pulse of said pulse doublet pair for said one of said j shifted output pulse signal.
34. The method of claim 33 wherein said step of parameter computing further comprises: 


 determining, in response to said first, said second and said third parameter estimates, a parameter of said detected object.
35. The method of claim 33 wherein said step of parameter computing further comprises: determining, in response to said first and said third parameter estimates, a parameter of said detected object.
36. The method of claim 22 wherein said step of first parameter estimate computing comprises: extrapolating, in response to a receipt of said return echo signals resulting from a said sequence of n output pulse signals including said j shifted output pulse signals, a return echo sinal that would have been received from said j shifted output pulse signals had it not been shifted to thereby create a series of n return echo signals from a sequence of n unshifted output pulse signals.
37. The method of claim 30 wherein said step of additional parameter estimate computing comprises: averaging said received return echo signals produced in response to at least one of said j shifted output pulse signals in m successively occurring sequences of output pulse signals to produce said additional parameter estimate.
38. The method of claim 30 wherein said step of additional parameter estimate computing comprises: averaging said received return echo signals produced in response to at least one of said j shifted output pulse signals over a plurality of sequences of output pulse signals, which sequences 


vary in range and azimuth dimensions, to produce said additional parameter estimate.
39. The method of claim 30 wherein said step of parameter computing further comprises: identifying, in response to said first parameter estimate and said additional parameter estimates, the nature of an object from which said return echo signals are received.
40. The method of claim 30 wherein said step of parameter computing further comprises: calculating, in response to said object nature identifying means and to said first parameter estimate and said additional parameter estimates, said parameter of said detected object. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
