<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632266</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
The use of lectins immobilized on piezoelectric surface wave devices as a carbohydrate analyzer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N500	G01N502	G01N2902	G01N2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N5	G01N5	G01N29	G01N29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for accurate and precise measurements of 
carbohydrate-containing compound(s) in a sample is 

provided. The system uses piezoelectric surface wave 
sample devices which have a receptor layer containing 

lectins, lectin subunits or lectin analogs which have 
been selected because they are complementary to and 

have affinity for the carbohydrate-containing 
compound(s) to be measured. At least one piezoelectric 

surface wave reference device is also used to account 
for interferences. The measurement instrument 

correlates the data from the sample and reference 
devices and provides data on the presence and/or amount 

of carbohydrate-containing compound in the sample. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOM-MOY MAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOM-MOY, MAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to analytical 
chemistry, and more particularly, to devices and 
methods for analyzing carbohydrates. In the field of carbohydrate chemistry, there is a 
great need for the development of simple and reliable 
techniques for carbohydrate analysis. Novel 
carbohydrates, glycoproteins and other glycoconjugates  
 
which are useful for the treatment of such diseases or 
conditions as cancer and acute inflammatory disease, 
have been developed. Analysis of the specific 
structure of these compounds is important for 
understanding the carbohydrate's binding and receptor 
capabilities. If the compound is used therapeutically, 
the microheterogenicity of the oligosaccharide must 
also be monitored for FDA purposes. Monitoring of 
sugar levels in fermentation systems or bioreactors in 
the pharmaceutical, food or biotechnology industries 
can also be critical. Presently known analytical techniques for 
glycoconjugate characterization are difficult and 
require expensive instrumentation, such as x-ray 
crystallography and NMR. Other analytical techniques 
require the use of secondary "detection" reagents such 
as chromophores or radiolabelled compounds. The use of 
such methods as optical rotation to detect sugars in 
solution requires conditions of low signal response 
from other optically-active compounds and low 
scattering media, conditions which are not typically 
found in fermenters or bioreactors. Piezoelectric sensors have been used as 
microgravimetric immunoassay devices. (See, for 
example, Joy E. Roederer and Glenn J. Bastiaans, 
"Microgravimetric Immunoassay with Piezoelectric 
Crystals", Anal. Chem., 2333-2336 (1983). These 
sensors operate on the principle that changes in the 
amount of mass attached to their surface cause shifts 
in the resonant frequency. Selective mass detection is 
achieved by coating the surface of the piezoelectric 
crystal with a chemically reactive layer that 
preferentially reacts with the substance to be detected 
such that the mass of the chemically reactive layer  
 
changes. Such devices function as chemical sensors 
that can measure the concentration of the selected 
class of compounds in a solution into which the sensor 
or device is immersed. Radio frequency energy coupled 
into the device through the input transducer is 
converted to a surface acoustic wave confined to within 
a few wavelengths of the surface. The velocity of the 
surface acoustic wave will vary according to the mass 
loading of the top surface of the device. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A measurement system for determining the amount of 
at least one carbohydrate-containing analyte in a 

sample, comprising: 

(a) at least one piezoelectric surface wave 
sample device (S) comprising a receptor layer 

(19) attached to a surface thereof, said 
receptor layer (19) containing at least one 

molecule, selected from the group consisting 
of naturally occurring or non-naturally 

occurring lectins, lectin subunits, and 
lectin analogs, which is complementary to and 

has affinity for said carbohydrate-containing 
analyte, said sample device (S) including 

data generating apparatus for generating data 
relating to the mass change on said surface 

of said sample device (S) arising from 
contacting said sample device (S) with said 

sample; 
(b) at least one piezoelectric surface wave 
reference device (R) comprising a receptor 

layer (19) having substantially no affinity 
for said carbohydrate-containing analyte, 

said reference device (R) including data 
generating apparatus for generating data 

relating to the interferences arising from 
contacting said reference device (R) with 

said sample; and 
(c) a measurement instrument for correlating said 
data from said sample and reference devices 

so as to provide data on the presence and/or 
amount of said carbohydrate-containing 

analyte in said sample. 
The system of Claim 1 wherein said carbohydrate-containing 
analyte comprises monosaccharides, 

 
oligosaccharides and polysaccharides. 
The system of Claim 1 wherein said carbohydrate-containing 
analyte comprises glycoproteins, 

glycopeptides, glycolipids and glycoconjugates. 
The system of Claim 1 wherein said carbohydrate-containing 
analyte comprises cells, cell 

fragments, cell components, bacteria, yeast, 
fungi, protozoa and viruses. 
The system of Claim 1 wherein said sample and 
reference devices further comprise a surface 

layer. 
The system of Claim 5 wherein said surface layer 
is SiO₂. 
The system of Claim 6 wherein said surface layer 
further comprises a reactive surface layer bound 

to said surface layer wherein said reactive 
surface layer is selected from the group 

consisting of organic silanes, avidin, 
streptavidin, proteins, lipids, and synthetic 

coatings. 
A measurement system according to Claim 1 adapted 
for testing for a plurality of carbohydrate-containing 

analytes in a sample, including a 
plurality of piezoelectric surface wave sample 

devices (S) formed on a single piezoelectric 
substrate (11), each of said piezoelectric surface 

wave sample devices (S) having a different 
receptor layer (19) attached to a surface thereof, 

each receptor layer (19) containing receptor 
molecules, selected from the group consisting of 

naturally occurring or non-naturally occurring 
 

lectins, lectin subunits and lectin analogs, which 
are complementary to and have affinity for one of 

said plurality of carbohydrate-containing 
analytes. 
A measurement system according to Claim 1 adapted 

for testing for a single carbohydrate-containing 
analyte in a sample, including a plurality of 

piezoelectric surface wave sample devices (S) each 
having a receptor layer (19) attached to the 

surface thereof, each receptor layer (19) 
containing receptor molecules, selected from the 

group consisting of naturally occurring or non-naturally 
occurring lectins, lectin subunits and 

lectin analogs, which are complementary to and 
have affinity for the same carbohydrate-containing 

analyte, each sample device (S) generating data 
relating to the mass change on said surface of 

said sample device (S) arising from contacting 
said device with said sample. 
The system of claim 9 wherein said plurality of 
piezoelectric surface wave sample devices (S) are 

formed on a single piezoelectric substrate (11). 
A method for determining the amount and/or 
presence of at least one carbohydrate-containing 

analyte in a sample, comprising: 

(a) contacting said sample with a measurement 
system for determining the amount of 

carbohydrate-containing analyte in a sample 
which system comprises: 


(1) at least one piezoelectric surface wave 
sample device (S) comprising a receptor 

layer (19) attached to a surface 
thereof, said receptor layer (19) 

containing at least one molecule, 
 

selected from the group consisting of 
naturally occurring or non-naturally 

occurring lectins, lectin subunits and 
lectin analogs, which is complementary 

to and has affinity for said 
carbohydrate-containing analyte, said 

sample device (S) including data 
generating appatatus for generating data 

relating to the mass change on said 
surface of said sample device (S) 

arising from contacting said sample 
device (S) with said sample; 
(2) at least one piezoelectric surface wave 
reference device (R) comprising a 

receptor layer (19) having substantially 
no affinity for said carbohydrate-containing 

analyte, said reference 
device (R) including data generating 

apparatus for generating data relating 
to the interferences arising from 

contacting said reference device (R) 
with said sample; and 
(3) a measurement instrument for correlating 
said data from said sample and reference 

devices so as to prov1ide data on the 
presence and/or amount of said 

carbohydrate-containing analyte in said 
sample; 
(b) obtaining data from said sample and reference 
devices; and 
(c) determining the presence and/or concentration 
of said carbohydrate-containing analyte in 

said sample. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
