<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653916</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STORAGE RACK BEAM HAVING SURFACE ENABLING INDICIA AT HIGH OR LOW ELEVATION TO BE EASILY READ.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47B9600	A47B9614	A47F500	A47F500	A62C300	A62C300	A62C3558	A62C3558	A62C3560	B65G102	B65G102	B65G1137	B65G1137	E04B194	E04B194	G09F308	G09F320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47B	A47B	A47F	A47F	A62C	A62C	A62C	A62C	A62C	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	E04B	E04B	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47B96	A47B96	A47F5	A47F5	A62C3	A62C3	A62C35	A62C35	A62C35	B65G1	B65G1	B65G1	B65G1	E04B1	E04B1	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A support beam (40, 100, 130, 150, 180, 210, 250, 270, 300) for a storage rack has a tubular profile, which defines a ledge opening (106, 136, 156, 198, 228, 262) upwardly and inwardly, and which defines a generally flat, indicia-receiving surface (80, 170, 210, 240, 410, 266, 320) facing outwardly and either downwardly or upwardly at an angle from about 20 degrees to about 70 degrees relative to a vertical plane. Alternatively, the tubular profile may define two such surfaces (144, 146) defining an obtuse angle relative to each other, namely an upper surface at an angle from about 20 degrees to about 45 degrees relative thereto and a lower surface at an angle from about 45 degrees to about 70 degrees relative thereto, or a generally arcuate, indicia-receiving surface (120) having a suitable measurement. The indicia-receiving surface enables a person (P) who is standing, or who is sitting on a lift truck, to have a generally perpendicular line of sight to such surface. The support beam (40, 100, 130, 150, 180, 210, 250, 270, 300) may also be used in combination with a properly positioned fire extinguishing device (330) to extinguish a fire in a supported load. When the fire extinguisher is activated, the fluid (332) that is discharged impinges off the indicia-receiving surface, which may be inclined or curved, and onto the load.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNR IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNR INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK WILLIAM L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUIHER WILLIAM T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK, WILLIAM, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUIHER, WILLIAM, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STORAGE RACK BEAM HAVING SURFACE ENABLING INDICIA AT HIGH OR LOW ELEVATION TO BE EASILY READTechnical Field of the InventionThis invention pertains to a support beam having a load-supporting surface for supporting a load, for a storage rack of a type used to store pallet loads and other loads. The support beam has an indicia-receiving surface adapted to receive machine-readable indicia, human-readable indicia, or both, as on a label applied to such surface. The indicia-receiving surface is inclined or curved so as to enable such indicia at a high or low elevation relative to a person seeking to read such indicia to be easily read.The support beam of this invention may also be used with a fire extinguisher device that is located at generally the same elevation as the support beam. If a fire occurs, the inclined or curved indicia surface deflects a fire extinguishing fluid, such as water, onto a burning load and the fire is extinguished quickly.Background of the InventionCommonly, a storage rack of the type noted above has multiple bays and multiple tiers and comprises horizontally spaced, upright frames including upright columns, cross braces, and support beams. The support beams extend horizontally between the upright columns, at the front of the storage rack and at the back thereof, in vertically spaced pairs. The beams of each 

pair are adapted to support a pallet load on their upper edges.In designs in widespread use, each support beam is formed from sheet steel in one piece or two pieces and is welded so as to have a hollow, tubular profile.Generally, the beam profile is rectangular except for a ledge, which has defined a horizontal surface facing upwardly and a vertical surface facing inwardly. In each pair of support beams, the ledges are adapted to support a wooden or steel deck or spaced wooden or steel braces, which is or are omitted in some installations. Storage racks comprising support beams according to these designs are available commercially from Unarco Material Handling (now a division of UNR Industries, Inc.) of Chicago, Illinois, under its STURDI-BILT trademark.Commonly, the beam profile defines a flat, generally vertical, outer surface, on which it is known to apply a label bearing machine-readable indicia, such as bar code indicia, human-readable indicia, such as alpha-numeric indicia, or both so as to assist in inventory management. Also, it is known for such indicia to be directly applied to the outer surface of the support beam, as by stenciling. Usually, it is not effective to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The invention claimed is;
1. For a storage rack positioned on a support surface, a support beam for supporting a load, said support beam being disposed above the support surface, the support beam including a load-supporting surface, an outer wall defining a generally flat, indicia-receiving surface facing outwardly, said indicia-receiving surface being inclined at an angle in a range from about 10° to about 80° relate to a vertical plane.
2. The support beam of claim 1 wherein indicia is applied to the indicia-receiving surface, the indicia- receiving surface being inclined so as to enable a person who is standing on the support surface, or who is sitting on a lift truck supported by the support surface, to have a line of sight generally perpendicular to the indicia-receiving surface.
3. The support beam of claim 1 wherein the support beam has a generally tubular profile.
4. The support beam of claim 1 wherein the support beam has a channel profile.
5. The support beam of claim 1 wherein the indicia-receiving surface is inclined at an angle from about 30° to about 60° relative to a vertical plane.
6. The support beam of claim 5 wherein said indicia-receiving surface faces outwardly and downwardly at such an angle.
7. The support beam of claim 6 including an inner wall defining a generally flat surface facing inwardly 


and upwardly and being included at a similar angle relative to a vertical plane.
8. The support beam of claim 5 wherein said indicia-receiving surface faces outwardly and upwardly at such an angle.
9. The support beam of claim 5 including an inner wall defining a ledge, which has a surface facing upwardly and a surface facing inwardly.
10. For a storage rack positioned on a support surface, a support beam for supporting a load, said support beam being disposed above the support surface, the support beam including a load-supporting surface, an outer wall defining a series of generally flat, indicia- receiving surfaces, each facing outwardly and being inclined at an angle in a range from about 10° to about 80° relative to a vertical plane.
11. The support beam of claim 10 wherein indicia is applied to at least one indicia-receiving surface, the indicia-receiving surfaces being inclined so as to enable a person who is standing on the support surface, or who is sitting on a lift truck supported by the support surface, to have a line of sight generally perpendicular to at least one of the indicia-receiving surfaces.
12. The support beam of claim 10 wherein the support beam has a generally tubular profile.
13. The storage beam of claim 10 wherein the outer wall defines two such surfaces defining an obtuse angle relative to each other, namely an upper surface inclined 


at an angle in a range from about 10° to about 70° relative to a vertical plane and a lower surface at an angle in a range from about 20° to about 80° relative to a vertical plane.
14. The storage beam of claim 13 wherein the upper surface is inclined at an angle in a range from about 10° to about 45° relative to a vertical plane and the lower surface is inclined at an angle in a range from about 45° to about 80° relative to a vertical plane.
15. For a storage rack positioned on a support surface, a support beam for supporting a load, said support beam being disposed above the support surface, the support beam having a top edge and a bottom edge, the top edge defining a load-supporting surface, the support beam including an outer wall connecting the top and bottom edges and defining a generally arcuate, outer, indicia-receiving surface, which has a peripheral measurement equal at least to approximately one third of the peripheral measurement along the outer wall, between the top and bottom edges.
16. The support beam of claim 15 wherein indicia is applied to the indicia-receiving surface, the indicia-receiving surface being inclined so as to enable a person who is standing on the support surface, or who is sitting on a lift truck supported by the support surface, to have a line of sight generally perpendicular to the indicia-receiving surface.
17. The support beam of claim 15 wherein the support beam has a generally tubular profile. 


 18. A storage rack system comprising:
(a) a storage rack including a support beam for supporting a load, said support beam being located at a predetermined elevation above a support surface, the support beam including a load-supporting surface, an outer wall defining a generally flat, inclined surface facing outwardly, said inclined surface being inclined at an angle in a range from about 10° to about 80° relative to a vertical plane and constituting a means for deflecting fluids; and
(b) a fire extinguishing device located at a predetermined elevation relative to the inclined surface such that when the fire extinguishing device is discharging a fluid, said fluid impinges upon said inclined surface.
19. The storage rack system of claim 18 wherein the inclined surface and the fire extinguishing device are located at generally the same elevation. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 5 January 1994 (05.01.94) ; original claims 1, 3, 10, 12, 15, 17 and 18 amended ; other claims unchanged (4 pages)]
1. For a storage rack positioned on a substantially horizontal support surface, a support beam made of steel for supporting a pallet load, said support beam being disposed above the support surface, the support beam including an upper wall defining a generally flat, substantially horizontal, load- supporting surface and an outer wall defining a generally flat, indicia-receiving surface facing outwardly, the outer wall being below the upper wall, the upper and outer walls being integral, said indicia- receiving surface being inclined at a fixed angle in a range from about 10" to about 80" relative to a vertical plane.
2. The support beam of claim 1 wherein indicia is applied to the indicia-receiving surface, the indicia-receiving surface being inclined so as to enable a person who is standing on the support surface, or who is sitting on a lift truck supported by the support surface, to have a line of sight generally perpendicular to the indicia-receiving surface.
3. The support beam of claim 1 wherein the support beam is welded so as to have a generally tubular profile.
4. The support beam of claim 1 wherein the support beam has a channel profile.
5. The support beam of claim 1 wherein the indicia-receiving surface is inclined at an angle from about 30° to about 60* relative to a vertical plane. 


 6. The support beam of claim 5 wherein said indicia-receiving surface faces outwardly and downwardly at such an angle.
7. The support beam of claim 6 including an inner wall defining a generally flat surface facing inwardly and upwardly and being included at a similar angle relative to a vertical plane.
8. The support beam of claim 5 wherein said indicia-receiving surface faces outwardly and upwardly at such an angle.
9. The support beam of claim 5 including an inner wall defining a ledge, which has a surface facing upwardly and a surface facing inwardly.
10. For a storage rack positioned on a substantially horizontal support surface, a support beam made of steel for supporting a pallet load, said support beam being disposed above the support surface, the support beam including an upper wall defining a substantially horizontal, load-supporting surface and an outer wall defining a series of generally flat, indicia- receiving surfaces, the outer wall being below the upper wall, the upper and outer walls being integral, each said indicia-receiving surface facing outwardly and being inclined at a fixed angle in a range from about 10" to about 80" relative to a vertical plane.
11. The support beam of claim 10 wherein indicia is applied to at least one indicia-receiving surface, the indicia-receiving surfaces being inclined so as to enable a person who is standing on the support surface, or who is sitting on a lift truck supported by 


the support surface, to have a line of sight generally perpendicular to at least one of the indicia-receiving surfaces.
12. The support beam of claim 10 wherein the support beam is welded so as to have a generally tubular profile.
13. The storage beam of claim 10 wherein the outer wall defines two such surfaces defining an obtuse angle relative to each other, namely an upper surface inclined at an angle in a range from about 10" to about 70" relative to a vertical plane and a lower surface at an angle in a range from about 20" to about 80* relative to a vertical plane.
14. The storage beam of claim 13 wherein the upper surface is inclined at an angle in a range from about 10° to about 45" relative to a vertical plane and the lower surface is inclined at an angle in a range from about 45' to about 80° relative to a vertical plane.
15. For a storage rack positioned on a substantially horizontal support surface, a support beam made of steel for supporting a pallet load, said support beam being disposed above the support surface, the support beam having a top edge and a bottom edge, the top edge defining a generally flat, substantially horizontal, load-supporting surface, the support beam including an outer wall connecting the top and bottom edges and defining a generally arcuate, outer, indicia- receiving surface, which has a peripheral measurement equal at least to approximately one third of the 


peripheral measurement along the outer wall, between the top and bottom edges.
16. The support beam of claim 15 wherein indicia is applied to the indicia-receiving surface, the indicia-receiving surface being inclined so as to enable a person who is standing on the support surface, or who is sitting on a lift truck supported by the support surface, to have a line of sight generally perpendicular to the indicia-receiving surface.
17. The support beam of claim 15 wherein the support beam is welded so as to have a generally tubular profile.
18. A storage rack system comprising:
(a) a storage rack including a support beam for supporting a load, said support beam being located at a predetermined elevation above a support surface, the support beam including a load-supporting surface, an outer wall defining a generally flat, inclined surface facing outwardly, said inclined surface being inclined at an angle in a range from about 10° to about 80° relative to a vertical plane and constituting a means for deflecting fluids; and
(b) . a fire extinguisher device located at a predetermined elevation relative to the inclined surface such that when the fire extinguisher device is discharging a fluid, said fluid impinges upon said inclined surface.
19. The storage rack system of claim 18 wherein the inclined surface and the fire extinguishing device are located at generally the same elevation. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
