<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650407</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR COMPRESSING A CONTINUOUS WEB
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B30B500	B30B506	B29C3516	B29C4330	B29C3502	B29C3502	B29C4322	B29C3500	B29C4322	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B30B	B30B	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B30B5	B30B5	B29C35	B29C43	B29C35	B29C35	B29C43	B29C35	B29C43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for compressing a continuous web comprises sandwiching the web (27) between two steel belts (14, 22). The belts (14, 22) are passed around a rotating drum (20) with the web (27) sandwiched therebetween to compress the web (27). Means (20, 25) are provided for establishing a temperature gradient through the thickness of the web (27) such that the lower surface of the web (27) is at a higher temperature than the upper surface of the web (27). The temperature gradient is sufficient that shear forces applied to the web (27) by the belts (14, 22) as they pass round the drum (20) cause shearing in the region of the lower rather than the upper surface of the web (27). The invention is particularly advantageous when used to compress a web (27) having a patterned upper surface whereby smearing of the pattern is minimised.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALSTEAD JAMES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAMES HALSTEAD LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDGE DAVID THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDGE, DAVID THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for
compressing a continuous length of web. Particularly, but not
exclusively, the method and apparatus are intended for the pressing
of a patterned vinyl web to be used to form floor coverings.Conventional methods and apparatus for the pressing of a vinyl
web used in the formation of floor coverings comprise compressing a
continuous length of web between two steel belts, whilst feeding the
web firstly around a heating drum and then a cooling drum. The
purpose of the heating drum is to soften the web to increase its
compressibility. The cooling drum then cools the web before it leaves
the press.In such a conventional rotary press the drums are arranged so
that the web travels in a generally "S" shaped path around the two
drums. To ensure that the web is efficiently heated throughout its
thickness further heating apparatus is provided to heat the surface
of the web facing away from the heating drum. Similarly, to ensure
efficient cooling of the web throughout its thickness cooling
apparatus is provided to cool the face of the web facing away from
the cooling drum.In the conventional arrangement the upper surface of the web
faces toward the heating drum and away from the cooling drum. The
steel belt in contact with this upper surface will be referred to as
the upper belt and the belt which contacts the lower surface of the
web will be referred to as the lower belt.Only the upper belt is directly driven, by means of a drive
roller downstream of the cooling drum. The web is drawn along as a
result of the friction between the web and the upper belt as they pass
around the cooling drum at which point the web is most viscous.
Similarly, the lower belt is drawn along its path as a result of the
friction between it and the web.Inevitably there is some slippage between the belts, the upper
belt travelling faster than the lower belt. The relative slippage
between the belts is greatest around the heating drum, as at this
stage the lower belt, which is travelling slowest, is outermost and 
therefore has a greater circumferential distance to travel than the
upper belt which is innermost.As the belts slip relative to each other during their passage
around the drums shear forces are applied to the web which is
trapped in compression between the belts. The shearing effect is
greatest around the heating drum at which stage the slippage is
greatest and the web is warmest and therefore least viscous, but is
also evident around the cooling drum.The above described
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for compressing a continuous web (27), in which a first
surface of the web is placed in contact with a first belt (14), a second

surface of the web is placed in contact with a second belt (22), and the
belts are passed around at least a first rotating drum (20) with the web

sandwiched therebetween to compress the web (27), wherein a temperature
gradient is established through the thickness of the web such that

the first surface is at a higher temperature than the second surface,
the temperature gradient being sufficient such that shear forces

applied to the web by the belts cause shearing of the web at or
adjacent the first surface of the web rather than at or adjacent the

second surface of the web.
A method according to claim 1, wherein the first rotating drum (20)
is used as a heat source to heat the radially innermost surface of the

web and additional heaters (25) are provided external to the first rotating
drum to heat the radially outermost surface of the web.
A method according to claim 2, wherein the additional heaters
are radiant heaters.
A method according to claim 2, wherein the additional heaters
are convective heaters.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the
temperature gradient throughout the thickness of the web at any given

portion of the web is maintained at a substantially constant value as
that portion of the web passes around the first rotating drum.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the web is
fed to the first rotating drum such that the first surface of the web

is radially innermost.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the first
surface of the web is heated to a temperature approximately ten to

fifteen degrees Celcius higher than the second surface of the web.
A method according to claim 2 and any claim dependant on claim
2, comprising a further step of passing the web sandwiched between

the two belts around a second rotating drum (21) downstream of the first
rotating drum, and cooling the web as it passes around the second

rotating drum. 
A method according to claim 8, wherein the web is cooled in
such a manner that the first surface of the web is maintained at a

higher temperature than the second surface of the web as the web
passes around the second rotating drum (21).
A method according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the second
rotating drum (21) forms a cooling means to cool the second surface of the

web and additional cooling means (26) is provided external to the second
rotating drum to cool the first surface of the web.
A method according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the
first and second belts (14, 22) are individually driven and their relative

velocities are controlled such that there is no slippage between the
belts as they pass around the second rotating drum (21).
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the
first and second belts (14, 22) are individually driven and their relative

velocities are controlled such that there is no slippage between the
belts as they pass around the first rotating drum (20).
A method according to claim 2 and any claim dependent upon
claim 2, wherein the web is preheated prior to its passage to the

first rotating drum to substantially establish the required temperature
gradient through the thickness of the web before it reaches the first

rotating drum.
Apparatus for compressing a continuous web (27), comprising a first
belt (14) placed in contact with a first surface of the web, a second belt

(22) placed in contact with a second surface of the web, and at least a
first rotating drum around which the belts are passed with the web

sandwiched therebetween to compress the web (27), wherein means are
provided for establishing a temperature gradient through the thickness

of the web such that the first surface is at a higher temperature than

the second surface, the temperature gradient being sufficient such
that shear forces applied to the web by the belts cause shearing of

the web at or adjacent the first surface of the web rather than at
or adjacent the second surface of the web, and wherein means (16) are

provided for feeding the web to the first rotating drum such that the
first surface of the web is radially innermost.
Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein laid web feeding means
includes a guide roller positioned upstream of said first rotating

drum. 
Apparatus according to claim 14 or 15 wherein a guide roller (17) is
provided at a downstream end of the apparatus for ensuring that the

web leaves the apparatus with said second surface of the web
uppermost.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the
first rotating drum (20) is used as a heat source to heat the radially

innermost surface of the web and additional heaters (25) are provided
external to the first rotating drum to heat the radially outermost

surface of the web.
Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the additional heaters
are radiant heaters.
Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the additional heaters
are convective heaters.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 19, wherein cooling
means (26) are disposed externally to the first rotating drum whereby the

temperature of the web and the first rotating drum can be rapidly
decreased if required thereby providing for greater control over the

temperature of the web as it passes around the first rotating drum.
Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein the cooling means
comprises a high velocity cooling air nozzle system.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 17 to 21, wherein means
are provided to preheat the web prior to its passage to the first

rotating drum to thereby substantially establish the required
temperature gradient through the web before it reaches the first

rotating drum.
Apparatus according to claim 22, wherein said pre-heating means
comprises a rotating drum (16) around which the web passes sandwiched

between the two belts and an arrangement of heaters (31) disposed
externally to the pre-heating drum.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 23, wherein the
temperature gradient throughout the thickness of the web at any given

portion of the web is maintained at a substantially constant value as
that portion of the web passes around the first rotating drum.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 24, wherein the
first surface of the web is heated to a temperature approximately ten

to fifteen degrees Celsius higher than the second surface of the web.
Apparatus according to claim 17 and any claim dependent on 
claim 17, further comprising a second rotating drum (21) downstream of the

first rotating drum (20) and means for cooling the web as it passes around
the second rotating drum.
Apparatus according to claim 26, wherein the web is cooled in
such a manner that the first surface of the web is maintained at a

higher temperature than the second surface of the web as the web
passes around the second rotating drum.
Apparatus according to claim 26 or claim 27, wherein the second
rotating drum forms a cooling means to cool the second surface of the

web and additional cooling means (26) is provided external to the second
rotating drum to cool the first surface of the web.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 26 to 28, wherein
means are provided for individually driving the first and second belts

and controlling their relative velocities such that there is no slippage
between the belts as they pass around the second rotating drum.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 28, wherein
means are provided for individually driving the first and second belts

and controlling their relative velocities such that there is no slippage
between the belts as they pass around the first rotating drum.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
