<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636267</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXTENDED FREQUENCY RANGE HELMHOLTZ RESONATORS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10K1100	G10K1116	G10K11172	G10K11178	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10K	G10K	G10K	G10K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10K11	G10K11	G10K11	G10K11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Extended frequency range Helmholtz resonators particularly useful for sound absorption over a relatively wide frequency range are disclosed. The resonators (24) are conventional Helmholtz resonators with the addition of an active acoustic driver (34) in the resonator cavity driven at appropriate amplitudes, frequencies and phases to provide a high degree of absorption of sound not only at the resonant frequency of the resonator, but for substantial frequency bands above and below the resonant frequency. To provide the active drive to the acoustic driver (34) in the resonant cavity (24), one or more microphones (36, 38) are used to detect the sound to be absorbed, which signal is processed (44) and amplified (48) to provide a drive to the acoustic driver (34) to best absorb the incoming sound. Various embodiments are disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERSH ALAN S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERSH, ALAN S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERSH ALAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERSH, ALAN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of sound
absorption devices.Resonators were first used by the ancient Greeks to
reduce echoes in their large open air theaters. By the
thirteenth century, resonators were used in churches in
Sweden and Denmark, centuries before Helmholtz developed the
first mathematical model of their behavior. Helmholtz
resonators, as they are now known today, are currently being
used as sound absorbing devices in a variety of commercial
applications, including aircraft engines, auditoriums,
concert halls and in compressor inlet and exhaust mufflers.The classical Helmholtz resonator comprises an air
cavity coupled to the outside space through some form of
opening such as an orifice, slot, tube, or the like. The
compressibility of the air within the cavity acts as a
spring, with the air flowing in the opening acting as a mass
so that the system will be tuned as a spring-mass system to
an acoustic frequency dependent upon these two parameters.When Helmholtz resonators are driven with acoustic
energy at the resonant frequency, the resonators will absorb
a maximum amount of the incoming acoustic energy. However,
because they are tuned systems, the absorption decreases
rapidly as the frequency of the incoming acoustic energy
varies substantially from the resonant frequency. Thus the
principle limitation of these devices is that they absorb
sound energy efficiently only within a narrow frequency
range centered at their tuned frequency. Therefore they can
control only one acoustic mode excited at a single 
frequency. While this is suitable for some applications,
such as rotating machinery which operates at a substantially
constant angular velocity, it is far from ideal for
equipment such as aircraft engines whose angular velocity
may vary substantially between waiting for take off
instructions, take off conditions, cruise and approach
conditions. In that regard, in general the noise emitted by
jet engines includes not only the reasonably white noise in
the exhaust, but further includes components which are
directly proportional to engine speed, and many strong
components which are harmonics of engine speed, such as
turbine blade passing frequencies, etc.One approach to this problem is disclosed in U. S.
Patent No. 3,972,383. That patent discloses a system for
varying the acoustic resistance of an acoustical lining
disposed in a duct of an air propulsar. The system
comprises a nonlinear sound suppression liner having a
porous facing sheet overlying a plurality of cells, and
means for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An extended frequency range sound absorbing device for
attenuating sound incident thereto comprising:


an acoustic resonator (30) having a resonator cavity (24)
and at least one resonator cavity opening (26), the acoustic

resonator (30) absorbing the incident sound (20);
a speaker means (34) coupled to said resonator cavity (24)
to couple acoustic energy thereto;
at least one microphone means (36,38) for providing an
output responsive to the sound incident to said acoustic

resonator (30);
drive means (46, 48) for driving said speaker means (34);
and
control means (44) coupled to said microphone means (36,
38) and said speaker means (34) for providing a signal to said

drive means (46, 48) responsive to said output, whereby the
acoustic energy coupled to the resonator cavity (24) enhances

the sound attenuation of the acoustic resonator (30),
characterised in that said at least one microphone means (36,

38) comprises two microphones (36, 38) and said control means
(44) separates the characteristics of the sound incident to said

acoustic resonator (30) from the sound reflected therefrom.
The extended frequency range sound absorbing device of
claim 1, wherein said control means (44) comprises a digital

computer (44) for taking the Past Fourier transform of the
incident sound wave and providing a signal to said drive means

(46, 48) having frequency components, each having an amplitude
and phase selected to enhance the attenuation of the

corresponding frequency component in the incident sound.
The extended frequency range sound absorbing device of
claim 2, wherein said acoustic resonator (30) has a 

predetermined resonant frequency, and wherein said frequency
components are in a frequency range at least near said

predetermined resonant frequency.
The extended frequency range sound absorbing device of
claim 1, further comprising sensor means (64) for sensing at

least one additional operating characteristic, said control
means (44) also being coupled to said sensor means (64) for

providing a signal to said drive means which is responsive to
said output and said sensor means (64).
The extended frequency range sound absorbing device of
claim 4, wherein said sensor means senses temperature.
The extended frequency range sound absorbing device of
claim 1, wherein the acoustic resonator (30) comprises:


a wall (28) against which the sound to be attenuated will
be incident; and wherein
said at least one opening (26) is in said wall (28) and is
coupled to said cavity (24) therebehind;
said microphone means (36, 38) is positioned adjacent said
wall (28) and the acoustic energy coupled to the cavity (24)

attenuates the sound incident to the wall (28).
A method of attenuating sound comprising the steps of:

(a) disposing an acoustic resonator (30) having a
resonator cavity (24) and an opening (26) thereto so that the

sound to be attenuated is incident to the opening (26) of the
cavity (24);
(b) disposing microphone means (36, 38) adjacent the
opening (26) to be responsive to the sound incident thereto;
(c) coupling an acoustic driver (46, 48) to the resonator
cavity (24) to provide acoustic energy thereto; and 
(d) controlling the acoustic driver (46, 48) responsive to
the microphone means (36, 38), whereby the acoustic energy

coupled to the resonator cavity (24) enhances the attenuation of
the sound incident to the acoustic resonator (30), characterised

in that said microphone means (36,38) comprises two microphones
(36,38) and wherein the characteristics of the sound incident to

said acoustic resonator (30) is separated from the sound
reflected therefrom.
The method of claim 7, wherein the microphone response is
analyzed based on the frequency components therein, and wherein

for each such frequency component and the amplitude thereof in
the microphone response, the acoustic driver (46, 48) is

controlled in the amplitude and phase of a corresponding
frequency component in the microphone response based upon a

predetermined relationship.
The method of claim 8, wherein the predetermined
relationship is first determined by providing incident sound to

the cavity opening (26) having at least one predetermined
frequency component therein and varying the amplitude and phase

which best attenuates that frequency component.
The method of claim 8, wherein the frequency components in
the microphone response are determined by taking the Fast

Fourier transform thereof.
The method of claim 10, wherein said two microphones (36,
38) are separated from each other so as to be responsive to the

same incident sound wave at different times, and wherein the
responses of the two microphones (36, 38) are combined to

separate the incident sound from the combination of incident and 
reflected sound in the response of each microphone prior to

taking the Fast Fourier transform thereof.
The method of claim 7, wherein said two microphones (36,
38)are separated from each other so as to be responsive to the

same incident sound wave at different times, and wherein the
responses of the two microphones (36, 38) are combined to

separate the incident sound from the combination of incident and
reflected sound in the response of each microphone, and wherein

step (d) comprises the step of controlling acoustic driver (46,
48) responsive to the incident sound.
The method of claim 7, further comprises the step of
sensing one additional operating characteristic, and wherein

step (d) comprises the step of controlling the acoustic driver
(46, 48) responsive to the microphone means (36, 38) and the at

least one additional operating characteristic.
The method of step 13, wherein the at least one additional
operating characteristic includes temperature.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
