<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613577</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENHANCED COLOR DISPLAY SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F1133	G06F3147	G06F3147	G09G300	G09G300	G09G336	G09G336	H04N912	H04N930	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G06F	G06F	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G06F3	G06F3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiple color display system (10) employing a display device (16), having a plurality of pixel elements each having a set of three subpixel components and an interfacing unit (11) to couple a television signal to the active matrix panel. The interfacing includes a color enhancing unit (12) for defining composite pixel groupings in the active matrix panel and for causing each grouping to produce in excess of 185 thousand different color shading levels.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROXIMA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROXIMA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARWELL RANDALL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAW ROBERT W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARWELL RANDALL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAW ROBERT W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionENHANCED COLOR DISPLAY SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING SAME Cross Reference to Related Applications The present invention is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/690,513, filed April 23, 1991, entitled "VIDEO DISPLAY SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING SAME," which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/616,178 filed November 19, 1990, entitled "TELEVISION SIGNAL PROJECTION SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING SAME," which is a continuation-in- part of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/586,506 filed September 21, 1990, entitled "HIGH SPEED COLOR DISPLAY SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING SAME," which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/546,238 filed June 29, 1990 entitled "STACKED DISPLAY PANEL CONSTRUCTION AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME," which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/506,429 filed April 9, 1990, entitled "STACKED DISPLAY PANEL CONSTRUCTION AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME," which is a continuation-in-part and of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/506,621 filed April 9, 1990, entitled "STACKED DISPLAY PANEL CONSTRUCTION AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME," which are continuation-in-parts of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/472,668 filedJanuary 30, 1990 entitled, "LIQUID CRYSTAL DISPLAY PANEL SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING SAME," and of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/222,144 filed July 21, 1988, entitled "GRAY SCALE SYSTEM FOR VISUAL DISPLAYS," now abandoned, and a continuation patent application SerialNo. 07/507,630 filed April 11, 1990, entitled "GRAY SCALE SYSTEM FOR VISUAL DISPLAYS," now U.S. patent 5,062,001. The foregoing patent applications are incorporated herein by reference. 

 Technical FieldThe present invention relates in general to a video display system, and a method of using it. The invention more particularly relates to a method and apparatus for displaying a large projected full color display image generated from a television video signal. Background ArtThere have been various different types and kinds of full color video display systems. Inventive techniques for producing such a full-color display include the use of direct view video or television monitors.While such techniques have been satisfactory for some applications, direct video and television monitors are generally limited with respect to the size of the viewing image, due to the limited screen area associated with the cathode ray tube employed by such monitor units. Moreover, such systems have been relatively expensive to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An scaling arrangement, comprising: interface means for interfacing a video signal producing device to display means; said display means having a plurality of pixel elements, said plurality of pixel elements being arranged in groups to define a plurality of composite pixels; quantizing a device input shading level signal indicative of at least X shading levels into an output shading level signal indicative of X/4 shading levels, said output shading level signal being quantized and assigned to a specific quadrant of one of said composite pixels; and pattern means for converting said output shading level signals into groups of binary signals for driving individual ones of the pixel elements so that each composite pixel element can exhibit substantially X shading levels of individual ones of a plurality of individual colors. pattern reversal means for changing on a frame by frame basis the converting of said shading level signals to cause individual pixel elements to be gray scaled.
2. A display system unit as recited in claim 1, wherein said display means is a liquid crystal display device.
3. A display system unit as recited in claim 2, wherein said liquid crystal display device is an active matrix thin film transistor liquid crystal display panel. 4. A display system unit as recited in claim 3, wherein said display panel includes a matrix of electronically operable pixel elements, each one of said pixel elements having a set of three subpixel components. 5. A display system -unit as recited in claim 4, wherein each subpixel component is indicative of a 


 different color for producing a large number of color shades by a combining process as each subpixel component is driven to one of eight levels by one of said groups of binary signals. 6. A display system unit as recited in claim 5, wherein said combining process is a color additive process.
7. A display system unit as recited in claim 5, wherein said combining process is a color subtractive process.
8. A display system unit as recited in claim 1, wherein each one of said groups of binary signals are arranged in groups of three binary signals indicative of a large number of different color shading levels. 9. A display system unit as recited in claim 8, wherein said large number is at least 57 different shading levels for a single primary color.
10. An arrangement for coupling a television formatted signal to a display device, the formatted signal having individual red, green and blue color composite signal components for enabling the device to produce a large number of different color shading levels, said arrangement comprising: formatting means for generating gray scaling signals in response to said television formatted signal; said gray scaling signals being indicative of the intensity level of individual pixel elements in a composite pixel; bit map memory means for storing temporarily the gray scaling signals to facilitate driving individual pixel elements of the display device; and pattern means for retrieving individual ones of the gray scaling signals and for arranging said retrieved signals into a group of binary signals for driving individual pixel elements defining said composite pixel, 


 said composite pixel providing a pixel image having at least 57 different color component shading levels for each individual red, green, and blue color composite signal component forming part of the television formatted signal.
11. An arrangement according to claim 10, wherein said formatting means includes: signal conversion means for converting a the composite television signal into an RGB analog video signals; analog to digital conversion means for transforming said analog video signal into individual digital signals indicative of a full color displayable image; and scaling means coupled to said analog to digital conversion means for quantizing said digital signals for storage purposes.; bit memory means for storing said quantized digital signals; and pattern means for retrieving individual ones of said digital signals and for formatting said digital signals into groups of binary signals for driving individual pixel elements defining a composite pixel to produce a full color image. 12. An arrangement according to claim 11, further comprising: means for substantially eliminating extraneous beat patterns and flicker in said full color image.
13. An arrangement as recited in claim 11, wherein said scaling means includes: buffer means for temporarily storing said digital signal for quantizing purposes; and encoder means coupled to said buffer means for quantizing said digital signal without introducing any substantial quantization errors. 


 14. An arrangement as recited in claim 11, wherein said pattern means includes: means for retrieving the stored quantized digital signals; and means for formatting the retrieved quantized digital signals with a video clock signal to drive said display device.
15. A method for coupling a television formatted signal to a display device, the formatted signal having individual red, green, and blue color composite signal components for enabling the device to produce a large number of different color shading levels, said arrangement comprising: generating composite pixel image signals in response to said television formatted signal; storing temporarily the composite pixel image signals to facilitate driving individual pixel elements of the display device; and retrieving individual ones of the composite pixel image signals; arranging said retrieved signals into a group of binary signals; and driving individual pixel elements defining a composite pixel, said composite pixel providing a pixel image having different color component shading levels for each individual red, green, and blue color composite signal component forming part of the television formatted signal.
17. A method for displaying a full color image, comprising: interfacing a video signal producing device to display means, said display means producing a full color image through a plurality of pixel elements, said plurality of pixel elements being arranged in groups to define a plurality of composite pixels; 


 quantizing a device input shading level signal indicative of at least X shading levels into an output shading level signal indicative of X/4 shading levels, said output shading level signal being quantized and assigned to a specific quadrant of one of said composite pixels; converting said output shading level signals into groups of binary signals for driving individual ones of the pixel elements so that each composite pixel element can exhibit substantially X shading levels of individual ones of a plurality of individual colors. 18. A method for producing a full color image, comprising: interfacing a video signal producing device to display means; said display means having a plurality of pixel elements, each individual one of said pixel elements having a group of subpixel elements, where each subpixel element produces at least N shading levels of an individual color; enabling each individual one of said pixel elements to produce at least X shading levels of a plurality of individual colors, where X is substantially larger than N; generating shading level signals for causing individual ones of the subpixel elements to exhibit a given shading level for each one of said plurality of individual colors; and converting said shading level signals into a group of binary signals for driving individual ones of the subpixel elements so that each one of said subpixel elements can display X shading levels of individual ones of said plurality of individual colors. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
