<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612877</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic sewing machine.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D05B1900	D05B1900	D05B5700	D05B5730	D05B6900	D05B6910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D05B	D05B	D05B	D05B	D05B	D05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D05B19	D05B19	D05B57	D05B57	D05B69	D05B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic sewing machine whose needle bar assembly (40) is 
made to reciprocate by means of a pair of cooperating solenoids 

(31,32) in conjunction with a bobbin (50) driven by a stepping 
motor (51) to accomplish the sewing and in which the stepping 

motor's steps are made variable programmatically by a CPU (20) 
attached to the machine such that the tightness of a stitch may 

be controlled. Additionally, the machine may be programmed to 
deliver a defined number of stitches in a defined number of 

stitch runs, position the needle up or down, report a variety of 
accounting and maintenance data and can be taught to perform a 

variety of sewing runs. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRANKEL SAMUEL R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRANKEL, SAMUEL R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANKEL SAMUEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAGH MEGHANAD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANKEL, SAMUEL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAGH, MEGHANAD D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an improved electronic sewing machine, 
more particularly of the type in which the needle bar is driven 
by solenoids. Electromagnetic force has been utilized to operate needle bars in 
sewing machines, for example see US patent no. 3,425,376 of 
Brynge et al. Thus the art recognises that utilisation of 
solenoids and magnetic fields will reduce friction in a sewing 
machining which is generally dependent on a mechanical 
transmission with many moving parts. None, however, avoids the 
fact that somewhere in the driven train an ordinary electric 
motor is essential to operate a portion of the particular 
configuration disclosed and more specifically to operate the 
bobbin. As is well known in the art, stitch tightness is regulated by 
repositioning the bobbin assembly's rotation, conventionally by a 
manually adjustable screw. A variation in sewing together a 
number of plies or thickness of material, for example, requiring 
in the middle of a sewing operation plies or sewing a thicker 
elastic material to a lighter non-elastic kind, will cause uneven 
stitching and night require a manual readjustment to the bobbin 
assembly to accommodate the change. In and of itself, such 
uneven stitching could cause rejection by an inspector.  Most prior art and machines require some kind of continuously 
running drive and clutch arrangement and are therefore energy 
inefficient. An object of the present invention is therefore to provide an 
electromagnetic sewing machine which is controlled by a central 
processing unit (CPU) which is energy efficient and economical of 
maintenance by keeping to a minimum the number of moving parts 
and reducing friction. A further object is to provide an 
accurate means for controlling the quality of the stitch, that 
is, its tightness, made by the machine during a sewing operation 
regardless of the materials to be sewn or the characteristics of 
the thread utilised in the sewing and without halting the 
operation to adjust for tightness. An additional object is to relieve the machine operator of the 
burden of stitch counting, needle positioning, stitching speed 
during a run of stitches, and a variety of job reporting 
functions. Accordingly the invention provides an electronic sewing machine 
and a bobbin assembly therefor as set out in the accompanying 
Claims. Thus the invention aims to provide a sewing machine which is  
 
"smart" in that it can be taught to perform a series of runs of 
stitches, the number of stitches in a run, the position of the

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic sewing machine having a base (11), a bobbin 
assembly (5), mounted adjacent the base, a cantilevered 

frame (30) mounted on the base, a needle bar assembly (40) 
comprising a needle bar (42) and a needle (43) for sewing, 

the needle bar being attached to a reciprocator bar (41), a 
presser foot (12) mounted adjacent the needle 942), an 

external supply of thread (13), a treadle (60), a first 
solenoid (31) and a second solenoid (32) each having hollow 

cores (34), the solenoids being mounted within the frame 
(30) so that cores (34) are aligned to provide a 

substantially vertical passageway (35) with an upper and 
lower terminal within which the reciprocator bar (41) and 

hence the needle bar (42) can reciprocate by magnetic action 
of the solenoids, characterised in that the solenoids 

(31,32) are responsive to a first set of instructions from a 
central processing unit (CPU) (20) so that the needle (43) 

makes one stitch for each reciprocation up and down, in that 
the machine comprises a stepper motor (51) with a shaft (52) 

mounted adjacent the bobbin assembly (50), the motor (51) 
being enabled to rotate the shaft (52) a first step which is 

a defined angle of rotation less than 1 revolution to a 
first reference position (100) by means of a second set of 

instructions from the CPU; and in that the bobbin assembly 
 

first reference position (100) by means of a second set of 
instructions from the CPU; and in that the bobbin assembly 

(50) is attached to the stepper motor shaft (52) for 
rotation, said assembly having a bobbin case, a spool of 

thread and a hook (54) such that from the first reference 
position the bobbin assembly will cooperatively form a 

stitch of a defined tightness with a loop (45) formed by the 
needle (52) when the bobbin makes one revolution. 
An electronic sewing machine as in Claim 1, wherein by means 
of a third set of instructions from the CPU (20), the 

stepper motor (51) rotates the bobbin assembly to a second 
reference position clockwise from the first reference 

position a defined angle of rotation such that when the 
bobbin (50) makes one clockwise revolution from the second 

reference position it will form a stitch which is tighter 
than the defined tightness of the stitch formed from the 

first reference position. 
An electronic sewing machine as in Claim 1 or 2, wherein by 
means of a fourth set of instructions from the CPU, the 

stepper motor (51) rotates the bobbin assembly (50) to a 
third reference position counter-clockwise from the first 

reference position a defined angle of rotation such that 
when the bobbin assembly makes one clockwise revolution from 

the third reference position it will form a stitch which is 
 

looser than the defined tightness of the stitch formed from 
the first reference position. 
An electronic sewing machine as in Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein 
by means of a fifth set of instructions from the CPU, the 

stepper motor (51) will make one clockwise revolution from 
its reference position, the rotation commencing when the 

needle bar assembly (40) passes a defined point on the 
needle bar (42) travel path while travelling in a defined 

direction. 
An electronic sewing machine as in Claim 4 wherein the 
defined point on the travel path is adjacent to the lower 

terminus and the defined direction is upward. 
An electronic sewing machine as in Claim 4 wherein a sixth 
set of instructions from the first CPU will calculate when 

the needle bar assembly passes the defined travel point in 
the defined direction and causes the stepper motor shaft to 

rotate one revolution clockwise. 
An electronic sewing machine as in Claim 6 wherein a loop of 
a defined diameter is formed when the needle bar assembly 

passes the travel point in the defined direction. 
An electronic sewing machine as in Claim 3 wherein the 
 

second reference position and the third reference position 
are each more than zero degrees and less than 20 degrees. 
An electronic sewing machine as in any preceding Claim, 
wherein a seventh set of instructions from the CPU causes 

the needle bar assembly (40) to make a run of a defined 
number of stitches. 
An electronic sewing machine as in Claim 9, wherein an 
eighth set of instructions will cause the needle bar 

assembly to make a defined number of runs of stitches. 
An electronic sewing machine as in any preceding Claim, 
wherein a ninth set of instructions from the CPU causes the 

needle bar assembly (40) to halt at the lower terminus. 
An electronic sewing machine as in Claim 1 wherein a tenth 
set of instructions from the CPU will cause the needle bar 

assembly to halt at the upper terminus. 
An electronic sewing machine as in any preceding Claim, 
wherein the machine is equipped with means to transmit 

signals from the machine which indicate: 

a) when the needle bar assembly (40) is at the upper or 
lower terminus; 
b) when the solenoids (31,32) are activated to cause the 
needle bar assembly (40) to reciprocate up or down; 
c) what the first reference position (100) of the bobbin 
case (51) is; 
d) what the defined second (101) or third (102) position 
of the bobbin case (51) is. 
An electronic sewing machine as in any preceding Claim, 
wherein the CPU has memory to hold programming and data, a 

counter (22) and a clock cooperatively assembled. 
A bobbin assembly for an electronic sewing machine having a 
needle (43) and an external source of thread (13), the 

bobbin assembly (50) comprising: 

a) a stepper motor (51) with a shaft (52), the stepper 
motor (51) having a definable arc of obtaining; 
b) a bobbin case (53) which is disk-shaped having a 
perimeter and a major surface which is attached to the 

shaft (52) for rotation, the bobbin case (53) 
containing a spool of bobbin thread and having a hook 

means (54) disposed on the peerimeter cooperatively 
 

connected to the bobbin thread; 
c) a central processing unit (CPU) (20) with a memory to 
receive, store and transmit a multiplicity of sets of 

instructions, the instructions being in the form of 
pulses which will cause the motor (51) to rotate in 

steps clockwise and counter-clockwise; 
d) a first reference position (100) from which the bobbin 
case (53) will form, in cooperation with a loop formed 

by the sewing machine needle and the external source of 
thread, a stitch of defined tightness when the bobbin 

case (53) is caused to rotate 360 degrees clockwise 
from the first reference position. 
A bobbin assembly as in Claim 15, wherein a first set of 
instructions transmitted by the CPU (20) to the stepper 

motor (51) causes it to rotate in steps to the first 
reference position. 
A bobbin assembly as in Claim 15 or 16, wherein a second set 
of instructions transmitted by the CPU to the stepper motor 

(51) causes it to rotate in steps to a defined second 
reference (101) position which is clockwise of the first 

reference position (100) such that when the bobbin case (53) 
makes one revolution clockwise, it will form a stitch which 

 
is tighter than the defined tightness of a stitch formed 

from the first reference position. 
A bobbin assembly as in Claim 15, 16 or 17, wherein a third 

set of instructions transmitted by the CPU to the stepper 
motor (51) causes it to rotate in steps to a defined third 

reference position (102) which is counter-clockwise of the 
first reference position (100) such that when the bobbin 

case (53) makes one revolution clockwise it will form a 
stitch which is looser than the defined tightness of the 

stitch formed from the first reference position. 
A bobbin assembly as in any one of Claims 15 to 18 wherein a 
fourth set of instructions transmitted by the CPU to the 

stepper motor will cause it to rotate one revolution from 
its reference position. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
