<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627177</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Garment having a moisture management suspended panel.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41B900	A41B902	A41B912	A41B1100	A41B1100	A41B1102	A41C300	A41C300	A41D3100	A41D3102	A42C500	A42C502	A43B2300	A43B2326	A61F1300	A61F1300	A61F1315	A61F1315	D04B122	D04B126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41C	A41C	A41D	A41D	A42C	A42C	A43B	A43B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	D04B	D04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41B9	A41B9	A41B9	A41B11	A41B11	A41B11	A41C3	A41C3	A41D31	A41D31	A42C5	A42C5	A43B23	A43B23	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	D04B1	D04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is a garment (10) having a moisture 
management suspended panel (20) attached at one end 

thereof to a front waist area (11) of the garment (10), 
and attached at a second end thereof to a back seat area 

(12) of the garment. The suspended panel (20) includes 
inner (26), intermediate (27), and outer (28) fabric 

layers. The inner fabric layer (26) is constructed of 
moisture wicking fibers for residing in skin contact 

during garment wear. The intermediate fabric layer (27) 
resides adjacent to the inner fabric layer (26), and is 

formed of one or more fabrics for receiving and 
dispersing moisture wicked outwardly by the inner fabric 

layer. The intermediate fabric layer (27) transports the 
moisture upwardly away from a lower crotch area (22) of 

the garment and outwardly away from the skin of the 
wearer. The outer fabric layer (28) includes a liquid 

impermeable, vapor permeable shield for providing a 
leak-proof barrier which prevents passage of liquid but 

permits dissipation of moisture in vapor form through the 
fabric. The shield resides adjacent to the intermediate 

fabric layer (27), and is the outermost fabric layer of 
the suspended panel (20). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTELPRO CORP A DELAWARE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTELPRO CORPORATION (A DELAWARE CORPORATION)
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIER DANIEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETZ HERBERT LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIER, DANIEL L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETZ, HERBERT LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to garments having moisture 
management suspended panels. In many prior art moisture managing garments, the 
garment holds moisture against the skin. This can cause 
problems associated with chafing, leakage and spotting of 
moisture on the outer clothing of the wearer. Also, many prior art garments can only be worn for 
a limited period of time before it is necessary to change 
them. Thus such garments cannot effectively be worn by 
active wearers. A further disadvantage of prior art garments is 
that they are bulky and can cause embarrassment to the 
wearer. Another disadvantage is that many prior art 
garments have to be thrown away after use. This can be 
expensive. Moreover, disposable products typically 
require frequent changing and do not promote the 
evaporation of moisture.  It is an object of the invention to obviate and/or 
mitigate the above disadvantages. According to one aspect of the invention there is 
provided a garment having a inner moisture management 
suspended panel attached at one end thereof to a front 
waist area of the garment and attached at a second end 
thereof to a back seat area of the garment for preventing 
the movement of moisture from the body of the wearer to 
an outer shell fabric of the garment. According to another aspect of the invention there 
is provided a garment having a inner moisture management 
suspended panel attached at one end thereof to a front 
waist area of the garment, and attached at a second end 
thereof to a back seat area of the garment, the suspended 
panel comprising: 
(a) an inner fabric layer constructed of moisture 
wicking fibers for residing in skin contact during 
garment wear; (b) an intermediate fabric layer residing 
adjacent to said inner fabric layer and formed of one or 
more fabrics for receiving and dispersing moisture wicked 
outwardly by said inner fabric layer, and for 
transporting said moisture upwardly away from a lower 
crotch area of the garment and outwardly away from the  
 
skin of the wearer; and (c) an outer fabric layer comprising a liquid 
impermeable, vapor permeable shield for providing a 
leak-proof barrier which prevents passage of liquid but 
permits dissipation of moisture in vapor form through the 
fabric, said shield residing adjacent to said 
intermediate fabric layer and comprising the outermost 
fabric layer of said suspended panel. The embodiments disclosed below provide a garment 
having a moisture management suspended panel attached at 
one end thereof to a front waist area of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A garment having a inner moisture management suspended panel 
attached at one end thereof to a front waist area of the garment 

and attached at a second end thereof to a back seat area of the 
garment for preventing the movement of moisture from the body of 

the wearer to an outer shell fabric of the garment. 
A garment having a inner moisture management suspended panel 
attached at one end thereof to a front waist area of the garment, 

and attached at a second end thereof to a back seat area of the 
garment, the suspended panel comprising: 


(a) an inner fabric layer constructed of moisture 
wicking fibers for residing in skin contact during garment wear; 
(b) an intermediate fabric layer residing adjacent to 
said inner fabric layer and formed of one or more fabrics for 

receiving and dispersing moisture wicked outwardly by said inner 
fabric layer, and for transporting said moisture upwardly away from 

a lower crotch area of the garment and outwardly away from the skin 
of the wearer; and 
(c) an outer fabric layer comprising a liquid 
impermeable, vapor permeable shield for providing a leak-proof 

barrier which prevents passage of liquid but permits dissipation 
of moisture in vapor form through the fabric, said shield residing 

 
adjacent to said intermediate fabric layer and comprising the 

outermost fabric layer of said suspended panel. 
A garment according to claim 2, wherein said intermediate 
fabric layer of the suspended panel comprises a moisture transport 

insert having a lower first portion and an upper second portion, 
said lower first portion residing generally adjacent a lower crotch 

area of the garment and being relatively narrow with a relatively 
small surface area; and the upper second portion of said moisture 

transport insert residing generally adjacent an upper crotch area 
of the garment and being relatively wide with a relatively large 

surface area, said second portion providing greater moisture 
absorption capacity in the upper crotch area to promote the 

transport of moisture upwardly towards a drier area of the 
suspended panel where moisture can be more easily dispersed. 
A garment according to claim 3, wherein the width of said 
moisture transport insert tapers from the relatively wide second 

portion towards the relatively narrow first portion. 
A garment according to claim 2, wherein said intermediate 
fabric layer of the suspended panel comprises: 


(a) a first fabric comprising a moisture wicking overlay 
carried by the suspended panel for moving moisture away from the 

skin, and having a skin-side surface and a shell-side surface, said 
moisture wicking overlay defining an opening therethrough from said 

skin-side surface to said shell-side surface; and 
(b) a second fabric comprising a moisture transport insert 
extending through the opening in said moisture wicking overlay, and 

having: 

(1) a lower first portion positioned in overlying 
relation on the skin-side surface of the moisture wicking overlay 

for receiving moisture from the skin and from the moisture wicking 
overlay; and 
(2) an upper second portion positioned in overlying 
relation on the shell-side surface of said moisture wicking overlay 

for receiving moisture from the first portion of the moisture 
transport insert and for transporting the moisture through the 

opening to the shell-side surface of the moisture wicking overlay 
for dispersal. 
A garment according to claim 5, wherein said 
moisture wicking overlay defines a second opening 

therethrough located in spaced-apart relation to said 
first opening for inserting a free end of the first 

portion of said moisture transport insert through said 
moisture wicking overlay from the skin-side surface of 

said moisture wicking overlay to the shell-side surface 
of said moisture wicking overlay. 
A garment according to claim 5 or 6, wherein said 
moisture wicking overlay comprises a fabric constructed 

substantially of moisture wicking fibers having a high 
surface area in relation to volume. 
A garment according to claim 5 or 6, wherein said 
moisture wicking overlay comprises an integrally knit 

bi-component fabric constructed of moisture wicking 
fibers on the skin-side surface thereof for residing 

nearest the skin of the wearer, and hydrophilic fibers on 
the shell-side surface thereof for residing away from the 

skin of the wearer. 
A garment according to any of claims 5 to 8, 
wherein said moisture transport insert is attached to 

said moisture wicking overlay by sew stitching a portion 
of said moisture transport insert to said moisture 

 
wicking overlay. 
A garment according to any of claims 3 to 9, 
wherein said moisture transport insert comprises a fabric 

constructed substantially of moisture wicking fibers 
having a high surface area in relation to volume. 
A garment according to any of claims 3 to 10, 
wherein said moisture transport insert comprises 

hydrophilic nylon fibers chemically processed for 
speeding the moveent of moisture along the shaft of the 

fibers. 
A garment according to any of claims 3 to 9, 
wherein said moisture transport insert comprises an 

integrally knit bi-component fabric constructed of 
moisture wicking fibers on the skin-side surface thereof 

for residing nearest the skin of the wearer, and 
hydrophilic fibers on the shell-side surface thereof for 

residing away from the skin of the wearer. 
A garment according to claim 12, wherein the 
moisture wicking fibers of said bi-component moisture 

transport insert comprise hydrophilic nylon fibers. 
A garment according to claim 12, wherein the 
 

hydrophilic fibers of said bi-component moisture 
transport insert comprise cotton fibers for absorbing and 

dispersing moisture wicked outwardly by said moisture 
wicking fibers. 
A garment according to any of claims 2 to 14, 
wherein said inner fabric layer is constructed 

substantially of moisture wicking fibers having a high 
surface area in relation to volume. 
A garment according to any of claims 2 to 14, 
wherein said inner fabric layer comprises an integrally 

knit bi-component fabric constructed of moisture wicking 
fibers on a skin-side surface thereof for residing 

nearest the skin of the wearer, and hydrophilic fibers on 
a shell-side surface thereof for residing away from the 

skin of the wearer. 
A garment according to claim 16, wherein the 
moisture wicking fibers of the bi-component inner fabric 

layer comprise hydrophobic polyester fibers. 
A garment according to claim 17, wherein the 
hydrophilic fibers of the bi-component inner fabric layer 

comprise hydrophilic nylon fibers. 
A garment according to any of claims 2 to 14, 
 

wherein said inner fabric layer comprises an integrally 
knit tri-component fabric constructed of moisture wicking 

fibers on a skin-side surface thereof for residing 
nearest the skin of the wearer, a first hydrophilic fiber 

component residing adjacent to said moisture wicking 
fibers, and a second hydrophilic fiber component residing 

adjacent to said first hydrophilic fiber component and 
comprising the shell-side surface of said tri-component 

fabric. 
A garment according to claim 19, wherein the 
surface of said second hydrophilic fiber component 

adjacent to said first hydrophilic fiber component is 
brushed for enhancing the ability of the second 

hydrophilic component to disperse moisture moved 
outwardly from the first hydrophilic component. 
A garment according to any of claims 2 to 20, 
wherein the suspended panel is attached at respective 

ends thereof to said garment by first and second elastic 
end segments, each of said end segments being constructed 

of elastic yarns to provide stretchability for allowing 
the suspended panel to reside closely and comfortably 

next to the skin of the wearer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
