<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622847</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THREE DIMENSIONAL PACKAGE AND ARCHITECTURE FOR HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L25065	H01L25065	H05K105	H05K105	H05K114	H05K114	H05K334	H05K334	H05K336	H05K336	H05K346	H05K346	H05K714	H05K714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L25	H01L25	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A three dimensional packaging architecture for ultimate high 
performance computers and methods for fabricating thereof are 

described. The package allows very dense packaging of 
multiple integrated circuit chips for minimum communication 

distances and maximum clock speeds of the computer. The 
packaging structure is formed from a plurality of 

subassemblies. Each subassembly is formed from a substrate 
(8) which has on at least one side thereof at least one 

integrated circuit device (14, 16). Between adjacent 
subassemblies there is disposed a second substrate (18). 

There are electrical interconnection means (29) to 
electrically interconnect contact locations on the subassembly 

to contact locations on the second substrate. The electrical 
interconnection means can be solder mounds, wire bonds and the 

like. The first substrate provides electrical signal 
intercommunication between the electronic devices and each 

subassembly. The second substrate provides ground and power 
distribution to the plurality of subassemblies. Optionally, 

the outer surfaces of the structure that can be disposed a 
cube of memory chips. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIDSON EVAN EZRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS DAVID ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAW JANE MARGARET
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIEHBECK ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILCZYNSKI JANUSZ STANISLAW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIDSON, EVAN EZRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS, DAVID ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAW, JANE MARGARET
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIEHBECK, ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILCZYNSKI, JANUSZ STANISLAW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a package and architecture 
which allows very dense packaging of multiple integrated 
circuit chips for minimum communication distances and maximum 
clock speeds. To reduce the cost and increase the performance or electronic 
computers, it is desirable to place as many electronic 
circuits in as small a region as possible in order to reduce 
the distance over which electrical signals must travel from 
one circuit to another. This can be achieved by fabricating, 
on a given area of a semiconductor chip, as many electronic 
circuits as feasible within a given fabrication technology. 
These dense chips are generally disposed on the surface of a 
substrate in a side by side arrangement with space left 
therebetween to provide regions for electrical conductors for 
electrical interconnection of the chips. The chip contact 
locations can be electrically interconnected to substrate 
contact locations by means of wires bonded in between the chip 
contact location and substrate contact locations. 
Alternatively, a TAB tape (which is a flexible dielectric 
layer having a plurality of conductors disposed thereon) can 
be used for this electrical interconnection. Alternatively, 
the semiconductor chips may be mounted in a flip-chip 
configuration wherein an array of contact locations on the 
semiconductor chip is aligned with and electrically 
interconnected to an array of contact locations on a substrate 
by means of solder mounds disposed between corresponding chips 
and substrate contact locations. This side by side arrangement  
 
of electronic devices is not the most dense configuration 
which can be achieved. In the microelectronics industry, integrated circuits, such as 
semiconductor chips, are mounted onto packaging substrates to 
form modules. In high performance computer applications, the 
modules contain a plurality of integrated circuits. A 
plurality of modules are mounted onto a second level of 
packages such as a printed circuit board or card. The cards 
are inserted into a frame to form a computer. For nearly all conventional interconnection package, except 
for double sided cards, signals from one chip on the package 
travel in a two dimensional wiring net to the edge of the 
package, then travel across the card or board or even travel 
along cables before they reach the next package which contain 
the destination integrated circuit chip. Therefore, signals 
must travel off of one module onto wiring on a board or onto 
wiring on a cable to a second module and from
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A structure comprising: 
a plurality of subassemblies; 

each of said subassemblies comprising: 
a first substrate having a first side and a second side; 

at least one electronic device disposed on said first 
side and said second side; 

a plurality of first contact locations on said first 
side; 

a plurality of second contact locations on said second 
side; 

a plurality of second substrates; 
each of said subassemblies is disposed between a first 

one of said plurality of second substrates and a second 
one of said plurality of second substrates; 

first means for electrically interconnecting said 
plurality of first contact locations to said first 

one of said plurality of second substrates; 
second means for electrically interconnecting said 

plurality of second contact locations to said second 
one of said plurality of second substrates. 
A structure according to claim 1, wherein said first 
means and said second means are selected from the 

group consisting of solder mounds and wire bonds. 
A structure according to claim 1, wherein there are 
a plurality of electronic devices on said first side 

and a plurality of electronic devices on said second 
side. 
A structure according to claim 1, wherein said 
electronic device is a semiconductor device selected 

from the group consisting of a silicon integrated 
circuit chip and a gallium arsenide integrated 

circuit chip. 
A structure according to claim 1, wherein said first 
substrate has electrical conductors for electrically 

interconnecting said electronic devices. 
A structure according to claim 1, wherein said 
second substrate has electrical conductors for 

providing power and ground to said subassemblies. 
A structure according to claim 1, wherein there is 
at least one electronic device disposed on said 

first side and said second side. 
A structure according to claim 1, further including 
a third substrate, each of said second substrates 

has an edge having electrical conductors at said 
edge, said edge is disposed in electrical 

communication with electrical conductors on said 
third substrate. 
A structure according to claim 8, further including 
a stack of memory devices in electrical 

communication with one of said second substrates. 
A structure according to claim 1, further including 
means for directly electrically interconnecting said 

at least one electronic device to at least one of 
said plurality of second substrates. 
A structure according to claim 10, wherein said 
means for directly electrically interconnecting said 

at least one electronic device to said at least one 
 

of said plurality of second substrates is a solder 
mound. 
A structure comprising: 
a plurality of subassemblies; 

each of said subassemblies comprises a first substrate 
having a first side and a second side, a first at least 

one logic electronic device being disposed on said first 
side, a second at least one electronic devices being 

disposed on said second side, said first substrate has 
electrical conductors for electrical interconnection to 

said first and said second, said first substrate has a 
plurality of first contact locations; 

a plurality of second substrates, each having an end; 
said subassemblies are disposed between said second 

substrates; 
said second substrates have a plurality of second contact 

locations; 
said first contact locations are disposed adjacent said 

second contact locations; 
a means for providing electrical interconnection between 

said second substrates and said first substrates; 
a third substrate; 

said ends of said second substrates being disposed 
adjacent said third substrates; 

means for providing electrical interconnection of 
electrical conductors at said ends with electrical 

conductors in said third substrate. 
A structure according to claim 9, further including 
at least one memory device disposed in electrical 

contact with said second substrate. 
A structure according to claim 8, wherein said 
electrical conductors at said edge are electrically 

conducting pins. 
A structure comprising a plurality of metal and 
dielectric layers which allow an electrical path 

from an internal metal layers to the first or second 
side, or both of said substrate an electrically 

isolated path from first to second side of said 
substrate. 
A structure according to claim 15, wherein the 
plurality of metal layers are selected from the 

group consisting of copper, molybdenum, tungsten, 
copper-Invar-copper, and stainless steel. 
A structure according to claim 15, in which the 
plurality of dielectric layers are selected from the 

group consisting of polyimides, fluoropolymers, 
cyanate esters, epoxides and bismaleimides. 
A structure according to claim 15, in which the 
electrical paths from the internal metal layers to 

the sides, or from one side to another consists of 
an electrically conducting material or composite. 
A structure according to claim 18, in which the 
conducting material can be selected from the group 

consisting of conducting polymer, metal or metal 
alloy. 
A structure according to claim 18, in which the 
composite material consists of a metal in an organic 

or inorganic binder. 
A structure according to claim 20, in which the 
binder is a
 thermosetting polymer from the group epoxy 
resin, cyanate ester, and bismaleimide. 
A structure according to claim 20, in which the 
binder is a thermoplastic polymer, selected from the 

group consisting of polyimides, polyimidesiloxanes, 
 

polyamic acid, poly(siloxane), polysulfones, 
polyetherimides and fluoropolymers. 
A structure according to claim 20, in which the 
metal in the polymer composite is selected from 

copper, silver, gold, chromium, nickel, palladium, 
platinum and alloys thereof. 
A structure according to claim 18, in which the 
organic binder is a silicon oil. 
A structure in which the first side of the structure 
according to claim 15, is electrically 

interconnected to the first side of a second 
structure with second side of second structure is 

electrically connected to an electronic device 
disposed thereon means to provide electrical 

interconnection of signal and power to a plurality 
of electronic devices attached the second side of 

the second structure to (i) other devices on the 
second side of the second structure (ii) to the 

electrical connections on the first side of the 
first substrate means to provide electrical contacts 

from the electronic devices in the second side of 
the second structure of the first substrate to a 

second substrate. 
A structure according to claim 25, wherein second 
structure is a power and signal redistribution layer 

from the metal layers of structure 1 to electronic 
devices attached to the second side of structure 2 

from electrical contacts on sides 1 and 2 of 
structure 1 to electrical devices electrically connected 

and disposed on side 2 of structure 2 from electronic 
devices attached to a second structure 2 on side 2 of 

structure 1, to electrical devices attached to 
the second side of the first structure 2, joined to the 

first side of structure 1. 
A structure according to claim 15, with electrically 
conductive pins attached electrically and disposed 

on the second side of the same, in electrical 
contact with one or a plurality of metal layers 

inside the substrate electrical devices disposed on 
the first side of the substrate used as a chip 

carrier for a single chip or a plurality of chips 
each containing a plurality or electrical circuits. 
A structure according to claim 15, with electrically 
conductive pads on the second side of the substrate, 

which are in electrical contact with one or a plurality 
of metal layers inside the substrate electrical devices 

disposed on the first side of the substrate used as a 
chip carrier for a single chip or a plurality of chips 

each containing a plurality or electrical circuits. .sp 
The structure according to claim 15, when the same 
is used as a power redistribution. 
A structure according to claim 25, when a heatsink 
is attached to the second side of the substrate to 

limit and control the maximum temperature of the 
substrate and electronic devises disposed thereon. 
A structure according to claim 25, with electrically 
conductive pins attached electrically and disposed on the 

second side of the same, in electrical contact with 
one or a plurality of metal layers inside the 

substrate electrical devices disposed on the first side 
of the substrate used as a chip carrier for a single chip 

or a plurality of chips each containing a plurality or 
electrical circuits. 
A structure according to claim 25, with electrically 
conductive pads on the second side of the substrate, 

which are in electrical contact with one or a plurality 
 

of metal layers inside the substrate electrical devices 
disposed on the first side of the substrate used as a 

chip carrier for a single chip or a plurality of chips 
each containing a plurality or electrical circuits. 
A structure according to claim 25, where a heatsink 
is attached to the second side of the substrate to 

limit and control the maximum temperature of the 
substrate and electronic devises disposed thereon. 
A structure according to claim 25, where a means for 
cooling same to subambient temperatures is attached 

to the second side of the substrate. 
A structure according to claim 33, used as a chip 
carrier for a single chip or a plurality of chips 

each containing a plurality or electrical circuits, 
with a means to electrically carry signals from the 

electronic devices to a second substrate. 
A structure according to claim 34, used as a chip 
carrier for a single chip or a plurality of chips 

each containing a plurality or electrical circuits 
with a means to electrically carry signals from the 

electronic devices to a second substrate. 
A structure according to claim 15, further including 
a second structure electrically disposed on one or 

both sides of the first structure. With the second 
structure having an edge, there is a means for 

electrical contact from said edge to a third 
structure. 
A structure according to claim 25, further including 
a second structure electrically disposed on one or 

both sides of the first structure. With the second 
structure having an edge, there is a means for 

 
electrical contact from said edge to a third 

structure. 
A means to provide increased electrical connection 
density on an electronic device by providing a means 

of introducing the power and ground, or signal from 
the opposite side of the wafer to the active 

devices. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
