<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644627</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Connector with mounting collar for use in universal patch panel systems.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R13516	H01R13516	H01R1374	H01R1374	H04Q102	H04Q114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H04Q1	H04Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a preferred embodiment, a device which is capable of being 
mounted in an opening in a panel, and which is adapted to hold a 

component, comprises two parallel side portions each being made of a 
plastic material, each side portion including a depending portion at each 

end thereof. Each of two moveable arms extends between corresponding 
ends of said side portions and is hingedly connected thereto. Each 

moveable arm includes two detents projecting from an outer surface of the 
arm such that when forces are applied to free end portions of the arms to 

move the free end portions toward each other, the device is capable of being 
inserted into an opening in a panel until a face of the panel abuts the 

depending portions of the side portions whereupon the application of forces 
is discontinued to allow the arms to move outwardly and cause the detents 

of each arm to snap-lock into engagement with an opposite side of the 
panel. Furthermore, the present invention additionally includes means 

which allows the patch panel to adequately support the component in a 
position which provides ready frontal access to all wiring associated with 

any single component. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNETT JAIME RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNETT, JAIME RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a connector with mounting collar for 
use in universal patch panel systems. In closets in buildings, connections between transmission media 
are made through connectors mounted on patch panels. Typically, a patch 
panel includes a plate having an array of openings therein. A connector is 
mounted in each of the openings. Connectors which are used include 
optical fiber connectors, coaxial connectors and copper modular connectors. Arrangements for releasably holding connectors in a panel plate 
have been disclosed in the prior art. In U.S. 5,096,439 is disclosed a plate 
having an opening therein. A rear side of the wall plate includes a collar for 
engaging the connector and holding it together with the wall plate. A 
connector such as a jack to be received in the opening in the wall plate 
includes a cavity for receiving a plug and a latching system formed along 
each of opposed sidewalls thereof. The latching system includes two 
collinear spaced stop members and a flexible member which includes a 
wedge-shaped tab. A tool is provided for insertion into the grooves to 
depress the wedge-shaped tabs when it is desired to withdraw the connector 
from the wall plate. See also U.S. 5,041,018. U.S. Patent 5,238,426 discloses an additional patch panel 
system. Specifically, the disclosed panel system may accept any of several 
different kinds of connectors. Furthermore, this particular panel system 
allows connections to be made form the front of the panel as opposed to 
requiring that crafts persons work at the rear of the panel. As disclosed in 
the application referenced immediately above, by being able to remove the 
connector from the front side of the panel, a technician may install and/or 
maintain each individual connector without having to remove the entire 
panel which may disturb other connectors. However, each of the existing panel systems and associated 
connectors provide the capability of housing the connector fully engaged in 
or fully disengaged from the patch panel. Therefore, any time the crafts  
 
person desires to remove a single connector from the front of the panel to 
gain access to the associated wiring, the maintenance work must either be 
performed with the connector dangling free and unsupported or the 
operator must manually provide the necessary physical support. Such 
requirements may drastically decrease the effectiveness and efficiency with 
which the maintenance work is completed. Among other concerns, the 
operator manually supports the connector
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device which is capable of being mounted in an opening in a 
panel, and which is adapted to hold a component, said device comprising: 

   a plurality of detents configured to allow quick connection and 
disconnection within the opening of the panel; and 

   a base extension portion which secures the device from the front 
of the panel in an angled orientation which provides ready frontal access to 

the component held by that device. 
The device of claim 1, wherein the base extension portion 

comprises a plurality of winged portions which extend from opposite sides of 
the base extension portion thereby increasing the width of a section of the 

base portion so that when the device is secured from the front of the panel 
by the base extension portion, the winged portions abut the back side of the 

panel. 
The device of claim 1, wherein the base extension portion 
comprises an indention which traverses the bottom portion of the base 

extension along its width so that when the device is secured from the front 
of the panel by the base extension portion, the lower side of the panel 

opening seats into the nadir of the indention. 
The device of claim 1, wherein said device further comprises 
   two parallel side portions each being made of a plastic material, 

each side portion including a depending portion at each end thereof; and 
   two moveable portions, each extending between corresponding 

ends of said side portions and hingedly connected thereto and each being 
biased resiliently outwardly, each moveable portion including two detents 

projecting from an outer surface of said moveable portion such that when 
forces are caused to be applied to free end portions of said moveable 

portions to cause the free end portions to be moved toward each other, the 
device is capable of being inserted into an opening in a panel until a front 

surface of the panel abuts the depending portions of the side portions 
whereupon the application of forces is discontinued to allow the moveable 

portions to move outwardly and cause said detents to snap-lock into 
engagement with an opposite surface of the panel. 
The device of claim 4, wherein each of said detents is wedge-shaped 
with the portion thereof having the least thickness being oriented 

toward that portion of the device which is first inserted into the opening in 
the panel. 
The device of claim 4, wherein both said moveable portions are 
biased outwardly to cause said detents to abut opposed surfaces which 

define the opening into which the device is inserted. 
The device of claim 4, wherein when the front surface of said 
panel engages said depending portions and when said device is fully 

inserted, the discontinuation of the application of forces to said moveable 
portions allows said moveable portions to move outwardly and cause end 

faces of said detents, which end faces are adjacent to the depending 
portions of the side portions, to engage an opposite surface of said panel. 
A patch panel which comprises: 
   a panel plate having an array of openings formed therein; and 

   an adapter which is mounted in an opening in a panel plate, and 
which is adapted to hold a component, said device comprising any of the 

features of claims 1-7. 
The patch panel of claim 8, wherein said moveable arm 
portions are sufficiently moveable toward each other to disengage said 

detents from the panel plate to allow withdrawal of said adapter from the 
opening in the panel. 
The patch panel of claim 8, which also includes a collar 
which is capable of being assembled to said adapter and which is capable of 

having a tubular connector assembled thereto, said collar including a front 
wall and top and bottom walls extending perpendicularly from said front 

wall and two sidewalls extended inwardly from said front wall, said front 
wall including an opening for receiving an optical fiber connector, each said 

sidewall including means for causing said collar to be secured to said 
adapter. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
