<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641166</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING THE RIPENING OF FRESH PRODUCE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01F2500	A01F2500	A23B7144	A23B7144	A23B7148	F24F102	F24F102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01F	A01F	A23B	A23B	A23B	F24F	F24F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01F25	A01F25	A23B7	A23B7	A23B7	F24F1	F24F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus is provided for controlling the ripening of produce. The apparatus includes a chamber (10) having a ceiling (16) a floor (12) and a plurality of walls (18, 20). Positioned in the chamber (10) is a support and position structure (32) to support two rows (34, 36) of palletized produce (24) and to space the palletized produce (24) away from the walls (18, 20) to define a fluid circulation space around the palletized produce (24). The rows (34, 36) of palletized produce (24) are spaced apart to define an interstitial volume therebetween. Each row (34, 36) of palletized produce (26) includes at least an upper (42) and a lower (38) tier with a vertical spacing therebetween. A flexible sealing strip (64) is affixed to the support and position structure (32) to generally seal the vertical spacing between the tiers from the fluid circulation space. A fluid control mechanism (68, 70) is provided to exhaust fluid from the interstitial volume and to introduce a controlled fluid into the fluid circulation space to create a pressure differential between the interstitial volume and the circulation space to thereby force the controlled fluid to flow generally uniformly through the palletized produce (24).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOL CARE CONSULTING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOL CARE CONSULTING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIANCO MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIANCO MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING THE RIPENING OF FRESH PRODUCEField of the InventionThis invention relates generally to methods and apparatuses for controlling the ripening of fresh produce, particularly fresh fruit like bananas.Background of The InventionBananas and other fresh produce are typically transported from the growing fields to a processing facility where they are placed in specially designed ripening rooms. These ripening rooms are provided with insulated, gas tight wall and roof panels and include an air handling unit to control the circulation and temperature of the air within the ripening room. In this manner, the ripening of the fresh produce may be controlled in accordance with a predetermined ripening schedule such that the fruit is properly ripened at the time it is scheduled for delivery to retail outlets. To advantage, ethylene gas is dispersed into the room at a preselected time to facilitate a uniform ripening of the produce. Accordingly, the use of ripening rooms enables the delivery of high quality produce to retail outlets without the constraint of having to schedule delivery in accordance with the natural ripening process of the fruit and further obviates problems associated with accelerations and decelerations of the ripening process due to changing conditions during the transportation of the produce.In one advantageous prior ripening room arrangement, the produce is packed into unitized shipping modules comprising individual protective boxes which are block-stacked on pallets. The palletized produce is inserted into a ripening chamber having a floor, ceiling and front, rear and side walls and being of suitable dimensions to enclose two spaced rows of the palletized 

produce. The two rows are spaced apart from one another within the chamber to define an interstitial volume between the rows, which substantially forms a low pressure plenum. There is also provided sufficient spacing between the palletized produce and the ceiling and walls of the chamber to define a high pressure air space around and above the inserted produce load.A tarp arrangement is placed over the top and one end of the spacing between the two rows of palletized produce to seal off the low pressure plenum from the high pressure air space. Exhaust fans are arranged in a sealed relation at the opposite end of the spacing between the rows to withdraw air from the spacing and thereby create a pressure differential between the tarp sealed plenum and the high pressure air space. Air is introduced by an air
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An apparatus for controlled ripening of produce, comprising: a chamber having a ceiling, a floor and a plurality of walls; a support and position structure to support two rows of palletized produce within said chamber and to space said palletized produce away from said walls to define a fluid circulation space around said palletized produce, said rows of palletized produce being spaced apart to define an interstitial volume therebetween, each said row of palletized produce having at least upper and lower tiers with a vertical spacing therebetween; a flexible sealing strip affixed to said support and position structure to generally seal the vertical spacing between said tiers from said fluid circulation space; and a fluid control mechanism to exhaust fluid from said interstitial volume and to introduce a controlled fluid into said fluid circulation space to create a pressure differential between said interstitial volume and said circulation space to thereby force said controlled fluid to flow generally uniformly through said palletized produce.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said flexible sealing strip comprises a vinyl strip.
3. The apparatus of claim l, wherein each said row of palletized produce includes an upper, lower, and middle tier. 


4. An apparatus for controlled ripening of produce, comprising: a chamber having a ceiling, a floor and a plurality of walls; a support and position structure to support two rows of palletized produce within said chamber and to space said palletized produce away from said walls to define a fluid circulation space around said palletized produce, said rows of palletized produce being spaced apart to define, an interstitial volume therebetween; curbs positioned on said floor to guide loading vehicles carrying palletized produce into said chamber; and a fluid control mechanism to exhaust fluid from said interstitial volume and to introduce a controlled fluid into said fluid circulation space to create a pressure differential between said interstitial volume and said circulation space to thereby force said controlled fluid to flow generally uniformly through said palletized produce.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said curbs include tapered ends.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said support and position structure is mounted on said curbs.
7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein each said row of palletized produce includes upper, middle and lower tiers.
8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein at least some of said palletized produce is positioned on a pallet on said floor, said pallet having a side adjacent one of said 



curbs, and wherein said curb is sufficiently high to generally seal said side from airflow therethrough.
9. An apparatus for controlled ripening of produce, comprising: a chamber having a ceiling, a floor and a plurality of walls; a frame structure to support two rows of palletized produce within said chamber and to space said palletized produce away from said walls to define a fluid circulation space around said palletized produce, said rows of palletized produce being spaced apart to define an interstitial volume therebetween, said frame structure including support rails for engaging and supporting the palletized produce; a plurality of rollers rotatably mounted on said support rails for enabling easy movement of the palletized produce on said rails; and a fluid control mechanism to exhaust fluid from said interstitial volume and to introduce a controlled fluid into said fluid circulation space to create a pressure differential between said interstitial volume and said circulation space to thereby force said controlled fluid to flow generally uniformly through said palletized produce.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein each said row of palletized produce includes at least upper and lower tiers and wherein said support rails are positioned on said upper tier.
11. An apparatus for controlled ripening of produce, comprising: a chamber having a ceiling, a floor and a plurality 


of walls ; a support and position structure to support two rows of palletized produce within said chamber and to space said palletized produce away from said walls to define a fluid circulation space around said palletized produce, said rows of palletized produce being spaced apart to define an interstitial volume therebetween, said support and position structure including support rails to engage and support said palletized produce;
•said support rails having flared ends for guiding palletized produce being mounted thereon; and a fluid control mechanism to exhaust fluid from said interstitial volume and to introduce a controlled fluid into said fluid circulation space to create a pressure differential between said interstitial volume and said circulation space to thereby force said controlled fluid to flow generally uniformly through said palletized produce.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein each said row of palletized produce includes at least upper and lower tiers and wherein said support rails are positioned on said upper tier.
13. An apparatus for controlled ripening of produce, comprising: a chamber having a ceiling, a floor and a plurality of walls; a .support and position structure to support two rows of palletized produce within said chamber and to space said palletized produce away from said walls to define a fluid circulation space around said palletized produce, said rows of palletized produce being spaced apart to define an interstitial volume therebetween; 


 a tarp for covering said interstitial volume to generally seal said interstitial volume from said fluid circulation space; a tarp laying mechanism for laying said tarp over said interstitial volume, said tarp laying mechanism including a tarp box for holding said tarp, a longitudinally extending member positioned on said support and position structure, and a tarp extender slidibly mounted on said member, said tarp extender engagable with said tarp for drawing said tarp out of said tarp box and positioning said tarp over said interstitial volume.
14. The apparatus of Claim 13, further comprising a motor for moving said tarp extender.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a pulley system having a cable coupled to said motor and said tarp extender.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said support and position structure comprises a structure having discrete sections such that said tarp can be positioned between said discrete sections to generally seal said interstitial volume. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
