<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0859266</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multi-wavelength laser source
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F101	G02F103	G02F1225	G02F129	G02F1313	G02F135	G02F135	G02F1365	H04B10152	H04B10155	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A light source for generating many precisely spaced wavelength channels, based on the
periodic modulation of light. CW light is periodically amplitude modulated and then coupled to

a non-linear fiber where it undergoes additional modulation by the process of self-phase
modulation or other non-linear effects. In a general embodiment of the multi-wavelength

source (MWS), an optical modulator driven by a periodic electromagnetic signal imposes
periodic amplitude modulation on light from a single longitudinal mode CW laser. The light is

then coupled to a non-linear medium with an intensity dependent refractive index where it
generates higher order spectral sidebands by the process of self-phase modulation and/or other

non-linear effects. The frequency spacing between the spectral components is equal to the
repetition rate of the modulation. The shape of the spectrum (i.e. the relative amplitudes of the

spectral components) can be modified by adjustments to: the amplitude modulated waveform;
the optical power of the waveform. when coupled to the non-linear medium; and/or

characteristics of the non-linear medium such as the non-linear refractive index, the length and
the dispersion.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOROTKY STEVEN KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VESELKA JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOROTKY, STEVEN KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VESELKA, JOHN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to the field of laser light sources. More particularly, the
invention pertains to sources of multiple wavelengths of coherent light for Wavelength
Division Multiplexed (WDM) optical communications systems.Wavelength-Division-Multiplexing (WDM) is an attractive option for providing
increased capacity in light wave transmission systems and routing capability within optical
networks. For example, high capacity transport systems that carry as many as eight
wavelengths per fiber have been developed and are currently being deployed. Presently in
these systems, each transmitter includes a laser that is intended to operate at only one of the
allowed wavelength channel frequencies. The lasers are engineered to operate within the
channel specifications for the life of the system by both tight control of the laser fabrication and
its operating environment. To plan for the event of a failure, an inventory of transmitters for
each wavelength channel must also be maintained. As undoubtedly the demand for the number
of wavelengths in transport and local systems will increase to 32 or more in the not too distant
future, new technological capabilities and designs for transmitters and receivers will be
required to minimize the complexity and cost of the use of such large numbers of wavelengths.Several approaches to address the channel stabilization and inventory issues are being
considered. One solution to the inventory problem is to use a tunable laser that can be
adjusted to the desired channel within each transmitter. However, tunable lasers are more
complicated than fixed frequency lasers, will naturally drift over a wider range, and will require
stabilization of the operating wavelength for each of a large number of channels. A very
attractive solution to the inventory and stabilization dilemma is to use a wavelength selectable
laser. In this case, each photonic source chip includes several fixed frequency lasers, which the
desired channel may be selected from. Wavelength selectable source chips that can reach 4-6
channels have been reported (see M.G. Young, U. Koren, B.I. Miller, M. Chien, T.L. Koch, 
D.M. Tennant, K. Fedder, K. Dreyer, and G. Raybon, "Six wavelength laser array with
integrated amplifier and modulator," Electron. Lett., vol. 31, no.21, pp. 1835-1836, Oct. 12,
1995), however reaching larger numbers would presumably present significant yield and
packaging issues.Recently, an alternative approach to multi-wavelength sources that can generate many
or all of the system wavelengths
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-wavelength light source for producing laser light having a plurality of wavelengths,
comprising:


a laser having a continuous wave light output;
a source of periodic electromagnetic signals having a signal output having a
characteristic repetition rate;
an optical modulator having a light input coupled to the light output of the
laser, a modulating input coupled to the signal output of the source, and a light output, such that the light output of the optical modulator

comprises the light from the light input, modulated by the output of the
source introduced at the modulating input; and
a non-linear element having a light input coupled to the light output of the
optical modulator and a light output;
such that the light output of the non-linear element comprises a plurality of
optical signals, spaced apart by a wavelength related to the

characteristic repetition rate of the source.
The multi-wavelength light source of claim 1 in which the multi-wavelength source further
comprises a length of dispersive fiber having a first end coupled to the output of the

optical modulator and a second end coupled to the input of the non-linear element,
such that the waveform from the optical modulator is modified by the dispersive fiber.
The multi-wavelength source of claim 2, in which the dispersive fiber has a first order
dispersion equal to ±c/(8λ2f2) or ±c/(24λ2f2) and negligible higher order dispersion,

where c is the speed of light in a vacuum, f is the repetition rate of the periodic signal
and λ is the wavelength of the light.
The multi-wavelength light source of claim 1, in which the optical modulator generates an
amplitude modulated optical signal.
The multi-wavelength light source of claim 4, in which the optical modulator is a Mach-Zender
modulator.
The multi-wavelength source of claim 5, in which the peak-to-peak phase modulation
induced in each arm of the Mach-Zender modulator is between 4.2 and 4.8 radians.
The multi-wavelength source of claim 5, in which the Mach-Zehnder modulator is biased at
a maximum on its switching characteristic.
The multi-wavelength source of claim 5, in which the two arms of the the Mach-Zehnder
modulator are driven sinusoidally such that a sinusoidal phase modulation of about 4.2

to 4.8 radians peak-to peak magnitude and of opposite polarity is induced each arm of
the modulator.
The multi-wavelength light source of claim 4, in which the optical modulator is a directional
coupler amplitude modulator.
The multi-wavelength source of claim 1, in which the optical modulator comprises:

a phase modulator having a light input, a modulation input, and a light output,
the light input forming the light input of the optical modulator, the

modulation input comprising the modulating input of the optical
modulator, the light signal at the light output comprising the light from

the light input phase modulated by the signal from the modulating input;
a length of dispersive fiber, having a first end coupled to the light output of the
phase modulator and a second end comprising the light output of the

optical modulator;
such that the phase modulated light output of the phase modulator is converted
to a periodic amplitude modulated optical signal by the dispersive fiber.
The multi-wavelength source of claim 1, in which the optical modulator is an electro-optical
modulator, and the periodic signal is an electrical signal.
The multi-wavelength source of claim 11, in which the periodic signal is a radio-frequency
signal.
A method of producing a plurality of light signals of spaced-apart wavelength, the
wavelength being related to the frequency of a periodic signal, comprising the steps of:


producing a single wavelength of coherent light in a continuous-wave laser;
modulating the light in an optical modulator with a periodic electromagnetic
signal;
introducing the modulated light into a non-linear element, such that the
modulated light generates higher-order spectral components through

non-linear effects in the non-linear element.
The method of claim 13, in which the optical modulator is an amplitude modulator.
The method of claim 13, in which the optical modulator is a phase modulator followed by a
lenght of dispersive fiber.
The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps of:

supplying the multi-wavelength light output from the non-linear element into a
plurality of band-pass filters, each band-pass filter being tuned to one of

the plurality of wavelengths of light;
modulating the output of each of the plurality of band-pass filters in an optical
modulator with a channel of data.
The method of claim 16, further comprising the step of combining the modulated light
outputs of the plurality of optical modulators, the combined output comprising a multichannel

wavelength-division multiplexed signal.
The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps of:
supplying the multi-wavelength light output from the non-linear element into a
wavelength demultiplexer having a plurality of outputs, each output

being tuned to one of the plurality of wavelengths of light;
modulating each of the plurality of outputs of the wavelength demultiplexer in
an optical modulator with a channel of data.
The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of combining the modulated light
outputs of the plurality of optical modulators, the combined output comprising a multichannel

wavelength-division multiplexed signal.
The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps of:

filtering the light from the non-linear element in a tunable band-pass filter;
tuning the tunable band-pass filter to one of the plurality of wavelengths of light
in the light from the non-linear element.
A wavelength division multiplex transmitter comprising:

a multi-wavelength source having a light output comprising a plurality of light
signals of a plurality of wavelengths, the multi-wavelength source

comprising:
a laser having a continuous wave light output;
a source of periodic electromagnetic signals having a signal output
having a characteristic repetition rate;
an optical modulator having a light input coupled to the light output of
the laser, a modulating input coupled to the signal output of the

source, and a light output, such that the light output of the optical
modulator comprises the light from the light input, modulated by

the output of the source introduced at the modulating input; and
a non-linear element having a light input coupled to the light output of the
optical modulator and a light output;
such that the light output of the non-linear element comprises a plurality
of optical signals, spaced apart by a wavelength related to the

characteristic repetition rate of the source;
wavelength-separation means for separating an optical signal into a plurality of
outputs based on the wavelength of the signal components, having an

input coupled to the output of the multi-wavelength source, and a
plurality of light outputs each comprising light having a wavelength, the

wavelengths being chosen from the plurality of wavelengths of light in
the light output of the multi-wavelength source; and
a plurality of single-channel modulators, each comprising:
an optical modulator having an input coupled to a light output of the
wavelength separation means, a modulation input, and a light

output, the light output comprising the light present at the light
input modulated by the data on the modulation input, the output

of the optical modulator being the output of the single channel
modulator.
The transmitter of claim 21, further comprising a combiner having a plurality of inputs
coupled to the outputs of the plurality of single-channel modulators, the output of the

combiner comprising the combination of the outputs of the single-channel modulators.
The transmitter of claim 21, in which the wavelength separation means is a wavelength
demultiplexer.
The transmitter of claim 21, in which the wavelength separation means comprises a
plurality of band-pass filters, each tuned to a wavelength chosen from the multiple

wavelengths of the multi-wavelength source.
A tunable light source comprising:

a multiple wavelength source, comprising:

a laser having a continuous wave light output;
a source of periodic electromagnetic signals having a signal output having
a characteristic frequency;
an optical modulator having a light input coupled to the light output of
the laser, a modulating input coupled to the signal output of the

source, and a light output, such that the light output of the optical
modulator comprises the light from the light input, modulated by the output of the source introduced at the modulating input; and
a non-linear element having a light input coupled to the light output of the
optical modulator and a light output;
such that the light output of the non-linear element comprises a plurality
of optical signals, spaced apart by a wavelength related to the

characteristic frequency of the source; and
a tunable band-pass filter, having an input coupled to the output of the multi-wavelength
source, a control input, and an output, such that the output

of the tunable band-pass filter comprises light of a wavelength selected
by the control input.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
