<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617426</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical disc cartridge with structure for preventing the dislocation of a spring.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2303	G11B2303	G11B2350	G11B3304	G11B2350	G11B3304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B23	G11B23	G11B23	G11B33	G11B23	G11B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A structure for preventing the dislocation of a spring in an 
optical disk cartridge wherein a shutter is opened and closed 

in accordance with a sliding movement of a sliding jig provided 
in the inner portion of the shutter and joined to the spring 

contacting portions of cartridge case via a spring, 
characterized in that the spring contacting portions of the 

cases consist of the surfaces of a contacting wall, and upper 
and lower walls extending from the contacting wall, the lower 

wall being provided with a spring dislocation preventing 
projection. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an optical disc cartridge with a structure for preventing the 
dislocation of a spring. An optical disk protecting container consisting of a cartridge 
type container has recently been used most conveniently. In 
this container, an optical disk base 22 is housed in a 
cartridge 21 as shown in Figure 7, and the disk base 22 is not 
normally exposed. The disk protecting container is formed so 
that, when it is inserted into a reader, a shutter 23 provided 
on the cartridge 21 is opened manually or automatically to 
cause a part of the disk base 22 to be exposed. The opening and 
closing of the shutter 23 are done in accordance with the 
laterial movements of a sliding jig joined to an inner portion 
of the shutter 23. To be more precise, the cartiridge 21 
consists of two cases 21a, 21b (cases on the sides of A and B 
surfaces) molded to substantially the same shape, as shown in 
Figures 7 and 8. One side, on which slide portions are formed, 
of the cases 21a, 21b is provided with rails 25a, 25b. The 
slide jig 24 constituting another member is provided with jig 
sliding grooves 26a, 26b the size of which is in agreement with 
that of the rails 25a,25b and the sliding jig 24 is held 
between the cases 21a, 21b slidably. The sliding jig 24 is 
joined resiliently to the spring contacting portions of the 
cartridge cases via a spring 27 so that the opening and closing 
of the shutter 23 are thereby controlled. The sliding jig 24 is 
normally in the condition shown in Figure 10, with the shutter 
closed.  
 In order to produce the optical disk cartridge, the sliding jig 
24 is held between the cases 21a, 21b first as described above. 
After the cartridge is formed by using this step, a spring 27 
the free end portions of which are bent at right angles so as 
to increase the contact surface area therof is inserted 
thereinto from the opened surfaces 28 of the sliding portions 
of the cases. In a conventional cartridge of this kind, the spring 27 is 
engaged at its free end portions 29, 30 with a free end portion 
(contacting portion) 31 of the sliding jig 24 and the 
contacting surfaces 32 of the cases, and the dislocation of the 
spring is prevented by only the resilient force thereof. 
EP-A-0 271 997 discloses an example of such a conventional cartridge. An optical disk is originally a precision product and handle 
as carefully as possible. When the optical disk is handled 
normally, the spring does not come off even if the spring is 
formed as mentioned above, but when the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical disc cartridge with a structure for preventing dislocation of a spring (27) 
in the cartridge (21) wherein a shutter 

(23) which is opened and closed in accordance with a 
sliding movement of a sliding jig (24) provided in an 

inner portion of said shutter and joined to the spring 
contacting portions of the cartridge case via a spring 

(27), characterized in that said spring contacting 
portions of said case consist of the surfaces of a 

contacting wall (32) and upper and lower walls (33, 34) 
which are provided on said contacting wall (32), and a 

spring dislocation preventing projection (36) being 
provided on said lower wall, 
The cartridge as recited in claim 1, wherein the spring 
dislocation preventing projection (36) is spaced from 

the contacting portions of the case, and the 
cartridge case having a side wall which is in 

engagement with the lower wall and the spring 
dislocation preventing projection. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 2, wherein the spring 
dislocation preventing projection and the upper wall 

have an opening defined therebetween, and the opening 
being adjacent to the side wall of the cartridge 

case. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 3, wherein the upper 
wall, the lower wall, the contacting portion of the 

cases and the projection all defining a recess, an end 
of the spring being insertable into the recess through 

the opening between the spring dislocation preventing 
projection a
nd the upper wall, the opening having a 
length which generally corresponds to a diameter of the 

end of the spring, the spring dislocation preventing  
 

projection preventing the end of the spring from 
falling from the recess. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 1, wherein the spring 
has at least on bend therein such that the end of the 

spring and a remainder of the spring have an L-shape, 
the end of the spring being insertable through the 

opening into the recess and being held therein by the 
projection. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 5, wherein the recess 
generally has a rectangular configuration with the 

upper and lower walls being generally parallel and with 
the contacting portion of the cases and the projection 

being generally parallel. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 1, wherein the recess 
generally has a rectangular configuration with the 

upper and lower walls being generally parallel and with 
the contacting portion of the cases and the projection 

portion being generally parallel. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 1, wherein a length 
of the lower wall is greater than a length of the upper 

wall. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 8, wherein a width of 
the upper wall is generally the same as a width of the 

lower wall. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 1, further comprising 
a second spring dislocation preventing projection, the 

second spring dislocation preventing projection being 
provided on the sliding jig, the spring having two 

ends, one end of the spring being received in a recess 
formed by the upper and lower walls, the contacting 

portion of the cases and the first projection and the  
 

other end of the spring being received in a recess 
formed in the jig. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 10, wherein a jig 
opening is provided to the recess in the jig, the other 

end of the spring being insertable into the recess in 
the jig through the jig opening. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 1, wherein the spring 
dislocation preventing projection is formed integrally 

with the lower wall. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 1, wherein the end of 
the spring is generally perpendicular to the rest of 

the spring, the end of the spring points toward the 
side wall of the cartridge case which is in 

engagement with the lower wall and the spring 
dislocation preventing projection. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 1, wherein the side 
wall of the cartridge case which is in engagement 

with the lower wall and the spring dislocation 
preventing projection is generally perpendicular to the 

spring contacting portions of the cartridge case. 
The cartridge as recited in claim 1, wherein the side 
wall of the cartridge case which is in engagement 

with the lower wall and the spring dislocation 
preventing projection is generally perpendicular to the 

spring dislocation preventing projection, the lower 
wall and the upper wall. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
