<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622987</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC OR SEMIAUTOMATIC CAT LITTER BOX
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K101	A01K101	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K1	A01K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOUNDAWAY CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOUNDAWAY COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARBOGAST C JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARBOGAST, C. JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an improved and efficient
method of cleaning a cat litter box having a manually or power
driven crankshaft which imparts a movement force to a perforated
sifting screen which scrapes along the bottom of the litter box
and through the cat litter to remove cat waste from the litter
and then disposes of the waste in a container which is integral
with the litter box.In the prior art, various cat litter box cleaning devices
are known which facilitate the removal of cat waste from the
litter box. One such apparatus is disclosed in U.S. Patent No.
4,190,525 to Menzel. Such an apparatus is shown in Figure 16 of
the instant application. In this device, a through shaped
container 104 is provided with a curved bottom surface and an
open top. In operation and in order to remove cat waste from the
litter, a screen member 122 is provided which scrapes along the
bottom curved surface of the litter box and sifts through the
litter while retaining the larger waste particulate matter. The
means for providing movement of the screen member 122 through the
litter is a crank mechanism 112 mounted on a container 104 which
includes a crankshaft 114, and crank handle 118. The crank
mechanism is rotatable through a full 360° radius and when the
cat's waste has been sifted out by screen member 122, the screen
member 122 can be removed from the crank mechanism 112 and
carried to a disposal, such as a waste basket or toilet.The prior art litter box cleaning device described above has
significant disadvantages. As is apparent, the screen member 122
has to be manually detached and carried by the cat owner each
time the litter box is sifted clean. This is an unpleasant task 
for the owner who is not inclined to touch the screen member 122
after such has been passed through the soiled litter, due to
germs or waste matter on the screen member. The owner would be
required to wear gloves or use paper towels in order to avoid
his/her fingers from contacting with a dirty screen member, thus
giving rise to an inconvenience.Another main drawback of the device is that the litter box
has an open top portion which can lead to an unpleasant odor and
nuisance to the cat owner. Also, the open surface of the litter
box may lead to a portion of the litter being strewn outside of
the box by the cat when it paws the litter over the waste after
eliminating.A second cat litter disposal device is disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 4,787,334, and illustrated in prior art Figure 17 of
the instant application, which snows an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cat litter box comprising:

a housing (3) having an opening (16) therein for
access into the housing (3);
waste removal means (7) mounted within the housing
(3) and operable to remove waste material (5) from a

layer of litter (4) disposed in the housing (3); and
transport means (10, 11, 15, 20, 30) for moving the
waste removal means (7) in a unidirectional path from a

start position, across the layer of litter (4) and then
back to the start position carrying waste material (5)

removed from the layer of litter (4) characterised by,
a storage container (6) being provided adjacent the
start position and the transport means (10, 11, 15, 20,

30) being operable to bring the waste removal means (7)
into a position relative to the storage container (6) so that

waste material (5) from the waste removal means (7) is
deposited into the storage container (6).
A cat litter box (1) according to claim 1, further
including at least one torsion spring (31) for

facilitating movement of said waste removal scoop (7)
along said path.
A cat litter box (1) according to claims 1 or 2,
further including means (13, 14, 21) for detachably 

mounting said storage container (6) to said housing (3).
A cat litter box according to any preceding claim,
further comprising a member (8) to seal in an odour

emanating from said storage container (6) when said
storage container (6) contains cat waste material (5).
A cat litter box (1) according to any preceding
claim, wherein said opening comprises a pivotally

attached door means which facilitates sealing of odours
inside said housing (2, 3).
A cat litter box according to any preceding claim,
wherein said transport device (10, 11, 15, 20, 30)

comprises a crank means for imparting a rotational force
to move said waste removal scoop (7) through said litter

to thereby remove cat waste material (5) from said litter
(4) and dispose of said waste material (5) in said

storage container (6).
A cat litter box according to claim 6, wherein said
crank means includes a ratchet handle (40).
A cat litter box according to claim 6, wherein said
crank means includes a gear motor (50).
A cat litter box according to claim 6, further 
comprising at least one braking pad (42) integrally

attached to an inner top portion (2) of said housing for
braking an excess force of said waste removal scoop (7)

as said waste removal scoop (7) is forced downwardly
against said storage container (6).
A cat litter box according to any preceding claim,
wherein said waste removal scoop (7) includes a sifting

screen.
A cat litter box according to claim 1, wherein said
transport device (10, 11, 15, 20, 30) includes a torsion

spring (31) which urges said waste removal scoop (7)
towards said bottom of said housing (3) as said waste

removal scoop (7) is moved along said lower portion of
said path, and wherein said torsion spring (31) subjects

the waste removal scoop (7) to an impact force after said
waste removal scoop (7) traverses said upper portion of

said housing (2) and is adjacent to said storage
container (6) such that the impact force assists in

removing waste (5) from the waste removal scoop (7) to
deposit the waste (5) in said storage container (6).
A cat litter box according to claim 1, wherein said
transport device (10, 11, 15, 20, 30) includes a crank

mechanism (15, 20, 30) mounted to said housing, said
crank mechanism (15, 20, 30) further including a 

crankshaft (11) which is movable along an arcuate path
to cause said waste removal scoop (7) to move along said

path within said housing (2, 3).
A cat litter box according to claim 12, wherein said
crank mechanism (15, 20, 30) further includes a U-shaped

member (30) which is arranged to move in synchronisation
with said crankshaft (11) and is operatively connected

with an attaching member (15), and wherein said attaching
member (15) is fixedly connected to said waste removal

scoop (7).
A cat litter box according to claim 13, further
including a torsion spring member (31) having first and

second ends, said first end being secured to said U-shaped
member (30) and said second end being secured to

said attaching member (15).
A cat litter box according to claim 13, wherein said
U-shaped member (30) and said attaching member (15) are

pivotally attached at a point whereby said U-shaped
member (30) and said attaching member (15) can pivot away

from each other.
A cat litter box according to any preceding claim,
wherein said housing includes top (2) and bottom (3)

portions which are pivotally attached to each other. 
A cat litter box according to claim 1, further
including a flexible member (8) fixedly attached to said

waste removal scoop (7) for sealing a region above said
storage container (6) when said waste removal scoop is

moved to a location at which waste is deposited in said
storage container (6), and wherein when said waste

removal scoop (7) is disposed at said location, said
flexible member (8) extends from said waste removal scoop

(7) and to a top portion of said housing (2) to seal said
region above said housing (2).
A cat litter box according to any preceding claim,
wherein said top (2) includes a guide track (9) for

guiding said waste removal scoop along a portion of said
path extending along the upper portion of said housing.
A cat litter box of claim 18, wherein said guide
track (9) is moulded into the upper portion (2) of said

housing and said waste removal scoop (7) is arranged to
engage said guide track (9) as said waste removal scoop

(7) traverses said upper portion (2) of said housing (2,
3).
A cat litter box of claim 19, wherein said guide
track (9) is shaped such that said waste removal scoop

(7) gains momentum as it nears an end of the path along
the upper portion (2) of the housing.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
