<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625317</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Attaching articles to sheet material with flexible ties.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41H3700	A41H3700	B65C700	B65C700	G09F308	G09F314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41H	A41H	B65C	B65C	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41H37	A41H37	B65C7	B65C7	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hand operated implement for attaching articles such as 
buttons or tags to sheet material such as fabric with 

flexible ties by loading a grooved needle (18) with the bar of a 
tie having a stem to which the article is attached, pushing 

the needle through the material and pushing the bar out of 
the needle such that the bar is at one side of the material 

while the article and at least some of the stem are at the 
other side. A needle cover (26) attached to the implement 

pivots between a storage position in which it covers the 
sharp end of the needle and an operative position in which 

it serves as a thumb rest for operating the mechanism 
pushing the flexible tie's bar out of the needle. A 

storage compartment is provided within the implement. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOYEL JOHN S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOYEL, JOHN S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOYEL JOHN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOYEL, JOHN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is in the field of hand operated implements 
used to attach articles such as buttons and tags to sheet 
material such as fabric with flexible ties that are pushed 
through the article and the material. Such implements have 
been known for some time, and some have been commercially 
available. Examples are discussed in at least some of U.S. 
Patents Nos. 1,364,936; 1,854,647; Re. 19,541; 2,069,878; 
2,140,795; 2,462,717; 2,729,177; 2,952,851; 3,349,447; 
3,470,834; 3,494,004; 3,158,729; 3,566,452; 3,650,451; 
3,650,452; 3,652,004; 3,659,769; Re. 27,357; 3,734,375; 
3,735,908; 3,754,304; 3,759,435; 3,797,722; 3,815,798; 
3,872,806; 3,875,648; 3,880,339; 3,893,612; 3,894,317; 
3,895,753; 3,900,925; 4,063,312; Des. 213,418; Des. 14,122; 
Des. 214,123; Des. 214,151; Des. 214,152; Des. 214,153; 
Des. 14,235; Des. 230,419; Des. 230,666. An example which 
is believed to have been on sale in this country in the 
1970's is illustrated in a 2-page brochure or flier 
entitled "Button Fastener," copyright 1972, Products 
International Co., Canoga Park, Ca. 91304. In a particular and non-limiting example, the invention is 
embodied in an implement and a method for attaching 
articles such as buttons or tags to sheet material such as 
fabric with flexible ties. The implement is generally 
pistol-shaped and comprises a housing having a handle 
shaped and dimensioned to be grasped by the hand of a user 
and a barrel extending forwardly from the handle and having 
a channel formed therein. A needle extends forwardly from 
the barrel and has a sharp free end for penetrating 
material and a groove extending rearwardly from the sharp  
 
end. The groove is shaped to accommodate the bar of a 
flexible tie that also has a stem. The tie's bar slides 
along the groove and exits the sharp end thereof when 
pushed with a pusher which also slides in the same groove, 
behind the tie's bar. The pusher extends forwardly from a 
slide that is secured in the barrel channel to slide 
therealong. The slide and pusher are biased rearwardly, 
e.g., by a compression spring surrounding the pusher. In 
order both to protect the needle and the user when the 
fastening device is not being used and to provide a 
convenient thumb rest for pushing the slide forwardly when 
the implement is being used, a needle cover is pivotally 
secured to the slide to pivot between a storage position in 
which it envelops the sharp end of the needle and an 
operative position in which it exposes the sharp end. When 
in its operative position, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hand operated implement for attaching articles 
such as buttons or tags to sheet material such as fabric 

with flexible ties comprising: 
   a housing having a handle shaped and dimensioned to 

be grasped by the hand of a user and a barrel extending 
forwardly from the handle and having a channel formed 

therein; 
   a needle secured to and extending forwardly from 

the barrel and having a sharp free end for penetrating 
material and a groove extending rearwardly from said 

sharp end and shaped to accommodate a part of a flexible 
tie slidable along the groove for exiting the sharp end 

thereof; 
   a slide secured in said channel to slide along the 

barrel and a pusher mounted on the slide to slide in the 
groove of the needle to push forward and out of the 

needle a flexible tie loaded into said groove in the 
needle, said slide and pusher being biased rearwardly; 

and 
   a needle cover secured to the slide and movable 

between a storage position to cover the sharp end of the 
needle and an operative position exposing said sharp 

end; 
   said needle cover, when in the operative position, 

being slidable along the housing forwardly when pushed 
by a user to move the slide and the pusher forwardly and 

thereby push out of the sharp end of the needle a 
flexible tie loaded into said groove in the needle, and 

being slidable rearwardly under the bias applied to the 
slide to retract the pusher from at least a selected 

forward part of the needle to free the needle for the 
loading of another flexible tie therein. 
An implement as claimed in claim 1 including a stop 
 

operative when the needle cover is in its storage 
position to limit rearward travel of the slide under the 

bias acting thereon and thereby prevent rearward 
pressure on the sharp end of the needle by the needle 

cover. 
An implement as claimed in claim 1 or 2 including 
an interlocking mechanism engaging the needle cover with 

the housing when the needle cover is in its operative 
position to control the direction of movement of the 

needle cover, said interlocking mechanism being manually 
releasable to permit movement of the needle cover to 

said storage position. 
An implement as claimed in claim 1 or 2 or 3 in 
which said needle cover is pivotally secured to said 

slide to pivot between said storage position and said 
operative position relative to the slide. 
An implement as claimed in any preceding claim in 
which said handle encloses a storage compartment and 

includes a closable access door to said storage 
compartment 
An implement as claimed in claim 5 wherein said 
needle cover when in its operative position slides along 

a top side of said handle, and wherein said access door 
to the storage compartment is at a bottom side of the 

handle. 
An implement as claimed in claim 5 or 6 in which 
said access door to the storage compartment comprises a 

plate and said handle includes grooves in which the 
plate slides forwardly to close the storage compartment 

and rearwardly to open the storage compartment. 
An implement as claimed in any preceding claim in 
which said housing comprises two half-shells which are 

substantially mirror images of each other relative to a 
plane which intersects centrally both the handle and the 

barrel. 
A method of attaching an article such as a button 
or tag to sheet material such as fabric with a flexible 

tie having a bar and a stem comprising: 
   providing a housing having a handle shaped and 

dimensioned to be grasped by the hand of a user and a 
barrel extending forwardly from the handle and having a 

channel formed therein, a needle extending forwardly 
from the barrel and having a sharp free end for 

penetrating material and a groove extending rearwardly 
from said sharp end and shaped to accommodate a bar of 

a flexible tie, a slide secured in said channel to slide 
along the barrel and a pusher mounted on the slide to 

slide in the groove of the needle to push forward and 
out of the needle a bar of a flexible tie loaded into 

said needle groove, said slide and pusher being biased 
rearwardly; and 

   further providing a needle cover secured to the 
slide and movable between a storage position to cover 

the sharp end of the needle and an operative position 
exposing the needle, said needle cover when in the 

operative position being slidable along the housing 
forwardly when pushed by a user to move the slide and 

the pusher forwardly for pushing out of the needle a bar 
of a flexible tie loaded in the needle out of the sharp 

end of the needle, and being slidable rearwardly under 
the bias applied to the slide to retract the pusher from 

at least a selected forward part of the needle to free 
the needle for the loading of the bar of another 

flexible tie therein;
 

   placing a bar of a flexible tie in said groove 
forwardly of the pusher when the needle cover is out of 

said storage position, pushing the sharp end of the 
needle into the material and pushing the needle cover 

forwardly to force the bar of the flexible tie loaded 
into the needle through and out of the needle and into 

the material such that a part of the stem of the tie 
loaded in the needle remains at each side of the 

material. 
A method as claimed in claim 9 including threading 
a loop secured to said stem, at an end spaced from said 

bar, up one and down another hole in a button, and 
threading said bar through said loop before said placing 

of the bar in said groove. 
A method as in claim 9 including threading a first 
flexible tie having a loop at each end of a stem through 

holes in a button such that both loops are at the same 
side of the button, threading a second flexible tie 

having a bar at each end through said loops such that 
the loops remain between the bars, and carrying said 

placing step for each of the bars of said second 
flexible tie. 
A method as in claim 9 including threading said bar 
through the hole of a sequin, said tie having a button 

at an end of said stem opposite said bar, and then 
carrying out said placing step. 
A flexible tie for attaching articles such as 
buttons to material such as fabric comprising a stem 

having a bar at one end and a loop at the other end, 
said loop being sized and shaped to pass through a hole 

in an article and for said bar to be threaded therethrough, 
 

to secure the article to the material by 
driving said bar through the material so that the bar is 

moved to one side of the material while the article 
remains at the other side of the material. 
A method comprising the following steps which are 
not necessarily executed in the stated order: 

   threading a flexible tie having a stem and a bar 
through an article such that the bar is at one side of 

the article while at least a part of the stem is at the 

other side of the article; 
   placing the tie's bar into a groove in a needle 

having a forwardly extending sharp end and a back end 
secured to an implement having a channel extending 

rearwardly from the needle, a slide riding in the 
channel and a pusher secured to the slide and extending 

into the groove in the needle, and a cover secured to 
the implement to move between a storage position in 

which the cover protects the sharp end of the needle and 
an operative position in which the cover exposes the 

sharp end of the needle, said placing step taking place 
when the cover is in its operative position; 

   manually inserting the sharp end of the needle into 
and through material such that the sharp end of the 

needle is at a first side of the material while at least 
a part of the flexible tie remains at a second side of 

the material; 
   pushing the slide and therefore the pusher forward 

to thereby push the tie's bar out of the sharp end of 
the needle and withdrawing the needle from the material 

such that the bar remains at the first side of the 
material while at least a part of the stem is at the 

second side of the material. 
An apparatus for inserting a tie through sheet 
 

material, the apparatus comprising a cylindrical member 
for penetrating a sheet material and being formed to 

receive at least a portion of a tie, and urging means 
for urging the tie from the cylindrical member while the 

same is penetrating the sheet material. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 15, comprising a 
cover for covering the cylindrical member, the cover 

being movable to an operable position (as defined 
herein) at which it serves as said urging means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
