<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622817</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pushbutton switch with adjustable pretravel
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H1314	H01H332	H01H1352	H01H1314	H01H332	H01H1312	H01H1352	H01H1320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H13	H01H3	H01H13	H01H13	H01H3	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A contact carrying portion (12) of a plunger assembly (10) is 
adjusted linearly in the direction of switch operating movement by a rotatable 

cam (28) in the plunger assembly to change an initial gap dimension (X) 
between stationary (8) and movable contacts (16,20). The cam is rotatable about 

an axis parallel to the direction of switch operating movement and comprises a 
plurality of angularly spaced diametrically oriented grooves (28a, 28b, 28c), each 

of a different depth, in an end surface cooperating with a diametrically disposed 
rib (12f) on the contact carrying portion to vary the axial length of the plunger 

assembly and provide a detent for the cam adjustment. A housing (4) is 
provided with a window (4d) through a lateral wall (4a) for accessing slots (28d, 

28e) in the cam to rotate the cam. The pushbutton switch (2) is resiliently 
disposed in a supplementary housing (30, 44) to accommodate significant 

overtravel of a switch operating element. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOODARD TONY OWEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOODARD, TONY OWEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a plunger operated switch and a method of adjusting an initial gap dimension between movable and stationary contacts in an extended position of such a switch. In particular, 
the invention relates to pushbutton switches wherein the pretravel, i.e. the 
distance a movable contact travels to engage the stationary contacts, is 
adjustable to compensate for tolerance accumulations in the parts. Pushbutton switches generally comprise a housing, a plunger 
in the housing carrying a movable contact, stationary contacts in the 
housing aligned with the movable contact, and springs biasing the movable 
contact and the plunger away from the stationary contacts. Depression of 
the plunger moves the movable contact into engagement with the stationary 
contacts to complete an electrical circuit therethrough. The individual 
parts and significant features of the parts are dimensioned to establish a 
specific initial dimension between the movable and the stationary contacts 
in the extended position of the pushbutton, thereby defining a particular 
distance the plunger must be depressed before effecting engagement of the 
movable and stationary contacts. Each part and feature dimension has a 
manufacturing tolerance. When a plurality of parts are involved, the 
tolerances may "stack" adversely, thereby significantly changing the initial 
dimension between the movable and stationary contacts in the extended 
position and therefore changing the distance the plunger must travel to 
effect contact engagement. In certain end user applications, consistency of 
this initial dimension between the movable and stationary contacts is 
essential. This invention provides a pushbutton switch as defined in claim 1, having means for 
adjusting the initial dimension between the stationary and movable contacts 
after assembly of the switch. The adjustment means effectively lengthens  
 
or shortens an axial dimension of the plunger by rotating an adjustment 
cam member in the plunger assembly. A window is provided in a lateral 
wall of the switch housing for access to the adjustment cam member. The 
cam surface on the adjustment cam member doubles as a detent for the 
adjustment cam member. The invention further provides a method according to claim 13. Fig. 1 is a side elevation view, partially broken away, of the 
pushbutton switch with adjustment means constructed in accordance with 
this invention; Fig. 2 is a center line cross sectional view of the switch of 
Fig. 1 taken in a plane parallel to the paper;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A plunger operated switch (2) comprising: 

a housing (4) having an opening through a wall thereof; 
a plunger assembly (10) guided for linear reciprocal movement within said 
housing and aligned with said opening to be operated through said opening, said 

plunger assembly comprising a contact carrier (12); 
a pair of stationary contacts (8) mounted in said housing on opposite sides 
of said plunger assembly contact carrier; 
a movable contact (16) carried by said contact carrier overlying said 
stationary contacts for movement by said plunger assembly into and out of 

bridging engagement with said stationary contacts; 
means (14) for biasing said plunger against said housing wall and said 
movable contact out of engagement with said stationary contacts; 
said plunger assembly further comprising adjustment means interposed between said 
housing wall and said contact carrier, said adjustment means being operable for 

adjusting a dimension of said plunger assembly between said wall and said 
movable contact, thereby adjusting spacing between said movable and stationary 

contacts. 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 1 wherein said 
adjustment means comprises a rotary adjustment member (28) rotatable about an 

axis along which said plunger (10) moves linearly, said rotary adjustment 
member having a cam (28a, 28b, 28c) of varying axial dimension at an end 

thereof, and said contact carrier (12) comprises a cam follower (12f) abutting 
said cam.  

 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 2 wherein 
said rotary adjustment member (28) is externally accessible for effecting rotation 

of said rotary adjustment member. 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 3 wherein 
said housing (4) comprises a lateral wall (4a) extending substantially parallel to 

said linear reciprocal movement of said plunger assembly; 

a window (4d) through said lateral wall aligned with said rotary adjustment 
member (28); and 
means on said rotary adjustment member accessible through said window 
for effecting rotation of said adjustment member. 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 4 wherein 
said means on said rotary adjustment member (28) comprises at least one radially 

directed recess (28d, 28e) engageable by a tool inserted through said window 

(4d). 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 4 wherein 
said means on said rotary adjustment member (28) comprises a pair of radially 

directed recesses (28d, 28e) engageable by a tool through said window (4d), at 
least one of said recesses being aligned with said window and accessible 

therethrough in every rotated position of said rotary adjustment member. 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 2 wherein 
said cam comprises a plurality of rotationally spaced diagonal grooves (28a, 28b, 

28c), each of said diagonal grooves having an axial depth different from axial 
depths of any other of said diagonal grooves, and said cam follower comprises a 

diagonally disposed rib (12f) on said contact carrier (12) biased into a respective 
one of said grooves.  

 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 7 wherein 
said means (14) for biasing said plunger assembly (10) cooperates with said 

grooves (28a, 28b, 28c) and said rib (12f) for providing a rotational detent for 
said adjustment membe (28). 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 8 wherein 
said plunger assembly (10) comprises an operator member (26) disposed between 

said housing wall and said rotary adjustment member (28). 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 9 wherein 
said operator member (26) comprises an axially extending pin (26a) projecting 

through said opening. 
The plunger operated switch (2) defined in claim 10 together 
with a supplementary housing (30, 44) comprising an internal chamber, an 

opening through said supplementary housing communicating with said chamber, 
and wiring terminals (32, 34) affixed to said supplementary housing and having 

conductive means (36, 38) extending into said chamber, said plunger operated 
switch being disposed in said chamber, a portion of said switch containing said 

operator (26) extending through said supplementary housing opening externally 
thereof, said conductive means connecting said stationary contacts (8) to said 

wiring terminals, and means (40) biasing said switch to an extended position 
relative to said supplementary housing, said switch being depressible against said 

biasing means relative to said supplementary housing. 
The plunger operated switch (2) and supplementary housing 
(30, 44) as defined in claim 11 wherein said conductive means comprise resilient 

conductors (36, 38) extending parallel to movement of said switch (2) in said 
chamber, and said stationary contacts (8) comprise portions (8a) abutting said 

resilient conductors for sliding engagement therewith.  
 
A method of adjusting an initial gap dimension (X) between 
movable (16, 20) and stationary contacts (8) in an extended position of a plunger 

operated switch (2) comprising: 

guiding a plunger assembly (10) for linear reciprocal movement between a 
depressed and an extended position within a housing (4); 
providing a pair of stationary contacts (8) in said housing and a movable 
contact (16, 20) on said plunger assembly engagable in said depressed position 

of said plunger assembly and separated to said initial gap dimension (X) in said 
extended position of said plunger assembly; and 
varying a dimension of said plunger assembly in a direction of said linear 
reciprocal movement for varying said initial gap dimension between said 

movable contact and said stationary contacts. 
The method of adjusting an initial gap dimension (X) between 
movable (16, 20) and stationary (8) contacts in an extended position of a plunger 

operated switch (2) defined in claim 13 wherein the step of varying the 
dimension of said plunger assembly (10) comprises rotating an adjustment cam 

(28) disposed in said plunger assembly between an operator portion (26) and a 
contact carrying portion (12) of said plunger assembly to increase or decrease 

said dimension of said plunger assembly. 
The method of adjusting an initial gap dimension (X) between 
movable (16, 20) and stationary (8) contacts in an extended position of a plunger 

operated switch (2) defined in claim 14 wherein the step of rotating an 
adjustment cam (28) comprises rotating said adjustment cam about an axis 

parallel with said linear reciprocal movement. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
