<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616506</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SKINFOLD CALIPER FOR BODY FAT MEASUREMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5107	A61B5107	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOLLAR JOHN A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOLLAR, JOHN A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOLLAR JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOLLAR, JOHN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
1. Field of the Invention: The present invention 
relates to the field of body fat measurement, and 
particularly to the use of skinfold calipers for self-measurement 
of body fat. 2. Statement of the Problem: Presently, there is 
great emphasis based on personal health, fitness, and 
weight control. Many people, not just athletes, are 
concerned with these issues. One relevant index of 
weight and fitness is body fat percentage. However, 
present procedures for testing body fat percentages 
leave much to be desired in terms of practicality and 
convenience for most people. Many procedures for testing body fat percentages 
are expensive and require elaborate equipment and 
procedures. These typically include underwater 
weighing, ultrasound, electrical impedance, and other 
procedures. These are normally limited to use in 
hospitals, clinics, health clubs and the like due to 
their expense and complexity. One alternative procedure to these elaborate  
 
methods of testing body fat percentage is the measurement 
of body fat percentage by a skinfold caliper. 
Skinfold measurements are taken by pinching the skin 
and the flexible subcutaneous layer of the fat below 
the skin at selected positions on the body. These 
measurements are referenced to a table to determine 
the relative percentage of fat. One concern with 
these measurements is the accurate reading of the 
measurements and also the applied pressure of the 
caliper jaws during the measurement, since the skin 
and subcutaneous layer of fat is somewhat resilient. 
Typically, these skinfold calipers are also quite 
expensive and limited to the medical industry. 
Normally, these skinfold calipers require the aid of 
medical personnel or other trained personnel to 
administer the measurement procedure. One such caliper of this type is disclosed in 
U.S. Patent 3,008,239, issued to Lange. This caliper 
applies a constant pressure during the measurement by 
the use of a helical spring. However, this device is 
relatively complex, using levers and gears to achieve 
a "constant" spring force and the accuracy of the 
device deteriorates with the loss of the spring force. 
Also the measurement must be read by others in order 
to get an accurate reading. Similarly, U.S. Patent 4,233,743, issued to 
Flick, discloses a spring-loaded skinfold caliper. 
This caliper uses two jaws which are linearly movable 
relative to one another and resiliently biased 
together. The spring applies constant pressure on the 
skinfold. This device is relatively complex and 
normal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A skinfold caliper (30; 30') for an individual to accurately measure 
that individual's own body fat, said skinfold caliper (30; 30') comprising: 


a first contact surface (38); 
a second contact surface (40) operatively connected to said first 
contact surface (38) for gauging the thickness of the subcutaneous layer 

of fat of a skinfold (70); 
means (52, 60) for measuring the gauged thickness between said 
first contact surface (38) and said second contact surface (40) and 

indicating the measurement of said gauged thickness; 
means (46) for manually applying pressure urging the first contact 
surface (38) towards the second contact surface (40); 
means (48, 50) for indicating a predetermined pressure level 
between the first and second contact surfaces (38, 40); 
characterised in that said means (48, 50) for indicating a 
predetermined pressure level provides an audible or tactile indication 

when the pressure level between the first and second contact surface 
(38, 40) is at a predetermined pressure; and 
an indicator (58) for retaining said measurement after the 
measurement has
 been taken, said indicator (58) being moved with one of 
said contact surfaces (38, 40) as the pressure is applied. 
The skinfold caliper (30; 30') according to claim 1 characterised in 
that said means (46, 48, 50) for indicating said predetermined pressure 

level includes a cantilevered arm (46) affixed to said caliper (30; 30'); 

a first engaging means (48) formed on said cantilevered arm (46); 
a second mating engaging means (50) adapted to receive said first 
engaging means (48); and 
means formed on said first engaging means (48) and said second 
engaging means (50) for preventing said second engaging means (50) 

from receiving said first engaging means (48), when said first engaging  
 

means (48) and said second engaging means (50) are brought into 
contact with each other, until said predetermined pressure level at which 

the measurement of the individual's body fat is to be taken is achieved. 
The skinfold caliper (30; 30') according to claim 2 characterised in 
that said first engaging means (48) includes a circular portion extending 

from said cantilevered arm (46); 

said second engaging means (50) includes a concave portion 
adapted to receive said circular portion (48); and 
said means for preventing said second engaging means (50) from 
receiving said first engaging means (48) until said predetermined pressure 

level at which the measurement of the individual's body fat is to be taken 
is achieved is a resilient neck portion on said concave portion (50) having 

a width slightly less than the largest diameter of said circular portion (48). 
The skinfold caliper (30; 30') according to claim 1 characterised in 
that said means (52, 60) for measuring said gauged thickness includes: 


a measuring scale (52) affixed adjacent one of said first and second 
contact surfaces (38, 40); 
a contact member (62) formed adjacent the other of said first and 
second contact surfaces (40, 38); and 
said indicator (58) being mounted on said measuring scale (52) to 
slide along said measuring scale (52), due to engagement with said 

contact member (62), during the taking of a body fat measurement. 
The skinfold caliper (30; 30') according to claim 4 characterised in 
that said sliding indicator (58) disengages from said contact 

member (62) after the pressure between said first contact surface (38) 
and said second contact surface (40) is released. 
A method for an individual to accurately measure that individual's 
body fat percentage by using a skinfold caliper (30; 30') having opposing  

 
contact surfaces (38, 40) operatively connected to gauge the thickness of 

the subcutaneous layer of fat of a skinfold (70), a measuring scale (52) 
and means (46, 48, 50) for positively indicating a predetermined pressure 

level, between a first contact surface (38) and a second contact surface 
(40), at which the measurement of an individual's body fat is to be taken 

directly to the individual using said skinfold caliper (30; 30') regardless of 
whether said skinfold caliper (30; 30') is viewable by that individual while 

taking the body fat measurement, said method comprising the steps of: 

(a) pulling a subcutaneous layer of fat away from the 
muscle tissue of an individual; 
(b) grasping the layer of fat between said opposing 
contact surfaces (38, 40); 
(c) manually moving said opposing contact surfaces (38, 
40) together thereby applying a pressure on the layer of fat until the 

predetermined pressure level, at which the measurement of the 
individual's body fat is to be taken, is indicated audibly or tactually to the 

individual using said skinfold caliper (30; 30') regardless of whether said 
pressure level indicating means (46, 48, 50) is visible, during use, by the 

individual using said skinfold caliper (30; 30'); 
(d) movement of the opposing contact surfaces (38, 40) 
causing a slide (58) to move along the scale (52) and indicate the gauged 

thickness of the layer of fat at the predetermined pressure level at which 
the measurement of the individual's body fat is to be taken; and 
(e) releasing the opposed contact surfaces (38, 40) and 
removing the skinfold caper (30;30') so that the body fat measurement 

indicated by the slide (58) may be read off the scale (52) by visual 
inspection thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
