<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637067</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Plasma etching using xenon.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23F400	C23F400	H01L2102	H01L21302	H01L213065	H01L213213	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23F	C23F	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23F4	C23F4	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for selectively etching a substrate 
(20), having grain boundaries and a resist material 

thereon, is described. The substrate (20) is placed 
into an etch zone (54) and a process gas comprising a 

primary etchant, a secondary etchant, and xenon is 
introduced into the etch zone. A plasma is generated in 

the zone to form an etch gas from the process gas, that 
substantially anisotropically etches the substrate at 

fast rates, with good selectivity, and reduced profile 
microloading. Preferably the primary etchant comprises 

C1₂, and the secondary etchant comprises BC1₃. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAK STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHOADES CHARLES STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIEH BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAK STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHOADES CHARLES STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIEH BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to processes for etching 
semiconductor wafers. Reactive ion etching processes are used in the 
fabrication of semiconductor and other devices with submicron 
sized features, such as integrated circuit chips. These 
processes are used to selectively etch a substrate, where 
portions of the substrate are protected by a patterned etch-resistant 
"resist" material, such as photoresist or oxide-hardmask. 
The resist protected portions form "features" on the 
substrate which become part of the integrated circuit being 
processed. Etching is effected by introducing a process gas into 
a chamber and generating a plasma in the chamber, to create an 
etch gas from the process gas. The etch gas etches the substrate 
to create a volatile etch byproduct compound, which is then 
removed from the chamber. Typically, the process gas comprises Cl₂, BCl₃ and 
optionally N₂. A problem with this process gas is that 
relatively thick residues or deposits form on the chamber walls 
and on the resist material. Some of these deposits form because 
the etch gas chemically reacts with the resist material. The 
deposit on the chamber walls can flake off to form particles that 
contaminate the wafers. Further, the formation of excessive  
 
amounts of residue on the resist can undesirably increase the 
area protected by the resist material, rendering the processed 
wafer unsuitable for use. A deposited layer can also form on the sidewalls of the 
freshly etched channels in the substrate. This deposit serves as 
a "passivating" layer which hinders continued etching, thereby 
preventing "isotropic" etching or undercutting. Isotropic 
etching occurs when etching proceeds horizontally below the 
resist layer, instead of vertically through the uncoated 
portions, resulting in the lower portions of the features being 
inwardly sloped. Although vertical "anisotropic" etching is 
desirable, an excessive deposit of passivating layer on the 
sidewalls is difficult to clean. Thus, it is desirable to have 
an etching process that either produces less build-up of deposit, 
or which reduces build-up by etching the deposit layers during 
the etch process. Furthermore, typical reactive-ion etching systems result in 
high profile microloading. High profile microloading causes the 
cross-sectional profile of the features formed in the substrate 
to vary as a function of the spacing between the features. It is 
desirable to have an etching process which provides features with 
a uniform cross-section regardless of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for selectively etching a substrate having 
grain boundaries and a resist material thereon, comprising the 

steps of: 

(a) placing a substrate into an etch zone; 
(b) introducing a process gas absent oxygen into the etch 
zone, the process gas comprising (i) a primary etchant 

selected from the group consisting of chlorine, fluorine and 
bromine, (ii) a secondary etchant suitable for etching grain 

boundaries in the substrate, and (iii) xenon; and 
(c) generating a substantially oxygen-free plasma in the 
etch zone to form an etch gas from the process gas, wherein 

the etch gas selectively etches the substrate. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate has a layer 
of oxide on its surface and the secondary etchant is suitable 

for etching the surface oxide layer. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the secondary etchant is 
selected from the group consisting of BCl₃, SiCl₄, CCl₄, and 

mixtures thereof. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the process gas further 
comprises a gas passivator. 
The method of claim 4 wherein the gas passivator is 
selected from the group consisting of N₂, HCl, CHF₃, CF₄, CH₄, 

and mixtures thereof. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the process gas further 
comprises a chlorofluorocarbon gas. 
The method of claim 1 where the volumetric flow ratio of 
primary etchant:secondary etchant:xenon is selected so that 

 
the substrate to resist etching selectivity ratio is greater 

than about 2.5. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the volumetric flow ratio 
of secondary etchant to primary etchant is selected so that 

the rate of etching of grain boundaries in the substrate is 
substantially the same as the rate of etching the grains. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the volumetric flow ratio 
of secondary etchant to primary etchant is from about 0.1:1 to 

about 2:1. 
The method of claim 9 wherein the volumetric flow ratio 
of secondary etchant to primary etchant is from about 0.3:1 to 

about 0.5:1. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the volumetric flow ratio 
of xenon to primary etchant is selected so that the substrate 

is etched (i) substantially anisotropically, and (ii) at an 
etching rate substantially higher than the rate at which the 

resist is etched. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the volumetric flow 
ratio of xenon to primary etchant is from about 0.1:1 to about 

1:1. 
The process of claim 12 wherein the volumetric flow 
ratio of xenon to primary etchant is from about 0.2:1 to about 

0.5:1. 
The process of claim 4 wherein the volumetric flow 
ratio of passivator to primary etchant is less than about 1:1. 
The process of claim 14 wherein the volumetric flow 
ratio of passivator to primary etchant is less than about 

0.6:1. 
The process of claim 1 where the step of introducing a 
process gas comprises introducing sufficient process gas that 

the rate of etching the substrate is greater than about 5000 Å 
per minute. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises 
a semiconductor wafer having a plurality of layers thereon, 

the layers being selected from the group consisting of metal, 
oxide, nitride, and silicide layers. 
A method for selectively etching a wafer, the method 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) placing a substrate selected from the group consisting 
of silicon and gallium arsenide wafers into an etch zone, the 

substrate having thereon (i) a plurality of layers selected 
from the group consisting of metal, oxide, nitride and 

silicide layers, and (ii) a resist material; 
(b) introducing a process gas into the etch zone, the 
process gas comprising (i) a primary etchant Cl₂, (ii) a 

secondary etchant selected from the group consisting of BCl₃, 
SiCl₄, CCl₄, and mixtures thereof, and (iii) xenon, 

   wherein the volumetric flow ratio of secondary etchant to 
primary etchant is from about 0.1:1 to about 2:1, and the 

volumetric flow ratio of xenon to primary etchant is from 
about 0.1:1 to about 1:1; 
(c) generating a plasma in the etch zone to generate from 
the process gas an etch gas that etches the layers on the 

substrate in preference to the resist material, to create 
volatile etch byproduct compounds; and 
(d) removing the volatile etch byproduct compounds from the 
etch zone. 
The method of claim 18 wherein the process gas further 
comprises a passivator gas selected from the group consisting 

of N₂, HCl, CHF₃, CF₄, CH₄, and mixtures thereof, and wherein 
 

the volumetric flow ratio of the passivator gas to the primary 
etchant is less than about 1:1. 
The method of claim 18 wherein the volumetric flow 
ratio of secondary etchant to primary etchant is from about 

0.3:1 to about 0.5:1. 
The method of claim 18 wherein the volumetric flow 
ratio of xenon to the primary etchant is from about 0.2:1 to 

about 0.5:1. 
The method of claim 18 where the step of introducing a 
process gas comprises introducing sufficient process gas that 

the etch rate is greater than 5000 Å per minute. 
A method for selectively etching layers on a silicon 
wafer, the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) placing a silicon wafer into an etch zone, the silicon 
wafer having thereon (i) a plurality of layers selected from 

the group consisting of metal, oxide, nitride, and silicide 
layers, and (ii) a resist material; 
(b) heating the wafer to a temperature above 70°C; 
(c) introducing a process gas into the etch zone, the 
process gas comprising Cl₂, BCl₃, and xenon, wherein the 

volumetric flow ratio of BCl₃ to Cl₂ is from about 0.1:1 to 
about 2:1, and the volumetric flow ratio of xenon to Cl₂ is 

from about 0.1:1 to about 1:1; 
(d) maintaining the pressure in the etch zone at a pressure 
greater than about 1 mTorr; 
(e) generating an enhanced plasma in the etch zone by a 
method selected from the group consisting of electron 

cyclotron resonance, magnetically enhanced reactors, and 
inductively coupled plasma, s
o that an etch gas is generated 
from the process gas, and the etch gas etches the layers on 

the substrate in preference to the resist material, to create 
a volatile etch byproduct compounds; and 
(f) removing the volatile etch byproducts from the etch 
zone. 
The process of claim 23 wherein the process gas further 
comprises a passivator gas selected from the group consisting 

of N₂, HCl, CHF₃, CF₄, CH₄, and mixtures thereof, and wherein 
the volumetric flow ratio of passivator gas to Cl₂ is from 

about 0.1:1 to about 1:1. 
The process of claim 23 wherein the volumetric flow 
ratio of secondary etchant to primary etchant is from about 

0.3:1 to about 0.5:1. 
The process of claim 23 wherein the volumetric flow 
ratio of xenon to the primary etchant is from about 0.2:1 to 

about 0.5:1. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
