<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652046</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Motionless mixer tube for resin dispensing equipment.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F506	B01F506	B29B700	B29B774	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	B29B	B29B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F5	B01F5	B29B7	B29B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A motionless mixer tube (2) for mounting on the 
end of a discharge nozzle of a dispensing device (1) 

for mixing and dispensing extremely small volumes of a 
pair of liquid materials, such as chemical reacting 

resins. The mixer tube (2) has an elongated 
housing (4) with a female luer lock (17) at one 

end (6) for mounting the tube on the dispensing 
device (1), and a male luer lock (30) on the other 

end for easily mounting a dispensing needle on the 
outlet end (7) of the housing. A helical motionless 

mixer element (48) is mounted in a bore (5) of the tube 
housing (4) and extends from immediately adjacent the 

outlet end of an inlet socket (21) of the female luer 
lock to immediately adjacent the outlet end of a 

discharge nozzle of the male luer lock. The 
dispensing needle (40) is mounted immediately adjacent 

the outlet end of the discharge nozzle (3) and mixer 
element (48). This arrangement avoids dead spaces 

within the mixer tube to prevent the formation of 
disruptive air bubbles therein and enables secure and 

rapid attachments at both ends of the tube. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIQUID CONTROL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIQUID CONTROL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER KENNETH L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, KENNETH L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to dispensing devices and more 
particularly to a motionless mixer tube for mounting on the 
end of a dispensing device for mixing together at least two 
liquid materials, such as resin compounds. More particularly, 
the invention relates to such a motionless mixer tube for 
mixing and dispensing small volumes or shots of the mixed 
material. An increasing number of products require the 
dispensing of liquid or semi-liquid flowable materials in one 
form or another for their manufacture. These flowable 
materials typically comprise two chemically reactive component 
resins. The types of materials dispensed include various 
flowable liquid, semi-liquid or pastes such as epoxies, 
polyurethanes, silicones, polyesters, acrylics, polysulfides, 
as examples. Common commercial manufacturing processes in 
which such materials are used include injecting precise 
amounts of mixed resins into molds, encapsulating electric 
components with insulating resins, applying continuous beads 
of structural adhesives, injecting sealing joints and numerous 
other functions requiring the accurate control, delivery and 
mixing of two reactive component materials. Examples of the 
product application which use small volumes of the mixed 
resins include under the hood electronic assemblies and safety 
devices for the automotive and trucking industry, 
encapsulation of magnetic and electrical devices, such as the 
mounting of components on circuit board assemblies for  
 
switches, power supplies, heating assemblies and other 
electronic components for various industries. Thus, as the aforesaid flowable mixed materials 
continue to be consumed in increasing quantities the demand 
for precise liquid and semi-liquid metering, mixing and 
dispensing devices and equipment is also growing at an 
accelerated rate. The industry is continuously searching for 
more reliable, efficient and accurate dispensing devices for 
plural component flowable materials for a variety of purposes. 
For example, a particular application may require that a 
device efficiently and accurately mixes and dispenses such 
plural materials ranging in shot or dot sizes from 0.00003 
cubic centimeters to several cubic centimeters. When dispensing such small volumes of such plural 
mixed components, it is extremely harmful for even very small 
air bubbles to be trapped within the dispensing nozzle since 
they are difficult to purge and will materially affect the 
amount of resin being dispensed and the mixing thereof. The 
purging of such air
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a mixer tube (2) adapted to be mounted on 
a tapered discharge nozzle (3) of a dispensing device (1) 

for mixing and dispensing at least a pair of liquid 
materials, wherein the tube includes an elongated housing 

(4, 55, 61) formed with a hollow internal cylindrical bore 
(5) extending therethrough having inlet (6) and outlet (7) 

ends, first attachment means (17) on the inlet end of the 
housing for removably securing the housing on a discharge 

nozzle of a dispensing device, a dispensing needle assembly 
(40), second attachment means (30) on the outlet end of the 

housing for removably mounting the needle assembly on said 
outlet end, a mixing element (48) mounted within the bore 

of the housing, characterized in that the inlet end (6) has 
a tapered inlet socket (21) adapted to receive the tapered 

nozzle of the dispensing device therein, and that the 
outlet end (7) has a tapered discharge nozzle (45, 57, 62); 

that the dispensing needle assembly (40) has a tapered 
interior (47) and the discharge nozzle is seated in and is 

complementary to said tapered interior of the needle 
assembly; and that the mixing element extends from and 

adjacent to an outlet end of the tapered inlet socket and 
an outlet end (50) of the tapered discharge nozzle. 
A mixer tube according to Claim 1 
characterized in that the first attachment means (17) 

includes a female luer lock for removably securing the 
discharge nozzle (3) of a dispensing device (1) in the 

tapered inlet socket (21); and in which the second 
attachment means (30) includes a male luer lock at the 

outlet end (7) of the housing. 
A mixer tube according to Claim 2 
characterized in that the inlet socket (21) of the female 

luer lock is tapered inwardly toward the outlet end of said 
socket. 
A mixer tube according to Claim 2 
characterized in that the male luer lock includes a locking 

ring (31, 56, 65) having internal threads (33) for coupling 
engagement with a locking connector of the male luer lock; 

and that the male luer lock connector has an out-turned 
annular end flange (38) which engages the internal threads 

of the locking ring of the male luer lock. 
A mixer tube according to Claim 4 
characterized in that the locking ring (31) of the male 

luer lock is formed with an externally threaded portion 
(34) which is threadably engaged in the outlet end (7) of 

the housing; and in which the locking ring is formed as a 
one-piece member with said externally threaded portion and 

the discharge nozzle (45). 
A mixer tube according to Claim 4 
characterized in that the locking ring (65) of the male 

luer lock is a separate adapter ring freely rotatably 
mounted on the discharge nozzle (62) of the male luer lock. 
A mixer tube according to Claim 4 
characterized in that the locking ring (56) and discharge 

nozzle (57) of the male luer lock and an externally 
threaded portion (54) of the female luer lock is formed as 

a one-piece plastic member with the housing (55). 
A mixer tube according to Claim 2 
characterized in that the dispensing needle assembly (40) 

has an elongated hollow annular body (41) and a dispensing 
tip (42) extending outwardly from one end of said body; in 

which another end of the dispensing needle body is formed 
with an out-turned annular flange (43); and in which said 

flange is clamped against an outlet end (44) of the 
discharge nozzle of the male luer lock by a male luer lock 

connector (37). 
A mixer tube according to Claim 2 
characterized in that the inlet socket (21) and externally 

threaded end portion (19) of the female luer lock (17) is 
a one-piece member and includes another externally threaded 

end portion (20) which is threadably mounted on the inlet 
end (6) of the housing (4). 
A mixer tube according to Claim 2 
characterized in that the dispensing needle assembly (40) 

has a locking connector (37) which is formed with a tapered 
interior (47); and in which the discharge nozzle of the 

male luer lock is tapered and is complementary to and is 
seated in the tapered interior of said locking connector. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
