<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658976</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Low distortion output stage.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F100	H03F134	H03F134	H03F156	H03F330	H03F330	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F1	H03F1	H03F1	H03F1	H03F3	H03F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low distortion, low power output stage comprises a differential amplifier which 
replaces the source follower and constant current sources found in conventional output stages. 

Because there is no voltage drop between the inverting and noninverting differential inputs of 
the amplifier, no voltage drop exists between the input and output of the output stage. Thus, 

the gain stage or stages which precede the output stage are not required to swing above the 
output swing of the output stage. Additionally, because the amplifier has a common mode range 

which allows it to swing nearly rail-to-rail, the output of the output stage also swings nearly rail-to-rail. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CABLER CARLIN DRU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CABLER, CARLIN DRU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an output stage for driving a load and, more particularly, 
but not by way of limitation, to a low distortion output stage for driving a low impedance load. Audio chips presently enable personal computers. compact disk players, and other 
portable audio devices to execute high quality. low power audio applications. Audio chips 
usually comprise digital circuitry which occupies approximately 75-80% of the audio chip's 
silicon space and analog circuitry which occupies the remaining 20-25%. Typically, the analog 
circuitry comprises an analog-to-digital converter, digital-to-analog converter and some output 
amplifiers. The analog circuitry converts an analog audio input signal into a digital format 
suitable for the digital circuitry to process. Also, the analog circuitry converts the digital signals 
back into an analog format suitable to drive a low impedance load, such as a speaker. The 
digital circuitry occupies the majority of the silicon area and typically performs digital signal 
processing, such as filtering, noise shaping, and synthesizing, on the converted analog signals. 
The main function of these audio chips is to implement an entire audio system on one piece of 
silicon. The conventional analog circuitry utilized to implement high quality audio chips 
comprises a differential operational amplifier (op-amp) having at least one gain stage cascaded 
to an output stage. Because the present trend in analog circuitry design utilizes smaller power 
supplies, the differential op-amp should be capable of operating from a smaller power supply. 
yet continue to provide the output range performance found in higher voltage applications. To  
 
satisfy this requirement, the output stage of the differential op-amp must have very low distortion 
so that it is capable of swinging nearly rail-to-rail to drive the low impedance load. Fig. 1 illustrates output stage 200 of U.S. Patent No. 5,198,782, entitled "Low Distortion 
Amplifier Output Stage for DAC", issued March 30, 1993 to Jeffrey W. Scott. Referring to 
Fig. 1, output stage 200 comprises source follower transistor 266, sourcing transistor 284, 
sinking transistor 286, feedback transistors 290, 288, and 292, and constant current source 
transistors 280 and 282. Specifically, transistor 266 is configured as a unity gain source follower and comprises: 
1) a gate for receiving an analog input signal (VIN); 2) a source connected to the output of 
output stage 200 (i.e., node 260); and 3) a drain connected to node 268. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A low distortion output stage for driving a load, comprising: 
   an amplifier having a first input for receiving an input voltage, a second input connected 

to one side of the load, and an output; 
   a current source for sourcing current to the load when the voltage on said output of said 

amplifier is within a first range; 
   a current sink for sinking current from the load when the voltage on said output of said 

amplifier is within a second range; and 
   a feedback network for controlling said current source and said current sink to source or 

sink current, respectively, to the load. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 1 wherein said current source 
comprises a transistor having a control terminal connected to said output of said amplifier, a first 

terminal connected to a DC power supply, and a second terminal connected to one side of the 
load. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 2 wherein said current sink comprises 
a transistor having a control terminal connected to said feedback network, a first terminal 

connected to one side of the load, and a second terminal connected to a reference potential. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 3 wherein said feedback network 
comprises a first transistor having a control terminal connected to said output of said amplifier 

for sensing the voltage on said output of said amplifier to control the current in said current sink, 
a first terminal connected to a DC power supply, and a second terminal. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 4 wherein said feedback network 
further comprises a second transistor having a control terminal for receiving a biasing voltage, 

a first terminal connected to said second terminal of said first transistor and a second terminal. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 5 wherein said feedback network 
further comprises a third transistor having a control terminal connected to said control terminal 

of said transistor of said current sink, a first terminal connected to both said second terminal of 
said second transistor and said control terminal of said third transistor, and a second terminal 

connected to the reference potential. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 6 further comprising a biasing circuit 
for generating a biasing voltage, comprising: 

   a first transistor having a first terminal connected to a DC power supply, a second 
terminal, and a control terminal connected to said second terminal, wherein said 

first transistor matches the size of said transistor of said current source;
 

   a second transistor having a first terminal connected to said second terminal of said first 
transistor, a second terminal, and a control terminal connected to said first 

terminal of said second transistor, wherein said second transistor matches the size 
of said first transistor of said feedback network; 

   a third transistor having a control terminal for delivering the bias voltage to said control 

terminal of said second transistor of said feedback network, a first terminal 
connected to said second terminal of said second transistor, and a second terminal 

connected to said control terminal of said third transistor, wherein said third 
transistor matches the size of said second transistor of said feedback network; and 

   a current sink connected to said second terminal of said third transistor. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 6 further comprising a biasing circuit 
for generating a biasing voltage, comprising: 

   a first transistor having a first terminal connected to a DC power supply, a second 
terminal, and a control terminal connected to said first terminal, wherein said first 

transistor matches the size of said first transistor of said feedback network; 
   a second transistor having a first terminal connected to said second terminal of said first 

transistor, a second terminal, and a control terminal connected to said second 
terminal, wherein said second transistor matches the size of said transistor of said 

current source; and 
   a third transistor having a control terminal for delivering the bias voltage to said control 

terminal of said second transistor of said feedback network, a first terminal 
 

connected to said second terminal of said second transistor, and a second terminal 
connected to said control terminal of said third transistor, wherein said third 

transistor matches the size of said second transistor of said feedback network; and 
   a current sink connected to said second terminal of said third transistor. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 1 wherein said current sink comprises 
a transistor having a control terminal connected to said output of said amplifier, a first terminal 

connected to a reference voltage, and a second terminal connected to one side of the load. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 9 wherein said current source 
comprises a transistor having a control terminal connected to said feedback network, a first 

terminal connected to one side of the load, and a second terminal connected to a DC power 
supply. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 10 wherein said feedback network 
comprises a first transistor having a control terminal connected to said output of said amplifier 

for sensing the voltage on said output of said amplifier to control the current in said current 
source, a first terminal connected to the reference voltage, and a second terminal. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 11 wherein said feedback network 
further comprises a second transistor having a control terminal for receiving a biasing voltage, 

a first terminal connected to said second terminal of said first transistor, and a second terminal. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 12 wherein said feedback network 
further comprises a third transistor having a control terminal connected to said control terminal 

of said transistor of said current source, a first terminal connected to both said second terminal 
of said second transistor and said control terminal of said third transistor, and a second terminal 

connected to the DC power supply. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 13 further comprising a biasing circuit 
for generating a biasing voltage, comprising: 

   a first transistor having a first terminal connected to the reference potential, a second 
terminal, and a control terminal connected to said second terminal, wherein said 

first transistor matches the size of said transistor of said current sink; 
   a second transistor having a first terminal connected to said second terminal of said first 

transistor, a second terminal, and a control terminal connected to said first 
terminal of said second transistor, wherein said second transistor of said biasing 

circuit matches the size of said first transistor of said feedback network; 
   a third transistor having a control terminal for delivering the bias voltage to said control 

terminal of said second transistor of said feedback network, a first terminal 
connected to said second terminal of said second transistor, and a second terminal 

connected to said control terminal of said third transistor, wherein said third 
transistor matches the size of said second transistor of said feedback network; and 

   a current source connected to said second terminal of said third transistor. 
The low distortion output stage according to claim 1 wherein said amplifier comprises 
a differential amplifier. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
