<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633066</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An improved filter and a method for separating charged particles from a liquid stream
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D3914	B01J4700	B01D1504	B01D2907	B01D3700	B01D1504	B01J4712	B01D2901	B01D3914	B01D3702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01J	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01J	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D39	B01J47	B01D15	B01D29	B01D37	B01D15	B01J47	B01D29	B01D39	B01D37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a method for separating 
metallic corrosion products from a water stream. A 

filter conditioned with a relatively small amount of ion 
exchange material exhibits comparatively low pressure 

differential while processing a water stream at 
commercially desirable flow rates and retention 

efficiencies. The method permits longer filter runs 
with a minimal application of material on the filtration 

surface. The invention additionally provides a filter 
for separating metallic corrosion products having a 

relatively broad range of particle sizes from a water 
stream. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAVER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE GRAVER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALEM ELI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALEM, ELI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to separating charged
particles from a liquid, by filtration and adsorption.
The invention also relates to an improved filter.In surface filtration, solids form a filter
cake which is predominantly on the surface of a porous
filter medium. Surface filtration is distinguishable
from depth filtration, in which a significant portion of
solids are trapped relatively deep within a filter
medium. In surface and in depth filtration, the filter
medium is often in the form of a cartridge, which can be
backwashable or disposable. The filter medium can be
fabricated of, for example, cotton, polypropylene,
nylon, polyethylene, polyester, or metal wire cloth.Precoat filtration is a specific category of
filtration. Precoat filter elements utilize an applied
filter medium upon a porous support structure, termed a
septum, to form a filter cake that is substantially
isolated from the septum. The precoat can be a granular
material, such as diatomaceous earth, perlite or
cellulose fibers. The septum can be a woven fabric, a
yarn-wound element, a laid non-woven fabric, or a
relatively rigid perforated element. The precoat
performs a filtration function and, thereby, protects
the septum from fouling.Typically, the size of the precoat media is
larger than the size of the septum pores. The septum
functions primarily as a support member and the precoat
media perform most of the filtration that occurs. 
Periodically, the precoat is removed by, for example,
backwashing and another precoat is applied.In addition to performing the filtration
function, some precoats may also interact chemically
with contaminants in a process stream. For example,
precoats including ion exchange resins are described in
U.S. Patent Nos. 3,250,702, 3,250,703, 3,250,704 and
3,250,705 to Levendusky. A mixture of powdered cation
and anion exchange resin is applied as a precoat having
a thickness of about one-sixteenth to about two inches
on the outside of filter cartridge elements in a
pressure shell. The described ion exchange resins have
a particle size range of about 100 to 400 mesh. A
pressure differential across the filter precoated with a
mixture of powdered cation and anion exchange resin is
relatively low when the resin is clean. The improvement
in pressure differential is attributed to electrostatic
forces which tend to clump cation and anion exchange
particles, making the mixture more permeable to liquid
flow. Other materials, such as cellulose fibers have
been blended with the mixture of cation and anion resins
in order to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for separating charged particles from a liquid
stream, which comprises:


providing a sheet filter having a filtration medium which
defines a filtration surface having pores in contact with a

liquid stream;
conditioning the sheet filter by applying an ion exchange
material, capable of adsorbing charged particles, on the

filtration surface;
passing the liquid stream through the sheet filter in order
to separate a substantial proportion of the charged particles

from the liquid stream, characterized in that
said pores in said filtration surface have a median average
size of about 0,1 to about 25 microns;
and in that said con exchange material is applied in an
average amount of about 2,43g to about 365,32g per m
2
 (0,0005 to
about 0,075 pounds per square foot) of the filtration surface;
and further in that said liquid stream has a flow rate of
about 8,131 per minute per m
2
 (0,2 gallons per minute per square
foot) of the filtration surface at a pressure differential

across the filter of less than about 1,4 kg/cm
2
 (20 pounds per
square inch).
The method of claim 1 which further
comprises retaining on the filter greater than about 90

percent by weight of the charged particles in the liquid
stream until the weight of the retained charged

particles is at least about equal to the weight of the
applied ion exchange material.
The method of claim 1 wherein said ion
exchange material includes a cation exchange material,

but includes essentially no anion exchange material. 
The method of claim 2 wherein said cation
exchange material is strongly acidic.
The method of claim 2 wherein said cation
exchange material is weakly acidic.
The method of claim 2 wherein said cation
exchange material is in an ionic form selected from the

group consisting of hydrogen form, morpholine form and
ammonia form.
The method of claim 3 wherein said ion
exchange material includes a dual morphology cation

material.
The method of claim 1 wherein said ion
exchange material includes an anion exchange material,

but includes essentially no cation exchange material.
The method of claim 8 wherein said anion
exchange material is strongly basic.
The method of claim 8 wherein said anion
exchange material is weakly basic.
The method of claim 8 wherein said anion
exchange material is in hydroxide form.
The method of claim 8 wherein said ion
exchange material includes a dual morphology anion

exchange material.
The method of claim 1 wherein said ion
exchange material is in the form of particles having a 

weight average median size in the range of about 0.1 to
about 200 microns.
The method of claim 1 wherein said filter
medium is pleated and is formed by an inner filtration

medium layer calendered together with an outer
filtration medium layer, each of the calendered layers

defining pores having a size of at least about 0.1
micron.
The method of claim 1 wherein said ion
exchange material is applied in an amount of about

24,3 g to about 243,5 g per m
2
 (0.005
to about 0.05 pounds per square) foot of the filtration

surface.
The method of claim 1 which further
comprises backwashing the filter to substantially

dislodge the applied ion resin material and the retained
particles.
The method of claim 1 wherein said
charged particles are composed substantially of iron

oxides.
The method of claim 1 wherein said
conditioning of the sheet filter includes body feeding a

substantial portion of the ion exchange material while
said liquid stream passes through the sheet filter. 
Method according to claim 1, for separating iron oxide
corrosion products from a water stream by substantially

retaining said corrosion products on the sheet filter,
characterized in that said ion exchange material is applied in

the form of particles having a weight average median size in the
range of about 0,1 to about 200 microns, said weight average

median size being defined as the particle size for which the
weight of larger particles and smaller particles present in the

sample are equal. 
The method of claim 19 wherein said
conditioning includes applying the ion exchange material

in an average amount of about one-fifty to about twenty
times the amount corresponding to a monolayer of said

particles.
The method of claim 19 wherein said
passing of the liquid stream is accomplished while

retaining on the sheet filter more than about 90 percent
by weight of the corrosion products in the water stream

until the weight of retained corrosion products on the
sheet filter is at least equal to the weight of the

applied ion exchange material. 
A filter for separating charged particles having a
relatively broad range of particle sizes from a liquid stream,

comprising:

a sheet filter element having a filtration medium which
defines an upstream filtration surface suitable for

substantially filtering a liquid stream carrying charged
particles, and defining pores; and
an adsorbent barrier composed of a particulate ion exchange
material, capable of adsorbing said charged particles,

distributed on the filtration surface, characterized in that
said pores in said filtration surface have a median size of
about 0,1 to about 25 microns and in that said ion exchange

material is distributed on said filtration surface in an average
amount of about 2,43g to about 365,32g per m
2
 (0,0005 to about
0,075 pounds per square foot) of the filtration surface.
The filter of claim 22 wherein said ion
exchange material is in the form of particles having a

weight average median size in the range of about 10 to

about 200 microns.
The filter of claim 22 wherein said ion
exchange material includes a dual morphology ion

exchange material.
The filter of claim 22 wherein said
filtration medium layer is pleated and is formed by an

inner filtration medium layer calendered together with
an outer filtration medium layer, each of the calendered

layers defining pores having a median size of at least
about 0.1 microns.
The filter of claim 25 wherein said inner
filtration medium layer defines pores having a median

size of about 0.1 to about 20 microns and said outer 
filtration medium layer defines pores having a median

size of about 10 to about 100 microns.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
