<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621916</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CROSSLINKING INDIVIDUALIZED CELLULOSE FIBERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1315	A61F1315	D04H158	D04H158	D04H164	D04H164	D06M1300	D06M13184	D06M13192	D06M13432	D06M1352	D21B100	D21B106	D21H1500	D21H1510	D21H1700	D21H1706	D21H1707	D21H2300	D21H2304	D21H2320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D21B	D21B	D21H	D21H	D21H	D21H	D21H	D21H	D21H	D21H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	A61F13	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D06M13	D06M13	D06M13	D06M13	D06M13	D21B1	D21B1	D21H15	D21H15	D21H17	D21H17	D21H17	D21H23	D21H23	D21H23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus is disclosed for preparing a quantity of individual treated fibers from one or more fiber mats. The apparatus comprises a fiber treatment zone, and a conveyor for conveying each mat through the fiber treatment zone. In the treatment zone each mat is impregnated by an applicator with a treatment material, such as a crosslinking substance, and conveyed directly to an attrition device. The attrition device fiberizes the mats to form a fiber output having a low nit level, such as no more than about three, and a dryer both dries the fiber output and cures the crosslinking substance. The fiberizer is configured to minimize the accumulation of fiber at locations therein. Fiber is transported from the attrition device to the dryer at a high velocity under reduced pressure to promote drying. A heated retention bin is provided after drying to increase curing time in the system. A thermobonding agent may be added to the dried and cured fibers to enhance the wet strength of webs made from the fiber.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEYERHAEUSER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARNEY ALLAN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNTER FRANK R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARNEY, ALLAN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNTER, FRANK, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CROSSLINKING INDIVIDUALIZED CELLULOSE FIBERSCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED CASESThis is a continuation-in-part of pending United States Patent Applications Serial No. 07/665,761, filed March 7, 1991; and Serial No. 07/607,268, filed October 31, 1990, which is a continuation-in-part of Serial No. 07/395,208, filed August 17, 1989, which is a continuation-in-part of Application Serial No. 07/284,885, filed December 15, 1988, which is a continuation-in-part of Application Serial No. 07/140,922, filed December 28, 1987, which is a continuation-in-part of Application Serial No. 07/004,729, filed January 20, 1987.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to a fiber treatment apparatus and more particularly to the apparatus of the type which utilizes sprayers or other applicators to treat a fiber mat and mechanisms for subsequently fiberizing the mat following such treatment.2. General Discussion of the BackgroundVarious devices are known in the art for treating fibers with crosslinking agents in mat form and thereafter breaking the mats into individual fibers. For example, U.S. Patent No. 3,440,135 to Chung discloses a mechanism for applying a crosslinking agent to a cellulosic fiber mat, then passing the mat while still wet and following "aging" through a fiberizer, such as a hammermill to fiberize the mat, and drying the resulting loose fibers in a two stage dryer. The first dryer stage is at a temperature sufficient to flash water vapor from the fibers and the second dryer stage is at a temperature that effects curing of the crosslinking agent. A cyclone separator is then illustrated separating the fibers from the gas and for subsequent collection. Chung mentions the need for the "aging" step, of many hours 

 duration, in order to reduce the level of nits in the resulting fiber product. As described below, nits are typically interbonded fibers which can interfere with product quality. Therefore, the Chung apparatus suffers from the drawback of requiring the inconvenient and costly storage of wet fiber mats (e.g. in roll form) for a substantial period of time in order to minimize nit formation.Unfortunately, fiberization processes known in the art which employ currently available fiberizing or comminution machinery yield crosslinked fibers that have too many nits and knots to be acceptable for many uses. A probable reason is that such machinery has excess dead space where fibers are excessively pressed together and/or has localized regions of elevated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 We Claim:
1. An apparatus comprising: an appUcator that appUes a crossUnking substance to a mat of ceUulose fibers at a fiber treatment zone; a fiberizer having a fiberizer inlet; a conveyor that conveys the mat through the fiber treatment zone and directly to the fiberizer inlet without stopping for curing; the fiberizer providing sufficient hammering force to separate the ceUulose fibers of the mat into a fiber output of substantiaUy unbroken individual ceUulose fibers; and a dryer coupled to the fiberizer and which receives the fiber output, dries the fiber output, and cures the crossUnking substance, thereby forming dried and cured fibers.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fiberizer provides sufficient fiberizing force to separate the ceUulose fibers into individual fibers having a nit level of no more than about three.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fiberizer comprises an attrition device.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fiberizer comprises an attrition device, a disk refiner coupled to the attrition device, and a fluff generator coupled to the disk refiner.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the dryer defines a drying zone for forming dried fibers, and a curing zone for curing the crossUnking substance in the dried fibers, thereby forming dried and cured fibers. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the drying zone has a dryer inlet for receiving the fiber output, where the dryer inlet has a temperature within a range of about 200°C to about 315°C so as to flash evaporate water from the fiber output and form the dried fibers, and in which the curing zone has an outlet through which the dried and cured fibers are deUvered from the dryer, where the dried and cured fibers passing through the outlet of the curing zone have a conveyance 


 temperature within a range of about 140°C to about 180°C so as not to scorch the ceUulose fibers.
7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a reduced diameter conduit between the fiberizer and dryer in which the individual ceUulose fibers are heated and the velocity of their flow is increased after they leave the fiberizer; and an expansion chamber after the necked down conduit that aUows the fiber flow to expand and increase fiber separation.
8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for increasing a flow velocity of the fibers between the fiberizer and expansion chamber.
9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the reduced diameter conduit comprises a venturi that opens into the expansion chamber.
10. The apparatus of claim 7 in which the dryer comprises a drying zone for forming dried fibers and a curing zone for curing the crosslinking substances in the dried fibers, wherein the drying zone comprises the expansion chamber.
11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the drying zone has an inlet for receiving the individual cellulose fibers, where the drying zone inlet has a temperature within the range of about 200°C to about 315°C so as to flash evaporate water from and expand the ceUulose fibers.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the curing zone has an outlet through which the dried and cured fibers are delivered from the dryer, where the dried and cured fibers passing through the outlet have a temperature with a range of about 140°C to about 180°C. 13. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the reduced diameter conduit increases the transport velocity of the individual cellulose fibers from the fiberizer as the fibers enter the dryer.
14. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a hot air blower that blows hot air into the conduit toward the expansion chamber, and a fiber introduction inlet intermediate the blower and expansion chamber through which the fibers are introduced into the conduit. 


 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the blower blows hot air at a temperature of about 200-315°C.
16. A ceUulose fiber treatment apparatus comprising: an appUcator that appUes a crossUnking substance to a mat of ceUulose fibers at a fiber treatment zone; a mechanical fiberizer having a fiberizer inlet for the mat of ceUulose fibers; a conveyor that conveys the mat through the fiber treatment zone and directly to the fiberizer inlet without stopping for curing; the mechanical fiberizer providing a sufficient hammering force to separate the ceUulose fibers of the mat into a fiber output of substantiaUy unbroken individual ceUulose fibers with a nit level of no more than about three; a dryer coupled to the mechanical fiberizer for receiving the fiber output, the dryer comprising an expansion chamber for drying the fiber output and a curing chamber for curing the crosslinking substance, thereby forming dried and cured fibers, the expansion chamber further defining an inlet for receiving the fiber output, where the dryer has a temperature within a range of about 200°C to about 315°C so as to flash evaporate water from the fiber output during drying, and in which the curing chamber has an outlet from which the dried and cured fibers are deUvered from the dryer, where the dried and cured fibers at the outlet of the curing chamber have a conveyance temperature within a range of about 140°C to about 180°C so as not to scorch the ceUulose fibers; a necked down conduit between the fiberizer and expansion chamber in which the fibers are heated and the velocity of their flow is increased after they leave the fiberizer; a hot air blower that blows hot air at about 260 °C into the conduit toward the expansion chamber; and an inlet into the conduit, intermediate the blower and expansion chamber, through which the fibers are introduced into the conduit. 


 17. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a heated retention chamber into which the fiber output is introduced for a preselected period of time to aUow curing of the crosslinking substance after the fiber output is dried.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the dryer comprises a flash drying chamber and the curing chamber, and the retention chamber is positioned between the flash drying and curing chambers.
19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the dryer comprises a flash drying chamber and the curing chamber, and the retention chamber is downstream from the curing chamber. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising a cyclone separator downstream from the curing chamber, wherein the retention chamber is downstream from the cyclone.
21. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the retention chamber is an inverted pyramid. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the appUcator comprises a shower spray that sprays the crosslinking substance on the mat, and an impregnation roUer that presses the crossUnking substance into the mat.
23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the shower spray comprises a pair of opposing, shower spray applicators. 24. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the impregnation roller comprises a pair of opposing rollers that cooperatively exert 1-2 psi impregnation pressure on the mat.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein the pair of shower spray applicators are positioned vertically over the fiberizer inlet, and the impregnation rollers are positioned for abutting the mat between the spray applicators and the fiberizer inlet. ,
26. A method of producing crosslinked cellulose fibers, comprising the steps of: applying a crosslinking substance to a mat of cellulose fibers at a fiber treatment zone; 


 conveying the mat through the fiber treatment zone and directly into a fiberizer without stopping to cure the crossUnking substance, the fiberizer having a fiberizer inlet; separating the fibers in the fiberizer by hammering them into substantiaUy unbroken individual ceUulose fibers; and drying and then curing the individual ceUulose fibers.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the separating step comprises separating the ceUulose fibers into individual fibers having a nit level of no more than about 3. 28. The method of claim 26 wherein the drying step comprises drying the fibers at a temperature of about 200-315 °C so as to flash evaporate water from the fiber output and form the dried fibers.
29. The method of claim 26 further comprising curing the fibers at a temperature of about 140-180°C. 30. The method of claim 26 further comprising the step of adding a thermobonding agent to the dried and cured individual ceUulose fibers, to form a mixture that is made into a web, then heating the web to a sufficient temperature to increase the wet strength of the web.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein the thermobonding agent is a bicomponent fiber comprising a core component and a sheath, wherein the core component has a higher melting point than the sheath component.
32. The method of claim 31 wherein the sheath component is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polypropylene, poly(l-butene), and copolymers and mixtures thereof, and the core component is selected from the groupconsistingofpolypropylene,poly(l,4-cyclohexylene-dimethylene-terephtalate), poly(4-methyl-l-pentene), polyester and copolymers and mixtures of the foregoing.
33. The method of claim 30 wherein the mixture comprises the cellulose fibers and thermobonding agent in ratios by weight of 90:5 to 50:50.
34. The method of claim 33 wherein the mixture comprises 20-40 % by weight of thermobonding agent. 


 35. The method of claim 31 wherein the core is polypropylene and the sheet is polyethylene, and the heating step comprises heating the mixture to about 130-150°C.
36. The method of claim 30 further comprising the step of applying a binder to the web.
37. The method of claim 36 wherein the step of applying a binder to the web comprises saturating the web with the binder and impregnating the binder into the web with pressure on the web.
38. The method of claim 36 wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of carboxymethyl cellulose, acrylic, styrene butadiene rubber, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyUdine chloride, polyvinyl alcohol and polyvinyl acetate.
39. The method of claim 26 further comprising the step of adding the dried and cured individual ceUulose fibers to a pulp furnish to increase porosity and impregnation of a sheet made from the pulp furnish. 40. The method of claim 39 further comprising the step of forming a sheet from the pulp furnish and applying a liquid impregnant to the sheet.
41. The method of claim 40 wherein the applying step comprises applying the crossUnking agent to the sheet.
42. The method of claim 26 further comprising the step of holding the fibers in a retaining station for a selected period of time after drying them.
43. The method of claim 42 wherein the holding step comprises holding the fibers in a retaining station after curing them.
44. The method of claim 26 wherein the drying step comprises flash drying the separated fibers then introducing them into an expansion chamber. 45. The method of claim 44 wherein the drying step comprises introducing the fibers into the expansion chamber through a venturi.
46. The method of claim 44 wherein the flash drying step comprises conveying the individual cellulose fibers are conveyed from the fiberizer to the expansion chamber by a conduit that decreases in diameter downstream from the fiberizer to increase a flow velocity of the fibers before they enter the expansion chamber. 


 47. The method of claim 26 wherein the applying step comprises applying a crossUnking substance selected from the group consisting of polycarboxyUc acids; urea derivatives consisting of methylolated urea, methylolated cycUc ureas, lower alkyl substituted cycUc ureas, dihydroxy cycUc ureas, lower alkyl substituted cycUc ureas, and methylolated dihydroxy cycUc ureas; acid anhydrides from the group consisting of maleic anhydride, phthaUc anhydride, 4-carboxyphthaUc. anhydride, pyromeUitic anhydride, and mellitic anhydride; dialdehydes; and mixtures thereof.
48. The method of claim 47 in which the crosslinking agent is selected from the group consisting of methylolated urea, methylolated cyclic ureas, lower alkyl substituted cycUc ureas, dihydroxy cycUc ureas, lower alkyl substituted dihydroxy cycUc ureas, methylolated dihydroxy cyclic ureas, and mixtures thereof.
49. The method of claim 47 wherein the applying step comprises applying a polycarboxyUc acid crossUnker. 50. The method of claim 49 wherein the crossUnking agent is selected from the group consisting of 1,2,3,4-butanecarboxyUc acid and 2-hydroxy- 1,2,3-propanetricarboxyUc acid.
51. The method of claim 26 wherein the pH of the ceUulose fibers remains above about 2 after the crossUnking agent is applied to the mat. 52. The method of claim 51 wherein the pH is within the range of
2-4.
53. The method of claim 52 wherein the pH is within the range of
3-4.
54. A method of making individualized crossUnking fibers, comprising the steps of: contacting the fibers with a crosslinking agent comprising a polycarboxyUc acid; separating the fibers into substantiaUy individual form; and drying the fibers and reacting the crossUnking agent with the individualized fibers to form intrafiber crossUnk bonds. 


 55. The method of claim 54 wherein the polycarboxyUc acid is citric acid.
56. The method of claim 26 wherein the separating step comprises separating the fibers in a hammermiU comprising: a housing; an elongated rotor within the housing and having a longitudinal. axis of rotation, the rotor including a pluraUty of hammers having distal end surfaces sweeping out an effective rotor surface upon rotation of the rotor about the axis of rotation, the distal end surfaces of the individual hammers upon such rotation sweeping separate cylindrical paths with gaps between the paths, the gaps between the paths not exceeding about one-quarter of an inch; a rotator that rotates the rotor about the axis of rotation to thereby rotate the hammers to provide the effective rotor surface; and the hammermiU including at least one inlet through which a fiber mat is delivered to the effective rotor surface for fiberization by the rotating hammers, the housing defining an outlet located at an intermediate position corresponding to an intermediate portion of the effective rotor surface between the ends of the rotor, the outlet extending substantially the entire length of the housing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
