<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654257</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for producing waistband-equipped disposable diapers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1315	A61F544	A61F1300	A61F544	A61F1315	A61F1349	A61F1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	A61F5	A61F13	A61F5	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for making diapers wherein 
spaced apart moisture pervious webs (13,14) are applied to fluff pads 

(12) and overlaid with a further moisture pervious web (28) which permits 
further processing prior to adhesively sandwiching a waistband (49) 

between the further web and an underlying moisture impervious 
web (25). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAPER CONVERTING MACHINE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAPER CONVERTING MACHINE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOCEWICZ FRANK F JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOCEWICZ, FRANK F., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for
producing waistband-equipped disposable diapers and, more
particularly, to a method and apparatus wherein the usual
processing steps performed or normal features added without
having to go to extraordinary lengths to maintain the waistbands
in their original tensioned condition. This has been a problem
especially in diapers of the adult brief variety where the
waistbands are much larger and stronger than in the infant
variety. Waistband application in disposable diapers has been
addressed in a number of prior art patents. Co-owned patent
4,523,969 proved successful in commercially producing adult
diapers but with complicated machinery and processing. In the
'969 patent and in Patent No. 4,925,520 there were vacuum drums
which were expensive to maintain.Another prior art approach is seen in co-owned Patent
5,000,806. This featured the diapers of the adult brief variety
and which include a novel waistband construction and method of
providing the same.The prior art relating to waistbands can be seen in
co-owned Patent 5,000,806. This featured the application of an
elastic strand manufactured by E.I. Du Pont de Nemours and
Company marketed under the trademark Lycra. As Lycra can be
stretched to levels exceeding 400%, it was difficult to obtain
accurate placement of tapes or diecutting symmetry. This is
overcome by the instant invention. Another prior art use of
elastic waistbands is in Patent 5,004,466 which employed a tape
transfer step prior to adhesion to the poly-nonwoven
substrates. The drawbacks of this method were high cost,
unattractive tails visible through the material and the
inability to control the placement.Still further, the prior art procedure was the use of a
single strand elastic aligned on a drum-type former system.
This left red lines due to concentrated elastic force to the
wearer and the diaper had to be held in vacuum to remain aligned
which resulted in a costly method as well as the elastic having 
to be rotated before application.The shortcomings of the prior art are overcome by the
instant invention which employs a center position nonwoven web
to sandwich waistband material between the bottom moisture
impervious sheet and the center nonwoven material. More
particularly, the invention provides for applying spaced-apart
longitudinally-extending webs of non-woven, performing the usual
processing steps such as leg cutout and tape tab application,
and then applying the waistbands. Other objects and advantages
of the invention may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a method of diaper manufacture, the steps of

advancing a series of fluff pads (12) along a linear path (P)
in longitudinally spaced relation (22), said pads having upper and

lower faces, a pair of longitudinally extending sides, and a pair
of transversely extending ends, uniting a continuous moisture

impervious web(25) to one face of said spaced pads to provide areas
(41) of exposed moisture impervious web between said spaced fluff

pads characterized by uniting two continuous moisture pervious webs
(34a, 34b) to the other face of said spaced pads in laterally

spaced relation to provide a longitudinally extending central area
(34c) free of the moisture pervious webs while maintaining exposed

the moisture impervious web areas (22) between successive pads in
said central area, performing at least one additional processing

step (35, 38) on the pad united with the moisture-impervious web
(25) and the two moisture pervious webs (34a, 34b), and adhesively

sandwiching a transversely extending waist elastic (49) and the web
(25) between a further continuous web of moisture pervious material

(42) extending over each said central area and each said exposed
moisture impervious web area (22) with said waist elastic being

aligned with said exposed moisture impervious web area.
The method of claim 1 in which said additional
processing step including the step of applying tape tabs (36, 37)

to the longitudinal edges of each of said two continuous moisture
pervious webs. 
The method of claim 1 in which said additional
processing step includes the step of cutting the longitudinal

edges of each of said two continuous moisture pervious webs
(34a, 34b) and the longitudinal edges of said moisture

impervious web (25) to provide leg cutouts (39).
The method of claim 1 in which said steps include
providing longitudinally extending leg cuff means (50, 51, 150,

151) on one of said central area web (42) of moisture pervious
material and said two moisture pervious webs (34a, 34b).
The method of claim 4 in which said steps include
providing a pair of transversely spaced leg cuffs (50, 51) on

said central area web (42) of moisture pervious material.
The method of claim 4 in which said steps include
providing a longitudinally extending leg cuff (150, 151) on each

of said laterally spaced moisture pervious webs (34a, 34b).
The method of claim 1 in which said waist elastic
(49) is a strand and said steps include forming said strand into

a plurality of transversely extending sinusoids.
The method of claim 1 in which said steps include
providing a foam as said waist elastic (49).
The method of claim 1 in which said steps include
providing film as said waist elastic (49).
The method of claim 1 in which said steps include
providing said two moisture pervious webs (34a, 34b) of

hydrophobic material and said further web (42) of hydrophilic
material. 
The method of claim 1 in which said steps include
providing said two moisture pervious webs and said further

moisture pervious web of colored material.
The method of claim 1 in which said step include
severing the product of said sandwiching by transversely cutting

said product between successive fluff pads.
The method of claim 1 in which said steps include
encasing said fluff pads in tissue (13, 14). 
Apparatus for diaper manufacture comprising a
frame defining a linear path, means operably associated with

said frame for advancing a series of fluff pads (12)along said
linear path (P) in longitudinally spaced relation (22), said

pads having upper and lower faces, a pair of longitudinally
extending sides, and a pair of transversely extending ends,

further means (23) in said path for uniting a continuous
moisture impervious web (25) to one face of said spaced pads to

provide areas (41) of exposed moisture impervious web between
said spaced fluff pads characterized by means further in said

path for uniting two continuous moisture pervious webs (34a,
34b) to the other face of said spaced pads in laterally spaced

relation to provide a longitudinally extending central area
(34c) free of the moisture pervious webs while maintaining

exposed the moisture impervious web areas (41) between
successive pads in said central area (34c), means (35, 38)

further in said path for performing an additional processing
step on the spaced pads united with both moisture pervious webs

and moisture impervious web, and still further means (45, 46,
48) in said path for adhesively sandwiching a transversely

extending waist elastic (49) between a continuous web (42) of
moisture pervious material extending over said central area and

said exposed moisture impervious (25) web areas with said waist
elastic being aligned with said exposed moisture impervious web

areas (22). 
The apparatus of claim 14 in which said means for
performing an additional processing step includes means (35) for

applying tape tabs to said spaced pads united with both moisture
pervious webs and moisture impervious web.
The apparatus of claim 14 in which said means for
performing an additional processing step includes means (38) for

cutting the longitudinal edges of all of said united webs to
provide leg cutouts.
The apparatus of claim 14 in which means (52) are
provided on said frame for providing longitudinally extending

leg cuff means on one of said further web of moisture pervious
material and said two moisture pervious webs.
The apparatus of claim 17 in which said leg cuff
providing means (52) are located adjacent said sandwiching means

(45, 46, 48).
The apparatus of claim 17 in which said leg cuff
providing means (52) are located in alignment with said two

moisture pervious webs (25a, 25b).
The apparatus of claim 14 in which said apparatus
includes further means (53) for severing the product of said

sandwiching by transversely cutting said product between
successive fluff pads.
The apparatus of claim 14 in which said frame is
equipped with means (30, 31) for slitting and aligning said

moisture pervious webs to provide said central space (34c).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
