<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624247</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REFERENCE ELECTRODES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2730	G01N2730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reference electrode for use with a measuring electrode (10) for measuring ion activity in a sample solution, said reference electrode comprising: an electrode chamber (22) for holding electrolyte (45) in complete isolation from the sample solution, and an electrode element (46) in said electrode chamber, wherein at least a portion of one of the walls (21) which define said chamber (22) is formed of wall material comprising an immobilised non-porous polymer having one or more salts of potassium, sodium and/or lithium mixed through at least one region (53) of said wall material before curing of the polymer to render said region (53) of the wall material electrically conductive, said wall (21) providing a physical barrier between the electrolyte and the sample solution but permitting electrical communication between them. The conductive wall material may be in tubular or block form.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMAGRUSS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUSSELL, TIMOTHY AMAGRUSS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSSELL TIMOTHY HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSSELL, TIMOTHY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to reference electrodes.Conventional reference electrodes are generally one of two types -
Ag/AgCl electrodes and calomel electrodes. Reference electrodes are
used together with measuring electrodes in electrochemical systems to
determine the concentration of ions in a sample i.e. the pH or pX where
X represents an ion. The electrical potential of the reference
electrode should remain as constant as possible throughout the
measuring process while the potential of the measuring electrode, which
can be ion selective, is proportional to the concentration of the ion
being tested in the sample. The potential of the reference electrode
is kept substantially constant due to the presence of a saturated
electrolyte salt bridge within the cell. The potential difference
between the reference electrode and the measuring electrode is
indicative of the concentration of the ion and is displayed on a
millivolt instrument such as a potentiometer.The electrolyte generally leaks very slowly through an opening in
the reference electrode, for example at a porous plug, to form a liquid
junction between the salt bridge and the sample solution being tested. The potential of the complete electrochemical cell made up of
the measuring electrode and the reference electrode can be represented
by the following equation
ECell = Emeas + Eref + Ej
   where Emeas is the potential of the measuring electrode,
Eref is the potential of the reference electrode and Ej is a
junction potential.The junction potential arises from the different rates of
mobility of anions and cations at the interface between two
electrolytic solutions. Ideally, the junction potential of the
reference electrode should have a negligible variation between
solutions as otherwise the change in the junction potential will
appear as an error in the overall potential calculated for the sample
and hence the concentration determined.In certain applications, a precipitate can form at the junction
of the reference electrode and the sample solution where the
electrolyte of the reference electrode flows into the sample. These
precipitates can clog the opening and therefore interfere with the
liquid junction potential and give rise to measuring errors.EP-A-0 247 535 A1 Russell et. al.
describes "wet" and "dry" forms of reference electrode. In the "wet"
form, a glass tube housing a silver wire and electrolyte and sealed
with a porous plug is covered by a sheathing made of a polymer which is
mixed with crystalline potassium chloride or another
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reference electrode for use with a measuring electrode for
measuring ion activity in a sample solution, said reference electrode

comprising:

an electrode chamber (2, 22, 63, 69) for holding electrolyte in

complete isolation from the sample solution,
an electrode element (3, 23, 61, 66) in said electrode chamber,
and a tubular wall (1, 8, 21, 53, 56) providing a physical
barrier between the electrolyte and the sample solution but permitting

electrical communication between them, the material of the wall
comprising an immobilised non-porous polymer having one or more salts

of potassium, sodium and/or lithium mixed through at least one region
of said wall material before curing of the polymer to render said

region of the wall material electrically conductive,

   characterized in that the tubular wall (1, 8, 21, 53, 56) has an
increased concentration of the one or more salts on the outer surface

of the tube or in the lower region of the tube.
An electrode according to claim 1 wherein the tubular wall
(1, 8, 56) has been created by moulding.
An electrode according to claim 1 wherein the tubular wall
(1, 8, 21) has been manufactured by spinning.
An electrode according to claim 3 wherein the tubular wall (21)
has been created by horizontal spinning during curing.
An electrode according to claim 4 wherein the tubular wall (21)
has electrically conductive (53) and electrically non-conductive (54) regions.
An electrode according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
tubular wall (1, 8) is in the form of a tube closed at the lower end. 
An electrode according to claim 1 combined with a measuring
electrode (10) to form a single-unit electrode assembly wherein the

measuring electrode (10) is fitted inside a tube (21, 53) of the
electroconductive material so as to define an annular chamber (22)

between them to hold electrolyte, with the measuring electrode (10) as
the radially-inner wall and the tube (21, 53) of electroconductive

material as the radially outer wall of the chamber, and a reference
electrode element (23) housed in said chamber.
An electrode according to claim 1 combined with a measuring
electrode to form a single unit electrode assembly wherein the

measuring electrode (10) and the reference electrode (46) are mounted
in a tubular block of the immobilized non-porous electroconductive

polymer material.
An electrode assembly as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a
thermocompensator (55).
An electrode assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the reference
element (66) comprises an open-ended chloridised silver cylinder which

forms at least a portion of one of the walls which define the electrode
chamber (69).
An electrode according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
electroconductive material comprises a polymeric support containing

dispersed salts selected from chloride, nitrate and sulphate salts of
potassium, sodium and/or lithium.
An electrode according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
electrically-conductive wall material comprises from 35-55% by weight

of the salt(s) dispersed in from 57-37% by weight of the polymer (the
percentages being based on the total weight of the composition).
An electrode according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
polymer is a vinyl ester resin. 
An electrode according to claim 13 wherein the salt is potassium
chloride and the weight ratio of vinyl ether/potassium chloride is

about 48/44.
An electrode according to claim 1 wherein graphite or other
colourants are dispersed in suitable amounts in the wall material to

render the material opaque.
An electrode according to claim 1 wherein quartz is dispersed in
a suitable amount in the wall material to reinforce the material.
A reference electrode for use with a measuring electrode for
measuring ion activity in a sample solution, said reference electrode

comprising:

an electrode chamber (2, 22) for holding electrolyte in complete
isolation from the sample solution,
an electrode element (3) in said electrode chamber,
and a tubular wall (1, 8, 21) providing a physical barrier
between the electrolyte and the sample solution but permitting

electrical communication between them, the material of the wall
comprising an immobilised non-porous polymer having one or more salts

of potassium, sodium and/or lithium mixed through at least one region
of said wall material before curing of the polymer to render said

region of the wall material electrically conductive,

   characterized in that the tubular wall (1, 8, 21) has been
manufactured by spinning.
An electrode according to claim 16 wherein the tubular wall has
been created by horizontal spinning during curing. 
A method of making a tube of pdlymeric material suitable for use
as at least part of a salt bridge of a reference electrode which method

comprises mixing one or more salts of potassium, sodium and/or lithium
in powder form with an uncured polymer so as to disperse the salt(s)

through the polymer, placing the mixture in a mould having a
longitudinal axis, positioning the mould in an orientation such that

the longitudinal axis of the mould is substantially vertical, allowing
at least some of the salt(s) to settle in the mixture so that the salt

concentration in the lower region thereof is increased relative to the
upper region thereof, and curing the polymer to an immobilised

non-porous tubular body.
A method of making a tube of polymeric material suitable for use
as at least part of a salt bridge of a reference electrode which method

comprises mixing one or more salts of potassium, sodium and/or lithium
in powder form with an uncured polymer so as to disperse the salt(s)

through the polymer to form active wall material, placing the active
wall material in a mould having a longitudinal axis, positioning the

mould with its axis-substantially horizontal, and spinning the mould
about the longitudinal axis while curing the polymer to an immobilized

non-porous tubular body.
A method according to claim 20 comprising placing the active wall
material in one region of the mould and placing inactive material

comprising uncured polymer without the added salt(s) in another region
of the mould and spinning the mould about the horizontal longitudinal

axis while curing the polymer to an immobilized non-porous body having
an electrically-conductive region and an electrically non-conductive

region.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
