<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620326</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvements relating to a method of making building and shoring structural blocks.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02B308	E02B308	E02B312	E02B312	E02D2902	E02D2902	E04C100	E04C139	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02B	E02B	E02B	E02B	E02D	E02D	E04C	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02B3	E02B3	E02B3	E02B3	E02D29	E02D29	E04C1	E04C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides that wire mesh cage structures are 
used to provide structural blocks usable in building, 

shoring, walls and the like. The cage is lined with a geo-textile 
fibrous material which allows the passage 

therethrough of water, but not particulate material such as 
cement, sand aggregate which are used as materials for 

filling the cage. The invention discloses novel forms of 
cage structure and also that the finished blocks can be 

coated with curable synthetic resin to conceal the mesh and 
provide a decorative surface finish. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HESCO BASTION LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HESCO BASTION LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESELDEN JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESELDEN, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of making building and 
shoring structures in the form of blocks, and in particular 
concerns building and shoring blocks. Conventional cage structures are known by the name "gabions" 
and comprise essentially wire mesh cages defining a block 
shape, which are filled with rock, stone and rubble and the 
like. The stone is generally placed immediately inside the 
cage surface so as to be visible through the cage, and in 
this connection the stone typically is dressed and laid in 
the nature of a wall so as to have an enhanced appearance, as 
frequently the stone surfaces are left exposed to view. This 
may apply for example when the gabions are used, as they are 
extensively, for the shoring up of an embankment for example 
adjacent a motorway or for forming a sea defence or the like. Although these gabions are made up of wire mesh cages when 
filled with stone and other rubble, in effect they become 
solid blocks which can be used for building, shorings for 
hillsides, sea walls and the like, for walls and for other 
purposes. However, the method of filling the wire mesh cages in using 
facing stone is expensive, and furthermore considerable time 
and effort is required in filling the gabion cages. Obviously 
the stone and other rubble is required in accordance with the 
conventional method of construction, because otherwise the 
material would simply pass through the meshes of the wire 
mesh cage. In French Patent Specification No. 788004 there are disclosed 
cage structures to form structural blocks which have a lining  
 
material therein. The present invention concerns the utilization of lined cage 
structures for the formation of concrete structures such as 
footings, ring beams, columns, bases, and generally any 
structure or formation including concrete or concrete like 
material, with or without steel reinforcement, and in using 
the present invention in this regard the considerable 
advantage that the utilisation of conventional concrete 
shuttering can be eliminated. Conventionally, when casting a concrete structure, it is 
necessary to provide shuttering, which may be in the form of 
boards or plates shaped to form a cavity to be filled with 
the concrete in order to form the eventual structure. The 
provision of such shuttering is time consuming and costly, 
and if timber shuttering, which is the most popular type, is 
used, then invariably skilled joinery craftsmen are required 
to erect the shuttering prior to the pouring of the concrete. Concrete
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of providing an on site structural block 
comprising taking to the site a cage structure made up of 

pivotally interconnected panels where the panels are 
positioned so that the cage structure is in a flattened or 

collapsed condition and relatively positioning the panels at 
site to move the cage structure to an erected condition in 

which it conforms to the shape of the block to be provided, 
said cage comprising at least partially open work mesh, and 

at least partially lining the interior of said cage with 
flexible sheet material, and filling the cage at least 

partially with fluent solid material of a particulate nature 
which, but for the lining material, would pass through the 

meshes of the cage, characterised in that the filling 
material is concrete. 
A method according to claim 1, characterised in that the 
flexible lining material is a geo-textile material which is 

in the nature of a fibrous felt which allows the passage 
therethrough of moisture in the concrete but retains the 

particulate material. 
A method according to claim 2, characterised in that the 
cage walls are of open work mesh and the lining material 

lines each of said walls. 
A method according to claim 2 or 3, characterised in that 
the lining material is attached to the cage by means of 

clips. 
A method according to any preceding claim, characterised 
in that the cage is prior to transport to site, lined with 

said sheet material and then collapsed to the flat condition, 
the sheet material being such as to fold with the cage when 

 
it is moved to the collapsed condition. 
A method according to any preceding claim, characterised 
in that the cage is constructed entirely of open work mesh 

material. 
A method according to claim 6, characterised in that the 
cage is of rectangular configuration and is provided with 

side walls, end walls and a base panel, the base panel being 
hinged to a lower edge of one of the side walls, and the side 

walls and end walls being pivotally interconnected so that 
the cage can be collapsed to a flat condition for 

transportation to site, said lining material lining the side 
and end walls only. 
A method according to claim 7, characterised in that the 
cage has partition walls extending between the side walls and 

intermediate the end walls, said partition walls also being 
of open work mesh. 
A method according to any of claims 1 to 6, characterised 
in that the cage comprises a plurality of interconnected side 

panels defining side walls, and partition panels pivotally 
interconnecting the side walls, said side walls being folded 

concertina fashion when the cage is in the collapsed 
condition, and the cage being erectable into a condition for 

filling whereby the cage defines a row of side by side 
hexagonal cavities for receiving the filling material, said 

lining material lying to the insides of the side walls. 
A method according to claim 9, characterised in that a 
flexible cord passes through the partition walls and is 

connected thereto, and wherein the cage is erected by pulling 
on the cord to move the partition walls apart and to unfold 

the side wall panels in sequence. 
A method according to any preceding claim, characterised 
in that said open work mesh is defined by metal rods or wires 

secured together at cross over points. 
A method according to claim 11, characterised in that 
said open work mesh is defined by sets of spaced parallel 

metal rods lying at right angles to each other. 
A method according to any preceding claim, characterised 
in that the block forms a wall structure. 
A method according to any preceding claim, characterised 
in that the block is used as a shoring structure either by 

itself or in conjunction with other similar blocks arranged 
adjacent thereto or on top thereof. 
A method according to any preceding claim, characterised 
in that the block is filled with concrete and is used as a 

building block. 
A method according to claim 15, characterised in that 
reinforcement rods are embedded in the concrete and are 

supported by the open work mesh of the cage prior to the 
filling of the cage with concrete. 
A method according to any preceding claim, characterised 
in that the outer surface of the cage at least where it is 

defined by the open work mesh is sprayed with a synthetic 
resinous coating material which binds to the cage and to the 

lining material to provide an enhanced surface finish. 
A method according to any of claims 1 to 16, 
characterised in that the lining material is removed by sand 

blasting after the concrete has set, and the cage at least 
 

where defined by said open work mesh is covered by means of a 
coating of synthetic resinous material which anchors to the 

concrete and the open work mesh and provides an enhanced 
surface finish. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
