<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0289696</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Aspirator-deodorizer device for water-closets.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03D904	E03D9052	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03D	E03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03D9	E03D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The aspirator-deodorizer device comprises an 
electric fan accommodated within a container (8-9) 

to be arranged beside a WC bowl or to be hung on 
a wall of the water-closet room, near the WC bowl. 

The suction of the electric fan is connected by 
means of either a rigid or a flexible tube (2-102) 

to at least one flat-shaped draw-mouth (1), preferably 
in the form of a goose beak, which is hooked on the 

top rim of the WC bowl and which opens into the 
interior thereof in order to create a vacuum therein 

and evacuate the air and bad-smelling gases being 
formed during the use of the WC bowl. Said draw-­

mouth (1) traverses the space usually existing 
between the top rim of the bowl and the overlying 

seat (S). If the delivery outlet of the electric 
fan opens into the WC room, a suitable filter (10) 

is fitted at said delivery outlet in order to 
purify the air. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAVORANI NEVIO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAVORANI, NEVIO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAVORANI NEVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAVORANI, NEVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an aspirator device 
which is mounted in the bowl of a water-closet to 
suck and purify and/or deodorize or merely to 
discharge to the outside the bad-smelling gases 
generated during the use of said WC. Unlike the similar known devices, the device 
of the invention has the advantage of being adapted 
to be mounted quickly, and even by unskilled 
personnel, on any presently-marketed WC bowl, and 
also on WC bowls already installed. The device according to the invention comprises 
a suction electric fan arranged in a container 
which may be mounted close to the WC bowl, at one 
side thereof and resting on the floor, or which 
may be hung on an adjacent wall of the water closet. 
The suction mouth of the aspirator device is 
connected either directly or with the intermediary 
of one or more conduits to at least one flat-shaped 
draw-mouth in the form of an inverted "L", or "C", 
or "U", which is hooked on the top rim of the WC  
 
bowl, so as to open within the inside perimeter of 
said bowl, and is properly held thereon by the seat 
usually provided on a WC bowl. By means of said 
draw-mouth, the aspirator device creates a constant 
vacuum in the WC bowl so as to avoid any escape of 
the bad-smelling gases generated during the use of 
the WC. The container accommodating the electric fan 
is usually provided with a delivery which opens into 
the room of the water closet, and which is equipped 
with a filter which is replaceable or can be 
regenerated, which purifies and deodorizes the air 
which has been sucked by said electric fan, before 
delivering it into said room. According to a 
constructional modification of the invention, the 
delivery of the aspirator device may not be equipped 
with said filter and may be connected to an aeration 
duct. The aspirator device may be fed by the electric 
mains and/or by a small electric accumulator, preferably 
of the rechargeable type. Further features of the invention and the 
advantages resulting therefrom will become apparent 
from the following description of some preferred 
embodiments thereof, shown merely as non-limiting 
examples in the Figures of the accompanying sheets 
of drawings, wherein: 
Figure 1 is a perspective view of the device in a  
 
preferred arrangement on a WC bowl; Figures 2 and 3 are a side and a front 
perspective view, respectively, of the draw-mouth; Figure 4 is a sectional view on the line IV-IV 
of Figure 1 showing further details of a draw-mouth 
arranged on a WC bowl; Figure 5 is a sectional view of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. An aspirator-deodorizer device for sanitary 
bowls or water-closets, characterized in that it 

comprises at least one flat-shaped draw-mouth (1) 
which is arranged transversely on the top rim of 

the WC bowl, through the space usually existing 
between said rim and the overlying seat (S) and 

so as to open into the inner perimeter of said 
bowl with an end portion which is provided with at 

least one flange or extension (201) directed 
downwards, so as to grip said rim, the other end 

portion (301) of said draw-mouth, on the outer 
side of the bowl, being preferably directed 

downwards and connected either directly or with 
the interposition of a rigid or flexible tube(2, 102) 

of suitable cross section, to the suction mouth of an 
electric fan aspirator unit (3) which through said 

draw-mouth (1) evacuates the bad-smelling gases 
generated during the use of the WC bowl, the delivery 

of said aspirator unit (3), if the latter discharges 
directly into the room accomodating the water closet, 

being equipped with at least one filter (10) of the 
activated carbon type or other suitable type and 

preferably of the replaceable or restorable type, 
which purifies and deodorizes the air being sucked 

therethrough before discharging it into said room. 
2. A device according to claim 1, wherein said 
 

draw-mouth is provided at its underside and at its 
inner corner area (101) with a suitably inclined 

tongue (501) preferably integral with said draw-­
mouth and of such a construction as to act as a 

flat spring for co-operation with the outer surface 
of the WC bowl to keep said draw-mouth suitably 

anchored to the top rim of said bowl regardless 
of the size of the latter. 
3. A device according to claim 1, wherein the 
draw-mouth (1) is composed by a plurality of members 

(101, 301, 401) assembled in a telescopic and 
peripherally sealed manner with each other whereby 

said draw-mouth may be suitably mounted on WC bowls 
of any size and shape and whereby the active part 

(101 of said draw-mouth, if desired, may be easily 
removed and cleaned. 
4. A device according to claim 1, wherein the 
end portion of the draw-mouth (1), which opens into 

the interior of the WC bowl, is suitably extended 
and bent downwards so as to exert the suction at an 

internal lower area of said bowl. 
5. A device according to claim 1, wherein at 
least the active and flat-shaped portion (101) of 

the draw-mouth is provided internally with one or 
more ribs (601) to avoid crushing distortions of 

said portion of the draw-mouth. 
6. A device according to claim 1, wherein the 
horizontal and flat-shaped portion of the draw-mouth 

(1) is preferably of a thickness between 0.5 and 1.5 
cm and a length between 5 and 10 cm. 
7. A device according to claim 1, wherein the 
aspirator-deodorizer unit (3) is arranged at one 

side of the WC bowl, rests preferably on the floor 
either directly or with interposed members (B), and 

is connected to said draw-mouth (1) either directly 
or with the intermediary of a rigid or a flexible 

tube (2, 102). 
8. A device according to claim 1, wherein the 
aspirator-deodorizer unit (3) is hung on the wall of 

the room in proximity of said WC bowl and is connected 
to said draw-mouth (1) by means of a flexible conduit 

(102). 
9. A device according to claim 1, wherein a 
plurality of draw-mouths (1) may be arranged on the 

top rim of the WC bowl and may be connected through 
a respective flexible tube (202) to a union (5-102) 

which is connected to the aspirator-deodorizer unit 
(3). 
10. A device according to the claim 1, wherein 
the aspirator-deodorizer unit (3) is operated 

electrically and is fed from the mains and/or a 
battery of electric accumulators, preferably of 

 
the rechargeable type and suitably incorporated in 

said unit. 
11. A device according to claim 1, wherein the 
operation of the aspirator-deodorizer unit (3) is 

preferably timed and is controlled by means of a 
manual control (6) or an automatic sensor which 

detects the condition of use of the WC bowl. 
12. A device according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said purifying filter (10) may be omitted 

if the aspirator unit (3) discharges to the outside 
of the WC room either through a suitable conduit 

(26-226) or through an aeration duct (27). 
13. A device according to claim 1, wherein the 
aspirator-deodorizer unit (3) may be used also 

without any connection to the draw-mouth (1) and it 
may be arranged in any room to purify the air therein. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
