<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644646</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Low power voltage boost circuits.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M304	H02M307	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M3	H02M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A voltage boost circuit is provided for amplifying or 
boosting an input voltage to a higher voltage level while also 

providing a regulated voltage amount for the boosted output. The 
voltage boost circuit with regulated output is well suited for 

low power applications by providing an oscillator which can be 
switched between normal mode and standby mode of operation 

depending upon the voltage state of the amplified output. Once 
the voltage state is at or within a regulated range, the 

oscillator can be placed in a standby state and the power 
consumption normally associated with amplifier or oscillator 

operation is considerably reduced. A voltage multiplier ensures 
that the output voltage is maintained over a fairly long period 

of time without requiring active refresh and power consumption 
normally associated therewith. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DULEY RAYMOND S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DULEY, RAYMOND S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electronic circuit and more 
particularly to a circuit for boosting a voltage to a regulated 
value and for maintaining the regulated value over a wide variety 
of load demands. Amplifiers for boosting power or voltage are well known. 
Power amplifiers are designed to provide large current to the 
output load. The load impedance must be low enough to allow a 
high-current output, but not so low that the signal is distorted 
excessively. Voltage amplifiers increase the voltage level of an 
applied signal but do not necessarily increase the power to the 
output load. Both power amplifiers and voltage amplifiers can be 
achieved using various circuit configurations. For example, 
amplification can be performed using electron tube amplifiers or 
solid-state transistors such as bipolar or MOS transistors. A problem associated with many amplification circuits is the 
relatively large amount of power required to drive the circuits. 
In particular, power amplifiers require a large amount of output 
current and therefore cannot, in most cases, be used in low-power 
applications. Likewise, voltage amplifiers often utilize op-amps 
or bipolar transistors which consume a large amount of current 
when active. Still further, in order to provide amplification, 
the amplifier circuit is generally maintained in an "on" 
condition throughout its operation. Thus, the amplifier circuit 
consumes power the moment it is turned on until it is 
subsequently turned off. In many applications, it is important that voltage  
 
amplification be achieved with minimum power consumption. 
Examples of low-power applications include battery-operated 
devices, one of which is a portable computer. A portable 
computer can operate in various modes of operation, including a 
standby mode and a full power mode. During standby operations, 
power drain upon the computer's battery or AC wall unit is 
minimized. During full power operation (i.e., whenever the 
display is on, CPU is operating at full speed, peripheral devices 
are on, resume switch is on, and/or a modem ring is detected), 
power drain is not minimized. The computer is selectively placed 
in the standby or full power mode whenever respective power 
switching transistors which drive the computer are turned off or 
on by the power management logic. It is important, however, that 
whenever a selection is made, the power transistors which are 
active are fully placed in full saturation region. If the power 
transistors which are coupled between the power
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A voltage boost circuit with regulated output, comprising: 
   an oscillator having an input and an output, said input 

is adapted to receive an input voltage and a reference 
voltage; 

   a voltage multiplier coupled to the output of said 
oscillator capable of storing an output voltage thereon 

which is greater than said input voltage; and 
   a control regulator having an input adapted to receive a 

portion of said output voltage and a portion of said input 
voltage, wherein said control regulator is capable of 

deactivating said oscillator during times in which said 
output voltage is within a regulated voltage amount. 
The voltage boost circuit as recited in claim 1, wherein said 
control regulator comprises an output coupled to a charging node 

associated with said oscillator for shorting said node during times in 
which said oscillator is deactivated. 
The voltage boost circuit as recited in claim 1, wherein said 
oscillator comprises three comparators connected in series with an 

output of said control regulator connected to a charging node 
configured between a pair of series-connected comparators for shorting 

said node during times in which said oscillator is deactivated. 
The voltage boost circuit as recited in claim 1, further 
comprising a sensor connected between said voltage multiplier and said 

control regulator for sensing times during which said output voltage is 
within said regulated voltage amount and for filtering out transient 

voltages from said output voltage. 
The voltage boost circuit as recited in claim 4, wherein said 
sensor comprises a resistor divider and a low pass filter. 
A voltage boost circuit with regulated output, comprising: 
   an oscillator having an input and an output, said input is 

adapted to receive an input voltage and a reference 
voltage; 

   a voltage multiplier coupled to the output of said 
oscillator capable of storing an output voltage thereon 

which is greater than said input voltage; and 
   a control regulator having an input adapted to receive 

a portion of said output voltage and a portion of said 
input voltage, wherein said control regulator is capable of 

regulating said output voltage at the output of said 
voltage multiplier to a regulated voltage amount. 
The voltage boost circuit as recited in claim 6, wherein said 
regulated voltage amount is substantially equal to one and one half 

times said input voltage. 
The voltage boost circuit as recited in claim 6, wherein said 
regulated voltage amount comprises a range exceeding said input voltage 

and less than one and one half times said input voltage. 
The voltage boost circuit as recited in claim 1 or claim 6, 
wherein said regulated voltage amount is a voltage magnitude 

proportional to said input voltage. 
The voltage boost circuit as recited in claim 6, wherein said 
control regulator comprises an output coupled to a charging node 

associated with said oscillator for shorting said node during times in 
which said output voltage exceeds said regulated voltage amount. 
The voltage boost circuit as recited in claim 6, wherein said 
oscillator comprises three comparators connected in series with an 

output of said control regulator connected to a charging node 
configured between a pair of series-connected comparators for shorti
ng 
 

said node during times in which said output voltage exceeds said 
regulated voltage amount. 
A voltage boost circuit according to any one of the preceding 
claims wherein said voltage multiplier comprises a first diode and a 

second diode, wherein an anode of the first diode is connected to 
receive the input voltage and a cathode of the first diode is connected 

to an anode of the second diode and to a boost capacitor. 
The voltage boost circuit according to claim 12, wherein said 
boost capacitor is coupled between said oscillator and the first and 

second diodes. 
A regulated power supply for a portable load device, comprising: 
   a voltage boost circuit according to any one of the claims 6-13; 

   a power source; and 
   a power transistor having a conductive path modulated by 

said output voltage, wherein said conductive path is 
coupled between said input voltage and a portable load 

device. 
The regulated power supply as recited in claim 14, further 
comprising: 

   a plurality of power transistors including a plurality 
of gates and conductive paths, said gates being adapted to 

receive said output voltage and said conductive paths being 
coupled between said power source and a plurality of 

portable load devices; and 
   a plurality of control circuits, each control circuit 

having an output connected to a respective said gate for 
selectively controlling said output voltage being sent to 

said power transistors. 
The regulated power supply as recited in claim 15, wherein said 
load devices comprise a standby load circuit, a main power load circuit 

and a battery, each load device is capable of drawing power through a 
respective conductive path in response to the output of a respective 

control circuit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
