<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624796</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for the trapping of reaction products.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L500	B01L500	B01L1100	B01L1100	G01N122	G01N122	G01N140	G01N140	G01N3112	G01N3112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	B01L	B01L	B01L	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L5	B01L5	B01L11	B01L11	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N31	G01N31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for trapping reaction products and 
especially for generating and trapping decomposition 

products from thermal decomposition processes, including 
combustion, is described. Decomposition products of a solid 

sample are formed at the top end of an externally heated 
vertical decomposition tube (1) and are channeled downward 

through a region of decreased diameter (2) in which a trapping 
device is positioned. The trapping device consists of two 

vertical concentric tubes (11,12) of which the top end of the inner 
tube is slightly lower than that of the outer tube. Water 

flows upward between the two concentric tubes, traps the 
decomposition products at the top, and drops down through 

the inner concentric tube. Products contained in the water 
are collected externally from the lower end of the trapping 

device for analysis. The insoluble gaseous products are 
collected by an external vacuum system after passing 

through the stream of water. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIGON JR WOODFIN VAUGHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIGON JR.,WOODFIN VAUGHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to an 
apparatus for the trapping of reaction products, and more 
particularly to an apparatus for thermal decomposition of 
solid samples and the trapping of resulting products for 
analysis. A common analytical procedure is the trapping 
and analysis of reaction products. Testing and evaluating 
the toxicity of combustion products emitted by fires, for 
example, has led to the development of various devices for 
simulating combustion conditions and collecting the 
products. The accuracy of subsequent qualitative and 
quantitative analyses of the combustion products depends 
on whether the products have been modified before 
collection and on whether substantially all the products 
have been trapped and collected. Combustion product analysis is not limited to 
determining the amount of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, 
oxygen and water generated, but includes the identification 
and quantification of biologically hazardous materials 
contained in the products for toxicity studies. For example, 
the characterization of the products emitted from burning 
polymers is necessary for limiting the use of polymers in 
certain applications. In addition to combustion product analysis a 
need exists for the testing of products generated by other 
chemical reactions, especially high temperature 
decomposition processes. For example, pyrolysis and  
 
certain metallurgical processes such as sintering may emit 
toxic products requiring identification. Thus, a device for the efficient and accurate 
collection of various chemical reaction products and 
especially for the creation and trapping of products formed 
by combustion and high temperature decomposition 
processes is necessary for meaningful subsequent analysis. The generation and collection of thermal 
combustion products for analysis has commonly been 
accomplished using devices which incorporate the method 
described in DIN 53436. Such devices consist of a long, 
horizontal quartz combustion tube in which a sample placed 
in an airstream is continuously decomposed by means of an 
external moving furnace. The effluents are carried by the 
airstream from the tube to an external analytical measuring 
system or, alternatively, are measured by on-line monitors 
such as infrared detectors. Problems associated with using the DIN 53436 
apparatus include inaccurate qualitative and quantitative 
analyses of the decomposition products due to the great 
amount of soot and smoke emitted during combustion of the 
sample. Such
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for trapping reaction products, 
said apparatus comprising: 


(I) a vertical external tube adapted to contain or 
receive reaction products, said external tube having a 

region of decreased diameter near the lower end thereof; 
(II) first gas inlet means for supplying a first 
gas near the upper end of said external tube; 
(III) second gas inlet means for supplying an 
inert shield gas near the lower end of said external tube and 

below said region of decreased diameter; and 
(IV) trapping means for reaction products, 
comprising: 


(A) an outer tube adapted for 
sealable connection to the lower end of said 

external tube with the upper end of said outer 
tube being located in said region of decreased 

diameter; 
(B) an inner concentric tube in said 
outer tube, the upper end of said inner tube being 

at a lower level than that of said outer tube; 
(C) water supply means adapted to 
provide an upward-moving stream of flush water 

in said outer tube at a flow rate sufficient to 
maintain contact with substantially the entire 

inner surface of said outer tube and then to flow 
into said inner tube; 
(D) a collection vessel adapted to 
receive all of said flush water and reaction 

products, said collection vessel communicating 
with the lower end of said inner tube; and 
(E) vacuum means attached to said 
collection vessel to receive said first and shield 

gases. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said 
external tube is heat-resistant. 
Apparatus according to claim 2 also 
comprising: 

   heat-resistant sample-containing means for 
holding a decomposition sample, said sample-containing 

means being sealably connected to the upper end of said 
external tube; 

   sample displacement means for moving said 
sample vertically in said external tube in locations above 

said region of decreased diameter; and 
   heating means for heating said external tube, 

sample and region of decreased diameter to a sample 
decomposition temperature. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
external tube, said first gas inlet means, and said second 

gas inlet means are of quartz. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
external tube, said first gas inlet means, and said second 

gas inlet means are of a ceramic material. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
sample-containing means is of quartz. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
sample-containing means is of a ceramic material. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the 
seals connecting said sample-containing means with said 

external tube are ground glass joints. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
sample displacement means is of quartz. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
sample displacement means is of a ceramic material. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
sample displacement means attaches to and contains a 

ferromagnetic rod distal to said sample-containing means 
 

allowing said sample-containing means to be moved 
magnetically from outside said apparatus. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
trapping means is of quartz. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
trapping means is of glass. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
outer tube is 1 mm higher than the natural meniscus formed 

when said flush water drops into said inner concentric tube. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
inner concentric tube is of polytetrafluoroethylene. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
collection vessel is a combination filter and filter flask. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
collection vessel is a separatory funnel. 
Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
heating means is a tubular furnace. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
