<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632507</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
UV/IR reflecting solar cell cover.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B522	G02B522	G02B528	G02B528	H01L310216	H01L310216	H01L3104	H01L3104	H01L31048	H01L31048	H01L31052	H01L31052	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G02B5	G02B5	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a solar cell cover (30) 
comprising a substrate (32) that transmits the spectral 

region to which the solar cell (39) responds and a 
multilayer infrared-reflecting coating (34) which 

incorporates means for suppressing low order 
reflections. The multilayer coating reflects one or 

both substrate surfaces. The multilayer coating 
reflects spectral bands which are adjacent to the short- 

and long- wavelength limits of the spectral response of 
the cell. The upper limit wavelength of the 

short-wavelength reflection band and the lower 
wavelength limit of the long-wavelength reflection band 

are independent and may be separately specified. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPTICAL COATING LABORATORY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPTICAL COATING LABORATORY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEAUCHAMP WILLIAM T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART TRUDY TUTTLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEAUCHAMP, WILLIAM,T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART, TRUDY TUTTLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to solar cells and, in 
particular, to covers for solar cells, and to methods of 
manufacturing such devices. Photovoltaic solar cells, which convert a portion of the 
incident solar radiation into electrical energy, are an 
important, even critical, source of electrical power in space 
craft. However, the efficiency of the conversion process is 
reduced at elevated temperatures and is permanently degraded by 
ionizing radiation. To maintain high conversion efficiency, solar 
cells on space craft are cooled by radiation from transparent 
glass or glass-like covers, which also may shield the cells from 
ionizing radiation. Weight is a primary concern in space craft. For example, 
one rule of thumb is that the cost of launching a payload such 
as a satellite or other space craft into orbit is up to about one 
million dollars per pound. Quite obviously, then, maintaining 
high conversion efficiency, and thus reducing the payload weight 
of the solar cells to a minimum, is very important. Techniques 
which increase the efficiency by as much as one to three percent 
are very desirable.  Many solar cells are formed of silicon, which has a spectral 
response between 350 nanometers (nm) and 1100 nm. That is, only 
incident radiation with wavelengths between 350 and 1100 nm is 
converted to electrical current in the silicon cell. Another 
solar cell material, gallium arsenide (GaAs), has a spectral 
response between about 350 and 900 nm. An exemplary spectral 
response curve for GaAs is shown in FIG. 1 and is identified 
there by reference numeral 10. Radiation that is not reflected by a solar cell or its cover 
is absorbed and converted into both electrical power and heat. 
The heat raises the cell temperature and lowers the efficiency 
for conversion of absorbed radiation into electrical power. 
Thus, absorbed radiation of wavelengths for which there is a high 
spectral response (see range 12, FIG. 1) will cause a net 
increase in the electrical output of the cell, but absorbed 
radiation of wavelengths for which there is a low spectral 
response (ranges 14 and 16, FIG. 1) will cause a net decrease in 
electrical output. Protective solar cell covers are attached to solar cells 
with transparent adhesive or cement. Typically, the adhesives 
are degraded by ultraviolet (UV) radiation of wavelengths in the 
300-350 nm region, especially the region between 300 and 320 nm. To protect the cover cements from UV degradation, most solar 
cell covers are or include material which is opaque
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A red reflector cover for a solar cell or panel having a 
given spectral response range to solar radiation incident on the 

panel, the cover comprising: 
   a substrate of material transparent over the spectral 

response range of the solar cell; and 
   a multilayer thin film composite formed on the substrate and 

comprising alternating layers of low and high index of refraction 
materials, the layers including an infrared reflector comprising 

(a) a first group of layers selected for reflecting incident 
infrared radiation adjacent and above the larger wavelength end 

of the response range, (b) an anti-reflection component 
comprising a second group of layers selected for decreasing the 

reflection of incident radiation across the spectral response 
range, and (c) means for suppressing low order reflection. 
A blue red reflector cover for a solar cell or panel having 
a given spectral response range to solar radiation incident on 

the cell, the cover comprising: 
   a substrate of material transparent over the spectral 

response range of the solar cell and having a first major surface 
on the solar incident side of the solar cell and a second major 

surface on the side thereof optically opposite the solar incident 
side; 

   a multilayer thin film composite comprising alternating 
layers of low and high index of refraction materials, the 

composite including (a) an ultraviolet reflector comprising a 
first group of layers selected for reflecting ultraviolet 

radiation and adjacent and below the smaller wavelength end of 
the response range, and (b) an infrared reflector comprising a 

second group of layers selected for reflecting infrared radiation 
adjacent and above the larger wavelength end of the spectral 

response range, and means for suppressing low order reflection. 
The cover of claim 2, wherein the ultraviolet reflector is 
formed on the solar incident side with respect to the infrared 

reflector. 
The cover of claim 2, wherein the composite includes an 
anti-reflection component comprising a third group of layers 

selected for deceasing reflection of incident radiation across 
the spectral response range. 
The cover of claim 1, wherein the composite is positioned 
on the solar incident side of the substrate. 
The cover of claim 5, wherein the substrate is UV-absorbing. 
The cover of claim 5, wherein the substrate is ceria-doped 
glass. 
The cover of claim 2, wherein the ultraviolet reflector is 
positioned on the solar incident side of the substrate. 
The cover of claim 8, wherein the substrate is UV-absorbing. 
The cover of claim 8, wherein the substrate is ceria-doped 
glass. 
The cover of claim 2, wherein both the UV reflector and the 
IR reflector are formed on the solar incident side of the 

substrate. 
The cover of claim 11, wherein the substrate is UV-absorbing. 
The cover of claim 11, wherein the substrate is ceria-doped 
glass. 
The cover of claim 2, wherein both the UV reflector and the 
IR reflector are formed on the second major surface. 
The cover of claim 14, wherein the substrate is fused 
silica. 
A blue red reflector cover for a solar panel having a given 
spectral response range to solar radiation incident on the cell, 

the cover comprising: 
   a substrate of material transparent over the spectral 

response range of the solar panel and having a first major 
surface on the solar incident side of the solar panel and a 

second major surface on the side thereof optically opposite the 
solar incident side; 

   a multilayer thin film composite comprising alternating 
layers of low and high index of refraction materials; 

   an ultraviolet reflector comprising a first group of layers 
of the composite selected for reflecting ultraviolet radiation 

adjacent the smaller wavelength end of the solar response range, 
the ultraviolet reflector being formed on the first major 

surface; and 
   an infrared reflector comprising a second group of layers 

selected for reflecting infrared radiation adjacent the larger 
wavelength end of the solar response range, the infrared 

reflector being formed on the second major surface, and including 
order suppression means for suppressing low order reflection, 

whereby the ultraviolet reflector and the infrared reflector are 
optically independent. 
The cover of any of claims 1, 2 or 16, wherein the low index 
material is silicon oxide and the high index material is tantalum 

oxide. 
The cover of any of claims 2 or 16, wherein the ultraviolet 
and infrared reflectors are designed for a solar panel having a 

spectral response range of approximately 350-900 nm. 
The cover of claim 18, wherein the low index material is 
silicon oxide and the high index material is tantalum oxide. 
The cover of any of claims 2 or 16, wherein the ultraviolet 
and infrared reflectors are designed for a solar panel having a 

spectral response range of approximately 350-1100 nm. 
The cover of claim 20, wherein the low index material is 
silicon oxide and the high index material is tantalum oxide. 
In combination: 
   a solar panel comprising a solar radiation responsive 

member; and 
   the cover of any of claims 1, 2 or 16. 
The combination of claim 22, wherein the responsive member 
is gallium arsenide. 
The combination of claim 22, wherein the responsive member 
is silicon. 
The combination of claim 22, wherein the substrate is 
selected from cerium glass and fused silica. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
