<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650417</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS IN SLIDING AUTOMOBILE DOOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60J506	B60J506	B60N246	B60N246	B60R2100	B60R2100	B60R2116	B60R2116	B60R2120	B60R2120	B60R21207	B60R2123	B60R21231	B60R2218	B60R2218	B62D2500	B62D2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60J	B60J	B60N	B60N	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60J5	B60J5	B60N2	B60N2	B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	B60R22	B60R22	B62D25	B62D25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vertically sliding automobile door (10) includes door guides (48) which allow the door to "float" in the door jamb channels (58), a door drive system employing a perforated, flexible tape (66) and an improved side intrusion member (144) and anchoring system (18, 20, 22, 24, 26, and 31).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOALTO DESIGN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOALTO DESIGN, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOALTO DESIGN INC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOALTO DESIGN, INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVEMENTS IN SLIDING AUTOMOBILE DOORBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to doors for wheeled vehicles, such as for sedans, vans, trucks, and other automobiles, and in particular to vertically sliding doors retractable in the automobile floor or roof.2. Discussion of the Prior Art Non-conventional door closures for automobiles have been experimented with for many years, showing up in non-production specialty cars and prototypes. Only recently, however, have practical vertically sliding doors been shown to be advantageous and feasible for existing standard automobile designs currently in high volume production. It is now known that vertically sliding doors may be designed into new cars without a large number of design constraints being imposed on the automobile designer. In fact, many of the difficult design constraints that now exist with conventional hinged automobile doors are eliminated by the use of vertically sliding doors. These inventive doors may be designed into existing body styles without any significant changes to the shape or appearance of the car. Both foreign and domestic automobile manufacturers are currently starting to explore the many economic advantages offered in safety, convenience, and ergonomics by this alternative to the standard hinged automobile door.Two patents issued to the applicant, U.S. Patent Numbers 4,801,172 and 4,940,282, explain the basic construction, features, and operation of the vertically sliding automobile door. In its preferred 

embodiment, the inventive door replaces conventional doors on a two or four door vehicle. The vertically sliding door has a window which retracts into the door in a standard fashion. However, the inventive door opens by retracting along an arcuate path under the floor rather than swinging outward from the vehicle as does a standard door. The inventive door and window are driven open and closed by one or more electric motors. When the door is driven into an elevated, closed position, structural keys on the door engage with receptacles in the chassis frame of the vehicle, and the door becomes a fully stressed structural member of the frame, providing a dramatic increase in the bending and torsional stiffness thereof. Preliminary analysis indicates an increase in bending stiffness of about nine times, and an increase in torsional stiffness of about two times compared with a chassis having conventional doors.This structural integration of the door with the chassis frame provides numerous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed as the invention is:
1. A motor vehicle chassis frame comprising: a floor; a belly pan spaced beneath said floor and extending laterally across said chassis between a door opening at either side of the chassis, said pan being a continuous stressed panel integral with and extending from one side of the chassis to the other to provide a structural member which serves to reinforce the chassis.
2. The chassis frame of claim 1, further comprising a closed longitudinally extending box- section formed between the longitudinal centers of said floor and belly pan and serving as a structural chassis member.
3. An elongated motor vehicle chassis frame comprising: upward and longitudinally extending body side portions laterally spaced apart and located on opposite edges of said frame, said side portions including at least one door opening; a floor member disposed between said side portions and having at least one distal edge portion defined by said door opening, said floor member having a longitudinal centerline; a closed belly pan disposed below said floor member and having a longitudinal centerline, said belly pan terminating in at least one longitudinally extending distal edge portion disposed laterally inward of the bottom of the door opening, said edge portions defining 



 closed longitudinally extending box-sections which serve as structural chassis members.
4. The chassis frame of claim 3, further comprising a closed longitudinally extending box- section formed between said longitudinal centerlines of said floor and belly pan and serving as a structural chassis member.
5. An improved vertically sliding door assembly of the type having a door which becomes a structural member of a wheeled vehicle chassis frame when in a closed position, said door having a top edge movably recessed in a gap between an upper floor and a lower pan when in a retracted position, wherein the improvement comprises: a flap assembly having a flap pivotally attached adjacent said gap movably covering said gap and said top edge of said door therein when said door is in said retracted position, said flap pivoting upward and inward away from said door as said door moves upwardly from said retracted position.
6. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 5, wherein said flap assembly comprises means for separating said flap from said door when said door is not in said retracted position.
7. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 6, wherein said separating means comprises at least one roller rotatably attached to said flap.
8. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 5, wherein said flap assembly further comprises means for pivotally biasing said flap against said 


door such that as said door retracts into said gap, said flap is pivotally biased downward over said gap.
9. An improved vertically sliding door assembly of the type having a door movable between an open position and a closed position, said door becoming a structural member of a wheeled vehicle when in said closed position, said door having a direction of motion defined by an elongate and at least partially curved path between said open position and said closed position, said door including two parallel and longitudinally spaced ends parallel to a plane containing said path, wherein the improvement comprises: means located on said ends for allowing limited movement of said door transverse to said path while urging said door in a centering direction opposite said transverse movement and towards said path.
10. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 9, wherein said transverse movement comprises movement in said plane containing said path.
11. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 9, wherein said transverse movement comprises movement perpendicular to said plane containing said path.
12. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 9, wherein said means comprises at least one pair of opposing spring loaded rollers rotationally and movably mounted to said ends of said door;
13. An improved vertically sliding door assembly of the type having a door which becomes a 


structural member of a wheeled vehicle chassis frame when in a closed position, wherein the improvement comprises: a motor drive means for supplying power to move said door; at least one pair of sprockets having teeth and receiving power from said motor drive means; at least one pair of flexible tape segments including evenly spaced apertures, the apertures being of a complementary size, shape and pitch for engagement with said teeth of said sprockets and for receiving power therefrom to simultaneously move opposite ends of said door.
14. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 13, wherein said flexible tape segments each have two ends, each end rigidly attached to a portion of the wheeled vehicle adjacent said door and stationary with respect thereto, and wherein said motor and said sprockets are located on and movable with said door, said tape segments extending substantially along paths followed by said sprockets when said door moves from an open position to a closed position.
15. An improved vertically sliding door assembly of the type having a door structure which becomes a structural member of a wheeled vehicle chassis structure when in a closed position, wherein the improvement comprises: means for moving said door structure within said chassis structure; a pair of sprockets carried by one of said structures and having teeth; a pair of flexible tape segments carried by the other of said structures, said segments 


 including evenly spaced apertures, the apertures being of a complementary size, shape and pitch for engagement with said teeth of said sprockets.
16. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 16, wherein said flexible tape segments each have two ends, each end rigidly attached to a portion of the chassis structure adjacent said door structure and stationary with respect thereto, and wherein said sprockets are located on and movable with said door structure, said tape segments extending substantially along paths followed by said sprockets when said door structure moves from an open position to a closed position.
17. An improved vertically sliding door assembly of the type having a door which becomes a structural member of a wheeled vehicle chassis frame when in a closed position, wherein the improvement comprises: a motor for supplying power to move said door alternately between an open position and a closed position; a transmission means connected to said motor for receiving said power therefrom and transmitting said power to an output shaft; at least one pair of sprockets connected to said output shaft, said sprockets having teeth and receiving power from said motor through said transmission means; at least one pair of flexible tape segments including evenly spaced apertures, the apertures being of a complementary size, shape and pitch for engagement with said teeth of said sprockets 


 and for receiving power therefrom to simultaneously move opposite ends of said door.
18. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 17, wherein said flexible tape segments each have two ends, each end rigidly attached to a portion of the wheeled vehicle adjacent said door and stationary with respect thereto, and wherein said motor, transmission means and sprockets are located on and movable with said door, said tape segments extending substantially along paths followed by said sprockets when said door moves from an open position to a closed position.
19. An improved vertically sliding door assembly of the type having a door which becomes a structural member of a wheeled vehicle chassis frame when in a closed position, wherein the improvement comprises: latching means including a rotatable pawl biased against a strike plate and releasably engageable therewith as said door reaches said closed position, said latching means serving to retain said door in said closed position by retaining said pawl in a first notch in said strike plate; and releasing means for disengaging said pawl from said strike plate, thereby allowing said door to be moved from said closed position to an open position.
20. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 19, wherein said pawl comprises a roller mounted thereto for limiting outward rotation of said biased pawl by rolling on a door track opposite said pawl and parallel to said strike plate, said roller 



preventing said pawl from contacting said track, one end of said track terminating with said strike plate, said strike plate including a recess allowing said roller to outwardly rotate into said recess, thereby allowing said pawl to engage in said first notch in said strike plate for latching said door in said closed position.
21. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 19, wherein said strike plate comprises a second notch adjacent and parallel to said first notch for releasably engaging said pawl to retain said door in an almost closed position.
22. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 19, wherein said pawl is located on and is movable with said door and said strike plate is located adjacent and stationary with respect to said chassis opposite said pawl.
23. The vertically sliding door assembly of claim 20, wherein said releasing means further comprises a selectively actuated plunger located partially in said recess of said strike plate for selectively releasing said pawl from said strike plate, said plunger having a retracted position and an extended position, said plunger in said retracted position allowing said roller of said pawl into said recess, and in extended position said plunger urging said roller out of said recess and becoming substantially flush with said strike plate, thereby disengaging said pawl from said strike plate and permitting relative movement therebetween.
24. An improved wheeled vehicle chassis frame of the type having at least one vertically sliding 


door assembly which selectively covers a door aperture in said chassis frame and in a vehicle body to become a structural member of said chassis frame when in a closed position, said aperture partially defined by a pair of opposite edges, wherein the improvement comprises: tension means longitudinally spanning said door and having a pair of opposite ends; and anchor means located on said opposite edges of said aperture for connecting said ends of said tension means to said chassis frame when said door is in said closed position, said tension means and anchor means cooperating to form a structural member through said door which goes into tension and inhibits intrusion during an impact to said wheeled vehicle.
25. The chassis frame of claim 24, wherein said opposite edges of said aperture and said opposite ends of said tension means are substantially vertically oriented and horizontally spaced apart.
26. The chassis frame of claim 24, wherein said anchor means comprises a pair of inwardly extending lips substantially perpendicular to said door, and wherein said tension means comprises a plate-like member rigidly connected between a pair of complementary shaped members for releasably engaging said anchor means when said door is in said closed position.
27. The chassis frame of claim 24, wherein said chassis frame includes opposite sides and comprises at least one of said doors with said tension means and said anchor means on each of said opposite sides. 


 28. An armrest pivotally mounted adjacent to the outboard side of a wheeled vehicle seat, said seat having a lower seat portion and a back rest portion, said armrest pivotable between a lower position substantially parallel to said lower seat portion and a retracted position substantially alongside said back rest portion of said seat.
29. The armrest of claim 28, further comprising at least one air bag device located inside said armrest, deployable in the event of a collision having a lateral direction component.
30. The armrest of claim 28, further comprising a bolster of a progressively deformable material to at least partially absorb energy from a collision having a lateral direction component.
31. The armrest of claim 28, wherein said seat is adjustably movable between different positions and orientations, and wherein said armrest is pivotally mounted to said wheeled vehicle seat in such a way as to keep its position substantially constant relative to a passenger seated in said seat as said seat's position and orientation are adjusted.
32. The armrest of claim 28, further adapted to carry at least a portion of a passenger restraint seat belt and present for use said seat belt to a passenger seated in said seat as said armrest is lowered from said retracted position to said lower position.
33. The armrest of claim 28, further comprising automatic actuation means for raising said armrest from said lower position to said retracted position 


when an adjacent vertically sliding door is opened, and for lowering said armrest from said retracted position to said lower position when said door is closed.
34. The armrest of claim 28, further comprising actuation means for opening an adjacent wheeled vehicle door by raising said armrest to said retracted position and for closing said door by lowering said armrest to said lower position.
35. The armrest of claim 28, further comprising a ratcheting means for manually moving an adjacent vertically sliding door by repetitively pivoting said armrest.
36. A vertically sliding door closure assembly for a wheeled vehicle comprising: a main door having structural keys selectively engageable with complementary shaped receptacles rigidly connected to a vehicle chassis, and allowing said door to become a structural member of said chassis when said main door is in a closed position; and a secondary door panel selectively movable between an extended position above said main door when in said closed position and a retracted position inside said main door when in an open position, said main and secondary doors serving to close a vertical door aperture in said wheeled vehicle when in said closed position, and said secondary door retracting into said main door and said main door moving to a stowed position above a roof of said wheeled vehicle when in said open position. 


 37. The door closure assembly of claim 36, wherein said secondary door panel is a glass window.
38. The door closure assembly of claim 36, wherein said secondary door panel is independently retractable when said main door is in said closed position. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
