<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628986</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Self cleaning collimator.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1434	C23C1434	H01J3732	H01J3732	H01J3734	H01L2102	H01L21203	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C14	C23C14	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a self cleaning 
collimator (130) which avoids a buildup of deposited 

material such that the collimator does not become 
clogged, deposition rates remain constant and flakes of 

deposited material are not formed. The collimator is 
formed of a dielectric material. The collimator and the 

target (102) are physically mounted in contact with one 
another. During a deposition process, a portion of the 

deposited material will unavoidably also be deposited 
onto the walls of the passages (132) through the 

collimator. Eventually, the buildup of such deposited 
material (150) will provide an electrical path from the 

deposited material to the target. When this occurs, the 
electrical path will allow the material deposited on the 

walls of the passages through the collimator to act as a 
portion of the target. This material will then be 

depleted as it is deposited onto the semiconductor wafer 
(112). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEPMAN AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEPMAN, AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of Physical 
Vapor Deposition (PVD). More particularly, the present 
invention relates to a collimator for use in a PVD chamber 
which is self cleaning. Figure 1 shows a prior art PVD chamber. The PVD 
chamber 104 includes a target 102, a chamber housing 106, a 
shield 108 and a pedestal 110 for holding an object to 
receive a physical vapor deposition of the target material. 
A magnetron 100 can be used to shape the plasma and the flow 
of ions to the target 102. A magnetron 100 can be one or 
more permanent magnets or electro-magnets of appropriate 
strength, orientation and position to achieve the desired 
shaping. In the preferred embodiment of the present 
invention, the target material is typically selected from 
among Aluminum, an Aluminum alloy, Titanium, Tungsten or a 
composite of Titanium and Tungsten. The object which 
receives a deposition of target material in the preferred 
embodiment is a semiconductor wafer 112. The chamber is 
evacuated of air and includes a predetermined partial 
pressure of a known gas, generally Argon. The surface of the wafer 112 includes an opening 114 as 
shown in Figure 2. As the density of devices on 
semiconductor wafers has increased and etching technology 
has evolved, the aspect ratio of openings on the surface of 
semiconductor wafers has correspondingly continually changed 
such that the depth of an opening can exceed the width as 
shown in Figure 3. Figure 3 shows an opening having an 
aspect ratio wherein the depth of the opening is 
approximately twice its width.  As is well known, during a deposition a plasma of gas 
such as is formed in the chamber. Ions from the plasma are 
attracted to the target by applying an appropriate DC 
voltage to the target. Usually the DC voltage is applied 
between the anode, e.g., the shield, at +DC and the cathode, 
e.g., the target, at -DC. The plasma can be formed by this 
same voltage. 500V is a common voltage selected for forming 
the plasma and accelerating the ions toward the target. As 
the plasma ions strike the target, particles of target 
material are sputtered from the surface of the target 102 at 
a significant kinetic energy. Because of the amount of 
kinetic energy imparted to the particles escaping from the 
target 102, the particles will typically adhere securely to 
any solid structure which they strike. Particles of escaping target material can leave the 
surface of the target at any angle and from any surface 
location as shown by the arrows in Figure 1.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A physical vapor deposition device comprising: 

a. a target of a material to be deposited onto a 
semiconductor wafer; 
b. means for sputtering the target for forming 
sputtered target material; and 
c. a collimator positioned between the target and the 
wafer, the collimator including a plurality of passages 

for filtering sputtered target material to allow only 
sputtered target material traveling within a prescribed 

range of angles to pass to the wafer wherein any target 
material which is deposited onto the side walls of the 

passages through the collimator is recurrently and 
automatically removed. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 1 wherein the collimator is mounted to the target. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the collimator is formed of a 

dielectric material. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 3 wherein sputtered target material is deposited onto 

the collimator forming an intermediate deposited layer such 
that periodically the intermediate deposited layer grows to 

a sufficient size to become electrically coupled to the 
target forming an extended target thereby. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 4 wherein the target is formed of Aluminum. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 4 wherein the target is formed of an Aluminum Alloy. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 4 wherein the target is formed of Titanium. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 4 wherein the target is formed of Tungsten. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 4 wherein the target is formed of a composite of 

Titanium and Tungsten. 
A physical vapor deposition device for depositing 
material onto a semiconductor wafer comprising: 


a. a target of material to be deposited onto the wafer; 
b. means for sputtering the target material away from 
the target; 
c. a dielectric collimator mounted between the target 
and the wafer comprising a substantially planar plate 

of electrically nonconductive material having a finite 
thickness and a plurality of passages, the passages for 

allowing target material to pass therethrough in a 
direction toward the wafer wherein the collimator is 

mounted to the target. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 10 wherein the target is formed of Aluminum. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 10 wherein the target is formed of an Aluminum alloy. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 10 wherein the target is formed of Titanium. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 10 wherein the target is formed of Tungsten. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 10 wherein the target is formed of a composite of 

Titanium and Tungsten. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 10 wherein a portion of the sputtered target material 

is deposited onto the collimator forming an intermediate 
deposited layer such that periodically the intermediate 

deposited layer grows to a sufficient size to become 
electrically coupled to the target forming an extended 

target thereby. 
A physical vapor deposition device for depositing 
material onto a semiconductor wafer comprising: 


a. a chamber; 
b. vacuum means coupled for evacuating the chamber of 
air; 
c. a target of material mounted in the chamber to be 
deposited onto the wafer; 
d. means for sputtering the target material and 
imparting kinetic energy to particles of the material; 
e. a pedestal mounted in the chamber for holding the 
wafer; and 
f. a dielectric collimator mounted to the target and 
positioned between the target and the wafer, the 

collimator comprising a substantially planar plate of 
electrically nonconductive material having a finite 

thickness and a plurality of passages, the passages for 
allowing the particles of the material to pass 

therethrough in a direction toward the wafer. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 17 wherein target material traveling outside the 

prescribed range angles is deposited onto the collimator 
forming an intermediate depos
ited layer such that 
periodically the intermediate deposited layer grows 

sufficiently to become electrically coupled to the target 
forming an extended target thereby. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 17 wherein the target is formed of Aluminum. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 17 wherein the target is formed of an Aluminum alloy. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 17 wherein the target is formed of Titanium. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 17 wherein the target is formed of Tungsten. 
The physical vapor deposition device according to 
claim 17 wherein the target is formed of a composite of 

Titanium and Tungsten. 
A method of sputtering target material onto a 
semiconductor wafer comprising the steps of: 


a. sputtering the target material from the target 
through an electrically insulating collimator and 

depositing target material onto the wafer and the 
collimator; 
b. as the target material is deposited onto the 
collimator forming a buildup thereby, electrically 

coupling the buildup to the target; and 
c. sputtering the target material from the buildup. 
The method according to claim 24 wherein the step of 
electrically coupling the buildup to the target is 

accomplished by mounting the collimator to the target. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
