<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646397</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System for playing card games remotely
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F1312	A63F100	A63F118	A63F1312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F13	A63F1	A63F1	A63F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for playing card games remotely includes both a multimedia 
communication system that allows players located remotely from each other to see 

and hear each other, and a "card toaster" and associated image recognition system at 
each game site which receives and manages a physical deck of cards at every site at 

which the game is being played. The toaster has the capability of (1) reading cards, 
for example, by scanning them, (2) finding particular cards, and, if necessary, sorting 

them, and (3) distributing cards, such as by dealing them. The system enables the 
players to deal and then play a game, such as the game of bridge, in a manner which 

closely approximates the manner in which a game is played when all players are co-located. 
Thus, once play is started, the image recognition system reads the cards 

played on a table at any site, and transmits information regarding those cards to the 
other sites. At the other sites, the card toaster is signaled and arranged to distribute 

the same cards, face up on the table. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENZIAS ARNO ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENZIAS, ARNO ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the playing of card games by several 
persons not situated at the same physical location, and, in particular, to a system in 
which real playing cards are automatically managed at all sites at which the card 
game is played. While various real games have been modeled electronically, the 
electronic versions suffer the disadvantage that they lose the important physical 
characteristics that players are used to. For example, a person playing an electronic 
version of monopoly cannot move the game pieces around the board, receive and pay 
out money, roll the dice, or pick up and discard property deeds. Electronic card 
games do not let the players hold the hand that they are playing. Such electronic 
games can be played by players at remote sites, through the use of the 
telecommunications network, but the quality of the game playing experience is 
lessened by the inability to interact with real physical objects associated with the 
game.  
 One such electronic card game system is disclosed in US-A-4 760 527. 
The system disclosed incorporates a central processing unit and a plurality of 
individual player consoles each having a display device and an input device. The 
display device shows each player his own hand as well as any "up" cards of the other 
player. The input device enables each player to make wagers during the game. Another card game system is disclosed in US-A-4 093 215. The 
disclosed card game incorporates a center unit having a plurality of display devices 
for indicating the cards played by a plurality of individual players, and player hand 
units, each for indicating the identity of the cards in an individual's hand.  
 Various multimedia or telepresence systems, 
have been developed to let persons at remote locations communicate and interact in a 
realistic way. They can speak with each other, see each other, send handwriting in 
two directions, or share programs with each other. The people at each location can 
each have the same physical game apparatus available at their location, and attempt 
to physically manipulate the game objects as the game progress, as they would if 
they were in the same location. However, such an arrangement precludes secret 
distribution (dealing) of cards, without the intervention of a third (neutral) party. 
Also, input to such systems is typically limited to actions with either a keyboard or a 
"mouse", so that such systems do not solve the problem of lack of physical 
connection to the game. Certain other systems have
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for playing card games remotely, characterized by 

a multimedia communication system arranged so that players at a 
plurality of game sites can see and hear each other; and 
a card toaster (10) and an associated image recognition system (130) at 
each game site for receiving and managing a physical deck of cards at each of said 

game sites, 
wherein said image recognition system (130) is arranged to read cards 
and find particular cards at each said game site, and wherein said card toaster (10) at 

each said game site is arranged to distribute cards. 
The system defined in claim 1 wherein said card toaster includes 

means for reading cards by scanning them, 
means for finding particular cards, and 
means for distributing cards by dealing them. 
A method for playing card games remotely, characterized by 

shuffling and manually dealing cards at a local site, such that each 
player at said local site receives physical cards, and such that hands for other players 

who are not present at said local site are dealt "face down", 
at a remote site, placing the entire deck face down in a first card toaster 
arranged to manage a physical deck of cards including reading cards, finding 

particular cards, and distributing cards; 
upon completion of dealing at said first site, placing the hands dealt at 

said local site and intended for the players at said remote site in a second toaster, at 
said first site, whereby said cards are read by said second toaster; 
transmitting signals to said first toaster, and 
responsive to receipt of said signals in said first toaster, finding the 
corresponding cards, and distributing said cards, face down to said other players. 
The method defined in claim 3 further including the steps of 

reading the cards played on a table at any site, with an image recognition 
system; 
transmitting information regarding those cards to the other sites; 
at the other sites, signaling a card toaster at said site to distribute the 
same cards, face up on the table. 
The method defined in claim 4 further including the steps of  
 


placing the dummy hand in a game of bridge in one of said toasters, face 
up; 
reading and returning said cards from said toaster; 
sending signals to said toasters at all remote sites, indicative of said 
dummy hand; and 
in said toasters at remote sites, finding the corresponding cards and 
distributing them face up. 
A system for playing card games by players (120-123) located at 
individual sites, characterized by 


a multimedia communication system arranged so that players at each 
site can be heard and seen by players at other sites; and 
apparatus including an image recognition system (130) arranged to read 
cards disposed on the playing surface (110) being used by the players at each 

location, and to distribute, receive and manage a physical deck of cards at every site 
that the game is being played. 
The system defined in claim 6 wherein said apparatus includes 

means for reading cards by scanning them, 
means for finding particular cards, and 
means for distributing cards by dealing them. 
The system defined in claim 6 wherein said image recognition 
system includes a camera and means arranged differentiate particular cards that have 

been placed on said playing surface. 
The system defined in claim 6 wherein said apparatus further 
includes 


a card deposit slot into which can be placed one or more cards, either 
face up or face down, 
a card reader controller arranged to read the cards placed in said card 
deposit slot and to differentiate their value (suit and rank) and their orientation (face 

up or face down); and 
means responsive to said card reader controller for distributing cards 
face up or face down. 
The system defined in claim 9 wherein said apparatus includes  
 


a control panel having an on-off switch, a reset button and a telephone 
call initiation mechanism. 
The system defined in claim 9 wherein said apparatus includes a 
microprocessor for controlling the overall operation of said apparatus and 

communication circuitry for acting as an interface between said apparatus and for 
providing signaling to similar apparatus located at remote locations.  

 
A method for playing card games wherein players at a local site (120, 
121) compete with players at least one remote site (122,123), characterised by  

 

establishing video and audio communications between said local site 
and said remote site, 
interconnecting card handling and management apparatus at said local 
site and said remote site, said apparatus including the capability to read cards by 

scanning them, find particular cards, and distribute cards face up or face down; and 
sending signals between said card handling and management apparatus 
so that actions at one site are duplicated at the other site. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said method further includes the 
steps of: 


inserting cards into said card handling and management apparatus at one 
site and, responsive thereto, distributing cards from said card handling and 

management apparatus at said other site. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said method further includes the 
steps of 


sensing cards placed on the playing surface at said one site; and, 
responsive thereto, finding cards of the same value and distributing said cards from 

said card handling and management apparatus at said other site. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said method further includes 
sensing the orientation of said cards by determining if said cards are placed in said 

apparatus face up or face down, and responding with different actions based upon the 
orientation of said cards. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said method further includes  
 


reading the value of a card played; 
recognizing the orientation of said card; and 
communicating said value and orientation to a remote site. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
