<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611486</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RECHARGING SYSTEM FOR BATTERY POWERED ELETRIC VEHICLES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M800	H02J700	H01M1042	H01M800	H01M804	H01M1044	H01M1600	H01M804	B60L1118	B60L1118	H01M812	H01M812	H02J700	H01M1600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H02J	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	B60L	B60L	H01M	H01M	H02J	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M8	H02J7	H01M10	H01M8	H01M8	H01M10	H01M16	H01M8	B60L11	B60L11	H01M8	H01M8	H02J7	H01M16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A power supply system for powering an electric motor (16) in an electric vehicle includes a rechargeable battery (12) connected to the motor for driving the motor and a fuel cell assembly (10) connected to the battery for recharging the battery. The system further includes structure (18) for providing a supply of fuel to the fuel cell assembly which in turn converts the fuel to electricity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HSU MICHAEL S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HSU, MICHAEL S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU MICHAEL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU, MICHAEL S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to the field of vehicle
propulsion systems. In particular, the invention concerns
an on board recharging system for a battery powered
electric vehicle.As concerns surrounding traditional energy sources
persist, investigation into alternative forms of energy are
becoming increasingly important. In particular, environmental
and political concerns associated with combustion
based energy systems can not be ignored. In an
effort to reduce dependence on these types of energy
supplies and methods, therefore, the focus is likely to
be on devices capable of generating electricity by consuming
plentiful or renewable supplies of fuels without
requiring combustion.In addition to being utilized for the generation of
electricity, however, combustion based fuels are most
commonly utilized for driving motor vehicles. Indeed,
motor vehicles are among the chief consumers of combustion
based fuels and, therefore, they are among the
chief contributors to pollution problems associated with
such fuels. So, while alternative energy sources such
as nuclear and hydroelectric systems may be suitable
for large scale electric utilities, for obvious reasons they
do not present an ideal solution to the problems associated
with motor vehicle power requirements.Alternatives to internal combustion engine powered
motor vehicles have included various types of battery
powered electric vehicles. A problem associated with
most known battery powered vehicles, however, is the
constant need for recharging which requires taking the
vehicle out of service.Fuel cells, therefore, have been explored as a
means for powering electric vehicles and reducing the
constant need to recharge the vehicle from off-board
sources. Fuel cells electrochemically convert hydrocarbons
and hydrogen to electricity. No combustion reaction
is needed. Because they are compact in structure,
high in efficiency, and low in pollutants, fuel cells provide
several advantages for use in vehicle transportation. Accordingly,
they appear to be well suited for adaption for
motor vehicle applications.A drawback associated with known fuel cell systems,
however, is that they are not economically viable
for applications in which the power rating of the fuel cell
must meet propulsion demands. In motor vehicle applications,
for example, a fuel cell system designed to provide
sufficient power required by the vehicle for cruising,
let alone for peak surge, would be prohibitively expensive.
While various known systems have attempted to
exploit the advantages
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power supply system for powering an electric motor in an electric
vehicle, the system comprising

   a rechargeable battery (12) having an electrical power storage capacity
and electrical leads for connection to the motor to deliver electrical power to the

motor (16),

   a fuel cell system (10) connected to said battery (12) and arranged to
continuously supply power to recharge said battery (12) at a rate which is

related to the energy drain of said battery (12), and

   means (37,39) arranged to provide a supply of fuel and oxidizer to said
fuel cell system said fuel cell system being adapted for the conversion of said

fuel to electricity, and either:

a) wherein said fuel cell system (10') comprises at
least one fuel call head including;


a cooling jacket (20) defining a fuel cell chamber
(22),
a fuel cell stack (C) arranged within said fuel
cell chamber (22), and
a thermal control cylinder (26) movable within
said fuel cell chamber (22) between a deployed

position wherein said cylinder (26) presents a
high thermal resistance to said fuel cell stack

(C) and a stowed position wherein said cylinder
(26) presents a low thermal resistance to said

fuel cell stack (C); or
b) wherein said fuel call system comprises:

at least one fuel call assembly including
an interdigitated array of columnar fuel cell elements

(61) and columnar cooling elements
(67), and
a fuel cell stack disposed within each of said
fuel call elements (61), and including

means for variably establishing a flow of heat
transfer fluid through said cooling elements

(67) for presenting a variable thermal resistance
to said tuel cell elements (61).
A power supply system as claimed in claim 1 with features (a)
and including:


means for positioning said thermal control cylinder
(26).
A power supply system as claimed in claim
2, and:

   wherein said cooling jacket (20) further defines
a start-up preheating port (28) for delivering

heated gas to said fuel cell chamber (10').
A power supply system as set forth in claim 1 with features (a),

   wherein said at least one fuel cell head produces
electricity for recharging the battery (12). 
A power supply system as claimed in claim 1 with features (b),
and:

   wherein said cooling elements (67) are
adapted for accommodating flow of both cooling

fluid and heating fluid so as to enable said
cooling element (67) to selectively remove heat

from said fuel cell elements (61) depending up-on
the load or or provide heat said fuel cell elements

(61) depending upon the load. 
A power supply system as set forth in claim 1,
wherein said rechargeable battery (12) is utilized for

powering an electric motor (16) in an electric vehicle.
A power supply system as set forth in claim 1, further
comprising a voltage regulator (14) for regulating

the power supplied to said rechargeable battery
(12).
A power supply system as set forth in claim 1,
wherein said fuel cell system (10) is adapted for selectively

providing power directly to said electric motor
(16).
A power supply system as set forth in claim 1,
wherein said fuel cell system (10) is adapted for selectively

providing power off-board of the vehicle.
A power supply system as set forth in claim 1,
wherein said fuel cell system (10) comprises (a) a

stack (C) of solid oxide fuel cells of operating temperature
anging from room temperature to 2000°C:

or (b) a stack (C) of fuel cells selected from the
group consisting of molten carbonate luel cells.

phosphoric acid fuel cells. alkaline fuel cells, and
proton electrolyte membrane fuel cells.
A power supply system as set forth in claim 1,
wherein the rechargeable battery (12) is a high tempereture

battery operating between 50 to 500°C
A power supply system as set forth in claim 1, further
comprising (a) means forming a fuel preparation device

for converting fuel to electricity by thermally dissociating
of a carbonaceous fuel to a mixture containing

hydrogen and carbon monoxide; or (b)
means forming a luel preparation reformer for converting

fuel to electricity by employing chemical additive(s)
to modify a carbonaceous fuel to a mixture

containing hydrogen and carbon monoxide.
A system according to any preceding claim for providing
power off board of an electric vehicle, comprising

means for selectively providing excess power
off-board of said vehicle.
The system of claim 13 further comprising

a motor (16) connected to said rechargeable
battery (12), wherein said battery (12) charges

at a rate that corresponds to the energy drain
of said battery (12) as defined by said energy

demand of said motor (16), and
wherein said excess power is the difference between
said selected power storage capacity of

said battery (12) and said energy requiramants
of said vehicle during operation; and optionally

further including a voltage regulator (14) disposed
between said fuel cell system (10) and

said battery (12).
The system of claim 13 wherein said fuel cell system
(10) includes a stack (C) of alternating layers

of electrolyte plates (1) and conductor plates (2),
and optionally wherein said conductor plates (2)

have an in-plane groove network formed on at least
one side for distributing reactants.
The system of claim 13 wherein said fuel cell system
includes


a fuel cell assembly including a plurality of converter
elements (61) each having disposed

therein a fuel cell stack (C), and
a cooling assembly including a plurality of cooling
elements (67) interdigitated with said fuel

cell assembly, said cooling elements (67) being
adapted to carry a working medium, and optionally

further including regulation means for regulating
the flow of working medium through said

cooling elements (51).
The system of any one of claims 13, 15 and 17 further
comprising


a cooling jacket (20) having a chamber (22) for
housing said fuel cell system, and
a thermal control cylinder (26) associated with
said fuel cell system, and optionally comprising

positioning means for moving said thermal con-Irol
cylinder (26) between a deployed position,

where it is axially aligned with said fuel call system,
and a stowed position where it is axially

offset from said fuel cell system, and optionally
wherein said system further includes a thermal

sensor for controlling said positioning means.
A power supply system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the fuel cell
system (10) is arranged to operate as a primary power source for rechargi
ng
said battery (12).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
