<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642386</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STRIPPER-REACTOR FOR VOLATILE COBALT RECOVERY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D300	B01D300	C07C2900	C07C2916	C07C2976	C07C4500	C07C4550	C07C4578	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D3	B01D3	C07C29	C07C29	C07C29	C07C45	C07C45	C07C45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROUSSARD THOMAS RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NADLER KIRK CHRISTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PITRE JOSEPH KARREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROUSSARD, THOMAS, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NADLER, KIRK, CHRISTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PITRE, JOSEPH, KARREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STRIPPER-REACTOR FOR VOLATILE COBALT RECOVERYThe present invention relates generally to a method of removing dissolved cobalt compounds from the products of a cobalt catalyzed hydroformylation reaction wherein the reflux line is returned to the stripper-reactor at a location which is capable of forming a stripping zone and a reaction zone within the reactor chamber.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONHydroformylation reactions involve the preparation of oxygenated organic compoiαnds by the reaction of carbon monoxide and hydrogen (i.e., syn or synthesis gas) with carbon compounds containing olefinic unsaturation. The reaction is performed in the presence of a carbonylation catalyst and results in the formation of a compound, for example an aldehyde, which has one more carbon atom in its molecular structure than the starting olefinic feedstock. By way of example, higher alcohols may be produced in the so-called "oxo" process y hydroformylation of commercial Cg-C1 olefin fractions to an aldehyde-containing oxonation product, which on hydrogenation yields respective 7~C13 saturated alcohols. The crude product of the hydroformylation reaction will contain catalyst, aldehydes, alcohols, unreacted olefin feed, syn gas and by-products.Before further processing of the crude product is possible, it is necessary to remove the catalyst therefrom. One conventional method of removing cobalt values from such a crude product is to treat the product with an alkali or acid wash technique. See U.S. Patent 3,725,534 (Reisch), which issued on April 3, 1973. However, this approach uses expensive raw materials and 

incurs problems associated with finally removing essentially all traces of cobalt from the water wash streams before being discharged.Another conventional method involves the oxidation of the cobalt catalytic species followed by extraction as a salt in aqueous solution. See U.S. Patent No. 2,744,921 (Mertzweiller et al.), which issued on May 8, 1956.U.S. Patent No. 4,625,067 (Hanin) , which issued on November 25, 1986, discloses what is commonly referred to as the "Cobalt Flash" method. Cobalt Flash involves the contacting of the crude product with a stream of stripping gas to entrain volatile cobalt compounds. The contacting is performed in the presence of water and aqueous acid to dissolve those cobalt values not entrained in the gas under the conditions of temperature and pressure employed for the contacting, and the aqueous phase is subsequently separated from the organic hydroformylation reaction product.U.S. Patent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A stripper-reactor capable of removing volat
^
xe cobalt from a crude product of a cobalt-catalyzed hydroformylation reaction which comprises: a means for feeding said crude product to said stripper-reactor; a means for feeding a stripping gas to said stripper-reactor such that said crude product is contacted with said stripping gas thereby entraining volatile cobalt compounds within said stripping gas whereby the entrained volatile cobalt compounds are taken out overhead and organic hydroformylation reaction products and water containing water soluble cobaltous salts are taken out as bottoms; a means for withdrawing said : rcanic hydroformylation reaction products and said wa
~
er containing water soluble cobaltous salts from said stripper-reactor; a means for withdrawing the stripping gas with said entrained volatile cobalt compounds from said stripper-reactor and carrying it to an external refluxing means to produce a concentrated volatile cobalt product and a reflux product; and a means for recycling said reflux product to a location on said stripper-reactor which is capable of forming a stripping zone in the upper portion of said stripper-reactor and a reaction zone in the lower portion of said stripper-reactor.
2. The stripper-reactor according to claim 1 wherein said stripper-reactor comprises an upper stripper section, an intermediate stripper section and a lower stripper section, and wherein the reflux line is located at said intermediate stripper section. 


 3. The stripper-reactor according to claim 1 wherein said stripping zone is formed in about the top one-third of said stripper-reactor and said reaction zone is formed in about the bottom two-thirds of stripper- reactor.
4. The stripper-reactor according to claim 2 wherein said upper stripper section constitutes a stripping zone, and said intermediate stripper section and said lower stripper section constitute a reaction zone.
5. The stripper-reactor according to claim 1 further comprising a means capable of adding water and organic acid to said reflux product.
6. The stripper-reactor according to claim 1 further comprising a means capable of adding water and organic acid to said crude product. 

7. A method for removing cobalt values from the crude product of a cobalt-catalyzed hydroformylation reaction which comprises:
-r _-. a. contacting said crude product in a stKfepper-reactor with a stream of stripping gas in the presence of water and organic acid to entrain volatile cobalt compounds in said stripping gas, whereby said entrained volatile cobalt compounds are taken out overhead and organic hydroformylation reaction products and water containing water soluble cobaltous salts are taken out as bottoms; b. withdrawing said organic hydroformylation reaction products and said water containing water soluble cobaltous salts from said stripper-reactor; c. withdrawing the stripping gas with said entrained volatile cobalt compounds from said stripper- reactor; d. refluxing the withdrawn stripping gas with said entrained volatile cobalt compounds thereby producing a concentrated volatile cobalt product and a reflux product; e. withdrawing said concentrated volatile cobalt product from the reflux means; and f. recycling said reflux product to a location on said stripper-reactor which is capable of forming a stripping zone in the upper portion of said stripper-reactor and a reaction zone in the lower portion of said stripper-reactor.
8. The method according to claim 7 wherein said stripper-reactor comprises an upper stripper section, an intermediate stripper section and a lower stripper section, and wherein the reflux line is located at said intermediate stripper section. 


 9. The method according to claim 7 wherein said stripping zone is formed in about the top one-third of said stripper-reactor and said reaction zone is formed in about the bottom two-thirds of stripper-reactor.
10. The method according to claim 8 wherein said upper stripper section constitutes a stripping zone, and said intermediate stripper section and said lower stripper section constitute a reaction zone.
11. The method according to claim 7 further comprising the step of adding water and organic acid to said reflux product.
12. The method according to claim 7 further comprising the step of adding water and organic acid to said crude product.
13. The method according to claim 7, wherein said crude product in said stripper-reactor is contacted with a stream of stripping gas at a temperature of not greater than 100°C and at a pressure below 10.13 bars, said pressure being lower than the decomposition pressure of said cobalt compounds at said contacting temperature. 

14. A method for producing higher aldehydes and higher alcohols which comprises: hydroformylating an olefinic feedstock with synthesis gas in the presence of a cobalt-containing catalyst to form a crude product mixture containing higher aldehyde, higher alcohol, secondary products and dissolved cobalt catalysts; removing said cobalt catalysts from said crude product by the steps of: (a) contacting said crude product in a stripper-reactor with a stream of stripping gas in the presence of water and organic acid to entrain volatile cobalt compounds in said stripping gas, whereby the entrained volatile cobalt compounds are taken out overhead and organic hydroformylation reaction products and water containing water soluble cobaltous salts are taken out as bottoms; (b) withdrawing said organic hydroformylation reaction products and said water containing water soluble cobaltous salts fror said stripper-reactor; (c) withdrawing the stripping gas with said entrained volatile cobalt compounds from said stripper-reactor; (d) refluxing the withdrawn stripping gas with said entrained volatile cobalt compounds thereby producing a concentrated volatile cobalt product and a reflux product; (e) withdrawing said concentrated volatile cobalt product from the reflux means; and (f) recycling said reflux product to a location on said stripper-reactor which is capable of forming a stripping zone in the upper portion of said stripper-reactor and a reaction zone in the lower portion of said stripper- reactor; withdrawing said bottoms of said stripper- reactor and separating said organic hydroformylation reaction products from said water containing water soluble cobaltous salts, whereby said organic hydroformylation reaction products are recovered and sent 


for further downstream treatment such as distillation or hydrogenation; recovering said concentrated volatile cobalt product from step (d) and contacting said concentrated volatile cobalt product with said liquid olefinic feedstock to dissolve said cobalt compounds therein; and recycling said contacted liquid olefinic feedstock to said hydroformylation step.
15. The method according to claim 14 wherein said stripper-reactor comprises an upper stripper section, an intermediate stripper section and a lower stripper section, and wherein the reflux line is located at said intermediate stripper section.
16. The method according to claim 14 wherein said stripping zone is formed in about the top one-third of said stripper-reactor and said reaction zone is formed in about the bottom two-thirds of stripper-reactor.
17. The method according to claim 15 wherein said upper stripper section constitutes a stripping zone, and said intermediate stripper section and said lower stripper section constitute a reaction zone.
18. The method according to claim 14 further comprising the step of adding water and organic acid to said reflux product.
19. The method according to claim 14 further comprising the step of adding water and organic acid to said crude product. 


 20. The method according to claim 14, wherein said esrϊKϊe product in said stripper-reactor is contacted with a strea of stripping gas at a temperature of not greater than 100°C and at a pressure below 10.13 bars, said pressure being lower than the decomposition pressure of said cobalt compounds at said contacting temperature. 

21. A method for producing higher aldehydes and higher alcohols which comprises: hydroformylating an olefinic feedstock with synthesis gas in the presence of a cobalt-containing catalyst to form a crude product mixture containing higher aldehyde, higher alcohol, secondary products and dissolved cobalt catalysts; removing said cobalt catalysts from said crude product by the steps of: (a) contacting said crude product with a stream of oxygen-containing gas, an organic acid and water thereby producing a substantially cobalt-free organic hydroformylation reaction product and a water containing water soluble cobaltous salts; (b) separating said substantially cobalt-free crude product from said water containing water soluble cobaltous salts; (c) diverting said substantially cobalt-free organic hydroformylation reaction product for further downstream treatment such as distillation or hydrogenation; (d) converting said water containing water soluble cobaltous salts to a cobalt carbonyl product; (e) contacting said cobalt carbonyl product in a stripper-reactor with a stream of stripping gas in the presence of water and organic acid to entrain volatile cobalt compounds in said stripping gas and to produce as bottoms alcohol products containing cobaltous salts dissolved therein; (f) withdrawing said alcohol products from said stripper- reactor; (g) withdrawing the stripping gas with said entrained volatile cobalt compounds from said stripper- reactor; (h) refluxing the withdrawn stripping gas with said entrained volatile cobalt compounds thereby producing a concentrated volatile cobalt product and a reflux product; (i) withdrawing said concentrated volatile cobalt product from the reflux means; and (j) recycling said reflux product to a location on said stripper-reactor which is capable of forming a stripping zone in the upper portion of said stripper-reactor and a 


reaction zone in the lower portion of said stripper- reactor; separating said alcohol products from said water soluble cobaltous salts; recovering said concentrated volatile cobalt product from step (h) and contacting said concentrated volatile cobalt product with said liquid olefinic feedstock to dissolve said cobalt compounds therein; and recycling said contacted liquid olefinic feedstock to said hydroformylation step.
22. The method according to claim 21 wherein said stripper-reactor comprises an upper stripper ion, an intermediate stripper section and a lower sti. _er section, and wherein the reflux line is located at said intermediate stripper section.
23. The method according to claim 21 wherein said stripping zone is formed in about the top one-third of said stripper-reactor and said reaction zone is formed in about the bottom two-thirds of stripper-reactor.
24. The method according to claim 22 wherein said upper stripper section constitutes a stripping zone, and said intermediate stripper section and said lower stripper section constitute a reaction zone.
25. The method according to claim 21 further comprising the step of adding water and organic acid to said reflux product.
26. The method according to claim 21 further comprising the step of adding water and organic acid to said crude product. 


 27. The method according to claim 21, wherein said crude product in said stripper-reactor is contacted with a stream of stripping gas at a temperature of not greater than 100°C and at a pressure below 10.13 bars, said pressure being lower than the decomposition pressure of said cobalt compounds at said contacting temperature. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
