<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649506</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TANK VENTING CONTROL ASSEMBLY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K1736	F02M3700	F16K2400	F16K17196	F16K2404	F16K1718	B65D5100	B60K15035	B60K1503	F02M3700	B65D5100	B65D2502	B65D2502	F16K1736	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F02M	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	B65D	B60K	B60K	F02M	B65D	B65D	B65D	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K17	F02M37	F16K24	F16K17	F16K24	F16K17	B65D51	B60K15	B60K15	F02M37	B65D51	B65D25	B65D25	F16K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus (10) comprises housing (12) mounted in aperture (18) in a fuel tank and valve (48) movable in housing (12) between a position blocking flow of fuel vapor from the fuel tank through the housing and a venting position allowing flow of fuel vapor from the fuel tank. A mechanism is provided for using fuel vapor from the fuel tank to move valve (48) against spring (52) towards its venting position from its blocking position. The mechanism includes venting control chamber (62) and a conduit communicating fuel vapor from the tank to chamber (62). The conduit includes first portion (58) and second portion (78) movable relative to the first portion to define an intermediate portion. Flexible partition (16) extending between valve (48) and first portion (58) provides a barrier to prevent fuel vapor venting through housing (12) from entering the intermediate portion.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANT MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANT MANUFACTURING INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELL LOWELL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROETKER JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELL, LOWELL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROETKER, JOHN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to tank venting control 
assemblies and particularly to apparatus for controlling 
the flow of fuel vapor through an aperture in a fuel tank. 
More particularly, the present invention relates to a tank 
venting control assembly for selectively discharging fuel 
vapor pressure in response to the development of high tank 
pressure conditions and for introducing air into the fuel 
tank in response to the development of vacuum conditions 
therein. Fuel vapor can be created in the fuel tank by 
temperature differences between the fuel tank and liquid 
fuel from a fuel pump, as well as by sloshing and agitation 
of the fuel tank during normal vehicle operation. The 
pressure buildup resulting from the creation of new fuel 
vapors must be properly relieved. For this reason, many 
vehicle fuel systems are equipped with tank venting control 
assemblies capable of discharging a relatively large amount 
of fuel vapor in response to the development of high 
pressure conditions in the fuel tank. It has long been desirable to maximize the sensitivity 
that can be achieved with tank venting control assemblies 
while at the same time minimizing manufacturing costs and 
assembly difficulties. It would be desirable to provide a 
tank venting control assembly sensitive enough to begin 
discharging fuel vapor from the fuel tank in response to 
pressure differentials as low as about 1-2 inches of water. 
In fact, a valve design meeting these requirements would 
closely simulate an open orifice. In any event, meeting 
the sensitivity requirement calls for a valve which can 
develop a relatively high actuation force in response to 
relatively low pressure differentials, long the focus of 
engineering efforts in this area.  
 Some tank venting control assemblies have relied upon 
the use of a small amount of fuel vapor from the fuel tank 
to provide a pressure signal to actuate the venting 
assembly, allowing discharge of large volumes of fuel vapor 
from the fuel tank. Such systems are disclosed, for 
example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,953,583 and 5,065,782. 
However, it has proven difficult to design such systems to 
achieve the desired sensitivity without compromising 
manufacturability. In addition to providing for adequate fuel vapor 
discharge from the fuel tank during high tank pressure 
conditions, well-designed tank pressure control assemblies 
must be capable of responding to the reduction of pressure 
in the fuel tank to below a predetermined level. These 
tank vacuum conditions are usually
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus (10) for controlling venting of fuel 
vapor through an aperture (18) in a fuel tank, the apparatus 

comprising: 

a housing (12) mounted in the aperture and formed to 
include an outlet (36), the housing defining a vent path for 

fuel vapor between the fuel tank and the outlet; 
a valve assembly (14) mounted in the housing and including 
a valve (48) and a valve actuator (50), the valve being movable 

between a blocking position blocking flow of fuel vapor 
between the fuel tank and the outlet along the vent path 

and a venting position allowing flow of fuel vapor between 
the fuel tank and the outlet along the vent path, the valve 

actuator including a venting control chamber (62) receiving fuel 
vapor from the fuel tank to apply pressure to the valve 

actuator so that the valve actuator urges the valve toward 
its venting position; 
a conduit communicating fuel vapor from the fuel tank 
to the venting control chamber; characterised in that said conduit includes a 

first portion (86) and a second portion (58, 78) movable relative to the 
first portion to define an intermediate portion (22), and in that 
a flexible partition (16) extends between the valve and 
the first portion to provide a barrier to prevent fuel 

vapor venting through the vent path from entering the 
intermediate portion. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the valve 
includes an inverted cup (54) defining an interior region, the 

first portion of the conduit extends into the interior 
region to define an annular space between the first portion 

and the cup, and the flexible partition extends across the 
annular space. 
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the 
inverted cup includes an interior cylindrical ring defining  

 
a seat and the flexible partition includes a peripheral 

edge (96) seating against the seat. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the 
flexible partition is formed to include a central opening 

and a depending tubular portion communicating with the 
central opening and sized to fit in sealing relationship 

over the first portion of the conduit so that fuel vapor 
exiting the first portion passes through the central 

opening. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the valve 
defines an interior region and includes a cylindrical rib (100) 

extending into the interior region to support at least a 
portion of the flexible partition to prevent the flexible 

partition from disengaging from the valve by the force of 
fuel vapor in the vent path. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the valve 
includes an inverted cup defining an interior region, the 

spring (96) extends into the interior region, and flexible 
partition is nested between the spring and the inverted cup 

in the interior region. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the valve 
actuator (50) is mounted in the housing for movement between a 

static position allowing the valve (48) to occupy its blocking 

position and an actuating position urging the valve toward 
its venting position, and the apparatus further comprises 

means for slidably coupling the valve actuator to the valve 
to maintain the first and second portions of the conduit in 

fluid communication so that the valve moves from its 
blocking position toward its venting position without 

moving the valve actuator from its static position to its 
actuating position and without breaking fluid communication 

between the first and the second portions when the fuel 
vapor pressure in the fuel tank is reduced to below a 

predetermined level.  
 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the first 
portion of the conduit is formed on the valve actuator and 

the second portion is formed on the valve and is slidable 
within the first portion to allow the valve to move 

relative to the valve actuator when the pressure in the 
fuel tank is reduced to below a predetermined level. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first 
portion includes a seat and the second portion terminates 

in a face sealingly engaging the seat when the fuel vapor 
pressure in the fuel tank is at least a normal level. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the valve 
actuator includes a diaphragm, the first portion extends 

through the diaphragm, and the second portion is formed on 
the valve. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the valve 
includes a valve member, a seal-establishing surface on the 

valve member, the coupling means includes a first stem 
coupled to the valve member, and the first stem is formed 

to include the first flow channel. 
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the valve 
actuator includes a diaphragm covering a fuel vapor-receiving 

chamber formed in the housing, the coupling means 
further includes a second stem coupled to the diaphragm, 

and the second stem is formed to include the second flow 
channel. 
The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the first 
and second stems engage one another in telescoping relation 

to maintain the first and second flow channels in fluid 
communication during relative movement of the first and 

second stems. 
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the valve 
member includes an inverted cup defining an interior region 

communicating with the vehicle fuel tank and the first stem 
is coupled to the inverted cup to place the inlet opening  

 
of the first flow channel in fluid communication with the 

interior region of the inverted cup. 
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the 
housing is formed to include an upper chamber and a lower 

chamber, the upper chamber contains the valve, the valve 
actuator, and the coupling means, the housing further 

includes a fixed partition separating the upper and lower 
chambers and providing a conduit communicating fuel vapor 

from the fuel tank to the interior region of the inverted 
cup, a rollover valve movable in the lower chamber to open 

and close the conduit, and a flexible partition extending 
between the inverted cup and the fixed partition to provide 

a barrier to prevent fuel vapor venting through the vent 
path from entering the interior region of the inverted cup, 

the flexible partition being deformable to maintain the 
barrier when the valve moves in the housing toward its 

venting position. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second 
portion includes an upstanding sleeve (58) movable with the 

valve and a depending sleeve (78) movable with the valve 
actuator and slidably engaging the upstanding sleeve so 

that the valve can move away from the valve actuator toward 
its venting position in response to reduction of pressure 

in the fuel tank below a predetermined level. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the valve 
actuator includes a diaphragm (64), the first portion extends 

through the diaphragm, and the second portion is formed on 
the valve. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
