<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636107</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND USE OF AN APPARATUS FOR RECOVERING SULPHUR FROM A GAS STREAM CONTAINING HYDROGEN SULPHIDE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5386	B01D5350	C01B1700	B01D5348	B01D5352	B01D5350	C01B1704	B01D5386	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C01B	B01D	B01D	B01D	C01B	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	C01B17	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	C01B17	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for removing sulphur from a gas stream containing at least one sulphur compound, comprising cumbusting said gas stream with an oxygen containing gas in an incinerator (10) to convert the or each sulphur compound to at least one sulphur oxide. A gas stream is then withdrawn from the incinerator, which contains the or each sulphur oxide. The sulphur oxide containing gas stream is then directed to an absorber (12) having an absorbent bed adapted to remove sulphur compounds. The absorbent bed is then contacted with a hydrogen and/or hydrocarbon containing stream to regenerate said absorbent bed by reducing the sulphur compounds absorbed in said absorbent bed to hydrogen sulphide and/or sulphur dioxide, and thereby forming off gas stream containing hydrogen sulphide and/or sulphur dioxide. Finally, sulphur is recovered from said hydrogen sulphide and/or sulphur dioxide bearing stream. The sulphur can be recovered by a Claus sulphur recovery process (16). The hydrogen sulphide containing gas stream can be ammonia acid gas stream, thereby causing N2 to be formed in the incinerator. The N2 is not absorbed in the absorbent bed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXONMOBIL OIL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXONMOBIL OIL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCHANAN JOHN SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IYENGAR JAGANNATHAN NAMBI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SODOMIN JOSEPH FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERN DAVID LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEITMAN GERALD JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCHANAN, JOHN, SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IYENGAR, JAGANNATHAN, NAMBI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SODOMIN, JOSEPH, FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERN, DAVID, LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEITMAN, GERALD, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process and
apparatus for recovering sulphur from an ammonia acid gas stream
containing hydrogen sulphide.
The process also works on other sulphur-containing gas
streams, e.g., light, saturated hydrocarbons, hydrogen
or carbon monoxide gas streams containing H2S or
H2S and sulphur oxides.Refinery streams are typically desulphurized by the
Claus process wherein elemental sulphur is produced by
reacting hydrogen sulphide and sulphur dioxide in the
presence of a catalyst. The Claus system uses a
combustion chamber which, at 950 °C to 1,350°C (1742°F-2462°F),
converts 50 to 70% of sulphur contained in the
feed gas into elemental sulphur. Sulphur is condensed
by cooling the reaction gas to a temperature below the
dew point of sulphur after which the remaining gas is
heated and further reacted over a catalyst. Normally,
the gas passes through at least two such Claus catalyst
stages.The different stages of the process may be
represented by the following equations:
H2S + 3/2 O2 → SO2 + H2O2H2S + SO2 → 3S + 2H2OThe overall reaction is:
3H2S + 3O2 → 3S + 3H2OThe final Claus exhaust gas still contains small
amounts of H2S, SO2, CS2, carbon oxysulphide, CO, and
elemental sulphur in the form of a vapour or mist. The
exhaust gas generally is subjected to post-combustion to
convert substantially everything to SO2 and then further
purified by Claus after-treatments.Sulphur emitted as sulphur oxides ("SOx") into the 
atmosphere with the exhaust gas may amount to 2-6% of
the sulphur contained in the feed gas in the form of
H2S. In view of air pollution and the loss of sulphur
involved, further purification is imperative.Claus aftertreatments have been developed. These
are carried out after the last Claus stage or after the
post-combustion. These aftertreatments are, however,
complicated and expensive or inadequate.One aftertreatment, carried out before post-combustion,
seeks to achieve by catalytic conversion as
complete a reaction as possible between H2S and SO2.
The reaction temperature is lowered to below the
condensation point of sulphur, whereby the reaction
equilibrium corresponding to equation II is shifted to
form sulphur. A distinction is made between dry
processes using alternating reactors in which the
catalyst is intermittently charged with sulphur and
discharged, and processes where H2S and SO2 react in a
high-boiling catalyst-containing liquid to form
elemental sulphur which is drawn off continuously as a
liquid product.Unfortunately, in these processes any deviation
from
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of removing sulphur from an ammonia acid gas stream containing at
least one sulphur compound which at least one sulphur compound comprises hydrogen

sulphide wherein the ammonia acid gas stream is fed to an incinerator, which method
comprises:


(a) combusting the ammonia acid gas stream with an oxygen containing gas
in the incinerator at a temperature in the range 1500°F to 2500°F (816°C

to 1371°C) to convert the ammonia to nitrogen and the or each sulphur
compound to at least one sulphur oxide;
(b) withdrawing from the incinerator a gas stream containing nitrogen and
the or each sulphur oxide, and directing the sulphur oxide containing gas

stream to an absorber having an absorbent bed adapted to remove sulphur
compounds so that the gas stream fed to the absorbent bed leaves the bed

in the form of a nitrogen bearing stream;
(c) contacting the absorbent bed with a hydrogen and/or hydrocarbon
containing stream to regenerate the absorbent bed by reducing the

sulphur compounds absorbed in the absorbent bed to hydrogen sulphide
and/or sulphur dioxide, and thereby forming an off gas stream containing

hydrogen sulphide and/or sulphur dioxide; and
(d) recovering sulphur from the hydrogen sulphide and/or sulphur dioxide
bearing stream.
A method according to claim 1, wherein said absorbent bed is provided in at least
two fixed-bed reactors, and sulphur oxide containing gas stream from the incinerator is

fed to a first one of said reactors until the bed therein is spent with absorbed sulphur
compounds; thereafter said sulphur oxide containing gas stream is fed to a second one

of said reactors; and said hydrogen and/or hydrocarbon bearing gas stream is fed to said
first one of said reactors for form said off gas stream and thus regenerate said first one

of said reactors.
A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said sulphur oxide containing gas
stream and said hydrogen and/or hydrocarbon bearing gas stream are alternately fed to

each one of said reactors, whereby each bed is first spent with said absorbed 
sulphur compounds, and then regenerated by said hydrogen and/or

hydrocarbon bearing stream to form said off gas stream.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said absorbent bed is
in a fluidized bed system comprising a reactor, a regenerator,

a conduit for feeding spent absorbent from the reactor to the
regenerator, and another conduit for passing regenerated

absorbent from the regenerator to the reactor; and wherein said
sulphur oxide containing gas stream from the incinerator is fed

to the reactor to absorb said sulphur oxide on the absorbent, and
said hydrogen and/or hydrocarbon bearing stream is fed to the

regenerator to reduce said absorbed sulphur compounds to said off
gas stream.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said absorbent bed
comprises a fixed bed solid absorbent.
A method according to any preceding claim 1 to 4, wherein said absorbent bed
comprises a granulated moving bed solid absorbent.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said absorbent comprises a
metal oxide, or a mixture of metal oxides, impregnated with a

promoter.
A method according to claim 7, wherein the metal oxide comprises
alumina and the promoter comprises a rare earth.
A method according to claim 7, wherein said promoter comprises CeO
2

and/or Pt.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the solid absorbent comprises a
Mg/Al spinel.
A method according to claim 10, wherein the solid absorbent
comprises a magnesium-aluminum-containing spinel impregnated with vanadium

and cerium. 
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the solid absorbent
comprises a magnesium aluminate impregnated with an oxygen promoter.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said off gas stream
is directed to a Claus sulphur recovery process where the sulphur

compounds are converted to elemental sulphur.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said absorber is
operated at a temperature of substantially 900°F (482°C) to

substantially 1,400°F (760°C).
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the absorbent is
reconstituted in the presence of water into a form which is

active for further absorption of sulphur oxides.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said absorbent
increases in weight from substantially 10 to substantially 60 wt.

% due to absorbed sulphur oxides.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein greater than 70 vol.
% of sulphur in the off gas stream is in the form of sulphur

dioxide.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the gas stream
containing sulphur compounds which is fed to the incinerator

contains carbon monoxide, and greater than substantially 90 vol.
% of said carbon monoxide is converted to carbon dioxide.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said oxygen
containing stream contains sufficient oxygen such that when it

is introduced into the incinerator an oxygen content of
substantially 0.10 to substantially 10 vol. % is maintained in

gases issuing from the incinerator.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the pressure in said
absorber is substantially 0.1 to substantially 10 atmospheres (10 

to 1000kPa).
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said absorber is
operated at a temperature of from substantially 900°F (482°C) to

substantially 1,400°F (760°C), a pressure of substantially 1 to
substantially 2 atmospheres (100 to 200 kPa), and a GHSV (gas

hourly space velocity) of substantially 500 to substantially
50,000.
A method according to claim 21, wherein the absorber is
operated at a GHSV of substantially 2,000 to substantially 5,000,

a pressure of substantially 1 to substantially 2 atmospheres (100
to 200 kPa), and a temperature of substantially 1,100°F (593°C)

to substantially 1,350°F (732°C).
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said absorber is
operated at a temperature of substantially 1,100°F (593°C) to

substantially 1,300°F (704°C), a GHSV of substantially 2,000 to
substantially 5,000, a pressure of substantially 0.5 to

substantially 3 atmospheres (50 to 300 kPa), and oxygen in an
amount of about 2 to about 5 vol % in the presence of a

ceria/alumina absorbent. 
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said ammonia acid gas
stream is combusted with fuel gas.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said ammonia acid gas
stream is stoichiometrically combusted.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein an oxygen containing
gas is added to said nitrogen and sulphur oxide containing gas

stream withdrawn from the incinerator.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said ammonia acid gas
stream is combusted with excess air or oxygen.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said nitrogen and
sulphur oxide containing gas stream contacting said solid

absorbent bed has an oxygen content of from substantially 0.10
vol% to substantially 10 vol%.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein oxygen content is
from substantially 2 vol% to substantially 4 vol%.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said absorbent bed
while absorbing the sulphur oxides thereon is operated at a GHSV

of from substantially 500 to substantially 20,000, a pressure of
from substantially 0.1 atm to substantially 10 atm (10 to

1000kPa), and a temperature of from substantially 900°F (482°C)
to substantially 1400°F (760°C).
A method according to claim 30, wherein said GHSV is from
substantially 3,000 to substantially 5,000, said temperature is

from about 1,100°F (593°C) to substantially 1,300°F (704°C), and
said pressure is from substantially 1.5 to substantially 3.0 atm 

(150 to 300 kPa).
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said absorbent bed while
being regenerated is operated at a temperature of from substantially 900°F (482°C) to

substantially 1,400°F (760°C), at a pressure of from substantially 0.10 to substantially 10
atm (10 to 1000kPa), and a GHSV of substantially 10 to substantially 1,000.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said temperature is from
about 1,100°F (593°C) to about 1,300°F (704°C), said pressure is from substantially 0.5

atm to substantially 3.0 atm (50 to 300 kPa), and said GHSV is from substantially 100
to substantially 150.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said nitrogen and sulphur
oxide containing str
eam withdrawn from the incinerator is passed through a heat
exchanger and to a condenser for reducing the temperature of said enriched stream to

from substantially 250°F (121°C) to substantially 300°F (149°C) to condense elemental
sulphur out of said withdrawn stream as a liquid sulphur stream, thereafter

said withdrawn stream being looped back through said heat exchanger to be reheated to
from substantially 900°F (482°C) to substantially 1,400°F (760°C) for contacting said

solid absorbent bed.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said ammonia acid gas
stream is combusted in an oxidizing atmosphere.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said nitrogen bearing stream
from said absorber is fed to an incinerator or is vented.
Use of apparatus for removing sulphur from an ammonia acid gas stream by a
method according to any preceding claim, the apparatus comprising;


(a) an incinerator for combusting the ammonia acid gas stream with an
oxygen containing gas at a temperature in the range 1500°F-2500°F

(816°C to 1371°C) to convert the ammonia to nitrogen and the or each
sulphur compound to at least one sulphur oxide;
(b) means for contacting a sulphur oxide and nitrogen containing gas 
withdrawn from the incinerator with an absorbent bed

adapted to remove sulphur compounds and not to absorb the nitrogen formed in the incineration from a sulphur
oxide and nitrogen containing gas stream withdrawn from the

incinerator;
(c) means for regenerating said absorbent bed by contacting
it with a hydrogen and/or hydrocarbon containing

stream, whereby the sulphur compounds absorbed in said
absorbent bed are reduced to hydrogen sulphide and/or

sulphur dioxide, thereby forming an off gas stream
containing hydrogen sulphide and/or sulphur dioxide;

and
(d) means to recovering sulphur from said hydrogen sulphide
and/or sulphur dioxide bearing stream.
Use according to claim 37, wherein said means for
recovering sulphur comprises a Claus sulphur recovery apparatus.
Use according to claim 37 or 38, wherein said combusting
means operates at a temperature of from substantially 1500°F

(816°C) to substantially 2500°F (1371°C).
Use according to any of claims 37 to 39, further comprising means for
supplying fuel gas to said combusting means.
Use according to any of claims 37 to 40, wherein the contacting means
and the regenerating means comprises at least two fixed-bed

reactors, each bed being formed of said absorbent; and its apparatus further
comprising switching means (1) for feeding said sulphur oxide

containing gas stream withdrawn from the incinerator to a first
one of said reactors until the bed therein is spent with absorbed 

sulphur compounds, and thereafter (2) for feeding said sulphur
oxide containing gas stream to a second one of said reactors

while feeding said hydrogen and/or hydrocarbon bearing gas stream
to said first one of said reactors to form said off gas stream

and thus regenerate said first one of said reactors.
Use according to any of claims 37 to 41, wherein said contacting
means comprises a reactor, and said absorbent bed regeneration

means comprises a regenerator; and said apparatus further comprising means for
continuously feeding a fluidized bed of spent absorbent from the

reactor to the regenerator, and for passing a fluidized bed of
regenerated absorbent from the regenerator to the reactor;

whereby said sulphur oxide containing gas stream from the
incinerator is fed to said absorbent in the reactor for absorbing

said sulphur oxide, and means for feeding said hydrogen and/or
hydrocarbon bearing stream to the regenerator to reduce absorbed

sulphur compounds to hydrogen sulphide and/or sulphur dioxide,
and thus form said off gas stream.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
