<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610556</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Localized surface glazing of ceramic articles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B4150	C04B4145	B28B1104	C04B4186	H05K300	C04B4186	H05K300	H05K103	B28B1104	H05K103	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	B28B	C04B	H05K	C04B	H05K	H05K	B28B	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B41	C04B41	B28B11	C04B41	H05K3	C04B41	H05K3	H05K1	B28B11	H05K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surface of a ceramic article, such as a 
glazed surface on a whiteware article, is treated with 

radiant energy such as infrared light from a laser to 
provide a localized remelting of the material at the 

surface in a fusing step. After the fusing step, the 
surface is treated with further radiant energy, 

desirably over a larger surface encompassing the fused 
zone and also desirably at a lower power density so as 

to limit the rate of cooling of the fusion zone and the 
immediately surrounding regions, thereby preventing 

thermal stress cracking. The fusion zone and 
surrounding regions desirably are preheated by 

additional radiant energy immediately prior to the 
fusing step so as to further limit thermal stresses 

during the fusing step. The process can be employed, 
among many other uses, for repair of glaze defects and 

for decoration. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV RUTGERS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURNICK DANIEL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURNICK, DANIEL E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of
ceramics, and more particularly relates to techniques
for localized glazing of ceramic articles. Techniques
according to the present invention are particularly
useful in repair of glaze defects.Many ceramic articles of commerce are provided
with smooth, glassy ceramic finishes commonly referred
to as glazes. Merely by way of example, ceramic
plumbing supplies such as bath tubs, sinks and toilets,
commonly referred to in the ceramic trade as "white
ware," have glaze over an underlying ceramic structure.
The glaze on such articles is important for both
aesthetic and functional reasons. Defects in the glaze,
such as fissures or cracks can mar the appearance of the
article and can also create sanitary difficulties,
corrosion, and other functional problems in use. Thus,
substantial defects in the glaze render the article
unsaleable and require that the article either be
scrapped or else reworked to repair the glaze.Common rework processes involve application of
a powdered material or frit having composition similar
to the glaze layer to be repaired, followed by refiring
of the entire article. In essence, the refiring process
involves repetition of the firing process originally
used to form the glaze layer, i.e. heating of the entire
article to a temperature above the reflow temperature of
the glaze layer, followed by slow, progressive cooling
of the article. The cost of such a refiring step is a
major portion of the cost of the original article. The
ceramics industry therefore has long sought a more
practical repair process.Various attempts have been made to repair
glaze defects with non-ceramic materials, such as paints
or epoxies. These methods avoid the refiring step, but
pose other difficulties with respect to chemical
compatibility, color matching of the repair with the
original glaze and durability of the repair. Brockway 
et al, U.S. Patent 4,338,114 and Heineken et al, U.S.
Patent 4,731,254 both disclose use of a laser beam to
melt a localized region of a glass article surrounding a
crack, scratch or other defect, thereby causing local
melting of the glass and repairing the article. Both of
these patents explicitly require that the entire article
be preheated to about the softening temperature before
exposure to the laser beam. This mitigates the thermal
stresses occurring during the localized heating by the
laser and the subsequent cooling of the locally-heated
region. The need for such preheating is a very
substantial drawback. Thus, the preheating and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of locally glazing a ceramic
article by fusing ceramic

material at a glazing location by applying fusing
radiant energy to a fusion zone (20) on a surface of

said article encompassing said location; characterized by then
annealing the surface of said article in said fusion

zone by applying annealing radiant energy to an
annealing zone (22) on said surface encompassing said

fusion zone to thereby retard cooling of said fusion
zone and limit thermal stress occurring in said article

adjacent said fusion zone during such cooling to less
than the breaking stress of ceramic material in said

article at said surface.
A method as claimed in claim 1 further
characterized by the step of preheating said fusion zone

by applying preheating radiant energy to a preheating
zone (22) on said surface encompassing said fusion zone

prior to said fusing step so as to preheat said fusion
zone and thereby limit thermal stress in said article

adjacent said fusion zone during said fusing step.
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2
further characterized in that said article is maintained

at a bulk temperature below its annealing temperature
during said steps.
A method as claimed in claim 3 further
characterized in that said bulk temperature of said

article is about room temperature during said steps.
A method as claimed in claim 3 further
characterized in that said fusing radiant energy

provides a fusing power density and characterized in
that said step of applying said annealing radiant energy

includes the step of applying said annealing radiant
energy so as to provide an annealing power density lower

than said fusing power density.
A method as claimed in claim 5 further
characterized in that said step of applying said

preheating radiant energy includes the step of applying 
said preheating radiant energy so as to provide a

preheating power density lower than said fusing power
density.
A method as claimed in claim 3 further
further characterized in that said preheating zone (22)

is larger than said fusion zone and said annealing zone
(22) is larger than said fusion zone.
A method as claimed in claim 3 further
characterized in that said preheating, fusing and

annealing steps of applying fusing radiant energy,
applying annealing radiant energy and applying

preheating radiant energy all include the step of
directing a beam of radiant energy to impinge on said

surface of said article at said location so that said
beam at said location has a preheating beam diameter (d)

during at least part of said preheating step, then has a
fusing beam diameter smaller than said preheating

diameter during said fusing step , and then has an
annealing beam diameter larger than said fusing beam

diameter during at least part of said annealing step .
A method as claimed in claim 8 further
characterized in that said fusing beam diameter is

about 10 mm or less.
A method as claimed in claim 9 further
characterized in that said annealing beam diameter is

between about 1 and about 15 mm, and said preheating
beam diameter is between about 1 and about 15 mm.
A method as claimed in claim 3 further
characterized in that said fusing radiant energy has a

power density of at least about 200 W/cm
2
.
A method as claimed in claim 3 further
characterized by the step of progressively decreasing

the power of said beam of radiant energy during said
annealing step .
A method as claimed in claim 11 further
characterized in that said annealing step has a duration

of between about 0.5 s and 10 s, said fusion step has a
duration of between about 0.1 and 1.0 s and said 

preheating step has a duration of between about 0.25 s
and 2.5 s.
A method as claimed in claim 6 further
characterized in that said preheating step includes the

step of progressively increasing the power density of
said beam of radiant energy.
A method as claimed in claim 1 further
characterized in that said fusing and annealing steps

include the steps of providing at least one beam of
radiant energy including said fusing radiant energy at a

fusing power density in a fusing region (121) and
including said annealing radiant energy at an annealing

power density less than said fusing power density in an
annealing region (127) adjacent to said fusing region

but offset therefrom in a first direction, and moving
said surface of said article in said first direction

relative to said at least one beam so that portions of
said surface pass through said fusing region and then

through said annealing region.
A method as claimed in claim 15 further
characterized in that said at least one beam further

includes preheating radiant energy at a preheating power
density less than said fusing power density in a

preheating region (129) adjacent to said fusing region
but offset therefrom in a second direction opposite from

said first direction, whereby each said portion of said
surface will pass through said preheating region before

passing through said fusing region.
A method as claimed in claim 16 further
characterized in that said preheating and fusing regions

are contiguous and further characterized in that said
fusing and annealing regions are also contiguous.
A method as claimed in claim 17, further
characterized in that said preheating, fusing and

annealing regions are all portions of a single beam
having a substantially Gaussian distribution of energy

density in said first and second directions and said
moving step is conducted so that each portion of said 

surface passes through said beam during a transit time
of between about 0.5 and about 10 seconds.
A method as claimed in claim 18 further
characterized in that said beam has a 1/e beam diameter

of between about 1 and about 10 mm and a power of
about 5 to about 25 W.
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 15
further characterized in that said article has a

vitreous material at said surface and said vitreous
material is melted in said fusion step.
A method as claimed in claim 21 further
characterized by the step of pr
oviding a frit (34) on
said surface at said defect so that said frit is melted

during said fusing step and merges with said vitreous
material.
A method as claimed in claim 21 further
characterized in that said vitreous material is a glaze

and said glazing location includes a region of said
surface having a defect in said glaze, said melted frit

and glaze cooperatively forming a solid phase covering
said defect after said annealing step.
A method as claimed in claim 20 further
characterized in that said vitreous material is a glaze

and said glazing location includes a region of said
surface having a defect in said glaze, said melted glaze

forming a solid phase covering said defect after said
annealing step.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
