<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0956406</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANTISEISMIC SPIRAL STIRRUPS FOR REINFORCEMENT OF LOAD BEARING STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04H902	E04C506	E04C502	E04H902	E04C501	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04H	E04C	E04C	E04H	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04H9	E04C5	E04C5	E04H9	E04C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention refers to stirrups for reinforcement of load bearing structural elements, and in particular for reinforcing concrete load bearing building elements, such as columns, shear walls, beams, slabs, footings, lintels, piles. The invention refers also to a method for reinforcing structural elements as well as to these elements. A stirrup for reinforcing load bearing elements according to the invention consists of a plurality of consecutive windings (7a, 7b) disposed along the longitudinal direction of the stirrup, so that the stirrup has a spiral form, whereby the windings of the stirrup form a plurality of discrete cages (5a, 5b) to house the main reinforcement bars (1a, 1b) of the load bearing element. The stirrups may be used for the reinforcement of load bearing elements of various cross sections such as orthogonal, T-shaped, L-shaped, Z-shaped etc.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONSTANTINIDIS APOSTOLOS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONSTANTINIDIS, APOSTOLOS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONSTANTINIDIS APOSTOLOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONSTANTINIDIS, APOSTOLOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention refers to stirrups for reinforcement of load bearing
structural elements, and in particular for reinforcing concrete load bearing
building elements, such as columns, shear walls, beams, slabs, footings,
lintels, piles. The invention refers also to a method for reinforcing structural
elements as well as to these elements.Stirrups and ties constitute one of the most critical factors. of quality and
antiseismic strength of buildings. Essential factors for the liability of stirrups
are the proper hooks at their ends and the bend diameter at corners. The
hooks at the end of the conventional stirrups are absolutely necessary for
ensuring the proper functioning of the stirrup or tie in case of a very strong
earthquake, when the spalling of the concrete occurs and when the hooks is
the only remaining anchorage mechanism.The following stirrups are used in building industry today:
i) Individual stirrups 8, which may be of various forms, such as described in
figure 1. For individual stirrups it is essential to be fastened in a plurality of
points to the principal reinforcement rods 1 of the reinforcement as well as to
the woodform. Thus their assembly is complicated and has a high cost. The
individual stirrups 8 comprise hooks 6, for anchoring the stirrups to the load-bearing
element of the structure.ii) "Mantles", i.e. stirrup cages made of prefabricate welded meshes (see
figure 2). These are made of standardised welded meshes in suitable
machines. The partial replacement of common stirrups by the "mantles" or
"stirrup cages" was the first attempt to transform the painful task of reinforcing
the load bearing elements of the structure into an industrial process. However
the manufacture of the mantles is done in two phases, and only part of the
process may become an industrial one: The first phase is an industrial 
process aiming in the production of plane meshes, such as shown in figure 3,
from steel rolls using huge machines. During the second phase the meshes
are almost manually assembled to form stirrup cages. The production of
'mantles" have the following limitations: a) it is difficult to manufacture
compound stirrup shapes by analysing them in simple rectangular shapes, b)
it is impossible to increase or decrease the spacing of the stirrups resulting in
superfluous weight of the reinforcement, c) it is expensive to transport them
due to the size of the cages, d) it is difficult to manufacture double hooks,
which is a necessity in antiseismic structures, and e) there is a danger of
buckli
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Stirrup for reinforcing load bearing elements consisting of a plurality of
consecutive windings 
(7a, 7b)
 disposed along the longitudinal direction of
the stirrup and having a continuous cross section, so that the stirrup has a

spiral form, characterized in that the windings of the stirrup form a plurality
of discrete cages 
(5a, 5b)
 to house the main reinforcement rods 
(1a, 1b)
 of
the load bearing element. 
Stirrup 
according to claim 1,
 whereby the stirrup comprises n
cylindrically- or approximately cylindrically-shaped cages, wherein is an

integer greater or equal to 2, and whereby the projections of each n-th
winding provided along a portion at least of the length of the stirrup, on a

transverse plane coincide.
Stirrup 
according to claim 1 or 2,
 whereby the stirrup comprises two
and only two cages to house the main reinforcement rods of the load

bearing element.
Stirrup 
according to claim 1 or 2,
 whereby the stirrup comprises at least
four cages 
(5a, 5b, 5c, 5d)
 to house the main reinforcement rods of the
load bearing element.
Stirrup 
according to any of the preceding claims,
 whereby the
projection of the stirrup on a transverse plane coincides to the cross

section of a load bearing element comprising at least one web and at
least one flange.
Stirrup 
according to any of the claims 1, 2, 3, 5
 whereby the shape of
the windings on a transverse plane is orthogonal and adjacent windings

are so disposed, that the long dimension of each winding is normal to the
long dimension of its adjacent windings, so that the projection of the

stirrup on the transverse plane is T like. 
Stirrup 
according to claim 1 or 2,
 whereby the stirrup comprises
an outer cage which houses all other cages of the stirrup.
Stirrup 
according to any of the preceding claims,
 whereby the stirrup
is made of a continuous extruded steel rod.
Stirrup 
according to any of the claims 1 to 7,
 whereby the stirrups are
made from composite material.
Stirrup 
according to any of preceding claims,
 whereby the windings
ar
e disposed on substantially transverse planes and consecutive
windings are joined by substantially longitudinal elements.
Stirrup 
according to any of preceding claims,
 whereby the distance
between consecutive windings is uniform.
Stirrup 
according to any of the claims 1 to 10,
 whereby the distance
between consecutive windings is variable.
Stirrup 
according to any of preceding claims,
 whereby the stirrup
comprises two spiral elements (
3', 3"
) disposed longitudinally and joined
at their ends, so that the one of the two elements extends towards one

side of the said joined ends and the other of the two elements extends
towards the other side of the said joined ends.
Stirrup 
according to claim 13,
 whereby the two spiral elements is
welded together.
Stirrup 
according to claim 13 or 14,
 whereby the first and/or the second
of said elements are stirrups 
according to any of the claims 1 to 12
.
A prefabricated load bearing element comprising a stirrup 
in
accordance with any of the claims 1 to 15.
Method of reinforcing of shear wall elements using the stirrups of 
any of
the claims 1 to 15
, whereby the reinforcement of the wall is effected by
joining at least two of the said stirrups with reinforcement rods (
4
).
Method of reinforcing a load bearing element whereby the principal rod
elements of the reinforcement are housed within the windings of a spiral

shaped stirrup with a plurality of consecutive windings having a continuous
cross section, characterized in that the stirrup comprises a plurality of

cages 
(5a, 5b),
 with each cage 
(5a, 5b)
 tightening a different set of
principal rod elements.
A load bearing element whereby the principal bar elements of the
reinforcement are housed within the windings of a spiral shaped stirrup with

a plurality of consecutive windings having a continuous cross section,
characterized in that the stirrup comprises a plurality of cages 
(5a, 5b),
 with
each cage 
(5a, 5b)
 tightening a different set of principal rod elements.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
