<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621577</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A mounting support for a poster.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09F100	G09F112	G09F1500	G09F1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09F1	G09F1	G09F15	G09F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mounting support (10) for a poster, which includes rectangular support means (12) 
in the form of a solid panel (18) which provides a support face (20) on which a 

poster can be supported. The mounting support (10) further includes holding means 
(14) in the form of two pairs of flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) which extend from 

peripheral edges of the support means (12). The flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) can 
be folded between an inoperative folded-open configuration and an operative folded-over 

configuration in which an edge region of a poster can be clamped between the 
flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) and the support means. Each flap-like member (26.1, 

26.2) has a number of clipping elements (28) and the support means (12) has a 
number of complementary clipping apertures (30) in which the clipping elements (28) 

can be releasably engaged, for holding the flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) in their 
operative configuration. The mounting support (10) also includes attachment means 

(16) for attaching the support means (12) to a support. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOTES HENDRIK PETRUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOTES, HENDRIK PETRUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOTES HENDRIK PETRUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOTES, HENDRIK PETRUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
THISINVENTION relates to a mounting support for a poster. Posters of the type used to display newspaper headlines, details of election 
candidates/parties, important events, advertising, and the like, are known. Such 
posters are typically displayed to members of the public by being attached to 
the windows or walls of buildings by means of suitable adhesives, adhesive 
tape, or the like, or are typically mounted on a cardboard backing sheet, which 
is in turn mounted on various suitable supports, e.g. lamp poles or tree trunks, 
by means of pieces of string, or the like. A problem encountered with 
displaying posters of the above type in the manner described above is that such 
posters are often damaged by the elements and are susceptible to being easily 
tampered with or vandalized. Further, the attachment or mounting of such 
posters to suitable supports is often not secure and the mode of attachment 
often causes damage to such posters. A further problem encountered is that 
the manner in which posters are displayed and the damage which occurs to 
such posters, result in the posters having an untidy appearance.  It is an object of the present invention to provide a mounting support for a 
poster of the above type, which will ameliorate some of the problems 
encountered with the display of posters in the manner as described 
hereinabove . Any reference hereinafter to a poster must be interpreted to mean a poster of 
the type used to display newspaper headlines, details of election 
candidates/parties, important events, advertising, and the like, as described 
hereinabove. According to the invention there is provided a mounting support for a poster, 
which comprises
 
   a substantially planar support means which provides a support face 
against which a poster can be located;
 
   holding means located along the periphery of the support means for 
releasably holding a poster in position against the support face of the support 
means; and
 
   attachment means for attaching the support means to a support therefor. The support means may have a substantially rectangular configuration with the 
shape and size of the support means being substantially complementary to the 
shape and size of posters which are to be supported thereby.  The support means may define locating formations around its periphery to locate 
a poster with respect to the support face of the support means in a position in 
which the holding means can hold the poster against the support face. The support means may comprise a solid panel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A mounting support (10) for a poster, which mounting support is 
characterized in that it comprises a substantially planar support means 

(12) which provides a support face (20) against which a poster can be 
located, holding means (14) located along the periphery of the support 

means (12) for releasably holding a poster in position against the support 
face (20) of the support means (12) and attachment means (16) for 

attaching the support means (12) to a support therefor. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the 
support means (12) has a substantially rectangular configuration with the 

shape and size of the support means (12) being substantially 
complementary to the shape and size of posters which are to be 

supported thereby. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterized in 
that the support means (12) defines locating formations around its 

periphery to locate a poster with respect to the support face (20) of the 
support means (12) in a position in which the holding means (14) can 

hold the poster against the support face (20). 
A mounting support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the support means (12) comprises a solid panel (18) 

having a number of integral structural strengthening formations (22). 
A mounting support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the holding means (14) includes flap-like members 

(26.1, 26.2) extending from peripheral edges of the support means (12) 
in an arrangement which permits the flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) to 

be folded onto the support means (12) in a configuration in which they 
can clamp an edge region of a poster, which is operatively supported 

against the support face (20) of the support means (12), between the 
flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) and the support means (12), to frictionally 

hold the poster in position. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 5, characterized in that the flap-like 
members (26.1, 26.2) have a number of engagement formations in 

the form of clipping elements (28) and the support means (12) has a 
number of complementary engagement formations in the form of clipping 

apertures (30), which clipping elements (28) and clipping apertures (30) 
are releasably engageable when the flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) are 

displaced into their folded-over operative configuration, for holding the 
flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) in this operative configuration. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 6, characterized in that the flap-like 
members (26.1, 26.2) define rib formations (32) at free ends thereof 

which operatively fit into complementary grooves (34) in the support 
means (12) when the flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) are in their operative 

configuration, to enhance clamping of edge regions of a poster. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 7, characterized in that the flap-like 
members (26.1, 26.2) are integral with the support means (12), the 

 
flap-like members (26.1, 26.2) extending integrally from the peripheral 

edges of the support means (1 2) and being operatively foldable about the 
peripheral edges of the support means (12). 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 8, characterized in that each 
flap-like member (26.1, 26.2), in its operative configuration, defines an 

outer face portion (36) to which printed matter can be applied. 
A mounting support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the mounting support includes at least one 

connecting member (40) for permitting two or more similar mounting 
supports to be connected to one another to form an extended support 

face on which one or more posters can be supported. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 10, characterized in that the 
connecting member (40) has a number of engagement formations in the 

form of clipping formations (42), the support means (12) defining a 
number of complementary engagement formations in the form of clipping 

holes (45) which permit releasable engagement of the clipping formations 
(42) of the connecting member (40) with respect to the clipping holes 

(45) in the support means of two or more adjacent mounting supports 
which are to be connected with respect to one another. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 10 or Claim 11, characterized in 
that the connecting member (40) has a line of weakness (50) which 

divides the connecting member (40) into two connecting portions, 
permitting releasable engagement of each connecting portion with the 

 
support means of one of two mounting supports which are to be 

connected to one another, the line of weakness (50) permitting the two 
connecting portions to be disposed at an angle with respect to one 

another, thereby permitting adjacent mounting supports connected to one 
another via a particular connecting member to be disposed at an angle to 

one another. 
A mounting support as claimed in any one of Claims 10 to 12, 
characterized in that the connecting means (40) is releasably engageable 

with the support means (12) of a particular mounting support at a corner 
region thereof, thereby permitting the connection of other similar 

mounting supports thereto to permit the extension of the support face of 
said mounting support in at least two directions from its corner region. 
A mounting support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the support means (12) and the holding means (14) 

is of a moulded synthetic plastic material. 
A mounting support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the attachment means (16) is provided on the 

support means (12) for the attachment of the support means (12) to a 
support. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 15, characterized in that the 
attachment means (16) comprises at least one pair of spaced apart 

attachment apertures (52) which are defined in the support means (12) 
to permit an elongated fastening means to operatively pass through the 

 
attachment apertures (12) to permit the support means (12) to be tied on 

a support post. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 16, characterized in that the 
attachment means (16) includes a tie-wrap having a configuration which 

permits it to cooperate with the attachment apertures (52) of the support 
means (12) for tying the support means (12) to a support post. 
A mounting support as claimed in any one of Claims 15 to 17, 
characterized in that the attachment means (16) includes a number of 

holes (54) defined in the support means (12) at suitable locations thereof, 
to permit fastening devices in the form of nails or the like, to be located 

therein for securing the support means (12) to a wall-like support. 
A mounting support as claimed in any one of Claims 15 to 18, 
characterized in that the attachment means (16) includes locating 

formations (56) in which attachment elements, selected from a group 
comprising suction cups, double sided adhesive tape, magnets, or the 

like, can operatively be located for securing the support means to a 
support. 
A mounting support as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the attachment means (16) includes a separate 

attachment means which can cooperate with the support means to 
permit it to be attached to a support. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 20, characterized in that the 
attachment means (16) includes one or more separate elongated 

fastening means which can co-operate with formations provided therefor 
on the support means for tying the support means (12) to a support post. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 20, characterized in that the 
attachment means includes at least one separate mounting bracket 

having engagement formations which can operatively engage with 
complementary formations on the support means to permit the support 

means to be secured to a support. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 22, characterized in that the 
attachment means includes a separate support rod which can operatively 

cooperate with the mounting bracket to provide a support for the support 
means. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 23, characterized in that the 
support rod and the mounting bracket have complementary configurations 

which permit the support means to be rotatably supported, via the 
mounting bracket, on the support rod. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 24, characterized in that the 
mounting bracket has a configuration which permits two mounting 

supports to be mounted in a back to back arrangement, the mounting 
bracket having additional engagement formations for engaging 

complementary engagement formations of each of the support means of 
the two mounting supports to be mounted in a back-to-back arrangement. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 25, characterized in that the 
mounting bracket permits the mounting supports to be rotatably mounted 

on a suitable support rod. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 26, characterized in that the 
support rod has an end defining a spike to permit the support rod to be 

inserted into the ground. 
A mounting support as claimed in Claim 26, characterized in that the 
support rod has a stand formation for permitting the support rod to be 

operatively supported on a ground surface. 
A mounting support for a poster substantially as described in the 
specification with reference to and as illustrated in the accompanying 

diagrammatic drawings. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
