<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621646</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Colour display/detector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S542	H01S5183	H01L3300	H01L27146	H01L3300	H01L2715	H01S502	H01L2715	H01S500	H01S500	H01S534	H01S5323	H01S5343	H01S540	H01L27146	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01S	H01L	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S5	H01S5	H01L33	H01L27	H01L33	H01L27	H01S5	H01L27	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A colour semiconductor display device in which 
optoelectronic elements capable of emitting/absorbing 

light of different predetermined wavelengths in the 
visible wavelength range (e.g. red, green, blue) are 

formed on a common substrate and comprise similar 
alloy compositions which are lattice matched to the 

substrate material. The alloy is preferably a III-V 

nitride alloy lattice matched to Si or GaP substrate 
material. 
In the disclosed embodiment, a colour display 
device comprises a silicon or GaP substrate with an 

array of pixels, each being formed by a group of three 
(red, green, blue) colour sub-pixels provided on the 

substrate. The pixels are formed of InAlNSb alloy, 
with a quantum well regions of InNSb and barrier 

regions of AlNSb, or are formed of AlGaAsSbN alloy, 
with quantum well regions of GaAsN and barrier regions 

of AlNSb. Tuning of the wavelength emission/ 
absorbtion characteristics of the sub-pixels is by 

doping of the quantum well material with aluminium 
and/or by quantum confinement. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to colour displays or
detectors and to optoelectronic devices suitable for
use therein. In particular it relates to
semiconductor optoelectronic elements and to the
manufacture thereof, and to a semiconductor colour
display/detector comprising a plurality of such
optoelectronic elements. The invention also concerns
an alloy material for use in the fabrication of such
optoelectronic elements, colour displays and
detectors.Known colour displays can be split into two main
types: i) vacuum or valve displays such as the cathode
ray tube or gas discharge lamp and ii) thin, flat
screen displays such as liquid crystal or
electroluminescent displays. The foregoing display
types have a number of drawbacks associated with their
manufacture and use. Whilst the manufacture and mass
production of CRTs and gas discharge lamps is a well
established and reliable technology, these display
devices are bulky and relatively fragile.
Additionally, CRTs, gas discharge tubes and the like
consume large amounts of power and are therefore
unsuitable for portable or mobile applications. The
aforementioned flat displays overcome some of these
problems in that they are generally more robust, 
consume less power and are less bulky than CRTs and
the like. They are also susceptible to mass
production since similar techniques as are used in
integrated circuit production can be applied to their
manufacture. However, their manufacture is somewhat
more complicated than IC production, since the
optically active material has to be sandwiched between
two substrates. In addition, the substrates support
the electrodes necessary to stimulate the optically
active material and their associated signal lines,
thereby resulting in a complex multilayer structure.
Drawbacks of known flat displays are that they have
poor colour uniformity, low resolution, viewing angle
and brightness, and are slow to respond to updated
information in comparison to CRTs and the like.Known colour detectors can be split up into three
main types:
(i) vacuum or valve detectors such as
Orthicon or Vidicon (TM) tubes;(ii) thin, flat detectors such as photo
diodes optimised or doped to detect a particular
wavelength, or band of wavelengths, of light; and(iii) thin, flat detectors such as Charge
Coupled Devices (CCD) utilising colour filters.The foregoing colour detectors have a number of
drawbacks associated with their manufacture and use, 
particularly when used as part of full colour
detectors.In the case of Vidicon (TM) tubes, a full colour
detector
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optoelectronic element (13a, b or c)
formed on a substrate (7) and comprising a III-V

nitride alloy, whereby said III-V
nitride alloy is substantially lattice matched to the

substrate, and is adapted to emit/absorb light at a
desired wavelength in the range corresponding to

visible light, said III-V nitride alloy comprising one
of In
p
Al
1-p
N
1-r
Sb
r
, 0 ≤p≤1, 0
<
r
<
1, and Al
a
Ga
1-a
 N
b
 (As
c
 Sb
1-c
)
1-b
, 0≤a≤1, 0
<
b
<
1, 0≤c≤1.
An optoelectronic element as claimed in
claim 1, wherein said substrate (7) comprises one of

silicon and Gallium Phosphide.
An optoelectronic element as claimed in
claim 1, said element having an active region (5a)

comprising InNSb.
An optoelectronic element as claimed in
claim 3, wherein said active region (5) comprises InN
1-
y
Sb
y
 where y lies in the range 0.32≤y≤0.38.
An optoelectronic element as claimed in
claim 3 or claim 4, wherein said active region (5)

comprises an active quantum well (5a) of InNSb, and
barrier regions (5b, 5b) of AlNSb.
An optoelectronic element as claimed in
claim 5, wherein said barrier regions comprise AlN
1-x
Sb
x

where x lies in the range 0.57≤x≤0.63. 
An optoelectronic element as claimed in
claim 1, said element having an active region (5)

comprising an active quantum well region (5a) of GaAsN
and barrier regions (5b, 5b) of AlNSb.
An optoelectronic element as claimed in
claim 7, said active quantum well region comprising

GaAs
1-z
N
z
 where z lies in the range 0.17≤z≤0.23, and
said barrier regions comprising AlN
1-x
Sb
x
 where x lies
in the range 0.57≤x≤0.63.
An optoelectronic element as claimed in any
of claims 1 to 8, wherein an emission/absorption

wavelength of said element is selected by doping said
active region with Al and/or quantum confining said

active region.
An optoelectronic element according to any
of claims 1 to 9, for emitting or absorbing blue

light.
A colour semiconductor display/detector
having a plurality of optoelectronic elements (13a,

13b, 13c) as claimed in any preceding claim, said
plurality including a first element and a second

element, said first and second elements being formed
on and substantially lattice matched to a common said

substrate (7), and being capable of emitting/absorbing
light having respective different predetermined

wavelengths. 
A colour semiconductor display/detector as
claimed in claim 11, wherein the optoelectronic

elements comprise quantum confinement type structures
selected from the group consisting of lasers, LEDs,

wires and dots.
A colour semiconductor display/detector as
claimed in claim 11 or claim 12, wherein said first

and second optoelectronic elements each form a part of
a group (13) of such elements, and are each adapted to

emit/absorb light at a wavelength of a respective
primary colour.
A colour semiconductor display/detector as
claimed in claim 13, wherein the group comprises three

said optoelectronic elements (13a, 13b, 13c), each of
which is adapted to emit/absorb light of a different

respective primary colour, namely red, green or blue.
A colour semiconductor display/detector as
claimed in claim 13 or claim 14, comprising an array

(14) of said groups of individual optoelectronic
elements.
A colour semiconductor display/detector as
claimed in claim 15, wherein said array is adapted for

use as a display for a TV, a computer or the like, or
for use as an image detector.
A colour semiconductor display/detector as
claimed in any of claims 13 to 16, wherein light 

emitted from each individual optoelectronic element
has a wavelength corresponding to that defined by the

CIE chromaticity diagram for the respective primary
colour emitted from that element.
A colour semiconductor display/detector as
claimed in any of claims 11 to 17, including

processing, control and drive circuitry (VLSI) for
said display/detector, said circuitry being located on

said common substrate (7).
A colour semiconductor display/detector as
claimed in claim 18, said processing circuitry being

adapted to process TV signals and drive said display/
detector in accordance therewith, thereby forming a

substantially planar, thin and compact TV
receiver/transmitter and display/camera.
A colour semiconductor display/detector as
claimed in claim 11, wherein one of said first and

second optoelectronic elements is a blue light
emission/absorption element.
A colour semiconductor display device
comprising a single substrate (7) and an array (14) of

electroluminescent light emitting elements (13a, 13b,
13c) formed on and substantially lattice matched to

the crystal structure of said single substrate, the
elements of said array each being in the form of an

optoelectronic element as claimed in any of claims 1 
to 10, and said array being adapted for full colour

display and comprising red, green and blue said
electroluminescent elements formed of substantially

similar said III-V nitride alloy compositions tuned
for their respective emission wavelengths by quantum

confinement incorporation and/or by doping variation.
A full colour semiconductor display device
as claimed in claim 21, wherein said

electroluminescent elements each comprise a vertical
cavity laser (5, 6) of double heterojunction

configuration, said laser including a quantum
confinement structure (5) having an active region (5a)

between two barrier regions (5b, 5b), and first and
second reflectors (6a, 6b) on opposite sides of said

quantum confinement structure (5) , said vertical
cavity laser being oriented with said reflectors

spaced apart in a direction perpendicular to the plane
of the substrate (7) so that light is emitted

transverse to said plane.
A full colour semiconductor display device
as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22, including an array

of microlenses (40) superposed over the substrate with
each individual microlens formed and positioned so as

to reduce the solid angle over which light emitted
from a corresponding electroluminescent element (13) is

projected from the device.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
