<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624806</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spacecraft docking sensor system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1789	B64G164	B64G164	H01Q1514	G01S1787	G01S1788	G01S1706	H01Q1514	G01S1700	G01S1742	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	B64G	B64G	H01Q	G01S	G01S	G01S	H01Q	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S17	B64G1	B64G1	H01Q15	G01S17	G01S17	G01S17	H01Q15	G01S17	G01S17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus, and a corresponding method for its use, for producing an 
enhanced image of a reflective target on a remote object, such as a space vehicle with 

which docking maneuvers are being carried out. Radiation at two separate wavelengths 
illuminates the target, and reflected radiation is separated by wavelength to produce two 

images simultaneously. Because the target is responsive to only one of the wavelengths, 
but reflections from other objects are received for both wavelengths, subtraction of the 

two images substantially removes unwanted image components resulting from reflections 
from objects other than the target. Producing the two images simultaneously, using two 

cameras, ensures that the unwanted image components are substantially the same in the 
two images, and can therefore be removed by subtraction during image processing. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIMM GARY EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIMM, GARY EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to optical 
position detection systems and, more particularly, to 
autonomous docking systems for spacecraft. Docking one 
space vehicle with another is typically accomplished 
with the help of a navigational computer, which controls 
thrusters on one of the vehicles, which in turn control 
the position and attitude of the vehicle in three-dimensional 
space. Although docking might be 
accomplished by controlling both vehicles, for purposes 
of explanation it will be assumed that one of the 
vehicles is not controlled in position or attitude 
during the docking maneuver. It is further assumed that 
this vehicle has been stabilized in attitude such that 
it is not spinning and is in a docking attitude with 
respect to the other approaching vehicle. The 
navigational computer in the approaching vehicle depends 
for its operation on having accurate input data defining 
the position and relative orientation of the other 
vehicle. The invention is concerned with a new approach 
to providing these data. Optical sensor systems typically use a 
reflective "target" affixed to the vehicle being 
approached. To distinguish the target from other nearby 
reflective objects, the target is responsive only to 
light of a selected wavelength, for example blue light. 
Unfortunately, reflections from the other portions of 
the spacecraft also occur when a blue light source is 
used to direct the target. Elimination of "clutter" in 
the resulting images is effected by alternately 
illuminating the vehicle with blue light and light of 
another wavelength, such as red light. The red light is 
not reflected by the target but, in general, the other 
reflective portions of the vehicle reflect both red and 
blue light equally well. The image obtained from the 
red light is then subtracted from the image obtained 
from the blue light, thereby eliminating the clutter, at 
least in theory.  
 The principal difficulty with this approach is 
that the clutter components of the two images are 
generally not identical, because the non-target 
components vary with the relative positions of the 
vehicles. Consequently, even after differencing of the 
two images, multiple dots remain and some type of image 
processing algorithm is needed to help distinguish the 
target dot from the other dots in the image. The shape 
of the target is usually of no help in this regard until 
the distance between the vehicles is quite small. More specifically, EP 431,299 discloses a two 
wavelength imaging system, producing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for forming an image of a reflective 
target (22) responsive to only one of two wavelengths of 

electromagnetic radiation generated by said apparatus, 
comprising: 


means for generating the electromagnetic 
radiation having two distinct wavelengths (12,14); 
means for transmitting the radiation (16, 18, 
20), to illuminate the reflective target, of which the 

exact position and orientation are initially unknown; 
filter means (28,34) for separating received 
reflected radiation into two wavelength bands containing 

the two respective transmitted wavelengths; 
image processing means (46), including means 
for subtracting two electronic images, one from the 

other, to yield an enhanced image of the reflective 
target, whereby unwanted reflections from other objects 

tend to be cancelled in the means for subtraction; 
characterised in that the apparatus further comprises 

camera means for converting the received and filtered 
radiation simultaneously into two separate electronic 

images corresponding to received images in the two 
wavelength bands. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 1, wherein:
 
   the means for generating electromagnetic 

radiation (12,14) include two semiconductor laser diodes 
for generating light at different wavelengths. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 2, wherein the 
camera means include two separate cameras, (32,40). 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 3, wherein the 
filter means includes: a beam splitter (26), for 

dividing received radiation into two separate received 
beams;  

 

two optical filters (28,34) for passing light 
only in wavelength bands corresponding to the respective 

wavelengths of the laser diodes; and 
optical means (30,38) for focusing the two 
separate filtered received beams into the respective 

cameras. 
A space vehicle including apparatus as defined 
in any of Claims 1-4 for use in docking with a further 

space vehicle provided with the reflective target. 
A method for forming an image of a reflective 
target, comprising the steps of: 


generating electromagnetic radiation having 
two distinct wavelengths; 
transmitting the radiation, to illuminate a 
reflective target responsive to only one of the 

wavelengths, and of which the exact position and 
orientation are initially unknown; 
separating received reflected radiation into 
two wavelength bands containing the two respective 

transmitted wavelengths; 
converting the received and filtered radiation 
simultaneously into two separate electronic images 

corresponding to received images in the two wavelength 
bands; and 
subtracting the two electronic images, one 
from the other, to yield an enhanced image of the 

reflective target, whereby unwanted reflections from 
other objects tend to be cancelled by the subtracting 

step. 
A method as defined in Claim 6, wherein:
 
   the step of generating electromagnetic 

radiation includes generating light in two semiconductor 
laser diodes operating at two different wavelengths.  

 
A method as defined in Claim 7, wherein:
 
   the converting step is performed in two 

separate cameras. 
A method as defined in Claim 8 wherein the 
step of separating the received radiation into two 

beams includes: 

dividing received radiation into two separate 
received beams in a beam splitter; 
filtering the two received beams from the 
splitter to produce two filtered beams containing light 

only in wavelength bands corresponding to the respective 
wavelengths of the laser diodes; and 
focusing the two separate filtered received 
beams into two cameras used in the step of converting 

the beams to electronic images. 
A method as defined in any of Claims 6-9 for 
sensing space vehicle position and orientation while 

docking a first space vehicle with a second space 
vehicle, the method being carried out by the first 

space vehicle, the reflective target being situated on 
the second space vehicle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
