<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615407</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FISHING LURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K8500	A01K8500	A01K8514	A01K8516	A01K9100	A01K9106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K85	A01K85	A01K85	A01K85	A01K91	A01K91	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A lure comprising a body element (1), a moving element (2; 15) and a fly (5) or hook. The moving element, e.g. a paddle wheel (2), is arranged to the body element (1) so that it is rotating when the lure is drawn through water. The fly is attached to a moving element at a distance from the lure body, said element being more suitably guided and supported by the line (6) of the lure. The moving element (2) of the lure makes, via the wire (3), the fly (5) move back and forth, thus creating an additional luring effect for the fish. The guiding effect in the line (6) is created, e.g., so that a loop (4) through which the line (6) is running is formed in the wire (3) near the fly (5).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAT FISH LTD OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OY PAT. FISH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRVONEN HEIKKI SAKARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRVONEN, HEIKKI, SAKARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Fishing LureThe present invention relates to a fishing lure com¬ prising a body element, a moving element supported by a bearing to the body element and made movable when the lure is moved in relation to ambient water, and a line connected directly or via an intermediate element to the body element.Lures of this art are well known in the prior art, as disclosed e.g. in the patents US-3,449,852 and SE-39440.In the US patent, the moving part is a paddle wheel creating a sound effect to lure the fish. In the SE patent, the body is formed by subsequent parts supported to each other by bearings and wherein the paddle wheels cause the rotation of the body when the lure is drawn through water.It is the object of the present invention to further develop this well-known technology and, more precisely, in such lures that are provided with flies or similar extras. The following description relates mainly to flies but any additional lure positioned within any distance from the body element of the lure would fall within the scope of the invention.Lures according to this known art are usually made so that the fly is connected by a line to a point with a short distance from the body of the lure. The fish will hit either the lure itself of the fly, this also provided with a hook. 

 The object of the present invention is to make this well-known combination even more appealing to the fish. As stated above, it is well-known to provide, for instance, a spoon-bait with moving parts the movements of which are created by drawing the bait through ambient water, the idea of this inventions is based on the fact that a fly is combined with this kind of moving part in such a way that the fly will move together with it. More suitably, the arrangement is made so that the fly will remain guided when connected with the line or via a stiff intermediate element in the lure.The characteristics will become evident in the attached claim 1.The moving element may possibly be a wheel equipped by at least one paddle whereby the flow of water has been taken care of so that the wheel will be caused to move and its circumference or the paddle is connected e.g. by a thin and stiff wire to the fly.The guidance of the fly can be arranged so that the line will run through an eye formed in the stiff wire or in the fly itself.The fly attachment can be arranged so that it is fitted by its eye to another eye provided in the stiff wire (thus replaceable) or it is fitted directly to that line. Further, the fly attachment can be secured with another
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims 1. A lure comprising a body element (1) , a moving element (2; 15), supported by a bearing to the body element, made to move when the lure is moved in relation to ambient water, and a line (6) attached directly or via an intermediate element to the body, c h a r a c - t e r i z e d by that a fly (5) , a worm-hook or any similar lure at a distance from the body element (1) , is connected by movement-transferring means, as e.g. by a stiff wire (3) to said moving element (2; 15) so that the movement of the latter element also makes the lure (5) move.
2. A lure according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r ¬ i z e by that the movement-transferring means is a steelwire (3) .
3. A lure according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r ¬ i z e d by that the movement of the fly (5) is guided along the line (6) so that the stiff wire (3) or the fly (5) itself includes a loop through which the line runs.
4. A lure according to any of the clamis 1 to 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by that the stopping of the fly is operated by an intermediate element (7) , big enough not to pass through the loop in the stiff wire (3) or in the fly (5) .
5. A lure according to claim 2, one used especially as a vertical lure, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by that there a freely projecting stiff intermediate element (7) is attached to the body element (1) and in the loop of which the stiff wire (3) connected to the fly (5) is moving. 


 6. A lure according to claim 5, c h a r a c t e r ¬ i z e d by that in the stiff wire (3) there is a stopper (9) big enough not to pass through the loop (10) in the line (6) or in the intermediate element (7) and preventing the pull from concentrating to the moving element (2; 15) when the fly is drawn.
7. A lure according to any of the above claims, c h a ¬ r a c t e r i z e d by that the moving element (2; 15) is a wheel including at least one paddle (12) that rotates the wheel during the movement of the lure in ambient water.
8. A lure according to claim 7, especially one used as a drawn bait, with a paddle wheel (15) as moving element, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by that it includes a water flow guide (17; 18) formed in the body element (1) guiding the water flow asymmetrically past the wheel (15) so that the wheel is in continuous rotation.
9. A lure according to claim 7 or 8, c h a r a c t ¬ e r i z e d by that the wire (3) is attached to the point of the paddle (13; 16).
10. A lure according to any of the above claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by that the fly (5) is attached to the line (6) by an additional line (11) allowing movements of the fly (5) .
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 3 May 1993 (03.05.93) ; original claim 2 cancelled; new claim 4 added; claims 3 and 4 amended and renumbered as claims 2 and 3; other claims unchanged (2 pages) ]
1. A lure comprising a body element (1) , a moving element (2 ; 15) supported by a bearing in the body element, an auxi¬ liary small lure (5) being connected by movement- trans fer- ring means , e.g . a stiff wire (3 ) to said moving element (2 ;
15) , characterized by the following combination:
- the auxiliary small lure (5) being a fly, a worm hook or similar disposed at a substantial distance from the body element (1) , - the moving element (2 ; 15) being provided with at least one wing or paddle element (12) causing the moving element (2 ; 15) to move when the lure is moved in relation to sur¬ rounding water, and
- a line (β) or an tension (7) thereof being attached di- rectly to a non-movable integrated part of the body element
(1) .
2. A lure according to .claim 1, characterized by that the movement of the fly (5) is guided along the line (6) so that the stiff wire (3) or the fly (5) itself includes a loop through which the line runs.
3. A lure according claim 1 or 2, characterized by that stopping of the fly is effected by an intermediate element (7) , big enough not to pass through the loop in the stiff wire (3) or in the fly (5) .
4. A lure according to claim 3, characterized in that said intermediate element (7) is constituted by an extension of said line (6) , the extension being attached to the body element (1) .
5. A lure according to claim 1, used especially as a vertical lure, characterized by that a freely projecting stiff intermediate element (7) is attached to the body element (1) and in the loop of which the stiff wire (3) connected, to the fly (5) is moving. 


 6. A lure according to claim 5, characterized by that in the stiff wire (3) there is a stopper (9) big enough not to pass through the loop (10) in the line (6) or in the intermediate element (7) and preventing the pull from concentrating to the moving element (2; 15) when the fly is drawn.
7. A lure according to any of the above claims, charac¬ terized by that the moving element (2; 15) is a wheel including at least one paddle (12) that rotates the wheel during the movement of the lure in ambient water.
8. A lure according to claim 7, especially one used as a drawn bait, with a paddle wheel (15) as moving element, characterized by that it includes a water flow guide (17;
18) formed in the body element (1) guiding the water flow asymmetrically past the wheel (15) so that the wheel is in continuous rotation.
9. A lure according to claim 7 or 8, characterized by that the wire (3) is attached to the point of the paddle (13; 16) .
10. A lure according to any of the above claims, charac- terized that the fly (5) is attached to the line (6) by an additional line (11) allowing movements of the fly (5) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
