<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656667</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Inverse spinel compounds as cathodes for lithium batteries
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M1036	H01M448	H01M1036	H01M452	H01M452	H01M448	H01M402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M10	H01M4	H01M10	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
High voltage lithium batteries can be made using lithium 
transition metal oxides having an inverse spinel structure as a 

cathode material. In particular, these inverse spinel compounds 
can be suitable for use in lithium ion batteries. Along with high 

operating voltage, such batteries can exhibit reasonable capacity, 
rate capability, and reversibility. 
The lithium transition metal oxide can be LiNiVO₄, LiCoVO₄ 
or LiCuVO₄. 
The lithium transition metal oxide can also be any solid solution 
compound having an inverse spinel structure and chemical formula 

Li
x
M
y
N
z
O₄ wherein M and N are transition 
metals, y and z are numbers about equal to 1, and x is a number in the 

range from about 0 to 2. Additionally, it is expected that the solid 
solution compound can be one wherein minor amounts of other elements are 

substituted for M and N. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the field of batteries.
Specifically, it relates to materials for novel use as cathodes in
lithium batteries.Lithium batteries are commercially available in a variety
of sizes employing many different electrochemistries. The
increasing demand for such batteries results in great part from the
high voltage of individual cells and the high energy density that
generally characterizes these types of batteries. Small primary
batteries employing lithium metal anodes are often employed in
applications involving consumer electronics. Large lithium metal
anode batteries are used in remote or military applications but are
considered too dangerous for consumer usage. Rechargeable lithium
batteries can offer many advantages over competing rechargeable
non-lithium batteries or primary (non-rechargeable) lithium
batteries. Interest in lithium ion type batteries in particular,
wherein two different lithium insertion compounds are used as
cathode and anode, has increased dramatically. The first
commercial product based on a lithium ion type electrochemistry has
recently been made available by Sony Energy Tec Inc.Lithium ion electrochemistries under development
generally employ a partially graphitized carbon or graphite as the
anode, an air stable lithium transition metal oxide as the cathode,
and a suitable non-aqueous electrolyte. Batteries made with such
electrochemistries generally contain no metallic lithium on
assembly. The lithium to be cycled as ions during operation of the
battery is normally incorporated into one of the electrodes.
Lithiated carbons or graphites are not stable in air however. The
inserted lithium therein has a small binding energy and is 
extracted and reacts when exposed to air. Thus, it is difficult to
use lithiated carbons or graphites in a manufacturing process for
lithium ion batteries. Instead, all the lithium is normally
incorporated into the cathode since many suitable lithium
transition metal oxide materials can be prepared and are stable in
air. An additional requirement of a lithium transition metal oxide
to be used as a cathode is that the lithium ions are mobile and
thus can be quickly extracted electrochemically.Examples of suitable cathode materials for lithium ion
batteries include LiNiO2, LiCoO2 and LiMn2O4. The theoretical
capacities for these materials are 275, 274, and 148 mAh/gram
respectively, if all the lithium present could be used. However,
for LiNiO2 and LiCoO2 only about 1/2 of the theoretical capacity can
be used in a reversible manner.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A lithium battery wherein a portion of the cathode
material comprises a lithium transition metal oxide

having an inverse spinel structure wherein lithium
atoms occupy up to one-half of the 16d sites, oxygen

atoms occupy the 32e sites, and transition metal atoms
occupy the 8a sites and about one-half of the 16d sites

in said inverse spinel structure.
A battery comprising

(a) an anode
(b) an electrolyte
(c) a cathode

wherein at least a portion of the cathode material
comprises a lithium transition metal oxide having an

inverse spinel structure wherein lithium atoms occupy
up to one-half of the 16d sites, oxygen atoms occupy

the 32e sites and transition metal atoms occupy the 8a
sites and about one-half of the 16d sited in said

inverse spinel structure.
A battery as claimed in Claim 2 wherein the
lithium transition metal oxide is LiNiVO
4
, LiCoVO
4
 or
LiCuVO
4
.
A battery as claimed in Claim 2 wherein the
anode is selected from the group consisting of a

lithium metal, a lithium alloy, and a lithium insertion 
compound.
A battery as claimed in Claim 2 wherein the
electrolyte comprises one or more lithium salts

dissolved in a mixture of non-aqueous solvents.
A battery as claimed in Claim 5 wherein the
electrolyte comprises LiPF
6
 dissolved in a mixture of
dimethyl carbonate, propylene carbonate, and ethylene

carbonate.
A battery as claimed in Claim 5 wherein the
electrolyte comprises LiBF
4
 dissolved in a mixture of
dimethyl carbonate, propylene carbonate, and ethylene

carbonate.
A battery as claimed in Claim 2 wherein the
inverse spinel structure has the chemical formula

Li
X
M
Y
N
Z
O
4
 wherein M and N are transition metals, y and z
are numbers and are approximately 1, and x is a number

in the range from 0 to 2.
A battery as claimed in Claim 8 wherein x is a
number in the range from 0 to 1.
A battery as claimed in Claim 9 wherein M is
Ni and N is V.
A battery as claimed in Claim 9 wherein M is
Co and N is V.
A battery as claimed in Claim 9 wherein M is
Cu and N is V. 
A battery as claimed in Claim 8 wherein minor
amounts of other metals are substituted for M and N.
A cathode for battery comprising at least in
part a lithium transition metal oxide having an inverse

spinel structure wherein lithium atoms occupy up to
one-half of the 16d sites, oxygen atoms occupy the 32e

sites, and transition metal atoms occupy the 8a sites
and about one-half of the 16d sites in said inverse

spinel structure.
A cathode as claimed in claim 14 wherein a
portion of the cathode comprises a solid solution

compound having an inverse spinel structure and
chemical formula Li
X
M
Y
N
Z
O
4
 wherein M and N are
transition metals, y and z are numbers and are

approximately 1, and x is a number in the range from 0
to 2.
A cathode as claimed in Claim 14 wherein the
lithium transition metal oxide is LiNiVO
4
, LiCoVO
4
 or
LiCuVO
4
.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
