<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623246</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHOTOVOLTAIC CELL WITH THIN CdS LAYER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27142	H01L27142	H01L310224	H01L310224	H01L3104	H01L3104	H01L3106	H01L31072	H01L3118	H01L3118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The photovoltaic panel of the present invention is initially formed with a CdS and CdTe layers in overlying relationship on a glass substrate and the effective thickness of the CdS layer is reduced during a two-step annealing process to both form larger diameter CdTe crystals (36A, 36B, 36C, 36D) and substantially reduced thickness CdS layer (32) by diffusion into the CdTe layer (44) such that majority of sunlight having a wavelength less than 520 nm passes through the CdS layer (32) to the photovoltaic junction. The p-type CdTe material (44) is first heat treated in an oxidizing environment to oxidize impurities and thereby substantially enhance the desired electrical properties of the p-type CdTe material. The heat treated material is then annealed in a substantially inert environment to increase crystal sizes and thereby enhance photovoltaic efficiency. During the heat treating step, an oxidation gradient may be maintained through the thickness of the p-type CdTe layer (44).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOTON ENERGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOTON ENERGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALBRIGHT SCOTT P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAMBERLIN RHODES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORDAN JOHN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALBRIGHT, SCOTT, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAMBERLIN, RHODES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORDAN, JOHN, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PHOTOVOLTAIC CELL WITH THIN CdS LAYERFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to low cost photovoltaic devices and, more particularly, relates to improvements in polycrystalline photovoltaic cells and methods of manufacturing such cells which enable the n-type layer of the photovoltaic junction to be highly transmissive of low wavelength energy, therefore increasing the efficiency of the photovoltaic device. The present invention further relates to improved techniques for forming thin film photovoltaic layers and, more particularly, for forming highly reproducible and uniform p-type polycrystalline layers having controlled electrical properties and improved morphology. The techniques of the present invention are well suited for manufacturing a relatively low cost CdS/CdTe photovoltaic panel by first heat treating the CdTe material in an oxygen containing environment to achieve uniform electrical properties and dictate the morphology of the p-type material and second recrystallizing the heat treated film in an inert atmosphere to obtain the desired morphology and electronic character in the thin film CdTe layer.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThose skilled in alternative energy technologies, e.g., other than hydrocarbon based sources, have long recognized the potential of photovoltaics to satisfy the need for generating electrical power both for remote 

 applications and for comparatively large scale power distribution. The desired low manufacturing costs for reasonably efficient photovoltaic cells can be obtained utilizing polycrystalline thin film layers arranged on a substrate to form a panel. While promising efficiencies have been generated in laboratory work conducted on small cell areas, significant improvements are required to improve manufacturing operations for large scale polycrystalline photovoltaic panel production to become a reality. The present invention is directed to such polycrystalline photovoltaic techniques, and particularly to improved techniques which maximize photovoltaic efficiency, enhance manufacturing yield and reproducibility, and reduce manufacturing costs for polycrystalline photovoltaic panels.Photovoltaic cells capable of converting sunlight directly to electrical energy have been commonly used for decades. Most present-day photovoltaic devices employ single cells, which are satisfactory for low energy consumption devices, but inherently have a high cost/output watt ratio. Polycrystalline photovoltaic cells can be manufactured at a much lower cost than single
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed:
1. A method of manufacturing a photovoltaic panel including a plurality of polycrystalline photovoltaic cells each formed on a common substrate, the method comprising: forming a substantially continuous and optically transmissive conductive layer for electrically interconnecting the plurality of photovoltaic cells while passing sunlight through the conductive layer to a photovoltaic junction; forming a substantially continuous n-type semiconductor polycrystalline layer of a first effective thickness adjacent to the conductive layer; forming a substantially continuous p-type semiconductor polycrystalline layer adjoining the n-type polycrystalline layer; and simultaneously heating the n-type polycrystalline layer and the adjoining p-type polycrystalline layer to a temperature and for a time interval sufficient to significantly increase the size of the crystals within the
P~tγpe polycrystalline layer while substantially reducing the effective thickness of the n-type layer to a second effective thickness substantially less than the first effective thickness by diffusion into the p-type layer, such that a majority of sunlight energy having an energy higher than the bandgap of the n-type layer passes through the reduced second effective thickness of the n-type layer to be absorbed by the photovoltaic junction. 



 2. The method of manufacturing a photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 1, wherein the step of heating occurs at a temperature and during a time interval sufficient to reduce the effective thickness of the n-type layer such that the second effective thickness is less than 1/1Oth of the first effective thickness.
3. The method of manufacturing a photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 2, wherein the step of heating occurs at a temperature and during a time interval sufficient to reduce the effective thickness of the n-type layer such that the second thickness is approximately 1/2Oth of the first effective thickness.
4. The method of manufacturing a photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 1, wherein the n-type layer consists essentially of a CdS material, the p-type layer consists essentially of a CdTe material, and the step of heating occurs at a temperature in excess of 400°C.
5. The method of manufacturing a photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 1, wherein the conductive layer is formed on a relatively flat surface of a vitreous substrate, the n-type layer is deposited on the conductive layer, and the p-type layer is deposited on the n-type layer.
6. The method of manufacturing a photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 5, wherein the step of forming the conductive layer comprises: forming a first substantially continuous high conductivity conductive layer on the vitreous substrate 


 having a specific conductivity more than approximately 1000 mho/cm; and subsequently forming a second substantially continuous low conductivity conductive layer adjoining the first conductive layer, the second conductive layer having a specific conductivity in the range of from 1.25 x 10
"3
 to
100 mho/cm.
7. The method of manufacturing a photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 6, further comprising: adjusting the electron density of the second conductive layer to a level which results in a magnitude within three orders of a presumed electron density value of the p-type layer, such that an energy-producing junction is formed by the p-type layer and the second conductive layer in an area of any flaws in the n-type layer.
8. The method of manufacturing a photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 6, wherein: each of the first and second conductive layers are selected from a group consisting of tin oxide or zinc oxide.
9. The method of manufacturing a photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 1, wherein the n-type layer comprises CdS, and the step of heating occurs at a temperature and during a time interval sufficient to reduce the second effective thickness of the n-type material layer to a level such that a majority of the sunlight energy having a wavelength less than 520 nm passes through the n-type material layer to be absorbed by the photovoltaic junction. 


 10. The method of manufacturing a polycrystalline photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim l, wherein the step of heating occurs at a temperature and during a time interval sufficient to reduce the second effective thickness of the n-type material layer to less than approximately 500 A.
11. The method of Claim 10, wherein said first effective thickness is from about 2,000 to 12,000 angstroms. 12. The method of Claim 6, wherein said second substantially continuous high conductivity conductive layer consists essentially of tin oxide and includes a dopant selected from the group consisting essentially of calcium, zinc, lead, mercury, selenium, sulfur, sodium, cesium, mercury, boron, and chromium and said first substantially continuous low conductivity conductive layer consists essentially of tin oxide and includes a dopant selected from the group consisting essentially of fluorine.
13. The method of Claim 6, wherein substantially all of the dopants in said first substantially continuous high conductivity conductive layer differ from substantially all of the dopants in said second substantially continuous high conductivity conductive layer.
14. The method of Claim 1, wherein at least 50% of sunlight energy having an energy higher than the bandgap of the n-type layer passes through the reduced second effective thickness of the n-type layer. 


 15. A method of manufacturing a polycrystalline photovoltaic cell comprising: forming a substantially continuous and optically transmissive first conductive layer having a specific conductivity more than approximately 1000 mho/cm for electrically transmitting current through the photovoltaic cell; forming a substantially continuous and optically transmissive second conductive layer having a specific conductivity in the range from 1.25 x 10
3
 to 100 mho/cm, and having an electron density within three orders of magnitude of a presumed electron density value of a p-type material of the photovoltaic cell; forming a substantially continuous n-type semiconductor polycrystalline layer adjoining the second conductive layer, the n-type layer having an effective thickness such that at least a substantial amount of sunlight energy having an energy higher than the bandgap of the n-type layer passes through the n-type layer; and forming a substantially continuous p-type semi- conductive polycrystalline layer adjoining the n-type layer and forming a photovoltaic junction with the n-type layer and also with the second conductive layer in areas of any flaws in the n-type layer to convert sunlight to electrical energy.
16. The method of manufacturing a polycrystalline photovoltaic cell as defined in Claim 15, further comprising: 


 simultaneously heating the n-type polycrystalline layer and the adjoining p-type polycrystalline layer to a temperature sufficient to significantly increase the size of the crystals within the p-type layer and to reduce the effective thickness of the n-type layer by diffusion into the p-type layer and between the p-type layer crystals.
17. The method of forming a polycrystalline photovoltaic cell as defined in Claim 16, wherein the n- type layer consists essentially of a CdS material, the p- type layer consists essentially of a CdTe material, and the step of heating occurs at a temperature and during a time interval sufficient to reduce the effective thickness of the n-type layer to less than 1/lOth of its effective thickness prior to the step of heating. 18. The method of manufacturing a polycrystalline photovoltaic cell as defined in Claim 16, wherein the n- type layer consists essentially of a CdS material, and the step of heating occurs at a temperature and during a time interval sufficient to reduce the effective thickness of the n-type material layer to a level such that at least 50% of sunlight energy having a wavelength less than 520 nm passes through the n-type material layer and to the photovoltaic junction.
19. The method of manufacturing a polycrystalline photovoltaic cell as defined in Claim 15, wherein the step of forming the second conductive layer further comprises: selectively doping a material prior to deposition for forming the second conductive layer, such that the selected 


amount of dopant achieves the desired electron carrier density of the second conductive layer. 

20. A photovoltaic panel including a plurality of polycrystalline photovoltaic cells formed on a common vitreous substrate, comprising: a substantially continuous and optically transmissive conductive layer adjoining the vitreous substrate for electrically interconnecting the plurality of photovoltaic cells; a substantially continuous n-type polycrystalline layer adjoining the conductive layer and having an effective thickness such that a majority of sunlight having an energy higher than the bandgap of the n-type layer passes through the conductive layer and the n-type layer to be absorbed by a photovoltaic junction; and a substantially continuous p-type polycrystalline layer adjoining the n-type layer and consisting essentially of relatively large p-type crystals and n-type material diffused into the p-type layer.
21. A photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 20, wherein: the n-type layer consists essentially of CdS; and the p-type layer consists essentially of CdTe.
22. A photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 21, wherein: the effective thickness of the CdS layer is less than approximately 500 A.
23. A photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 20, wherein: 


 the conductive layer includes a first substantially continuous highly conductive layer having a specific conductivity more than approximately 1000 mho/cm, and a second conductive layer adjoining both the first conductor layer and the n-type layer and have a specific conductivity in the range of from 1.25 x 10
43
 to 100 mho/cm.
24. A photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 23, wherein: the first and second conductive layers are each tin oxide layers; and the electron density of a second conductive layer is within three orders of magnitude of a presumed electron density value of the p-type layer, such that an energy- producing junction is formed in areas of flaws in the n- type layer by the p-type layer and the second conductive layer. 

25. A photovoltaic panel including a plurality of polycrystalline photovoltaic cells, comprising: a substantially continuous and optically transmissive first conductive layer having a specific conductivity more than 1000 mho/cm for electrically interconnecting the plurality of photovoltaic cells; a substantially continuous and optically transmissive second conductive layer adjoining the first conductive layer, the second conductive layer having a specific conductivity in the range of from 1.25 x 10
3
 to 100 mho/cm and having an electron carrier density within three orders of magnitude of a presumed electron carrier density of a p- type material of the photovoltaic cell; a substantially continuous n-type polycrystalline layer adjoining the second conductive layer and having an effective thickness such that at least a substantial amount of sunlight having a wavelength with an energy higher than the bandgap of the n-type layer passes through the first and second conductive layers and the n-type layer to be absorbed by a photovoltaic junction; and a substantially continuous p-type polycrystalline layer adjoining the n-type layer and forming a photovoltaic junction with both the n-type layer and with the second conductive layer where flaws occur in the n-type layer to convert sunlight to electrical energy.
26. A photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 25, further comprising: 


 th.e p—type layer including relatively large p— ype crystals and n-type material diffused between the p-type crystals.
27. A photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 25, wherein: the effective thickness of the n-type layer is less than approximately 500 A.
28. A photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 25, wherein: the n-type layer consists essentially of CdS; the p-type layer consists essentially of CdTe; and the first and second conductive layers are each tin oxide layers.
29. A photovoltaic panel as defined in Claim 25, wherein the second conductive layer includes an amount of dopant selected as a function of the presumed electron carrier density of the p-type material. 

30. A method of forming a photovoltaic device including a plurality of photovoltaic cells each on a common substrate for electrical interconnection to obtain a photovoltaic panel, the method comprising: forming an electrically conductive film layer on the common substrate; depositing at least one substantially continuous n- type material film layer on the electrically conductive film layer for forming the n-type material layer for each of the photovoltaic cells; selecting a p-type material for forming a p-type film layer for each of the photovoltaic cells; heat treating the p-type material in an oxidizing environment to oxidize impurities in the selected p-type material and thereby substantially enhance the desired electrical properties of the selected p-type material; and thereafter recrystallizing the heat treated p-type material in an environment substantially free of oxidants to substantially increase crystal size within the p-type film layer compared to the heat treated p-type material and thereby substantially enhancing conversion efficiency of the photovoltaic cells.
31. The method of Claim 30, wherein said heat treating step occurs subsequent to deposition of the selected p-type material on the common substrate.
32. The method of Claim 31, further comprising: establishing an oxidation gradient through the deposited p-type film layer during said heat treating step, 


 such that p-type crystals adjacent a surface of the p-type layer adjoining the n-type layer are less oxidized than p- type crystals adjacent an opposing surface of the p-type layer. 33. The method of Claim 32, wherein the step of establishing an oxidation gradient through the deposited p- type film layer comprises: forming an oxidized coating having a thickness on p- type crystals adjoining the surface the n-type layer less than the oxidized coating on remaining crystals spaced throughout the p-type layer, such that after said recrystallizmg step the portion of said p-type layer adjacent said n-type layer has crystals of a larger mean crystal size than crystals in other portions of said p-type layer.
34. The method of Claim 32, wherein the p-type layer is arranged open faced within the oxidizing environment to uniformly oxidize the p-type layer across an area of the substrate supporting the plurality of photovoltaic cells. 35. The method of Claim 30, wherein at least a portion of the step of heat treating the p-type material is performed prior to deposition of the selected p-type material on the n-type layer.
36. The method of Claim 30, wherein at least a portion of the step of heat treating the p-type material is performed during deposition of the selected p-type material on the n-type layer. 


 37. The method of Claim 30, wherein the step of heat treating the p-type material comprises: initially heat treating the p-type material in an oxidizing environment to oxidize some of the impurities in the selected p-type material; thereafter depositing the initially heat treated p- type material in a film layer on the n-type layer; subsequently heat treating the deposited p-type material in an oxidizing environment to oxidize additional impurities in the deposited p-type material and thereby substantially enhance the desired electrical properties of the p-type material.
38. The method of Claim 30, further comprising: adding a flux to the selected n-type material to enhance crystal growth of the p-type material; placing a pair of p-type film layers in face-to-face relationship during the recrystallization step.
39. The method of Claim 30, further comprising: controlling the oxygen content of said environment in said recrystallizmg step to less than 0.5% oxygen by weight.
40. The method of Claim 30, further comprising: re-heat treating the annealed p-type film layer in an oxidizing environment to oxidize additional impurities in the p-type material layer.
41. The method of Claim 40, wherein said heat treating step has a duration of about 5 to 60 minutes and a temperature of about 150°C to 340°C. 



 42. The method of Claim 30, wherein: the common substrate is substantially transparent for passing sun light; and the electrically conductive film layer is substantially transparent for transmitting sun light, through the conductive film layer and to a photovoltaic junction formed by the n-type layer and the p-type layer.
43. The method of Claim 30, further comprising: the step of recrystallizmg the heat treated p-type material occurs prior to the step of depositing the n-type material layer; and another electrically conductive film layer is formed on the n-type material layer and is a substantially transparent film layer. 44. The method of Claim 30, wherein the environment in said heat treating step has at least 1.0% by volume oxidants.
45. The method of Claim 30, wherein the environment in said recrystallizmg step has no more than .05% by volume oxidants.
46. The method of Claim 30, wherein the oxidants are selected from the group consisting of halogens, oxygen, oxides, sulphate, phosphates and peroxides.
47. The method of Claim 33, wherein the rate of crystal growth in said recrystallizmg step is related to the thickness of said oxidized coating.
48. The method of Claim 32, wherein the size and size distribution of said p-type crystals after said 


 recrystallizing step is a function of the magnitude and slope of said oxidation gradient, the temperature and temperature rise rate in said recrystallization step, the amount and type of flux, porosity of the p-type layer, and substrate orientation and placement in said recrystallizmg step.
49. The method of Claim 30, wherein said impurities include aluminum, indium, copper, gallium, arsenic, and cadmium ions. 50. The method of Claim 30, wherein the duration of said heat treating step is a function of the temperature of said p-type material in said heat treating step and the concentration of oxidants in said oxidizing atmosphere.
51. The method of Claim 30, wherein the duration of said heat treating step is about 5 seconds to about 30 minutes and the temperature in said heat treating step is about 380°C to about 500°C.
52. The method of Claim 30, wherein the duration of said recrystallizmg step is about 10 minutes to about 60 minutes and the temperature in said recrystallizmg step is about 400°C to about 700°C.
53. The method of Claim 32, wherein the magnitude and slope of said oxidation gradient is a function of the concentration and type of oxidants in said heating step, the temperature in said heating step, the duration of said heating step, and the relative concentrations of the components of said p-type crystals. 


 54. The method of Claim 32, wherein said oxidation gradient is formed by heating said p-type material in a substantially inert atmosphere to a selected temperature and contacting said p-type material with an oxidant for a time and at said selected temperature to produce said oxidation gradient.
55. The method of Claim 30, wherein reflective losses at the interface between said n-type and p-type films are less than 10%. 56. The method of Claim 53, wherein said, p-type material is CdTe and said magnitude and slope of said oxidation gradient is a function of the ratio of Cd to Te in said p-type material.
57. The method of Claim 30, wherein the mean crystal size of said p-type material after said recrystallizmg step is 2 to 1,000 times the mean crystal size of said p- type material before said heat treating step. 

58. A method of forming a polycrystalline p-type CdTe film layer of a photovoltaic cell including an n-type material layer, the method comprising: depositing one or more CdTe materials in a film layer on the n-type material layer; thereafter heat treating the deposited CdTe film layer in an oxidizing environment to oxidize impurities in the CdTe material and thereby substantially enhance the desired electrical properties of the CdTe material; establishing an oxidation gradient through the deposited CdTe film layer during the heat treating step, such that CdTe crystals adjacent a surface of the CdTe layer adjoining the n-type layer are less oxidized than CdTe crystals adjacent an opposing surface of the CdTe layer; and thereafter recrystallizmg the heat treated CdTe material in a substantially environment to substantially increase crystal size within the CdTe film layer compared to the crystals within heat treated CdTe layer and thereby substantially enhance photovoltaic conversion efficiency of the photovoltaic cell.
59. The method of Claim 58, wherein the step of establishing an oxidation gradient through the CdTe film layer comprises: forming an oxide coating on CdTe crystals adjoining the surface of the n-type layer less than the oxide coating on remaining CdTe crystals spaced throughout the CdTe layer, such that the oxide coating acts to retard a 


 recrystallization flux and initiate crystal growth during the step of recrystallizmg the heat treated CdTe material substantially adjacent the interface of the n-type layer and the CdTe layer. 60. The method of Claim 58, further comprising: initially heat treating CdTe material in an oxidizing environment to oxidize some of the impurities in the CdTe material prior to depositing the CdTe in a film layer.
61. The method of Claim 58, further comprising: depositing CdTe material under substantially ambient temperature conditions on the n-type layer; mechanically compressing at least a substantial portion of the deposited p-type material subsequent to the heat treating step and prior to the annealing step; and placing a pair of cells in face-to-face relationship during the annealing step.
62. The method of Claim 61, further comprising: selecting border areas of photovoltaic cells as mechanically uncompressed areas; and positioning the selected border areas of one photovoltaic cell in physical engagement with selected border areas of another photovoltaic cell during. the recrystallizmg step, such that the border areas substantially limit gas exchange between a cavity between the face-to-face CdTe layers and an environment exterior of the face-to-face of photovoltaic cells while physically separating the mechanically compressed p-type material. 


 63. A method of controlling the morphology of a polycrystalline p-type film layer of a photovoltaic cell including an n-type material layer, the method comprising: establishing an oxidation gradient through the p-type film layer, such that crystals within the polycrystalline layer adjacent a surface of the p-type film layer adjacent the n-type layer have a thinner oxide coating than crystals within the polycrystalline layer adjacent an opposing surface of the p-type film layer; and thereafter recrystallizmg the p-type film layer in an environment containing a recrystallization flux, such that the oxide coating acts to retard the recrystallization flux and initiate crystal growth within the p-type film layer adjacent the n-type layer to form a substantially planar interface between the p-type film layer and the n-type film layer.
64. The method of Claim 63, wherein the step of establishing an oxidation gradient through the p-type film layer further comprises: heat treating the material forming p-type film layer in an oxidizing environment to oxidize impurities and to enhance the desired electrical properties of the p-type film layer.
65. The method of Claim 64, further comprising: heat treating the p-type material in an oxidizing environment to oxidize some of the impurities in the p-type material; and 


 thereafter depositing the heat treated p-type material in a film layer.
66. The method of Claim 63, further comprising: adding a flux to the n-type material layer for forming the environment containing the recrystallization flux; and placing a pair of p-type film layers in a face-to-face relationship during the recrystallizmg step. 

67. A plurality of photovoltaic cells each formed on a common substrate, each of the plurality of cells comprising: an n-type polycrystalline layer; a p-type polycrystalline layer adjoining the n-type polycrystalline layer and forming a photovoltaic junction therewith, the p-type polycrystalline layer including at least a planar layer portion consisting essentially of relatively large crystals adjoining the n-type polycrystalline layer; the planar layer portion including oxidized impurities to obtain p-type electrical properties for the planar layer portion; and each of the relatively large crystals having a planar surface in substantially planar engagement with an interface surface of the n-type polycrystalline layer.
68. A photovoltaic cell of Claim 67, wherein the p- type polycrystalline layer further includes a porous layer portion opposing the n-type layer with respect to the planar layer portion, the porous layer portion consisting essentially of crystals having a mean diameter smaller than the relatively large crystals within the planar layer portion, and the porous layer portion having a porosity greater than the porosity of the planar layer portion. 69. The photovoltaic cell of Claim 68, wherein the planar layer portion is formed by an oxidation gradient through the thickness of the p-type layer which retards a recrystallization flux during annealing to initiate 


 nucleation during recrystallization within the planar layer portion of the p-type layer.
70. The photovoltaic cell of Claim 67, wherein the p- type layer consists essentially of cadmium telluride crystals, and the relatively large crystals within the planar layer portion have a mean diameter of from about 1.5 to 3.0 microns.
71. The photovoltaic cell of Claim 67, wherein the porosity of the planar layer portion is less than about 30%.
72. The photovoltaic cell of Claim 68, wherein said porous layer comprises cadmium telluride crystals having a mean diameter of from about 0.5 to 2 microns.
73. The photovoltaic cell of Claim 68, wherein the porosity of said porous portion is from about 20% to about
45%.
74. The photovoltaic cell of claim 67, wherein said p-type polycrystalline layer includes at least a first portion adjacent said planar layer portion having dissimilar p-type characteristics to said planar layer portion.
75. The photovoltaic cell of Claim 74, wherein said first portion has a higher conductivity than said planar layer portion. 76. The photovoltaic cell of Claim 74, wherein said first portion has more carriers than said planar portion. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
