<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635797</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A smart image system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	G06F1730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In an image processing system, smart images are provided 
with a structure consisting of a raw image with a knowledge 

structure. Each smart image is processed as an object, and reacts 
via its knowledge structure to environmental changes and/or queries 

for carrying out certain actions, and for preprocessing image data 
in anticipation of a user's future requirements relative to a given 

protocol. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS CORP RES 
&
 SUPPORT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS CORPORATE RESEARCH AND SUPPORT, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG SHI-KUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOU TAI-YUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU ARDING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG, SHI-KUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOU, TAI-YUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU, ARDING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to image 
information systems, and more particularly to methods for 
processing the image information or data. Image information is typically much more difficult to 
process then alphanumeric information. For example, images, unlike 
alphanumeric text, typically require a long periods of time to 
access, process, store, retrieve, and distribute, because of the 
size and internal complexity of the image information. Also, 
unlike alphanumeric text, images are typically shared by many users 
as a non-divisible unit of information, in that in most instances 
users must view an image in its entirety. As a result of these 
characteristics of image information, evolving-information systems 
strive to reduce the access time for a user to go from one image 
display to another, and to permit the unitary usage of image 
information in a heterogeneous distributed environment. Many different techniques are known in the art for 
reducing the time required to process image information in what  
 
typically encompasses long duration operations. One approach is to 
increase the transmission capability of the image information 
system. Another technique is to distribute the image processing 
computations. In known information image systems, protocols or pre 
specified procedures are provided to users of the system, for 
permitting them to manipulate the image information. For example, 
in medical imaging systems, physicians may be provided a 
predetermined diagnostic protocol for examining medical images. As 
another example, protocols have been developed for office 
procedures, such as for the circulation of a document from one 
office to another. Also, it is recognized that when image 
information is used in a heterogeneous distributed environment, one 
must insure operational integrity, operational consistency, 
synchronization, and so forth. There is an ever expanding use for image information 
systems as advances are made in hardware and software technology. 
For example, image information systems are now included in 
application areas such as geographical information systems (GIS), 
office automation systems (OA), medical picture archiving and 
communications systems (PACS), computer-aided designs systems 
(CAD), computer-aided manufacturing (CAM), computer-aided 
engineering (CAE), education and training, robotics, multimedia 
information systems, and scientific databases systems (SBD). It is  
 
known in the art that such systems must be improved by decreasing 
the image
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In an image information system, a method for providing therein 
a smart image system comprising the steps of : 

   establishing an image database containing data for a plurality 
of images; 

   providing each image with a unique identifier; 
   associating each image with a knowledge structure, to make 

each image a smart image for processing as an object; 
   including protocols in said knowledge structure indicative of 

the typical successive steps a user takes in interacting with a 
smart image; 

   predicting a user's next required action in processing an 
image from knowledge of the user's present interaction with a smart 

image, and a protocol associated with the user; and 
   prefetching image data required for a user's predicted next 

interaction with a present image or another image, as determined in 
said predicting step. 
The method of claim 1, further including the step of: 
   preprocessing selected said image data prior to use by a user. 
The method of claim 1, further including the steps of : 
   establishing a plurality of predefined hot spots, each with a 

 
predefined statement of inquiry; 

   permitting a user to access and display a desired smart image; 

   permitting a user to establish an area of said smart image on 
display as a hot spot area in association with one of said 

plurality of predefined hot spots; and 
   automatically establishing said hot spot area on each image 

associated with said prefetched image data. 
A method for providing a smart image system in a computer 
workstation for processing image information related to one or more 

objects, said workstation including at least a display, a main 
memory, a working memory, a microprocessor, and a control panel for 

interfacing with a user, said method comprising the steps of: 
   establishing a protocol manager for permitting a user to 

create, update, and retrieve protocols from a protocol set, each of 
said protocols including a sequence of user steps for conducting 

image processing or analysis, said protocol set being stored in 
said main memory; 

   storing in said main memory a hot spot set consisting of a 
plurality of hot spots each for association with an area of 

interest on an image being processed, each hot spot having a unique 
statement of inquiry associated with it for forming a predicate; 

   establishing a hot spot manager for automatically providing 
predicate evaluation of a hot spot selected by a user, action 

 
scheduling in response to the predicate evaluation, and invocation 

or support obtainment for actions to be taken; 
   storing in said main memory a local set of smart images 

created by a user, for individual access by a user for updating and 
other processing; 

   storing in said main memory a smart image database containing 
data including references to raw images, and knowledge structures 

for association with individual ones of said raw images, 
respectively, thereby completing the formation of said smart images 

from said raw images, respectively; 
   establishing a smart image database manager for permitting a 

user to manage smart images, generate smart images, and update said 
smart images in said smart image working set; 

   storing in said main memory a plurality of image processing 
routines; and 

   establishing a smart image engine responsive to events 
initiated by a user for invoking any required action of said 

protocol manager, said hot spot manager, and said smart image 
database manager, for transferring smart images to said working 

memory, and processing said smart images. 
The method of claim 4, further including the step of: 
   providing a user interface for permitting a user to exercise 

said smart image engine. 
The method of claim 4, further including the step of operating 
said smart image engine to provide each smart image as a composite 

of a raw image with an associated knowledge structure; 
   said knowledge structure including a selected protocol from 

said protocol set, associated ones of said set of hot spots for 
selection by a user, active indexes for connecting related images 

or related hot spots for obtaining system responses to 
environmental changes, attributes for domain related information 

and image related information, including identifying names, image 
type, image size, and voice diagnosis, and further including 

relations to other images. 
The method of claim 6, further including the steps of : 
   monitoring a user's requesting for association with a user 

selected area of said image, a hot spot in an image being processed 
and shown on said display; 

   monitoring a user's present protocol state; and 
   activating corresponding active indexes in response to both 

the user's request for a particular hot spot, and protocol state, 
for prefetching related images with said working memory in 

 
anticipation of a user's next step in the monitored protocol state. 
The method of claim 7, further including the step of 
preprocessing the prefetched image information. 
The method of claim 8, wherein said preprocessing step further 
includes the step of propagating the hot spot, selected by the user 

for the image being displayed, to each one of the prefetched 
related images for association with a user designated area of said 

images, respectively, relative to a present image on display. 
The method of claim 8, wherein said preprocessing step further 
includes the step of: 

   creating a hot spot group including hot spot instances for 
prefetched images, respectively, of an object under study. 
The method of claim 10, wherein said preprocessing step 
further includes the step of: 

   creating hot spot groups for hot spot instances of images of 
different modalities, respectively, of an object under study. 
The method of claim 11, further including the step of: 
   recomputing the size of said hot spots for each associated one 

 
of images of different modalities, respectively. 
The method of claim 12, further including the step of: 
   establishing a hierarchy of said hot spots for defining links 

between said prefetched image information; and 
   propagating via said established links the hot spot selected 

by the user for the image being displayed, to each one of said 
prefetched images. 
The method of claim 13, further including the step of: 
   comparing said related images for identifying similar features 

in said images, and differences between these similar features. 
The method of claim 8 , further including the step of: 
   initiating said preprocessing step for performing 

predetermined actions if the predicate of a hot spot of an image 
being displayed is true. 
The method of claim 4, further including the step of: 
   providing a jump exception for permitting a user to select an 

image processing step outside of the predetermined sequence of 
steps of a user's protocol. 
The method of claim 4, further including the step of: 
   establishing feature based indexes for performing 

predetermined actions if a hot spot associated with an image being 
processed satisfies predetermined spatial relations. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
