<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637287</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INK JET DROPLET GENERATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J216	B41J2055	B41J2015	B41J216	B41J2055	B41J202	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ink jet droplet generator includes a nozzle plate (1) bonded to a carrier (2). A tuned piezo crystal and metal structure projects into an ink cavity (4) and is mounted on a print head structure (6). The nozzle carrier is separated by a spacer (5) from the print head structure and seals (7) are provided to seal the cavity (4). A pillar (9) is provided with a height slightly greater than that of the spacer (5) between the print head structure and the nozzle carrier. The spacer is isolated from the print head structure, pillar and nozzle carrier by the seals (7) and O-ring which surrounds the pillar. In another aspect, layers of acoustically absorbent material (11) are provided between the spacer (5) and each of the print head structure (6) and nozzle element (2).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VIDEOJET SYSTEMS INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VIDEOJET SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSE VAN RENSBURG RICHARD WIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEEP PETER ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSE VAN RENSBURG, RICHARD WILHELM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEEP, PETER ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an Ink Jet Droplet Generator such as a droplet 
generator which is suitable for use in an ink jet printer. DE-A-3 009 685 discloses an ink jet drop generator comprising a print head 
structure, a cavity for ink, an ink nozzle element spaced from the print head structure, 
a cavity sidewall element, providing a sidewall for the cavity between the print head 
structure and the nozzle element. US-A-4779099 discloses an impulse ink jet apparatus including a plurality of 
lengthwise expandable piezoelectric transducers, each of the transducers varying the 
volume of a small compression chamber which is supplied ink from a reservoir by an 
ink flow path defined by a stack of thin plates held together upon the rigid forward face 
of a print head by a spring plate and U-clip. DE-A-3227 638 discloses a printer head for use in an ink jet system printer of the 
ink on demand type including a base plate, an oscillation plate to which a piezoelectric 
transducer is attached, a housing plate for defining a pressure chamber, a path plate 
and an orifice plate disposed in a stack-like fashion. These plates are welded to each 
other in order to ensure tight sealing. A nickel alloy is painted on each surface of the 
plates, and the stacked plates are placed in a high temperature for connecting the 
plates to each other by heat welding.  
 DE-A-2830694 discloses a method and apparatus for use in an ink jet printing 
device to synchronously produce a plurality of uniform fluid filaments and droplets. A 
fluid reservoir is provided with an orifice plate having a plurality of orifices through which 
the fluid issues to produce the desired droplets. Above the liquid contained in the 
reservoir is a rigid piston suspended above the reservoir in contact with the liquid and 
having means sealingly engaging between the piston and the sides of the reservoir. 
The piston is moved translationally up and down by a plurality of electro-acoustical 
transducers which are secured to the piston in contact with its upper surface so as to 
produce pressure fluctuations in the fluid uniformly and synchronously over the plurality 
of orifices. In conventional continuous jet, multi-jet, ink jet printers, an array of jets is 
produced by forcing ink, under pressure, through closely spaced nozzles from a 
common ink-filled cavity behind the nozzles. These jets are caused to break up into 
uniform streams of drops by imposing a periodic disturbance on all of the jets. It is advantageous if the time taken to form
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ink jet droplet generator comprising a print head structure (6), a cavity for ink 
(4), an ink nozzle carrier (2) spaced from the print head structure (6), a cavity 

sidewall element (5, 5'') providing a sidewall (5') for the cavity (4) between the 
print head structure (6) and the nozzle carrier (2), characterised by coupling 

means (9) which act as a spacer to set the distance between the print head 
structure (6) and the nozzle carrier (2) and which are taller than the side wall 

element (5'') so that only the coupling means (9) make contact with the printhead 
structure (6) and the nozzle carrier (2), the total contact area provided by the 

coupling means (9) being smaller than the area of the facing surfaces of the side 
wall element (5'') and each one of the nozzle carrier (2) and the print head 

structure (6). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 1 in which the sidewall element 
(5, 5'') is not an integral part of the print head structure (6) and nozzle carrier (2). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 in which the print head 
structure (6) is secured to the nozzle carrier (2) by a bolt (8), and the coupling 

means comprises an annular pillar (9) through which the bolt (8) passes. 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3, in which the 
coupling means (9) passes through a bore in the sidewall element (5'') and in 

which the coupling means (9) and the sidewall element (5'') are spaced apart by  
 

an acoustic isolator (10). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 4, in which the acoustic isolator 
comprises an elastomeric material O-ring (10). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in 
which the coupling means (9) comprises a rigid stainless steel element (9) which 

is located between the print head structure (6) and the nozzle carrier (2), the 
height of the rigid element (9) defining the spacing between the print head 

structure (6) and the nozzle carrier (2). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in 
which the sidewall element (5'') includes an upper surface and a lower surface, 

the distance between the upper and lower surfaces being less than the height 
of the coupling means (9). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims which 
includes a layer of acoustically absorbent material (11) located between the 

sidewall element (5'') and one of the print head structure (6) and nozzle carrier 
(2). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 8, in which the layer of material 
(11) comprises a coating on one of the upper and lower surfaces of the sidewall 

element (5'').  
 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims which, 
in order to seal the cavity, includes an ink seal (7) between the sidewall element 

(5'') and one of the print head structure (6) and the nozzle carrier (2). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 10 when dependent upon Claim 
8, in which the layer of material (11) comprises a sheet gasket forming the ink 

seal. 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 11, in which the sheet gasket (1) 
is approximately 150 µm thick and is arranged to compress to approximately 100 

µm thick when the print head structure (6) is secured to the nozzle carrier (2). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 11 or 12, in which the sheet 
gasket (11) fills substantially the entire space between facing surfaces of the 

sidewall element (5'') and one of the print head structure (6) and the nozzle 
carrier (2). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of Claims 11 to 13, in which 
the sheet gasket (11) includes an aperture, and the coupling means (9) pass 

through the aperture between the sidewall element (5'') and one of the print head 
structure (6) and nozzle carrier (2). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of Claims 11 to 14 which, in 
order to seal the cavity, includes a first said sheet gasket (11) between the  

 
sidewall element (5'') and the print head structure and a second said sheet 

gasket (11) between the sidewall element (5'') and the nozzle carrier (2). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 9, in which the coating layer (11) 
is approximately 50µm thick. 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 9 or Claim 16, in which the 
coating layer (11) covers substantially a
ll of a surface of the sidewall element (5'') 
which faces one of the print head structure (6) and the nozzle carrier (2). 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims which 
includes an O-ring (7) for sealing the ink cavity. 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in Claim 18 when dependent upon Claim 
8 in which the O-ring (7) and the layer of material (11) are integral with one 

another. 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in 
which the print head structure (6) comprises an ink manifold on which a 

disturbance generator is mounted. 
An ink jet droplet generator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in 
which the coupling means (9) is located outside the ink cavity. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
