<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657826</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Interprocessor boot-up handshake for upgrade identification.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F938	G06F938	G06F9445	G06F9445	G06F1314	G06F1314	G06F1338	G06F1338	G06F1516	G06F15177	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F13	G06F13	G06F13	G06F13	G06F15	G06F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A traditional uniprocessing computer system is provided 
with an upgrade socket for receiving an additional processor 

integrated circuit that need not be of a single predetermined 
type. On system RESET, the original CPU receives an 

UPGRADE_ID from the upgrade socket and determines if an agent 
is resident in the socket and if so what kind of agent is 

present. Each upgrade processor is equipped with a 
programmed data word with information indicating its 

parameters. The system then initializes properly according 
to the configuration of processors present. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHORI AMAR A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLBERT ADALBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRICK ROBERT F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHORI, AMAR A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLBERT, ADALBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRICK, ROBERT F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of computer 
processing systems. More particularly, the present invention 
relates to the field of upgrading computer systems, 
particularly those employing microprocessors. Microprocessor based computer systems frequently employ 
printed circuit boards (PCBs) containing connectors or 
sockets which physically hold the microprocessor integrated 
circuit and provide electrical connections between the 
microprocessor and the remainder of the computer system via 
wirings etched in the PCB. These computer systems frequently 
rely on a single microprocessor to carry out all processing 
operations for the computer system. One drawback of the 
single processor computer system is that the single processor 
effectively creates a bottleneck in the system thus limiting 
the overall speed and power of the computer. As computer users require greater and greater processing 
capabilities, the ability to upgrade to a faster processor or 
to add additional functions or features becomes more  
 
important. One solution that computer developers have 
embarked upon to increase the performance of computer systems 
is to provide for the sharing of processing duties. It is 
now possible to add a math coprocessor chip to many computer 
systems which takes on many of the mathematical tasks for the 
central processing unit (CPU). Other enhancements that have 
been developed are graphics processors which handle the 
processing of graphical information to free the CPU to 
perform other tasks. These types of upgrades work in 
conjunction with and at the behest of the single CPU. Other enhancements for computer systems include the use 
of two or more central processing units in what is known as a 
multiprocessing environment. When multiple processing units 
are implemented, they divide the processing work up to 
increase the overall performance of the computer system. 
Conventional multiprocessing systems are much more expensive 
than uniprocessing systems because the hardware to support 
multiple processor can be very complicated and the protocols 
for implementing multiprocessing are complex. In an effort to make low cost entry level computer 
systems economically accessible to the mass market, it has 
been necessary to design simple systems which can be readily 
upgraded simply by the addition of the various coprocessor 
chips described above. This will usually entail leaving on 
the PCB of the computer system several empty sockets which 
are coupled to the single CPU. Each of the empty
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a computer system having a first central 
processing unit, a memory bus in communication with said 

central processing unit, and an upgrade socket in 
communication with said central processing unit over a 

communications signal path, an upgrade processor for use said 
computer system comprising: 

   a memory element for storing identification information 
about said upgrade processor; and 

   means for signaling over said communications signal path 
the presence of said upgrade processor in said upgrade socket 

to said central processing unit, 
   said memory element providing said identification 

information to said central processing unit over said 
communications signal path when said upgrade processor's 

presence has been detected by said central processing unit. 
The upgrade processor of claim 1 wherein said 
memory bus comprises a plurality of signal lines, said 

upgrade processor utilizing one of said plurality of signal 
lines as said communications signal path for serially 

providing said identification information to said central 
processing unit. 
The upgrade processor of claim 1 wherein said 
memory bus comprises a plurality of signal lines, said 

upgrade processor utilizing said memory bus as said 
communications signal path to provide said identification 

information in parallel to said central processing unit. 
The upgrade processor of claim 1 wherein said 
identification information is provided serially to said 

central processing unit over said communications signal path. 
The upgrade processor of claim 1 wherein said 
identification information is provided in parallel to said 

central processing unit over said communications signal path. 
The upgrade processor of claim 1 wherein said 
memory element comprises a shift register responsive to a 

clock signal provided by said computer system, said shift 
register shifting said identification information to said 

central processing unit over said communications signal path. 
The upgrade processor of claim 6 further comprising 
a counter responsive to said clock signal, said counter for 

counting clock cycles equivalent to the number of bits to be 
transferred from said shift register, said counter providing 

a DONE signal indicating when said identification information 
transfer is complete. 
The upgrade processor of claim 7 further 
comprising: 

   bi-directional buffers which may be configured for 
transmitting or receiving over said communications signal 

path; and 
   a flag flip-flop responsive to a signal indicating that 

said upgrade processor is an upgrade processor, said flag 
flip-flop being coupled to said counter, 

   said flag flip-flop for controlling said bi-directional 
buffers to be output drivers until said counter provides said 

DONE signal. 
The upgrade processor of claim 7 wherein said shift 
register is an 8-bit shift register and said counter is a 3-bit 

counter. 
The upgrade processor of claim 1 wherein said means 
for signaling the presence of said upgrade processor 

comprises a resistor for pulling the signal value on a signal 
line coupling said central processing unit and said upgrade 

socket. 
In a computer system having a central processing 
unit, and a memory bus in communication with said central 

processing unit, an apparatus for utilizing said computer 
system with an upgrade processor comprising:

 
   an upgrade socket for receiving an integrated circuit 

package; 
   a communications signal path for coupling said central 

processing unit to said upgrade socket for providing for the 
exchange of signals between said central processing unit and 

an upgrade processor when an upgrade processor is present in 
said upgrade socket; 

   a memory element incorporated in said upgrade processor 
for storing identification information about said upgrade 

processor, said upgrade processor providing said 
identification information to said central processing unit 

over said communications signal path. 
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said 
communications signal path comprises: 

   a first signal line for indicating the presence of said 
upgrade processor in said upgrade socket to said central 

processing unit; and 
   a second signal line for serially conveying said 

identification information from said upgrade processor to 
said central processing unit. 
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said 
communications signal path comprises a plurality of signal 

lines for conveying said upgrade information in parallel from 
said upgrade processor to said central processing unit. 
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said memory 
element comprises a shift register for serially shifting said 

identification information over said second signal line. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said shift 
register is responsive to a clock signal provided by said 

computer system, said apparatus further comprising a counter 
responsive to said clock signal, said counter for counting 

clock cycles equivalent to the number of bits to be 
transferred from said shift register, said counter providing 

a DONE signal indicating when said identification information 
transfer is complete. 
The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising: 
   bi-directional buffers incorporated on said upgrade 

processor which may be configured for transmitting or 
receiving over said communications signal path; and 

   a flag flip-flop incorporated on said upgrade processor 
responsive to a signal indicating that said upgrade processor 

is an upgrade processor, said flag flip-flop being coupled to 
said counter, 

   said flag flip-flop for controlling said bi-directional 
buffers to be output drivers until said counter provides said 

DONE signal. 
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said computer 
system configures itself according to the type of upgrade 

processor present in said upgrade socket. 
In a computer system having a central processing 
unit, an upgrade socket for housing an upgrade processor, and 

a communications signal path coupling said central processing 
unit to said upgrade socket, the improvement to said central 

processing unit comprising: 
   means for detecting the presence of an upgrade processor 

in said upgrade socket; and 
   a memory element for receiving identification 

information over said communications signal path from an 
upgrade processor when one is present in said upgrade socket. 
The improvement of claim 18 wherein said 
communications signal path comprises: 

   a first signal line for indicating the presence of said 
upgrade processor in said upgrade socket to said central 

processing unit; and 
   a second signal line for serially conveying said 

identification information from said upgrade processor to 
said central processing unit. 
The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said 
communications signal path comprises a plurality of signal 

 
lines for conveying said upgrade information in 
parallel from 
said upgrade processor to said central processing unit. 
The improvement of claim 19 wherein said memory 
element comprises a shift register for serially receiving 

said identification information over said second signal line 
from said upgrade processor. 
The improvement of claim 21 wherein said shift 
register is responsive to a clock signal provided by said 

computer system, said improvement further comprising a 
counter responsive to said clock signal, said counter for 

counting clock cycles equivalent to the number of bits to be 
transferred from said shift register, said counter providing 

a DONE signal indicating when said identification information 
transfer is complete. 
The improvement of claim 22 further comprising: 
   bi-directional buffers which may be configured for 

transmitting or receiving over said communications signal 
path; and 

   a flag flip-flop responsive to a signal indicating that 
said central processing unit is an central processing unit, 

said flag flip-flop being coupled to said counter, 
   said flag flip-flop for controlling said bi-directional 

buffers to be output drivers until said counter provides said 
DONE signal. 
The improvement of claim 23 wherein said shift 
register is an 8-bit shift register and said counter is a 3-bit 

counter. 
The improvement of claim 18 wherein said central 
processing unit configures said computer system according to 

the type of processor present in said upgrade socket. 
In a computer system having a first central 
processing unit (CPU), a memory bus coupled to said first 

CPU, at least a first upgrade socket for receiving a first 
upgrade processor and a communications signal path coupling 

said first CPU to said first upgrade socket, a method of 
identifying said first upgrade processor to said first CPU 

comprising the steps of: 

a) storing an identification data word in said first 
upgrade processor, said data word comprising information 

about said first upgrade processor; 
b) supplying said identification data word from said 
first upgrade processor to said first CPU over said 

communications signal path; and 
c) initializing said computer system according to the 
type of upgrade processor present in said first upgrade 

socket, if any. 
The method of claim 26 wherein said computer system 
further comprises an additional plurality of upgrade sockets 

for receiving an additional plurality of upgrade processors, 
said communications signal path further being coupled to each 

of said plurality of upgrade sockets, said method further 
comprising: 

   repeating steps a) and b) for each of said plurality of 
upgrade processors; and 

   in step c) initializing said computer system according 
to the type of upgrade processors present in each of said 

upgrade sockets, if any. 
The method according to claim 26 wherein before 
said supplying step said method further comprises the step of 

said first upgrade processor indicating its presence to said 
first CPU over said communications signal path. 
The method according to claim 28 wherein if said 
first CPU determines said first upgrade processor is a 

compatible upgrade processor incapable of multiprocessing 
with said first CPU but capable of at least executing the 

complete instruction set as said first CPU, said 
initialization step c) comprises the steps of: 

   said computer system disabling said first CPU; and 
   said computer system operating with said first upgrade 

processor as said computer system's primary CPU. 
The method according to claim 28 wherein if said 
first CPU determines said first upgrade processor is a 

compatible upgrade and is capable of multiprocessing with 
said first CPU, said computer system further comprising a 

private communications bus coupling said first CPU and said 
first upgrade processor, said initialization step c) 

comprising the step of initializing said computer system to 
perform as a multiprocessing system. 
The method according to claim 28 wherein if said 
first CPU determines said first upgrade processor is not a 

compatible upgrade, said initialization step c) comprising 
the steps of: 

   said first CPU requesting over said communications 
signal path the desired memory location for said first 

upgrade processor's microcode; 
   said first CPU loading said microcode at said desired 

location; and 
   said first CPU waking up said first upgrade processor. 
The method according to claim 28 wherein if said 
first CPU determines said first upgrade socket houses a 

processor incapable of using said communications signal path 
properly, said method further comprises the step of disabling 

the upgrade processor in said upgrade socket. 
In a computer system having a central processing 
unit (CPU), a memory bus coupled to said CPU, an upgrade 

socket for receiving an integrated circuit package, and a 
plurality of signal lines coupled between said upgrade socket 

and said CPU, a method for utilizing said computer system 
comprising the steps of: 

   providing an upgrade processor in said upgrade socket; 
   indicating the presence of said upgrade processor to 

said CPU; 
   conveying identification information from said upgrade 

processor to said first CPU; 
   if said upgrade processor is a Turbo processor, 

initializing said computer system with said upgrade processor 
as the system's CPU and disabling said first CPU; and 

   if said upgrade processor is a multiprocessing-ready 
processor, initializing said computer system with said first 

CPU and said upgrade processor operating in tandem as a dual-processing 
system. 
The method of claim 33 wherein said plurality of 
signal lines includes a first signal line held in a first 

signal state, said indicating the presence step comprising 
the step of said upgrade processor driving said first signal 

line to a second signal state. 
The method of claim 34 wherein said plurality of 
signal lines further includes a second signal line, said 

 
conveying identification information step comprising serially 

propagating said stored identification information from said 
upgrade processor to said first CPU over said second signal 

line. 
The method of claim 34 wherein said conveying 
identification information step comprises propagating said 

stored identification information in parallel from said 
upgrade processor to said first CPU over said plurality of 

signal lines. 
The method of claim 33 wherein said initializing 
step if said upgrade processor is a Turbo processor comprises 

the steps of: 
   granting the memory bus to said upgrade processor; and 

   shutting down said first CPU. 
The method of claim 33 wherein said initializing 
step if said upgrade processor is a multiprocessing-ready 

processor comprises the steps of: 
   activating a multiprocessing arbitration mechanism in 

said first CPU; 
   sending an interprocessor interrupt to said upgrade 

processor with a vector identifying a starting memory 
location for said upgrade processor; and 

   waking up said upgrade processor to operate in tandem 
with said first CPU. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
