<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612207</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROTECTION OF PLANTS AGAINST PLANT PATHOGENS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01H100	A01H100	A01H500	A01H500	C12N510	C12N510	C12N936	C12N936	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1582	C12N1582	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01H	A01H	A01H	A01H	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01H1	A01H1	A01H5	A01H5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Transgenic plants that express properly processed ruminant or ruminant-like lysozymes and that are resistant to bacterial pathogens, including both gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria, are provided. A preferred embodiment provides transgenic tobacco plants that express a sufficient concentration of properly processed bovine lysozyme c2 to render the plants less susceptible to bacterial plant pathogens. Methods and compositions for treatment of plants, seeds and other plant tissues prior to or after exposure or infection with bacterial plant pathogens are also provided. In particular, compositions and methods of contacting plants with such compositions that contain a concentration of bovine lysozyme c2 or other ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme are provided. A signal sequence that is effective for properly processing heterologous proteins that are expressed in transgenic plants is also provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMART PLANTS INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMART PLANTS INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FITZMAURICE LEONA CLAIRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRKOV THEODORE ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FITZMAURICE LEONA CLAIRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRKOV THEODORE ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROTECTION OF PLANTS AGAINST PLANT PATHOGENSRELATED APPLICATIONS The subject matter of this application is related to U.S. Application Serial No. 07/265,634, to Digan et a_L_., filed November 1, 1988, "PRODUCTION OF ANIMAL LYSOZYME C VIA SECRETION FROM PICHIA PASTORIS AND COMPOSITION THEREFOR", which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application Serial No. 07/115,940, filed November 2, 1987, now abandoned. U.S Application Serial Nos. 07/265,634 and 07/115,940 are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference thereto.FIELD OF INVENTION This invention is directed to transgenic plants that include heterologous DNA that encodes a ruminant lysozyme, that is expressed in the plant and that thereby provides protection against diseases caused by plant pathogens, particularly plant bacterial pathogens. This invention is also directed to seeds that are coated with a composition that contains a ruminant lysozyme and to methods of treating plants, cut flowers, fruits, seeds and other plant tissues, which are infected with one or more plant pathogens or which are susceptible to such infection, by contacting the plants, flowers, fruits or seeds with a ruminant lysozyme in order to treat them for diseases caused by plant pathogens or to make them less susceptible or resistant to diseases caused by plant pathogens. This invention is also directed to methods for producing a ruminant lysozyme from transgenic plants that express the lysozyme and to peptides that direct proper processing of heterologous proteins in transgenic plants. 

 BAC GROUND OF THE INVENTION Plant Pathogens.Plants are exposed to numerous denizens of their environment, including bacteria, viruses, fungi and nematodes. Although many of the interactions between these organisms and plants, particularly via the roots of the plants, are beneficial, many of the interactions are harmful to the plants. The decimation of agricultural crops, ornamental plants and other plants by diseases caused by plant pathogens, particularly bacterial pathogens, is a worldwide problem that has enormous economic impact.There are many pathogenic species of bacteria, fungi and nematodes. Fungal plant pathogens include species from the genera Fusarium. Pythium. Phytophthora. Verticilliumf Rhizoctonia. Macrophomina. and others (see, e.σ.. U.S. Patent No. 4,940,840 to Suslow et al.) . Diseases caused by such fungal species include pre- and post-emergence seedling damping-off, hypocotyl rots, root rots, crown rots, and others. Nematode pathogens, which include species from the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A transgenic plant that is resistant to plant pathogens, comprising heterologous DNA encoding a ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme, wherein the plant expresses sufficient levels of the lysozyme to render it less susceptible to said pathogens than the wild-type plant, which is susceptible to said pathogens and which does not express the lysozyme.
2. The transgenic plant of claim 1, wherein the transgenic plant is rendered resistant to at least one of said pathogens.
3. The transgenic plant of claim 1, wherein said pathogens include species selected from the group consisting of Pseudomonas. Erwinia. Agrobacteria. Xanthomonas. and Clavibacter.
4. The transgenic plant of claim 1, wherein said pathogens include Agrobacterium tumefaciens.
Pseudomonas tolaasii. Pseudomonas solanacearum.
Pseudomonas syringae. Xanthomonas campestris and Erwinia carotovora.
5. The transgenic plant of claim 1, wherein said plant is a dicotyledonous plant.
6. The transgenic plant of claim 1, wherein said plant is a monocotyledonous plant.
7. The transgenic plant of claim 1, wherein said plant is a potato, tomato, rice or tobacco plant.
8. The transgenic plant of claim 1, wherein said lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c. 


 9. Plant cells, comprising heterologous DNA encoding a ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme.
10. The plant cells of claim 9, wherein said lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c.
11. Plant protoplasts, comprising heterologous DNA encoding a ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme.
12. The plant protoplasts of claim 11, wherein said lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c.
13. Seeds produced from the transgenic plant of claim 1, wherein said seeds contain heterologous DNA encoding a ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme.
14. The seeds of claim 13, wherein said lysozyme is bovine lysozyme c.
15. A transgenic plant, comprising heterologous DNA encoding a protein or peptide that includes a signal peptide, wherein: said signal peptide directs transport of the protein through the processing pathway of the plant, whereby the mature protein is produced; and said signal peptide includes amino acids that have the sequence set forth in sequence ID No. 2.
16. A method for directing transport of a heterologous protein through the processing pathway of a transgenic plant, comprising operatively linking a signal peptide to said heterologous protein, wherein said signal peptide includes amino acids that have the sequence set forth in sequence ID No. 2. 


 17. A method for treating plants, plant tissues, seeds, or cut flowers that are infected with one or more plant pathogens, comprising contacting said plants, tissues, seeds or cut flowers with an effective amount of a composition that contains a ruminant or ruminant-lysozyme, wherein said amount is effective for inhibiting or eradicating said pathogen.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein said lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein said pathogens include species selected from the group consisting of Pseudomonas. Erwinia. Agrobacteria. Xanthomonas. and Clavibacter.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein said pathogens include Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Pseudomonas tolaasii. Pseudomonas solanacearu . Pseudomonas syringae. Xanthomonas campestris and Erwinia carotovora.
21. A method for treating a plants, plant tissues, seeds, or cut flowers to render them less susceptible to one or more plant pathogens, comprising contacting said plants, tissues, seeds or cut flowers with an effective amount of a composition that contains a ruminant or ruminant-lysozyme, wherein said amount is effective for inhibiting or eradicating said pathogen, and said plants are rendered less susceptible to said pathogen than prior to said treatment.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein said plants, plant tissues, seeds and cut flowers are rendered resistant to at least one of said pathogens. 


 23. The method of claim 21, wherein said lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein said pathogens include species selected from the group consisting of Pseudomonas. Erwinia. Agrobacteria. Xanthomonas. and Clavibacter.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein said pathogens include Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Pseudomonas tolaasii. Pseudomonas solanacearum, Pseudomonas syringa . Xanthomonas campestris and Erwinia carotovora.
26. The method of claim 17, wherein said treatment is repeated a plurality of times until said pathogen or pathogens is (are) eradicated.
27. The method of claim 17, wherein said treatment is applied to a plant and is repeated a plurality of times until said plant is harvested.
28. The method of claim 21, wherein said treatment is repeated a plurality of times.
29. A method for inhibiting the growth of plant pathogenic bacteria, comprising contacting said bacteria with an effective amount of a ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein said lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein said pathogens include species selected from the group consisting of Pseudomonas. Erwinia, Agrobacteria. Xanthomonas. and Clavibacter. 


 32. The method of claim 29, wherein said pathogens include Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Pseudomonas tolaasii. Pseudomonas solanacearum. Pseudomonas syringae. Xanthomonas campestris and Erwinia carotovora.
33. A method for inhibiting the growth of or eradicating gram-negative bacteria, comprising contacting said bacteria with an effective amount of a ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein said lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c.
35. The method of claim 33, wherein said bacteria include species selected from the group consisting of Erwinia. Pseudomonas. Escherichia and Xanthomonas.
36. A composition, comprising an effective concentration of a ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme, wherein said concentration is effective for inhibiting the growth of plant pathogenic bacteria.
37. The composition of claim 36, wherein said pathogens include species selected from the group consisting of Pseudomonas. Erwinia, Agrobacteria. Xanthomonas. and Clavibacter.
38. The composition of claim 36, wherein said pathogens include Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Pseudomonas tolaasii. Pseudomonas solanacearum. Pseudomonas syringae. Xanthomonas campestris and Erwinia carotovora.
39. The composition of claim 36, wherein said concentration is between about 25 ppm and 400 ppm. 


 40. A method for producing ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme, comprising: cultivating a transgenic plant that expresses heterologous DNA that encodes said lysozyme; and isolating the ruminant lysozyme from the tissues of said plant.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein said lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c.
42. The method of claim 17, wherein said treatment is applied to seeds and said contacting is effected by coating said seeds with said composition.
43. The method of claim 21, wherein said treatment is applied to seeds and said contacting is effected by coating said seeds with said composition.
44. A composition, comprising an effective concentration of a ruminant or ruminant-like lysozyme, wherein said concentration is effective for inhibiting the growth of gram-negative bacteria.
45. The composition of claim 44, wherein the lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c.
46. The composition of claim 36, wherein the lysozyme is a bovine lysozyme c. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
