<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654916</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method of multiple access.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B724	H04B724	H04B726	H04B726	H04J300	H04J300	H04J316	H04J316	H04L1256	H04L1256	H04W1600	H04W1602	H04W1612	H04W1624	H04W2802	H04W2804	H04W7200	H04W7204	H04W7400	H04W7404	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04J3	H04J3	H04J3	H04J3	H04L12	H04L12	H04W16	H04W16	H04W16	H04W16	H04W28	H04W28	H04W72	H04W72	H04W74	H04W74	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low delay multiple access scheme called Shared Time-Division
Duplexing (STDD), allows both uplink and downlink voice traffic to share a

common channel. The scheme contains separate uplink and downlink control
channels and a common voice information channel. The control channels comprise

means for signalling voice requirements and acknowledgements of the time slot
allocation. Using speech activity detection only, talk spurt speech packets are

generated for transmission. STDD dynamically allocates time slots in the common
information channel taking advantage of co-ordinated two-way conversations to

achieve high statistical multiplexing gain and more efficient realization of the
common information channel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SESHADRI NAMBIRAJAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNDBERG CARL-ERIK WILHELM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WONG WAI-CHOONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SESHADRI, NAMBIRAJAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNDBERG, CARL-ERIK WILHELM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WONG, WAI-CHOONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates a multiple access scheme for a communication 
system. The design of a communication network or system involves evaluating 
physical constraints (e.g. the characteristics of a given communication channel) and 
system constraints (e.g. the available bandwidth per channel) in order to achieve a 
network with desired performance characteristics (e.g. reliability of the information 
received). Design of wireless communications, in particular design of the cellular 
and microcellular communications networks, has proven challenging. Cellular 
systems typically require low throughput delay of information and high reliability of 
information transfer and high capacity while restricting the bandwidth of each 
cellular frequency band. FIG. 1 illustrates the components of a cellular or microcellular 
communications network. Cell 102 represents a portion of the geographic area 
served by the system. Within each cell is base station 105 which is connected to the 
public telephone network. Base station 105 establishes a wireless link with users 
110-i,i=1,... N, wishing to transmit and receive information (i.e. digital data 
representing text, speech, video, etc.) via the public telephone network. The wireless 
link between any given user, 110 - i and base station 105, is comprised of an uplink 
Ui for transmitting information from a user to base station 105 and then to the 
telephone network and of a downlink Di for transmitting information received by the 
base station from the telephone network to the user. Typically, concerns over throughput delay and efficient utilization of 
bandwidth resources in a network can be addressed by proper design or exploitation 
of modulation techniques, speech coding methods, channel coding and equalization 
schemes. See, J.J.C. Chang, R.A. Miska and R.A. Shober, "Wireless Systems and 
Technologies: An Overview," AT&T Tech. J., Vol. 72, No.4, pp. 11-18, July/August 
1993; T.P. Bursh, Jr. et al., "Digital Radio for Mobile Applications," AT&T Tech. J., 
Vol. 72, No. 4, pp. 19-26, July/August 1993; and N. Seshadri, C-E.W. Sundberg and 
V. Weerackody, "Advanced Techniques for Modulation, Error Correction, Channel 
Equalization, and Diversity," AT&T Tech. J., Vol. 72, No.4, pp. 48-63, July/August 
1993. For example, to minimize delay, space diversity in conjunction with a small 
degree of channel coding can be used. Low rate speech coders, such as ADPCM,  
 
EDPCM or LD-CELP, and modulation methods, such as pseudo-analog skewed 
DPSK, are also well suited to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a communication system adapted to communicate information 
between user pairs in a set of N user pairs, a method of allocating slots comprising 

the steps of: 
   generating a set of frames, wherein each frame in said set of frames 

comprises S slots for communicating information, and 
   assigning to a first user in a user pair, only when said first user requests 

a slot to communicate information, a first slot for communicating information to a 
second user in said user pair, said first slot being assigned as one of either an uplink 

or a downlink slot, and 
   assigning to a second user in said user pair, only when said second user 

requests another slot to communicate information to said first user in said user pair, a 
second slot for communicating information, said second slot being assigned as the 

other of said uplink or said downlink slot. 
The method of claim 1 further comprises uplink control slots and 
downlink control, wherein each uplink control slot comprises information indicating 

whether a first user assigned to the uplink control slot is transmitting information and 
indicating which uplink control slot is assigned to said first user, and wherein each 

downlink control slot comprises information indicating whether a second user 
assigned to the downlink control slot is transmitting information and indicating 

which downlink control slot is assigned to said second user. 
The method of claim 2 wherein said uplink control slots and said 
downlink control slots are each C in number wherein N is a multiple of C and 

wherein K = N/C is the duty cycle to service said N user pairs. 
The method of claim 1 wherein each frame in said set of frames 
further comprises uplink control slots and downlink control slots and wherein said 

step of assigning to said first user further comprises the steps of: 
   sending status information in a control slot allocated to said first user 

user when said first user requests said slot, and 
   allocating slots to US and to DS in response to said status information. 
The method of claim 1 wherein S is a function of the amount of 
information that can be lost in transmission, the transmission activity of users in said 

set of N user pairs and the total number of user pairs, N. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said slots in said S slots are assigned 
to a user in a user pair on a first come-first served basis. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of sending second 
status information in a control slot assigned to a user in a user pair when said user 

has no more information to communicate in the assigned slot. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said communicated information is 
communicated using pseudo-analog skewed DPSK. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of assigning at 
least one of the A unassigned slots as a random acc
ess contention channel for call set 
up when new users wish to access said communication system. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said uplink control slots are 
communicated prior to said downlink control slots. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said S slots are equally assigned to 
US and DS until such time that US or DS require more than S/2 slots. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said uplink control slots and said 
downlink control slots are each C in number, wherein said user pairs are N in 

number, wherein N is a multiple of C and wherein K = N/C is the duty cycle to 
service all N user pairs. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the A unassigned slots are 
positioned between the US uplink slots and the DS downlink slots. 
The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of assigning the 
US uplink slots and DS downlink slots from opposite ends of the S information slots. 
A method for use in a communication system adapted to 
communicate information in a frame, said frame comprising S slots for 

communicating information, said method comprising the steps of: 
   assigning to a first user in a user pair, only when said first user requests 

a slot to communicate information, a first slot for communicating information to a 
second user in said user pair, said first slot being assigned as one of either an uplink 

slot or a downlink slot, and 
   thereafter assigning to a second user in said user pair, a second slot for 

communicating information, said second slot being assigned as the other of said 
uplink or said downlink slot, said second slot being assigned only when said second 

user has information to be communicated to said first user. 
The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of: 
   sending first status information in a control slot allocated to a particular 

user in a user pair when said particular user requests a slot. 
The method of claim 16 wherein said said S slots are partitioned in 
response to said status information. 
In a communication system adapted to communicate information in 
slots from users to said communication system and from said communication system 

to said users, a method comprising the steps of: 
   generating a set of frames, wherein each frame in said set of frames 

comprises said slots for communicating information, 
   allocating to a first user a slot for communicating information, said slot 

being allocated as an uplink slot from said first user to said communication system, 
and 

   thereafter allocating to a second user the same slot for communicating 
information, said same slot being allocated as a downlink slot from said 

communication system to said second user, said same slot being assigned only when 
said second user has information to be communicated to said first user. 
In a cellular communication system adapted to communicate 
information on uplink slots from users to a base station in said communication 

system and to communicate information on downlink slots from said base station in 
said communication system to said users, a method comprising the steps of: 

   generating a set of frames, wherein each frame in said set of frames 
comprises slots for communicating information, 

   allocating to a first user a slot for communicating information, said slot 
being allocated as an uplink slot from said first user to said base station in said 

communication system, and 
   thereafter allocating to a second user the same slot for communicating 

information, said same slot being allocated as a downlink slot from said base station 
in said communication system to said second user. 
A method for use in a base station of a communication system in 
which each of a plurality of remote stations communicates to said base station in an 

uplink slot of a time division multiplex frame and receives communications from 
said base station in a downlink slot of said frame, said method comprising the steps 

of: 
   receiving a request from a particular one of the remote stations for the 

assignment of an uplink slot to that remote station, 
   in response to said request, assigning to said particular remote station a 

particular first one of the slots of said frame as an uplink slot without also assigning 
a downlink slot to said particular remote station in response to said request, and 

   thereafter assigning to said particular remote station a particular second 
one of the slots of said frame as a downlink only when said base station has received 

communications destined for said particular remote station. 
A method for use in a base station of a communication system in 
which remote stations communicate to said base station in assigned uplink slots of a 

time division multiplex frame and receive communications from said base station in 
assigned downlink slots of said frame, said method comprising the step of: 

   assigning individual ones of the slots of said frame to ones of said 
remote stations as uplink slots at a first time and assigning those same slots to others 

of said remote stations as downlink slots at a subsequent time. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
