<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630476</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MEASURING PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF MATERIALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2302	G01N2309	G01N2320	G01N2320	G01N2322	G01N2322	G01N3338	G01N3338	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N23	G01N23	G01N23	G01N23	G01N23	G01N23	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TROXLER ELECTRONIC LAB INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TROXLER ELECTRONIC LABORATORIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRATT JAMES DANIEL JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRATT, JAMES, DANIEL, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
t*APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MEASURING PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF MATERIALSField of the Invention This invention relates to an apparatus and a ' method for measuring the physical characteristics of materials. 5 Background of the InventionOne problem facing the construction industry is controlling the quality or strength of concrete in structures such as buildings and roadways. Fresh concrete requires about twenty eight days to cure to10 its full strength, and so compressive strength tests can be performed on fully set concrete only after a significant delay between pouring of the fresh concrete and curing. Accelerated curing techniques have been employed to shorten the time, but any method that15 determines the strength of concrete after it has been poured into a structure at a construction site generally is considered too late.A correlation between the water to cement ratio of fresh, unhardened concrete and the ultimate20 strength of a fully cured concrete has been used to predict the ultimate attainable strength of fresh concrete. In connection therewith, several methods have been proposed and there are some ASTM standards for separately measuring the water and cement contents25 of fresh concrete mix. Most of these methods generally rely upon laboratory procedures such as mechanical separation and weighing of the concrete components, 

which are time consuming and involved and are not suitable for fast, on-site determination of concrete quality. Examples of these methods are contained in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,196,614 and 4,615,215. Various nuclear apparatus and methods have also been proposed for separately determining either the water content or the cement content of a fresh concrete mix, but problems have been encountered. United States Patent No. 3,911,271 to Mitchell relates to one such portable nuclear device for determining the cement content of fresh concrete, but the device apparently never was commercialized. The Mitchell nuclear cement content gauge used a sodium iodide scintillation crystal and was subject to electronic drift over time and in response to temperature changes: The Mitchell nuclear cement content gauge has been extensively reported.on by the Federal Highway Administration in its report Nos. FHWA-RD-73-48, FHWA- RD-75-63, FH A-RD-75-525, and FHWA-TS-78-201. See also report No. 284 of the National Cooperative Highway Research Program, which was published in June, 1986.With the foregoing problems in mind, it is an object of the present invention to overcome the limitations of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. An instrument for measuring physical characteristics of a test material, comprising: an instrument housing; first and second movable probes associated with said housing, each being adapted to be individually positioned in measuring contact with a sample of the test material for obtaining a measurement therefrom, said first movable probe including means for obtaining a measurement of a first physical property of the test material, and said second movable probe including means for obtaining a measurement of a second physical property of the test material different from said first physical property; an electronic circuit operatively connected to said first and second probes and including means for receiving from said probes respective first and second signals indicative of the measurements of said first and second physical properties, and means for determining from said signals a value for at least one physical characteristic of the test material; and a display device carried by said housing and being operatively connected to said electronic circuit for displaying to the user said value.
2. An instrument according to Claim 1 wherein said first movable probe includes means for generating a signal indicative of the moisture content of the test material and said second movable probe includes means for generating a signal indicative of the composition of the test material.
3. An instrument according to Claim 1 wherein said means for determining a value comprises means for determining from said first and second signals, which are indicative of first and second physical properties of the material, a value for a 


third physical property of the material different from said first and second physical properties.
4. An instrument according to Claim 3 wherein the test material is fresh, unhardened concrete mix, and said first movable probe includes means for generating a signal indicative of the moisture content of the concrete mix and said second movable probe includes means for generating a signal indicative of the cement content of the concrete mix, and wherein said means for determining a value comprises means for determining from said moisture content and said cement content a value for the ultimate strength of the hardened concrete.
5. An instrument according to Claim 1 wherein said first and second probes each comprise a low activity radiation source and a radiation detector, and wherein said instrument housing includes first and second shielded storage receptacles for receiving and storing the respective first and second probes when the probes are not in use.
6. An instrument according to Claim 5 additionally including a reference standard associated with each of said first and second storage receptacles to permit verification of the accuracy of said radiation detectors in the respective probes when said probes are positioned in the storage receptacles.
7. An instrument according to Claim 5 wherein said first probe includes a low activity neutron radiation source for emitting fast neutrons into the test material, and a thermal neutron detector mounted in predetermined spaced relationship to said neutron source for detecting thermal neutrons that have 


been moderated by neutron moderating elements present in the test material.
8. An instrument according to Claim 7 wherein said first probe is of an elongate cylindrical configuration, said thermal neutron detector comprises a 
3
He tube located in said cylinder, and said neutron source is centered on the 
3
He tube.
9. An instrument according to Claim 5 wherein said second probe includes a low activity gamma radiation source for emitting gamma radiation into the test material, and a gamma radiation detector mounted in predetermined spaced relationship to said gamma radiation source for gamma radiation that has been backscattered from the test material.
10. An instrument according to Claim 9 wherein said second probe is of an elongate cylindrical configuration, said gamma radiation source is located adjacent one end of the elongate cylindrical probe, said gamma radiation detector includes an X-ray proportional counter located adjacent the opposite end of the elongate cylindrical probe, and said second probe further comprises shielding positioned between said source and said counter and between said source and said opposite end of said probe.
11. An instrument for measuring physical characteristics of a test material, comprising: an instrument housing; first and second movable probes associated with said housing, each being adapted to be individually positioned in measuring contact with a sample of the test material for obtaining a measurement therefrom. 


 said first movable probe including a low activity neutron radiation source for emitting fast neutrons into the test material, and a thermal neutron detector mounted in predetermined spaced relationship to said neutron source for detecting thermal neutrons that have been moderated by hydrogen present in the test material and for thereby generating a signal that is indicative of the moisture content of the test material, and said second movable probe including a low activity gamma radiation source for emitting gamma radiation into the test material, and a gamma radiation detector mounted in predetermined spaced relationship to said gamma radiation source for detecting gamma radiation that has been backscattered from the test material for thereby generating a signal that is indicative of the composition of the test material; a electronic circuit operatively connected to said first and second probes and including means for receiving from said probes respective first and second signals indicative of the moisture content and the composition of the test material, and means for determining from said signals a value for at least one physical characteristic of the test material; and a display device carried by said housing and being operatively connected to said electronic circuit for displaying to the user said value.
12. An instrument according to Claim 11 wherein said electronic circuit includes means for independently displaying via said display device, a value for the moisture content and the composition of the test material.
13. An instrument according to Claim 11 wherein said instrument housing comprises first and second shielded storage receptacles for receiving and 


storing the respective first and second probes when the probes are not in use.
14. An instrument according to Claim 13 additionally including a reference standard associated with each of said first and second storage receptacles to permit verification of the accuracy of said radiation detectors in the respective probes when said probes are positioned in the storage receptacles.
15. An instrument for measuring the projected ultimate strength of hardened concrete by physical measurements taken on a test sample of the concrete mix in the unhardened plastic state; said instrument comprising: a sample container including a pan adapted for receiving a test sample of concrete mix in the unhardened plastic state, and an elongate access tube centrally mounted in the pan so as to be substantially surrounded by concrete mix when the pan is filled with concrete mix; an instrument housing; first and second elongate movable probes associated with said housing, each being adapted to be individually positioned in the elongate access tube of said sample container in measuring contact with a sample of the concrete mix for obtaining a measurement therefrom, said first movable probe including a low activity neutron radiation source for emitting fast neutrons into the test material, and a thermal neutron detector mounted in predetermined spaced relationship to said neutron source for detecting thermal neutrons that have been moderated by hydrogen present in the test material and for thereby generating a signal which is indicative of the moisture content of the concrete mix, and 


 said second movable probe including a low activity gamma radiation source for emitting gamma radiation into the concrete mix, and a gamma radiation detector mounted in predetermined spaced relationship to said gamma radiation source for detecting gamma radiation that has been backscattered from the concrete mix for thereby generating a signal which is indicative of the cement content of the concrete mix; an electronic circuit operatively connected to said first and second probes and including means for receiving from said probes respective first and second signals indicative of the moisture content and the • cement content of the concrete mix, and means for determining from said signals a value for the projected ultimate strength of the concrete after hardening and curing; and a display device carried by said housing and being operatively connected to said electronic circuit for displaying to the user said value.
16. An instrument according to Claim 15 wherein said electronic circuit includes means for storing a correlation between the projected ultimate strength of concrete and the water to cement ratio of the unhardened concrete mix, and means applying the measured moisture content and cement content values of a test sample to said stored correlation to determine therefrom the projected strength of a sample of concrete mix.
17. An instrument according to Claim 15 wherein said instrument housing comprises first and second shielded storage receptacles for receiving and storing the respective first and second probes when the probes are not in use. 


 18. An instrument according to Claim 17 additionally including a reference standard associated with each of said first and second storage receptacles to permit verification of the accuracy of said radiation detectors in the respective probes when said probes are positioned in the storage receptacles.
19. A method for measuring the physical characteristics of a test material, comprising: a) positioning a first movable probe in measuring contact with a sample of the test material; b) obtaining a measurement from the first probe and generating a signal from the measurement that is indicative of a first physical property of the test material; c) sending the signal generated in accordance with step (b) to an electronic circuit; d) removing the first probe from measuring contact with the test material; e) positioning a second movable probe in measuring contact with the sample of the test material; f) obtaining a measurement from the second probe and generating a signal from the measurement that is indicative of a second physical property of the test material; g) sending the signal generated in accordance with step (f) to the electronic circuit; h) determining in the electronic circuit a value for at least one physical characteristic of the test material from the signals sent by the probes in steps (c) and (g) ; and i) displaying in a display device the value determined in accordance with step (h) .
20. The method of Claim 19 wherein the step of obtaining a measurement from the first probe comprises directing neutrons from a fast neutron source 


located in said probe into the test material and detecting and counting thermal neutrons that have been moderated by neutron moderating elements present in the test material.
21. The method of Claim 19 wherein the step of obtaining a measurement from the second probe comprises directing gamma radiation from a gamma radiation source located in said probe into the test material and detecting and counting the backscattered gamma radiation.
22. The method of Claim 19 including the- step of filling a sample container with the test material and wherein the steps (a) and (e) of positioning the probes in measuring contact with the test material comprise inserting the probe in an elongate access tube that is centrally located in the sample container and is substantially surrounded by the test material.
23. The method of Claim 19 including the additional step of verifying the stability of each of the probes by placing the probes in close proximity with reference standards.
24. The method of Claim 19 including the additional steps of displaying values for the first and second physical properties in the display device.
25. The method of Claim 19 including the additional steps of determining a value for a third physical property from the signals generated in accordance with steps (b) and (f) and displaying the third value. 


 26. A method for measuring the physical characteristics of a test material, comprising: a) positioning a first movable probe in measuring contact with a sample of the test material; b) directing neutrons from a fast neutron source located in said probe into the test material and detecting and counting thermalized neutrons to generate a signal that is indicative of a first physical property of the test material; c) sending the signal generated in accordance with step (b) to an electronic circuit; d) removing the first probe from measuring contact with the test material; e) positioning a second movable probe in measuring contact with the sample of the test material; f) directing gamma radiation from a gamma radiation source located in said second probe into the test material and detecting and counting the backscattered gamma radiation to generate a signal that is indicative of a second physical property of the test material; g) sending the signal generated in accordance with step (f) to the electronic circuit; h) determining in the electronic circuit a value for at least one physical characteristic of the test material from the signals sent by the probes in steps (c) and (g) ; and i) displaying in a display device the value determined in accordance with step (h) .
27. The method of Claim 26 including the additional step of verifying the accuracy of each of the probes by placing the probes into close proximity with reference standards. 


 28. The method of Claim 26 including the additional steps of displaying values for the first and second physical properties in the display device.
29. The method of Claim 26 including the additional steps of determining a value for a third physical property from the signals generated in accordance with steps (b) and (f) and displaying the third value.
30. A method for measuring the ultimate strength of concrete from the moisture content and composition of fresh unhardened concrete mix, comprising: a) positioning a first movable probe in measuring contact with a sample of the concrete mix; b) obtaining a measurement from the first probe and generating a signal from the measurement that is indicative of the moisture content of the concrete mix; c) sending the signal generated in accordance with step (b) to an electronic circuit; d) removing the first probe from measuring contact with the concrete mix; e) positioning a second movable probe in measuring contact with the sample of the concrete mix; f) obtaining a measurement from the second probe and generating a signal from the measurement that is indicative of the cement content of the concrete mix; g) sending the signal generated in accordance with step (f) to the electronic circuit; h) determining in the electronic circuit a value for the ultimate strength of the hardened concrete from the signals sent by the probes in steps (c) and (g) ; and 


 i) displaying in a display device the value for the ultimate strength of the hardened concrete determined in accordance with step (h) .
31. The method of Claim 30 wherein the step of obtaining a moisture content measurement from the first probe comprises directing neutrons from a fast neutron source located in said first probe into the sample of concrete mix and detecting and counting thermalized neutrons.
32. The method of Claim 30 wherein the step of obtaining a cement content measurement from the second probe comprises directing gamma radiation from a gamma radiation source located in said second probe • into the sample of concrete mix and detecting and counting the backscattered gamma radiation.
33. The method of Claim 30 including the step of filling a sample container with concrete mix and wherein the steps (a) and (e) of positioning the probes in measuring contact with the sample of concrete mix comprise removing the probe from a storage receptacle in the housing and inserting the probe in an elongate access tube that is centrally located in a sample container and is substantially surrounded by concrete mix.
34. The method of Claim 30 including the additional steps of storing a correlation between the proj cted ultimate strength of concrete and the water to cement ratio of unhardened concrete mix, determining the water to cement ratio for the sample of concrete mix from the signals generated in accordance with steps (b) and (f) , respectively, and applying the ratio to the stored correlation to determine the ultimate strength of the hardened concrete. 


 35. The method of Claim 30 including the additional steps of displaying the water and cement content values in the display device. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
