<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642607</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE FOR CONTINUOUSLY MONITORING THE NEEDLES OF A KNITTING MACHINE DURING OPERATION THEREOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D04B3500	D04B3518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D04B	D04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D04B35	D04B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The needles (1) of a knitting machine are continuously monitored, during operation of the machine, by an optical head (6) comprising a light source (23) and an electro-optical receiver which receives the light beam after that the latter has crossed the area (24) of passage of the needles (1). The output signals from the receiver are sent to an electronic control unit (27).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROTEX SAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROTEX S.A.S. DI DOTT. L. MICHETTI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHETTI ANDREA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHETTI PAOLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHETTI, ANDREA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHETTI, PAOLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to knitting machines 
and particularly to devices for continuously monitoring 
the needles used in such machines. Figure 1 of the annexed drawings shows, by way of 
example, two typical failures of a needle of a type 
used in such knitting machines. Figure 1 shows a needle 1 of the so called "tab-type" 
or "automatic-type", comprising a stem 2 ending 
with a hook 3 and a tab 4 pivoted in 5 to stem 2 and 
movable between an open position, shown in the figure, 
and a closed position, in which it defines the needle 
eye together with the hook 3. Such needles are subject to a continuous 
mechanical stress, due to the pulling action exerted by 
the needle on the yarn; this stress, which takes place 
with every action of the needle on the yarn, causes a 
fatigue condition which may lead to the failure of the 
needle. This failure usually takes place in the area of 
hook 3, as visible in figure 1, and may be preceded by 
a stage of relevant deformation of the shape of the 
hook, usually consisting in a torsion deformation and 
in an opening movement of the hook.  
 The failure of a needle of a knitting machine 
during operation thereof has the consequence of a 
production of faulty fabric due to the absence of the 
loop corresponding to the broken needle. This results 
in an economical damage which may be very relevant, 
considering the very high production speed of the piece 
or cloth of fabric by the machine, as well as the fact 
that quite often the faulty fabric cannot be used. In the absence of automatic control devices, the 
production of the faulty fabric goes on until the fault 
is visually noticed by the machine operators. This 
happens with a delay depending accidentally upon 
various factors, since the operator usually attends to 
various machines and to various tasks on each machine, 
beside controlling the product quality. In the endeavour to overcome this drawback, there 
have been provided devices for the continuous and 
automatic check of the needles during the operation of 
a knitting machine. Most of the devices which are being 
presently marketed are based on electro-optical 
techniques which exploit the principle of the optical 
reflection. Devices of this kind are described for example in 
US Patents Nos. 4.027.982 and 3.937.038. Such reflection-type devices comprise a light  
 
emitting device, able to direct a light beam in the 
direction of a detecting area which is crossed in 
sequence by the needles during the operation of the 
machine, and a receiving
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device for continuously monitoring the needles 
of a knitting machine during operation thereof, 

comprising: 

a detecting optical head (6), comprising a main 
structure (7) carrying: 
a light emitting source, 
first optical means for receiving the light 
emitted by said source and guiding said light up to an 

emitting window (W), for emitting a light beam (L) 
obtained thereby in the direction of a detecting area 

(24) which is crossed in sequence by the needles (1) of 
the knitting machine during operation thereof, 
a receiving window (W) which is located in such 
a way as to receive said lig
ht beam (L) after that the 
latter has crossed the detecting area (24), 
second optical means for receiving the light of 
said beam (L) coming into said receiving window (W) and 

for guiding said light up to an electro-optical 
receiver, said receiver being able to emit an electric 

signal indicating the light energy which comes to the 
receiver as being not intercepted by the needle which 

is at each time at the detecting area, 
a control electronic unit (27) for receiving the 
signals emitted by said electro-optical receiver and  

 
processing such signals in order to detect any broken 

needle passing through the detecting area, 
characterized in that: 
said first and second optical means include 
planar-type optical guide means, each comprising at 

least one flattened plate of dielectric material having 
two parallel major faces, a light inlet surface (W) and 

a light outlet surface (W) which lie in planes 
orthogonal to said major faces, for guiding light rays, 

entering into said plate from said inlet surface (W), 
between said major faces up to said outlet surface (W), 
said emitting and receiving windows (W) are the 
outlet surface and the inlet surface of respective 

optical guide plates of said first and second optical 
guide means, 
wherein the light beam (L) crossing said 
detecting area has a rectangular elongated cross-section 

(WL))and a substantially uniform distribution 
of the light intensity throughout this cross-section, 
so that said signals emitted by said receiver 
contain not only an information necessary to select 

between broken and unbroken needles, but also an 
information on the general configuration of the needle 

(1) which enables any type of defective configuration 
to be detected, 
said electronic unit (27) comprises:  
 
extracting means (36, 38, 39, 40, 43) adapted to 
extract from said signals (Vin) emitted by said 

electro-optical receiver output signals (Ve, Vf, Vinv, 
Vref) independent from variations relating to the 

environment of operation of the device; 
means (42) adapted to compare said output 
signals (Vf) relating to one of said needles (1), with 

output signals (Vref) relating to a preceding one of 
said needles (1) which has already passed through the 

detecting area, 
so that the needle monitoring operation is 
independent from variations relating to the type and 

width of the needles (1), the operating conditions of 
the knitting machine, and the initial calibrating 

operations of the device, 
said device further comprises means (9) for 
adjustably supporting said optical head (6) on a fixed 

part (10) of the knitting machine. 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said support means comprise a first element (11) 

which is to be fixed on a part (10) of the knitting 
machine in a way adjustable along a first direction (A) 

and a second element (16) which is to be fixed on the 
first element (11) in a way adjustable along a second 

direction (B) orthogonal with respect to said first 
direction (A).  

 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said supporting structure (7) has a bridge-like 

configuration, with two side elements (20, 21) carrying 
the light emitting source (23) and the electro-optical 

receiver (25) respectively, as well as a cross-member 
(22) which connects said side elements (20, 21) to each 

other. 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said supporting structure is located on a same 

side of the path (P) of the needles (1) and in that 
there is provided a reflecting element (28) for 

reflecting the light energy emitted by the light source 
(Tx) in direction of the electro-optical receiver (Rx). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said emitting and receiving surfaces (W) are 

arranged parallel to the needle which is at each time 
at the detecting area (24). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said optical head (7) is inclined in the plane of 

the optical channel (L), so that the direction of the 
optical channel forms an angle different from 90° with 

respect to the direction of the needle (1). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said optical head (6) is rotated so that the plane 

of the optical channel (L) forms an angle different 
from 90° with respect to the plane of the needles which  

 
cross the detecting area (24). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the surfaces of the supporting structure (7) where 

the receiving and emitting windows (W) are located are 
cylindrical surfaces (30). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said extracting means (36, 38, 39, 40, 43) 

comprise means (36) adapted to extract from said 
emitted signals (Vin) timing signals (CLK) indicating 

the passage of said needles (1) at the detecting area 
(24). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said extracting means (36, 38, 39, 40, 43) 

comprise means (38) adapted to extract from said 
signals (Vin) output signals (Ve) whose level is a 

function of the waveforms of the output signals (Vin). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said extracting means (36, 38, 39, 40, 43) 

comprise filtering means (39) adapted to filter said 
output signals (Ve), said filtering means operating in 

a condition of difference of phase null in frequence, 
to generate filtered output signals (Vf). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said extracting means (36, 38, 39, 40, 43) 

comprise envelope demodulating means (40) adapted to 
demodulate said filtered output signals (Vf), to  

 
generate demodulated output signals (Vinv), said 

demodulated output signals being delayed by a time 
interval corresponding to the passage of at least one 

needle. 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said extracting means (36, 38, 39, 40, 43) 

comprise level translating means adapted to move the 
level of said demodulated output signals (Vinv) as a 

function of a sensitivity parameter (α) which is prearranged 
by selecting means (45). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said electronic control unit (27) comprises aiding 

means (33, 34, 35) for checking the installation of the 
device. 
Device according to claim 14, characterised in 
that said aiding means ( 33, 34, 35) for checking the 

installation are adapted to generate output signals 
(50) indicating the level of the signal generated by 

the needles (1) passing in the device. 
Device according to claim 14, characterised in 
that said aiding means (33, 34, 35) for checking the 

installation are adapted to generate output signals 
(51) indicating the position of the device relative to 

the path (P) of the needles (1). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said electronic control unit (27) comprises a  

 
processing unit (44), receiving as an input output 

signals (Vn) generated by said comparating means (42), 
adapted to control actuating means (48) and display 

means (49). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said electronic control unit (27) comprises 

communication means (41) adapted to render accessible 

for outside devices (46, 47) inside signals (Vin, Ve, 
Vf) of the electronic control unit (27). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said electronic control unit (27) provides two 

signals (S1, S2) indicating the degree of light 
intensity of the optical channel (L) and the proper 

positioning of the optical channel (L) with respect to 
the needles to be detected, respectively. 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said electronic control unit (27) provides a third 

signal (S3) indicating the state of cleanness of the 
surfaces (30) having the receiving and emitting windows 

(W). 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said electronic control unit (27) is adapted to 

automatically stop the knitting machine, by said 
actuating means (48), in case the degree of dimming of 

the optical windows (W) by any impurity passes a 
predetermined level. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
