<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656146</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMAGING SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H1100	H01H1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H11	H01H11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An imaging system permits the study of motion of the electric arc formed during the breaking operation of a miniature circuit breaker under short circuit conditions. The imaging system employs an array of up to 45 optical fibres to detect the light emitted by the arc in the arc chamber of the miniature circuit breaker. The light from the fibres is detected electronically and stored digitally then transferred to a computer. Over 4000 images can be captured at a rate of 1 image per (my)s. A computer program uses the optical information to display an image of the arc on the screen. The imaging process includes steps of: (a) identifying a group of event locations at which the event parameter sample value exceeds a predetermined threshold value; (b) identifying event locations at the boundary of an area encompassing the group; (c) responding to the identified boundary event locations to plot a line representing a contour of constant event parameter value corresponding to the threshold value; and (d) increasing the predetermined threshold and repeating steps (a), (b) and (c) for the increased threshold until a desired number of contours lines for respective event parameter threshold values have been generated.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRABTREE ELECTRICAL IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRABTREE ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCBRIDE JOHN WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEAVER PAUL MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCBRIDE, JOHN WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEAVER, PAUL MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an imaging system. The invention 
relates particularly, but not exclusively, to the imaging and analysis 
of electric arcs formed during the operation of a miniature circuit 
breaker. Miniature circuit breakers (MCB's) are in widespread use for 
overload and short circuit protection in domestic, commercial and 
industrial installations. When a miniature circuit breaker is 
activated under short circuit conditions an electric arc is drawn 
between the contacts. Modern miniature circuit breaker design relies 
on the control of the arc to limit fault currents thus reducing damage 
to both the circuit breaker and the installation which it is 
protecting. To achieve a better understanding of the arc behaviour 
leading to more efficient and economical circuit breaker design more 
detailed information on arc motion and the factors that influence it 
is required. The small enclosed construction of these devices, the hostile 
environment in the arc chamber and the rapidity of the circuit 
breaking event, have made it difficult to obtain detailed information 
on the behaviour of the arc. The very high intensity of the light 
emission from the arc make direct visualisation methods (e.g. high 
speed photography) of limited use. Several recent approaches have 
employed electronic means to detect the arc position by virtue of its 
magnetic properties (see M. Mercier et. al., "Study of the Movement of 
an Electric Breaking Arc at Low Voltage", Journal of Physics D: 
Applied Physics, Vol. 24, pages 681-684 (1991)) while recent advances 
in optical fibre technology have opened up new possibilities for 
studying the light emission of the arc by positioning an array of 
optical fibres in the arc chamber (M. Delaplace, "Observations sur 
écran vidéo du comportement de l'arc dans unde chambre de coupure" 
Revue Generale de l'Electricite, No. 1, January 1987, pages 26-32 
(1987); J. Wassermann et. al., " Quantitative Recording of Arc Motion 
and Structure through Opaque Walls Employing Optoelectronic Sensors", 
Journal of Physics. E: Scientific Instruments, Vol. 21 pages 155-158 
(1988); J Leemans et. al., "Fiber Optic Sensor Applied in Circuit 
Breaker Design", Australasian Instrumentation and Measurement  
 
Conference, Adelaide 1989, pages 293-295 (1989); and 
FR-A-2,571,888). The advantages of such techniques include rapid response times 
of the order of microseconds, immediate access to data in electronic form for 
storage and analysis by computer and the fact that electronic equipment is 
electr
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An imaging system for two dimensional imaging of an event, the 
imaging system comprising a array of sensors (PD) for sampling event parameters 

at an array of event locations (25), each sensor (PD) being responsive to an event 
parameter at a respective event location, the system further comprising memory 

means (20) for recording sampled event parameters, and first means (S1) 
responsive to the recorded event parameter values 

for identifying a collection of groups of event 
locations, each event location within the thus identified groups having an event 

parameter value exceeding a predetermined event parameter threshold value, 
characterised by the provision of 


a) second means (S2) for identifying, for each group of event locations 
(25), event locations at the boundary of an area encompassing the group, and 
b) third means (S3) responsive to the identified boundary event locations 
to plot, for each group, at a distance from points indicative of the centres of the 

identified event locations lying on the edge of the area, a line around the area of 
the identified locations representing a contour dividing the identified event 

locations with an associated event parameter value exceeding the threshold value 
from event locations with an associated event parameter value smaller than the 

threshold value. 
A system as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the third means (S3) plots 
contour lines (C1 to C5) at a distance from the event location (25) which reduces 

for groups representative of higher threshold values to provide nesting of 
contours. 
A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims comprising 
display means for displaying image(s) of the event including the contour lines (C1 

to C5) for respective event parameter threshold values.  
 
A system as claimed in Claim 3 comprising means for area-filling 
between contour lines with respective colours and/or textures. 
A system as claimed in Claim 3 or Claim 4 comprising means for 
superimposing the contour lines on a representation of the environment, including 

the event locations, in which the event takes place. 
A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
event parameter is a luminance value and wherein each sensor comprises a 

photosensitive element (PD) and a polymer optical fibre (12) for guiding light 
from an event location to the photosensitive element. 
A system as claimed in Claim 6 comprising a positioning block (13) 
defining an array of holes (11) with each hole aligned, in use, with a respective 

event location, and with each polymer optical fibre (12) located in a respective 
hole, the polymer optical fibres forming a friction fit within the holes so that the 

position of the optical fibres is slidably adjustable along the holes (11). 
A system as claimed in Claim 6 or Claim 7 wherein the photosensitive 
element comprises a photodiode (PD) operated in a reverse bias configuration 

whereby a current through the photodiode proportional to the light intensity 
generates a voltage across a load resistor (Rb). 
A system as claimed in any one of Claims 6, 7 or 8 wherein each 
sensor (PD) comprises an amplifier (A) for amplifying the sensed luminance 

signal and wherein the system comprises multiplexer means (16) for multiplexing 
the signals from a plurality of sensors, flash analogue to digital converter means 

(A/D) connected to the multiplexer means for converting successive signals from 
the multiplexer means into digital values, successive digital values output from the  

 
analogue to digital converter means being written to respective locations in the 

memory means (20). 
A system as claimed in Claim 9 wherein the multiplexer means, the 
analogue to digital converter means and write operations for the memory means 

are controlled by a common system clock (32) with one event parameter sample 
value being stored in the memory means (20) per clock cycle. 
A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims for an event 
for which the event parameter values change with time, wherein event parameter 

values for the plurality of event locations are sampled at successive event timings, 
a set of event parameter samples being recorded for each event timing. 
A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
event is the motion of an electric arc in an electric component, the array of event 

locations (25) being an array of positions in an arcing chamber. 
A system as claimed in Claim 12 wherein the electric component is a 
miniature circuit breaker (10). 
A system as claimed in Claim 12 or Claim 13 wherein the electric 
component is provided with a transparent window (15) for viewing the motion of 

the electric arc. 
A method of two-dimensional imaging of an event comprising sampling 
event parameters at an array of event locations (25) using an array of sensors 

(PD) each sensor being associated with a respective event location, recording a 
set of sampled event parameter values associated with each event timing in real 

time in memory means and subsequently imaging the set of recorded event 
parameter values, the method comprising the steps of  

 

a) identifying a group of event locations (25) at which the event 
parameter sample value exceeds a predetermined threshold value; 
b) identifying event locations at the boundary of an area encompassing the 
group; 
c) responding to the identified boundary event locations to plot, at a 
distance from points indicative of the centres of the identified event locations 

lying on the edge of the area, a line (C1 to C5) around the area of identified 
event locations, the line representing a contour dividing the identified event 

locations with an associated event parameter value exceeding the threshold value 
from event locations with an associated event parameter value smaller than the 

threshold value; and 
d) increasing the predetermined threshold and repeating steps (a), (b) 
and (c) for the increased threshold until a predetermined plurality of contour 

lines for respective event parameter threshold values have been generated. 
A method as claimed in Claim 15 wherein, in step (c), a contour line 
is plotted at a distance from the event location which reduces for groups 

representative of higher threshold values to provide nesting of contours. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 15 or 16 comprising the 
step of area-filling between contour lines with respective colours and/or textures. 
A method as claimed in Claim 17 comprising displaying a 
representation of the environment, including the event locations, in which the 

event takes place and superimposing the contour lines on the representation. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 15 to 18 wherein the event 

parameter is a luminance value and wherein each sensor comprises a 
photosensitive element (PD) and a polymer optical fibre (12) for guiding light 

from an event location (25) to the photosensitive element: the method comprising  
 

the steps of locating a positioning block (13) which defines an array of holes (11) 
such that each hole is aligned with a respective event location, slidably locating 

each polymer optical fibre (12) along a respective hole to give a desired response 
to a desired area surrounding the event location. 
A method as claimed in Claim 19 comprising amplifying each sensed 
luminance signal, multiplexing signals from a plurality of sensors to a flash 

analogue to digital converter for converting successive signals into digital values, 
and writing successive digital values output from the analogue to digital converter 

means to respective locations in the memory means. 
A method as claimed in Claim 20 comprising controlling the 
multiplexer means (16), the analogue to digital converter means (A/D) and write 

operations for the memory means (20) by a common system clock (32) such that 
one event parameter sample is recorded in the memory means per clock cycle. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 15 to 21 wherein the event 
is the motion of an electric arc in an electric component. 
A method as claimed in Claim 22 wherein the electric component is 
a miniature circuit breaker (10). 
A method as claimed in Claim 22 or Claim 23 comprising the step of 
providing the electric component with a transparent window (15) for viewing the 

motion of the electric arc. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
