<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647797</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Power transmission belt with reinforcing fibers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16G500	F16G520	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16G	F16G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16G5	F16G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A power transmission belt (10) having a body with a length and 
laterally oppositely 

facing pulley engaging surfaces. The body has at least a portion 
thereof that is made 

from rubber. Aramid fibers (12) are embedded in the rubber portion 
of the body in an 

amount of 5-20 parts by weight, and more preferably 8-15 parts by 
weight, of aramid fiber per 100 parts by weight of rubber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBOSHI BELTING LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBOSHI BELTING LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUMAZAKI TOSHIMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUMAZAKI, TOSHIMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to power transmission belts and, more particularly,
to a belt having short, aramid, reinforcing fibers embedded therein.V-ribbed belts have a wide range of use in many different environments.
A V-ribbed belt has good power transmission capabilities by reason of its
multiple ribs, which account for an increased contact area, between the belt and
a cooperating pulley, over other types of belts. It is the frictional forces between
the engaging belt and pulley surfaces which cause the belt to drive/be driven by
cooperating pulleys.The V-ribbed belt normally has a thin profile which makes it resistant to
flexing fatigue and particularly suitable for use on small diameter pulleys. At the
same time, the V-ribbed belt is capable of transmitting large forces and will
operate effectively at high speeds.The V-ribbed belt can be highly tensioned through a fixed pulley when it
is initially assembled, thereby avoiding a low tension condition thereafter. This
highly tensioned belt is prone to adhesion wearing in use and tends to generate
significant amounts of noise. Further, when the belt and cooperating pulley are
exposed to water, as is common in many normal operating environments for such
belts, the belt slips in use and thereby generates unwanted noise.Various attempts have been made to overcome these problems. In
Japanese Utility Model Laid-Open No. 4-55475, a power transmission belt is 
disclosed in which powdered adhesion inhibiter, such as talc, calcium carbonate,
clay or silica, is applied to the pulley engaging side surfaces of V-shaped
ribs.The use of an adhesion inhibiter has some inherent problems. Most
significantly, it is difficult to make an even application of the adhesion inhibiter
on the belt.Another attempted solution to the above problems is disclosed in Japanese
Utility Model Laid-Open No. 5-59012. A power transmission belt is disclosed
therein in which short aramid fibers are embedded in a belt compression layer to
improve wear resistance and lateral pressure resistance, and to suppress noise
generation.While the aramid fibers to a certain extent do improve wear resistance and
lateral stability, they themselves tend to generate noise. This is due to the highly
rigid nature of the aramid fibers. The exposed aramid fibers produce a scraping
noise on a cooperating pulley, which noise is highly irritating.An attempted solution to this latter problem is also disclosed in Japanese
Utility Model Laid-Open No. 5-59012. This suggested solution involves the use
of different types
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power transmission belt (10) comprising:

a body (20) having a length and laterally oppositely facing pulley
engaging surfaces (34,36),

   said body (20) having at least a portion (18) thereof that is made from
rubber,

   there being para-type aramid fibres (12) embedded in the rubber portion
(18) of the body in an amount of 5-20 parts by weight of aramid fibre per 100

parts by weight of rubber, wherein a plurality of the para-type aramid fibres
(12) have portions (40) projecting from the laterally

oppositely facing pulley engaging surfaces (34,36) engageable with a pulley
on the body (20), wherein the projecting portions are distributed over

substantially the entire
laterally oppositely facing surfaces,

wherein only the projecting portions
(40) of the para-type aramid fibres (12) are fibrillated to define discrete fibrils (42).
The power transmission belt according to claim 1 wherein there are
a plurality of laterally extending short fibres (12) embedded in the rubber

portion (18) of the body (20) and at least some of the short fibres are para-type
aramid fibres (12).
The power transmission belt according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein
there are a plurality of laterally extending short fibres (12) embedded in the

rubber portion (18) of the body (20) and all of the plurality of laterally
extending short fibres (12) embedded in the rubber portion (18) of the body

(20) are para-type aramid fibres (12).
The power transmission belt according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein
there are a plurality of short fibres (12) embedded in the rubber portion (18) 

of the body (20), some of the short fibres (12) are para-type aramid fibres
(12) and some of the short fibres are non-para-type aramid fibres and the

ratio of para-type aramid fibres to non-para-type aramid fibres is 1:1-5.
The power transmission belt according to any preceding claim
wherein the power transmission belt (10) is a V-ribbed belt (10).
The power transmission belt according to any preceding claim
wherein a plurality of the para-type aramid fibres (12) each comprise a

monofilament having a length of 2-6 mm.
The power transmission belt according to any preceding claim
wherein a plurality of the para-type aramid fibres (12) each comprise a

monofilament having a diameter of 9-18 µm.
The power transmission belt according to claim 1 wherein the
fibrillated portions of the para-type aramid fibres each comprise at least one

fibril having a diameter between one-eighth and one-half the diameter of the
para-type aramid fibres.
The power transmission belt according to any preceding claim
wherein the para-type aramid fibres comprise at least one of: (a) aramid

fibre; (b) a blend of synthetic fibre thread of para-type aramid fibre thread
and a monofilament that is at least one of nylon, vinyl on, and polyester; and

(c) blend of para-type aramid fibre thread and natural fibre thread such as
cotton and pulp.
The power transmission belt according to any preceding claim
wherein the portions of the para-type aramid fibres (12) project no more than

0.5 mm from the laterally oppositely facing pulley engaging surfaces (34,36).
The power transmission belt according to any preceding claim
wherein the fibrillated portions (42) of the para-type aramid fibres (12)

comprise curled fibrils (42).
The power transmission belt according to any preceding claim
wherein the body (20) has inside and outside surfaces (34,36;28), a tension 

section (14) and a compression section (18), there are longitudinally
extending load carrying cords (26) in the body (20) between the tension

section (14) and the compression section (18) and there is at least one
stretchable, rubber-impregnated canvas layer (30) on at least one of the

inside and outside surfaces (34,36;28) of the body (20).
The power transmission belt according to any preceding claim
wherein the belt body (20) defines at least one rib (32) having oppositely

facing pulley engaging surfaces (34,36) and the para-type aramid fibres (12)
comprise short, laterally extending fibres (12) in the at least one rib (32).
The power transmission belt according to any preceding claim wherein the para-type
aramid fibres (12) are embedded in the rubber portion (18) of the body (20) in an amount

of 8-15 parts by weight of aramid fibre per 100 parts by weight of rubber.
The power transmission belt according to claim 1 wherein the portions of the
para-type aramid fibres (40) project no more than 0.5 mm from the laterally oppositely facing

pulley engaging surfaces (34, 36).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
