<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642987</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Containerisation system for hazardous compositions
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01C1500	A01N2534	B65D8132	B65D6546	B65D8132	A01C1500	B65D6546	C05G300	C05G300	A01N2534	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01C	A01N	B65D	B65D	B65D	A01C	B65D	C05G	C05G	A01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01C15	A01N25	B65D81	B65D65	B65D81	A01C15	B65D65	C05G3	C05G3	A01N25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A containerisation system which comprises at least 
one inner water soluble or water dispersible bag (110) 

containing a hazardous composition, the containerisation 
system further comprising an outer water soluble or water 

dispersible bag (120) containing another hazardous 
composition different from the first, the outer bag also 

containing the inner bag with its content, wherein at least 
one of the hazardous compositions is a non-agrochemical 

composition and at least one of the hazardous compositions 
is in the form of a non-aqueous liquid or an organic gel. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RHONE POULENC AGROCHIMIE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RHONE-POULENC AGROCHIMIE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOUGE SAMUEL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHUE JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOUGE, SAMUEL T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHUE, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a containerization system which
is particularly suitable for storing, packaging and transporting toxic or hazardous
products.At present, most hazardous and toxic liquids are stored in metal drums or,
where smaller quantities are involved, in plastic containers. Hazardous compounds,
especially agrochemical compounds, are formulated in various compositions.The expression toxic or hazardous compounds as used herein means an
industrial chemical or agrochemical compound, which, if released in the quantity
or concentration normally in storage and shipping containers, may cause damage to
the environment or be injurious to a person contacted by it.With respect to agricultural chemicals, liquid compositions, particularly in
the form of concentrates, are most convenient for farmers because of the relative
ease with which they can be handled. There are, nevertheless, difficulties in
handling such liquid compositions. There is a danger of spillage or leakage if holes
develop in containers that are accidentally dropped and thereby crack or fail.
Containers have been developed which possess great resistance to impact and
shock. While such containers are secure under normal storage and handling
conditions, in the event of an accident, for example during transporting, there
remains an appreciable risk of spillage or leakage with rapid loss of liquid. Leakage
of toxic and hazardous chemicals can create damage to the environment.The chemical and packaging industries have long sought a secure
container which provides sufficient safeguard for those handling it, such as farmers
and transporters, as well as adequate protection for the environment. It is known, for example, to package agrochemicals in soluble bags or
sachets made from water soluble films.However there are some cases whereby the use of water soluble (or water
dispersible, as always contemplated herein) bags is either impossible or of highly
limited interest.This is or can be the situation when two or more agrochemicals are used
together to treat a crop or any kind of plant(s) and when only one of them is used in
the form of a water soluble bag.It is also or can be also the situation when two or more agrochemicals are
used together to treat a crop or any kind of plant(s) and when the normal use of
these agrochemicals is at a very different use rate. Indeed it is known that the use
rate of some pesticides may vary in the order of 10 or even 100 times from one
pesticide to another.Another situation where the use of a water soluble bag for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A containerisation system which comprises at
least one inner water soluble or water dispersible bag

containing a hazardous composition characterised in that
the containerisation system further comprises an outer

water soluble or water dispersible bag containing another
hazardous composition different from the first, the outer

bag also containing the inner bag with its content,
wherein at least one of the hazardous compositions is a

non-agrochemical composition and at least one of the
hazardous compositions is in the form of a non-aqueous

liquid or organic gel and the material of the walls of
the inner bag or bags and the outer bag are completely

soluble in water at a temperature lower than 35°C.
A containerisation system according to claim 1,
wherein the hazardous compositions and the wall of the

bags they contact are chosen so that the hazardous
compositions do not substantially dissolve the wall of

the bag they contact and do not substantially permeate
through it.
A containerisation system according to claim 1
or 2 wherein the hazardous compositions in the inner bag

or bags and in the outer bag are non-agrochemical
compositions.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein the hazardous

compositions in the inner bag or bags and the outer bag
are incompatible.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims which comprises one or two inner

bags in the outer bag.
A containerisation system according to claim 5,
which comprises one inner bag in the outer bag.
A containerisation system according to any one 
of the preceding claims which comprises a further water

insoluble external container.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein the hazardous compositions

are in a concentrated form.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein the concentrations of

active ingredients in the hazardous compositions in the
bags are from 0.5 to 80% (w/w) of hazardous active

ingredient.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein one of the bags, either an

inner bag or the outer bag, floats when put into water and
the other, or its content, sinks when put into water.
A containerisation system according to claim
10, wherein the inner bag or bags float when put into water

and the outer bag sinks when put into water.
A containerisation system according to claim
10, wherein the inner bag or bags sink when put into water

and the outer bag floats when put into water.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein one of the bags contains

hazardous composition in the form of water wettable powder
or water dispersible granules.
A containerisation system according to claim
13, wherein the bag containing a wettable powder or water

dispersible granules floats when put into water.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein the outer bag, either with

its full content or with only the hazardous composition
which is outside the inner bag, has a specific gravity

greater than 1 and the inner bag, with its content, has a
specific gravity less than 1.
A containerisation system according to any one
of claims 1 to 14, wherein the outer bag, either with its

full content or with only the hazardous composition which 
is outside the inner bag, has a specific gravity less than

1 and the inner bag, with its content, has a specific
gravity greater than 1.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein the weight ratio of the

hazardous compounds contained respectively in the outer bag
and in the inner bag or bags is within 10% of the ratio of

the use rates of the hazardous compounds contained
respectively in the outer bag and the inner bag or bags.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein the volume ratio of the

outer bag to the inner bag is more than 1.5:1.
A containerisation system according to claim
18, wherein the volume ratio of the outer bag to the inner

bag is more than 2:1.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of the

hazardous compositions is an organic gel having a viscosity
of 600 to 30,000 centipoises.
A containerisation system according to claim
20, wherein the organic gel has a viscosity of 1,000 to

12,000 centipoises.
A containerisation system according to claim
21, wherein the organic gel has a viscosity of 1,000 to

5,000 centipoises.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of the

hazardous compositions is an organic gel, having a phase
difference phi between the controlled shear stress and the

resulting shear strain such that tg(phi) is less than or
equal to 1.5.
A containerisation system according to claim
23, wherein the organic gel has a phase difference phi

between the controlled shear stress and the resulting shear
strain such that tg(phi) is less than or equal to 1.2.
A containerisation system according to any one 
of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of the

hazardous compositions is in the form of a non-aqueous
liquid which is a solution, dispersion or an emulsion in an

organic solvent.
A containerisation system according to claim
25, wherein the liquid has a Brookfield viscosity from 100

to 30,000 centipoises.
A containerisation system according to claim
26, wherein the liquid has a Brookfield viscosity from

1,000 to 30,000 centipoises.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein the inner bag contains a

marker.
A containerisation system according to any one
of the preceding claims, wherein the outer bag is filled to

at least 60% of capacity but is not filled to complete
capacity.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
