<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628226</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BiCMOS LOGIC CIRCUIT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K1714	H03K1714	H03K1756	H03K17567	H03K1760	H03K1760	H03K19003	H03K19003	H03K1908	H03K1908	H03K19086	H03K19086	H03K190944	H03K190944	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved BiCMOS logic circuit (70) utilizes an emitter-coupled pair of bipolar transistors (21, 22) for differentially comparing an input signal (Vin) with a logic reference level (VBIAS). Each of the bipolar transistors are resistively loaded by a network of p-channel metal-oxide-semiconductor (PMOS) transistors (26, 27) coupled in parallel. At least one of the parallel combination of transistors has its gate coupled to a control signal (VREF2) providing a variable load resistance. The control signal is preferably provided by a feedback network (52, 53) which maintains a constant voltage swing across the network over temperature.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROUNITY SYSTEMS ENG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROUNITY SYSTEMS ENGINEERING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERNDON WILLIAM H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSEEL GEERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERNDON, WILLIAM, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS, JAMES, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSEEL, GEERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BiCMOS LOGIC CIRCUITRELATED APPLICATIONSThis is a continuation-in-part (CIP) application of Serial No. 693,815, filed April 30, 1991 , which application is assigned to the assignee of the present invention.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention generally relates to the field of integrated circuits which combine bipolar and complimentary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) devices on the same substrate. More particularly, the invention relates to emitter-coupled-logic (ECL) logic gates implemented using a BiCMOS process technology.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONRecently, researchers have been directing their attention toward developing digital logic circuits which combine bipolar and CMOS technologies in a single integrated circuit. The marriage of bipolar and CMOS technologies is particularly advantageous since the superior aspects of each may be exploited and combined to yield optimal circuit performance.For instance, CMOS circuits have the advantages of extremely low quiescent power consumption, rail-to-rail output capability, high density and a very high input impedance. Bipolar logic circuits, on the other hand, are useful in driving large capacitance loads, have very fast switching capabilities and feature better performance over temperature and power supply. These attributes have lead to the{,SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

development of a family of BiCMOS digital logic circuits which employ bipolar transistors to drive output loads while utilizing CMOS devices to perform the basic logic functions on the received input signals. Digital logic circuits implemented using BiCMOS technology are discussed in "BiCMOS Technology and Applications", edited by Antonio R. Alvarez, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990, Chapter 5 (pages 165-200). Examples of BiCMOS binary logic circuits are also disclosed in U.S. Patent Numbers 4,701,642; 4,871,928; 4,845,385; 4,703,203; 4,636,665; 4,779,014; and 4,808,850.Emitter-coupled logic (ECL) is a very well understood family of bipolar logic circuitry. Its popularity stems from the fact that ECL provides the faster bipolar logic available. However, the main drawback is the fact that bipolar ECL gates also consume the most power of conventional logic technologies. Thus, it would be desirable to integrate the high switching speed capabilities of conventional bipolar ECL along with the high-density, low-power characteristics of CMOS circuits. A hybrid ECL MOS family of logic circuits would be capable of taking advantage of the strengths of the individual technologies.Unfortunately, past
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
We Claim:
1. An improved BiCMOS logic circuit which includes an emitter-coupled pair of bipolar transistors for differentially comparing an input signal with a first reference potential, each of said bipolar transistors being coupled to a resistive load network, wherein the improvement comprises: a plurality of metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) transistors coupled in parallel between a first operating potential and the collector of each bipolar transistor, at least one of said MOS transistors providing a fixed resistance and at least-one other of said MOS transistors being linearly-operated and having its gate coupled to a variable control voltage to provide a variable resistance therefor, the parallel combination of said MOS transistors improving the linearity of said circuit.
2. The logic circuit of Claim 1 wherein said MOS transistors comprise p- channel (PMOS) devices.
3. The logic circuit of Claim 1 wherein said MOS transistors comprise n- channet (NMOS) devices.
4. The logic circuit of Claim 2 wherein said at least one of said PMOS transistors has its gate coupled to a second operating potential, said second operating potential being lower than said first operating potential. 


 
<
A 7
5. The logic circuit of Claim 2 wherein said at least one of said PMOS transistors has its gate coupled to said first operating potential.
6. The circuit of Claim 5 wherein said variable resistance is relatively high as compared to said fixed resistance.
7. The circuit of Claim 4 wherein said fixed resistance is relatively high as compared to said variable resistance.
8. The circuit of either Claim 6 or 7 further comprising an amplifier for generating said control voltage, said amplifier adjusting said control voltage to maintain a constant logic swing across said resistive load network over a temperature range.
9. The circuit of Claim 8 wherein said logic swing is ECL-compatible.
10. The circuit of Claim 8 wherein said first operating potential comprises the highest positive supply potential coupled to said circuit, and said second operating potential comprises the lowest supply potential.
11. An improved BiCMOS logic circuit which includes an emitter-coupled pair of bipolar transistors for differentially comparing an input control signal with a first reference potential, each of said bipolar transistors being loaded by a linearly- 


 c$g
operated p-channel metal-oxide-semiconductor (PMOS) transistor coupled between its collector and a first operating potential, the gates of said field-effect transistors being coupled to a second reference potential which determines the load resistance of said circuit, said circuit further comprising a means for biasing said emitter-coupled pair, said biasing means comprising.a plurality of n-channel metal-oxide- semiconductor (NMOS) transistors coupled in parallel between the emitters of said emitter-coupled pair and said second operating potential, at least one of the gates of said NMOS transistors being coupled to a control signal which regulates the switching current provided by said biasing means to said emitter-coupled pair.
12. The logic circuit of Claim 11 further comprising an amplifier for generating said control signal, said amplifier adjusting said control signal to maintain a constant logic swing across said load resistance.
13. The logic circuit of Claim 12 wherein said logic swing is ECL compatible.
14. The logic circuit of Claim 13 wherein said first operating potential comprises the highest positive supply potential coupled to said circuit and said second operating potential comprises the lowest supply potential coupled to said circuit.
15. The logic circuit of Claim 13 wherein at least one of said NMOS transistors has its gate coupled to said second operating potential thereby providing a 


fixed current component of said switching current.
16. An improved BiCMOS logic circuit which comprises: an emitter-coupled pair of bipolar transistors for differentially comparing an input signal with a first reference potential; a current source means for biasing said emitter-coupled pair; a means for resistively loading each of said bipolar transistors; said loading means comprising a plurality of N, where N is an integer, MOS transistors coupled in parallel, the Nth transistor in said set providing a relative resistance calculated as 2
N
, said MOS transistors being coupled in parallel between a first operating potential and the collector of one said bipolar transistors; and a digital switching means for activating selected ones of said MOS transistors to provide a predetermined load resistance to one of said bipolar transistors, said switching means activating a selected MOS transistor by coupling a high voltage to its gate.
17. The circuit of Claim 16 wherein said MOS transistors comprise p- channel (PMOS) devices.
18. The circuit of Claim 16 wherein said MOS transistors comprise n- channel (NMOS) devices.
19. The circuit of Claim 17 wherein said high voltage is approximately equal 


 
<
3Ï
to said first operating potential.
20. The logic circuit of Claim 17 wherein each of said PMOS transistors has a different relative device size.
21. The logic circuit of Claim 20 wherein said switching means comprises a parallel connection of N inverters, each of said inverters providing either said operating potential or a controlled voltage signal to the gates of corresponding ones of said set of PMOS transistors, wherein said control voltage signal is less than said first operating potential.
22. The logic circuit of Claim 21 further comprising an amplifier for generating said controlled voltage signal, said amplifier adjusting said control voltage signal to maintain a constant logic swing across said plurality of PMOS transistors.
23. A BiCMOS logic circuit comprising ; an emitter-coupled pair of bipolar transistors for differentially comparing an input signal with a first reference potential; a means for loading each of said bipolar transistors, said loading means comprising a pair of linearly-operated metal-oxide-semiconductor transistors, each of said MOS transistors being coupled between the collector of a corresponding bipolar transistor of said emitter-coupled pair and a first operating potential, the gates of said MOS transistors being coupled to a second reference potential; 


 a first biasing means for biasing said emitter-coupled pair; and a circuit means providing a control signal to said first biasing means for controlling the current flow through said emitter-coupled pair, said current flow also determining the load resistance presented by said MOS transistors.
24. The logic circuit of claim 23 wherein said MOS transistors comprise p- channel (PMOS) devices.
25. The logic circuit of Claim 23 wherein said MOS transistors comprise n- channel (NMOS) devices.
26. The logic circuit of either claim 24 or 25 wherein said circuit means is coupled to a third reference potential which determines the output swing of said logic circuit.
27. The logic circuit of claim 26 further comprising: an emitter follower transistor having its base coupled to the collector of one of said bipolar transistors to provide an ECL-compatible output logic swing; and a second biasing means for biasing said emitter follower transistor.
28. The logic circuit of claim 27 wherein said control signal maintains the ECL compatibility of said output swing over temperature, supply and process variations. 


 29. The logic circuit of claim 23 wherein said PMOS transistors are matched.
30. The logic circuit of claim 28 wherein said first biasing means comprises a first n-channel metal-oxide-semiconductor (NMOS) transistor coupled between said emitter-coupled pair and a second operating potential, said first NMOS transistor having its gate coupled to receive said control signal.
31. The logic circuit of claim 30 wherein said circuit means comprises a reference PMOS transistor having its gate coupled to said second reference potential, and an amplifier means for generating said control signal from a comparison of the drain potential of said reference PMOS transistor and said second reference potential, said amplifier means adjusting said control signal so that said drain potential is approximately equal to said second reference potential.
32. The logic circuit of claim 31 wherein said circuit means further comprises a second NMOS transistor coupled between said reference PMOS transistor and said second operating potential, said second NMOS transistor having its gate coupled to receive said control signal.
33. The logic circuit of claim 32 wherein said amplifier means comprises an operational amplifier. 



 34. The logic circuit of claim 33 wherein said reference PMOS transistor is matched to said PMOS transistors, and said first and second NMOS transistors are matched. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
