<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612286</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PAPER SHEET FASTENER FILE AND METHOD OF ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B42F1100	B42F1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B42F	B42F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B42F11	B42F11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARKWRIGHT GEORGE A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARKWRIGHT GEORGE A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARKWRIGHT GEORGE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARKWRIGHT GEORGE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PAPER SHEET FASTENER FILE AND METHOD OF ASSEMBLYField of the InventionThis invention relates to a new type of paper sheet file assembly and the method of inserting the individual sheets therein.Conventional file folders for holding correspondence and paperwork use a fastening device such as an acco- binder for holding such papers uniformly in a file. The individual sheets are two-hole punched near the top center edge thereof. The acco-binder prongs, also positioned adjacent the top edge of the backing panel of the file, are opened and the two hole punched sheet is then positioned in the file and the holes placed over the prongs. The upstanding prongs are then bent over to secure the sheet in the file.This fastening arrangement is both cumbersome and time-consuming, requiring an individual two-hole punch of each letter, the opening of the acco-binder prongs, the actual positioning of the paper sheet in the file over 

 the prongs, and finally the closing of the prongs to hold the sheet in the file. This cumbersome, and time- consuming procedure must be followed for each and every sheet inserted in the file. This invention makes it possible to avoid this cumbersome procedure, and to rapidly, and accurately place the correspondence in the file, immediately, without any need to adapt the correspondence to be inserted, nor to repeatedly fasten and unfasten holding device such as an acco-binder.With this new arrangement, each sheet is individually held in the position that it would ordinarily have held where a fastening arrangement, such as an acco-binder used. Consequently, the conventional arrangement of a paper sheet file is unchanged, while the time-consuming manual operations heretofore required for placing a sheet in the file are eliminated.Summary of the Invention The new file arrangement of this invention, because it eliminates a number of operational steps formerly required for placing the correspondence in a correspondence file, makes it possible to immediately insert a paper sheet in a file, thereby saving a considerable amount of effort, annoyance, and most of the time formerly required to place a single sheet in a file folder. 

 Further, inasmuch as it is unnecessary to repeatedly open and close metal prong fasteners and similar types of devices, there is more inclination to mount file papers in a fixed organized file arrangement with its organized chronological advantages, rather than to have loose papers in a file folder.A multiple element fastening sheet block initially attached to the file
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS:
1. A paper sheet file assembly comprising: a) a rectangular file sheet backing panel for providing a backing for a plurality of superposed rectangular paper file sheets; b) a fastening block of relatively small individually superposed thin and substantially rectangular flexible fastening sheets attached adjacent their common upper periphery to the central section of the top edge of the file sheet backing panel; c) each fastening sheet having fastener engaging means adjacent its upper peripheral edge for receiving a fastener element mounted on the file sheet backing panel; d) fastener means mounted adjacent the top edge of the file sheet backing panel for engaging the fastener engaging means of the fastening sheets to fasten them to the file sheet backing panel as a block of superposed individual sheets; and, e) paper file sheet engaging means disposed on each fastening sheet adjacent its lower free edge for engaging the top edge of a file sheet, whereby a plurality of successively filed sheets can readily be placed on and integrally fastened to the file sheet backing panel in superposed and aligned relationship by individually inserting them between adjacent fastener 


 sheets and into engagement with the adjacent one of the superposed fastening sheets.
2. The paper sheet file assembly of Claim 1, wherein: a) the file sheet engaging means includes a contact glue section disposed on the lower section of the fastening sheet for engaging a paper file sheet adjacent its upper edge.
3. The paper sheet file assembly as set forth in Claim 2, wherein: a) the contact glue section is disposed on the under surface of the lower section of the fastening sheets.
4. The paper file sheet file assembly as set forth in Claim 2, wherein: a) a removable glue covering piece is disposed over the contact glue section.
5. The paper file sheet file assembly as set forth in Claim 4, wherein: a) the glue section is a continuous strip disposed adjacent the lower free edge of the fastening sheet on the under surface thereof. 


 6. The file paper sheet file assembly of Claim 3, wherein: a) a pull tab is integral with the glue covering piece which is readily grasped to permit the covering piece to be pulled and removed from the glue section.
7. The paper sheet file assembly of Claim 5, wherein: a) the tab element extends beyond an edge of its respective fastener sheet.
8. The paper sheet file assembly as set forth in Claim 1, wherein: a) the fastening sheet is transparent.
9. The paper sheet file assembly as set forth in Claim 1, wherein: a) the fastener means is a single fastener common to all the securing sheets and is strong enough to hold the securing sheets and the file sheets connected to them firmly mounted on the file sheet backing panel.
10. The paper sheet file assembly as set forth in Claim 1, wherein: a) the file sheet backing panel is one of 


 several panels of a file folder.
11. The paper sheet file assembly as set forth in Claim 5, wherein: a) wherein each of the superposed fastening sheets have a cut-out section adjacent one side thereof; and, b) the pull tab of the glue covering piece extends over said cut-out section to provide a freely extending tab pull section which is readily graspable.
12. A paper sheet filing assembly comprising: a) a file sheet backing panel which is relatively thick and rigid for supporting paper sheets; b) a plurality of relatively small superposed fastening sheets attached along a small section of an edge of the backing panel; c) a plurality of superposed paper file sheets mounted on the panel, each one of the file sheets individually engaging a separate corresponding fastening sheet; d) the fastening sheets having a small file sheet connecting area which will connect to the edge portion area of a given paper file sheet which is to be placed on the backing panel; 


 e) each of the paper file sheets having an area smaller than that of the backing panel and a common edge which is disposed parallel to the said edge of the backing panel and relatively close thereto; f) the common edge of the paper sheets so aligned being in substantial alignment with the corresponding common edges of the other paper file sheets mounted on the panel, and having a common edge section adjacent to the common edge which is connected with the file sheet connecting area of the fastening sheets; and, g) connecting means for connecting the connecting area of the fastening sheets to the corresponding common edge section of the file sheet.
13. The method of making an active correspondence file, comprising: a) selecting a flat backing panel of relatively stiff rectangular paper material; b) attaching a block of superposed, flexible fastening sheets to a section of the panel adjacent a periphery thereof; c) lifting a free edge portion of a fastening sheet containing a file sheet fastening element sufficiently to create an opening to permit insertion of an end portion of a file sheet; d) inserting the file sheet peripheral 


 edge end portion within the opening and in alignment with the backing panel and the fastening sheet of the fastening element; and e) attaching the file sheet fastening element of the fastening sheet to the file sheet.
14. The method of making an active correspondence file as set forth in Claim 12, including the steps of: a) activating the fastening element by removing a•glue cover strip from a glue strip on the engaging portion of the fastener strip to expose the glue surface; and b) pressing the glue surface against the ile sheet peripheral edge end portion to thereby engage and hold the file sheet in position in the file.
15. The method of making an active correspondence file as set forth in Claim 13, including the step of: a) grasping a pull tab integral with the glue cover to thereby pull it from the glue section.
16. The paper sheet file assembly as set forth in Claim 10, wherein: a) the fastener means is a single fastener common to all the securing sheets and is strong enough to hold the fastening sheets and the file sheets connected 


 to them firmly mounted on the file sheet backing panel.
17. The paper sheet filing assembly as set forth in Claim 11, wherein: a) the file sheet connecting means includes a contact glue section disposed on the under surface of the lower section of the fastener sheet for engaging a paper file sheet adjacent its upper edge.
18. The paper sheet filing assembly as set forth in Claim 16, wherein: a) a removable glue covering piece is disposed over the contact glue section.
19. The paper sheet file assembly as set forth in Claim 17, wherein: a) a pull tab section is integrally connected to the glue covering piece and is readily grasped to permit removal of the glue covering piece.
20. The paper sheet filing assembly as set forth in Claim 18, wherein: a) each of the superposed fastening sheets have a cut-out section adjacent one side thereof; and, b) the pull tab of the glue covering piece extends over into said cutout section to provide a freely 


extending tab pull section which is readily graspable. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
