<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636296</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPEDANCE SYNTHESIZER FOR A SUBSCRIBER LINE INTERFACE CIRCUIT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H1128	H04Q342	H04M300	H04M300	H04M1738	H04M1900	H03H1102	H04M1738	H04Q342	H04M1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H04Q	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H03H	H04M	H04Q	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H11	H04Q3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M1	H04M19	H03H11	H04M1	H04Q3	H04M19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to impedance generators, and is particularly but not 
exclusively concerned with an impedance generator for use in a line interface circuit for a 
telecommunications line. Line interface circuits are commonly connected to two-wire 
telephone subscriber lines at a telephone central office or remote terminal in order to 
provide a variety of well-known desired functions. Various forms of line interface circuit, and various desirable features in line 
interface circuits, are known. In particular, it is known for example from Rosenbaum 
United States Patent No. 4,484,032 issued November 20, 1984 and entitled "Active 
Impedance Transformer Assisted Line Feed Circuit" to provide a line interface circuit in 
which two amplifiers have their outputs coupled to the tip and ring wires of a two-wire 
telephone line via feed resistors and primary windings of a very small transformer. In this 
arrangement, a secondary winding of the transformer and a resistive network coupled to 
the feed resistors provide for sensing of a.c. and d.c. conditions on the line. In addition, it is known from Rosch et al. United States Patent No. 4,764,956 
issued August 16, 1988 and entitled "Active Impedance Line Feed Circuit" to cancel 
common mode signals and to provide a substantially constant threshold for ground fault 
current limiting in a line interface circuit. With evolution of telephone systems, it is desirable to provide improved line 
interface circuits which in particular have a bandwidth which is sufficiently great to 
accommodate ISDN (integrated services digital network) services, for example a signal 
bandwidth of the order of 200 kHz. At the same time, it is desirable to provide 
improvements in line interface circuits with respect to such features as their size, cost, 
versatility, and operation especially in relation to fault conditions, common mode signal 
rejection, and power consumption and dissipation. Considered generally, there is a need for a line interface circuit which can be used 
to operate in conjunction with any arbitrary telephone communications line to provide 
arbitrary voice and data communications services as may be desired at any particular time, 
which services can be readily changed under software control from a telephone central 
office processor without requiring any hardware changes of the line interface circuit. Such a line interface circuit must be able to terminate, and be matched to, lines of 
various resistive and complex impedances. For example, two-wire telephone
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An impedance generator comprising: 

means (28) for forming a difference (Va) between an input voltage (Vin) 
multiplied by a multiplier (k2) and a high pass filtered version (Vc) of the 

difference multiplied by another multiplier (k3); and 
means for combining (32) the input voltage (Vin) multiplied by a further 
multiplier (k1) with a low pass filtered version (Vb) of said difference to produce 

an output voltage (Vo). 
An impedance generator as claimed in claim 1 wherein the means (28) 
for forming a difference (Va) comprises means for low pass filtering said 

difference to produce the low pass filtered version (Vb) of said difference, and 
means (30) for subtracting the low pass filtered version (Vb) of said difference 

from said difference (Va) to produce the high pass filtered version (Vc) of said 
difference. 
An impedance generator as claimed in claim 2 wherein the means for 
low pass filtering comprises a series resistance (R) followed by a shunt 

capacitance (C) and a buffer amplifier (34) having an input connected to a 
junction between the resistance (R) and capacitance (C). 
An impedance generator as claimed in claim 1, 2, or 3 wherein the 
means (28) for forming a difference comprises means for adding the input 

voltage (Vin) multiplied by the further multiplier (k1) to the high pass filtered 
version (Vc) of the difference multiplied by said another multiplier (k3). 
An impedance generator as claimed in claim 1, 2, or 3 wherein the 
means for combining (32) comprises summing means for adding the low pass 

filtered version (Vb) of said difference to the input voltage (Vin) multiplied by the 
further multiplier (k1). 
An impedance generator as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the 
means for combining (32) comprises subtracting means for subtracting the low 

pass filtered version (Vb) of said difference from the input voltage multiplied by 
the further multiplier (k1).  

 
An impedance generator as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 wherein 
each multiplier (k1, k2, k3) comprises a gain element having a controlled gain. 
An impedance generator comprising: 

first, second, and third multiplying means (k1, k2, k3) each having an 
input and an output, the input of each of the first and second multiplying means 

(k1, k2) being connected to an input of the impedance generator; 
summing means (32) having a first input connected to the output of the 
first multiplying means (k1), a second input, and an output constituting an output 

of the impedance generator; 
subtracting means (28) having two inputs, connected respectively to the 
outputs of the second and third multipliers (k2, k3), and an output; and 
filtering means having an input coupled to the output of the subtracting 
means (28), a high pass filter output connected to the input of the third 

multiplying means (k3), and a low pass filter output connected to the second 
input of the summing means (32). 
An impedance generator as claimed in claim 8 wherein the subtracting 
means (28) comprises a third input connected to the output of the first multiplying 

means (k1), for summing the output of the first multiplying means (k1) with the 
output of the third multiplying means (k3). 
An impedance generator as claimed in claim 8 or 9 wherein the filtering 
means comprises a low pass filter (R, C), having an input constituting the input of 

the filtering means and an output constituting said low pass filter output, and 
subtracting means (30) having two inputs connected respectively to the input of 

the filtering means and the low pass filter output and having an output 
constituting said high pass filter output. 
An impedance generator as claimed in claim 8, 9, or 10 wherein each of 
the multiplying means (k1, k2, k3) comprises a gain element having a controlled 

gain. 
A method of generating an impedance comprising the steps of: 

forming a difference (Va) between an input voltage (Vin) multiplied by a 
multiplier (k2) and a high pass filtered version (Vc) of the difference multiplied by 

another multiplier (k3); and  
 
combining the input voltage (Vin) multiplied by a further multiplier (k1) 
with a low pass filtered version (Vb) of said difference to produce an output 

voltage (Vo). 
A method as claimed in claim 12 wherein the step of forming a 
difference (Va) comprises adding the input voltage (Vin) multiplied by the further 

multiplier (k1) to the high pass filtered version (Vc) of the difference multiplied by 
said another multiplier (k3). 
A method as claimed in claim 12 or 13 wherein the step of forming a 
difference (Va) comprises low pass filtering said difference to produce the low 

pass filtered version (Vb) of said difference, and subtracting (30) the low pass 
filtered version (Vb) of said difference from said difference (Va) to produce the 

high pass filtered version (Vc) of said difference. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, 13, or 14 and including the step of 
controlling the multipliers (k1, k2, k3). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
