<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618396</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for introducing sealant into a clearance
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L5516	F16L551645	F16L100	F16L100	F16L5518	F16L55165	F16L55162	F16L5516	F16L5518	F16L55162	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L55	F16L55	F16L1	F16L1	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus is provided for introducing sealant into a clearance 
between a replacement pipe (9) and an existing pipe (36) within 

which in use the replacement pipe 9 is located. The apparatus 
comprises a nose-cone (1) having a tubular body (6) for connection 

to the upstream end (8) of the replacement pipe (9), frangible 
means (20) in the form of a pop-out plug; pierceable metal foil; 

plastic film or membrane to seal the bore of the tubular body 
(6) and at least one non return valve (2) in the form of an 

elastic ring (2), rubber O-ring (40) or plug (52) and spring 
assembly (53) to permit the flow of sealant from the bore of the 

body (6) into the clearance (37) by way of the wall of the body (6) 
but to resist return-flow from the clearance (37) into the bore. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH GAS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BG PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGERS ALAN FOSTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGERS, ALAN FOSTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for
introducing sealant into a clearance between a replacement
pipe and an existing pipe within which, in use, the
replacement pipe is located.UK Published Patent Application Nos. 2227071A and 2236158A
both describe methods for replacing or relining pipes,
particularly domestic gas service pipes, with replacement
pipes.In the methods described, after the replacement pipe has been
inserted into the existing pipe, any clearance between the
pipes is sealed with a sealant of a flowable, settable kind
such as grout or an anaerobic sealant or any other suitable
kind of sealant.The sealant is injected into the downstream end of the
clearance via a suitable fitting, it being understood that the
terms "downstream" and "upstream" are used in relation to the
normal direction of flow of gas in the existing service pipe
from the main towards and into the premises. The injected
sealant travels upstream along the clearance until it reaches
the so-called "nose-cone". This is a component which is
connected to the leading end of the replacement pipe before it 
is inserted into the existing service pipe. The nose-cone has
a tubular body with a downstream portion connected to the
upstream/leading end of the replacement pipe. Around the
upstream portion of the body usually are means for sealing the
clearance between the pipes when the replacement pipe is
located within the existing pipe. The sealing means in the
nose-cone are in the form of a flange or flanges or a vane or
vanes and form a tight interference fit with the internal wall
of the existing pipe. It is these flanges or vanes which stop
gas entering the clearance and also prevent the further
progress of the sealant during its journey along the
clearance. The nose-cone also has a frangible means to seal
the bore of the tubular nose-cone body. This serves
temporarily to prevent the ingress of gas into the replacement
pipe.When the sealant reaches the nose-cone, it is a signal that
the entire clearance is occupied by sealant and that the
clearance is completely sealed, the seal provided by the
flange(s) or vane(s) not being considered totally secure.The distance between the downstream injection point in the
clearance and the nose-cone may be several metres as the
distance will be equivalent to the length of service pipe
being replaced. Clearly to fill the entire clearance a very
large quantity of sealant is necessary and this increases the
costs of these particular replacement methods. It is therefore an object
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for introducing sealant into a clearance between a
replacement pipe and an existing pipe within which in use the replacement

pipe is located, the apparatus comprising a nose-cone (1) having means (13-17)
for sealing the clearance between the pipes when the replacement pipe is

located within the existing pipe, a tubular body (6) for connection to the
upstream end of the replacement pipe (9), and frangible means (20) to seal the

bore of the tubular body and characterised by at least one non return
assembly means (2; 40; 52, 53) with the body to permit the flow of sealant

from the bore of the body into the clearance by way of the wall of the body
but to resist return flow from the clearance into the bore.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which the non return assembly means is a valve.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 in which the wall of the body has at
least one aperture (21-23) and the valve comprises resilient means (2)

adapted in one position to close the or each aperture and in another position
to open the or each aperture if acted upon by sealant supplied above a

predetermined pressure.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 in which the resilient means comprises
a ring of elastic material which is slipped over the body of the nose-cone to

cover the or each aperture in the body of the nose-cone unless acted upon by
the sealant. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 in which the resilient means comprises
a plug (52) and spring (53) against which, in use, the plug moves, the plug

and spring being located within the body of the nose-cone with the spring
located between the frangible means and the plug, the arrangement being that

in a first position the plug closes the or each aperture in the nose-cone body
and on being moved to a second position against the spring if acted upon by

sealant supplied above a predetermined pressure, the plug opens the or each
aperture before returning to the first position under the action of the spring

with release of the sealant pressure.
Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which means
(5) are provided to supply sealant to the nose-cone.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6 in which the supply means comprises
a tube having an upstream end adapted for connection to the downstream

portion of the nose-cone and being dimensioned to be inserted into and be
retracted from the replacement pipe.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 in which means for connecting the
tube to the nose-cone is provided, the means comprising a tubular liner (3) for

the nose-cone, the liner being adapted to be a close push fit within the nose-cone
and having at least one aperture (25-27) in its wall, the aperture or each

aperture in the liner corresponding with that or those as the case may be in the

nose-cone when the liner is appropriately positioned within the nose-cone, the
liner being internally threaded and the connecting means also comprising a 

nozzle (4) being externally threaded for connection to the liner whose threads
correspond.
Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the
means for sealing the clearance between the pipes in the nose-cone comprises

at least one vane or flange (13-17) disposed around the wall of the nose-cone
body.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 in which there are a plurality of vanes
or flanges, the diameter of the vanes or flanges increasing in the direction of

the downstream portion of the body from the upstream portion.
Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the
frangible means is a metal foil, plastics film or membrane which can be

broken by a rod or the like introduced down the replacement pipe.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 11 in which the frangible
means is a plug in the bore of the nose-cone body, which plug can be pushed

out by a rod or the like introduced down the replacement pipe.
Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the
frangible means is located at the front end of the nose-cone.
Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the nose-cone
is made of polyethylene. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the nose-cone
is a moulding.
Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the nose-cone
is formed from the replacement pipe itself.
A method for introducing sealant into a clearance between a
replacement pipe and an existing pipe within which the replacement pipe is

located using the apparatus as claimed in claim 1 the method further comprising
sealing the clearance with the means for sealing at a point further upstream than the point at which

the sealant is to be introduced, introducing the sealant into the clearance at an
upstream point in the clearance and causing the sealant to flow to a

downstream point in the clearance and in which during the introduction of the
sealant the upstream bore of the replacement pipe is temporarily sealed.
A method as claimed in claim 17 in which the sealant
is pumped along a tube to the point of introduction into the clearance, the tube

being located within the replacement pipe.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
