<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638787</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Load measuring system for refuse trucks.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65F302	B65F302	G01G1908	G01G1908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65F	B65F	G01G	G01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65F3	B65F3	G01G19	G01G19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for determining a weight of material 
being emptied from a container is shown. The container is 

lifted to and lowered from an emptying position in a lift 
empty and lower cycle by an arm which has at least two 

sensors mounted on it. The method includes selecting at 
least one measurement position, calibrating the sensors by 

recording the respective outputs from each of the sensors 
for both an empty arm and for an arm lifting and lowering 

a calibrating weight. The outputs recorded for the 
calibrating weight can then be subtracted from the outputs 

recorded for the empty arm. Then, an unknown load can be 
lifted emptied and lowered with the output of the sensors 

being similarly recorded at the measurement position. By 
subtracting the output recorded during the lifting portion 

of the cycle for the unknown load from the output recorded 
during the lowering cycle for the unknown load a change in 

output for each sensor at the measurement position can be 
obtained. The change in output of the sensors can then be 

compared to the change in output recorded for the 
calibration step and a weight value calculated. In 

another aspect of the present invention an apparatus is 
disclosed having at least two sensors mounted to a sensing 

portion of an arm. Output from each sensor is 
independently recorded and used in obtaining calibration 

values and actual weight values. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOBILE COMPUTING CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOBILE COMPUTING CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWMAN ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIFFEN KEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWMAN,ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIFFEN,KEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the field of 
load-weighing systems. In particular this invention 
relates to the load-weighing systems and components of 
such systems which may be used to determine the weight of 
refuse emptied from a container into a refuse truck. Garbage is a major environmental problem, 
especially now for urban centers. Typically garbage is 
collected from various premises and taken to a disposal 
site. Often such disposal sites are landfill sites, where 
the garbage is dumped into a hole in the ground. However, 
landfill disposal sites are expensive to operate and tend 
to fill up over time, thus needing to be replaced. Rising 
land costs have made replacement of landfill sites 
expensive. Additionally, landfill sites may be 
environmentally hazardous, with chemicals, pollutants and 
the like leaching into the ground water supply. Faced with the rising costs and concerns about 
landfill sites, the operators of landfill sites have begun 
to dramatically increase the fee charged for disposing 
garbage at such sites. Typically now the fee charged is 
based on the weight of garbage disposed of. Thus, each 
refuse truck seeking to off-load garbage is weighed on the 
way into the landfill site and weighed on the way out of 
the landfill site. The weight difference is then 
calculated and a fee is paid in accordance with that 
weight difference. Additionally, concerns have been raised about 
the total weight of individual vehicles which travel 
public roads. The greater the weight of the vehicle the 
greater the wear of the roadway. Weight restrictions have  
 
been imposed on many roadways and substantial fines may be 
payable for overweight vehicles. The landfill site weight 
records can be used as evidence of overweight violations 
by the appropriate regulatory agency. Both of these 
trends, namely increased costs of dumping and increased 
overweight fines, increase the importance for refuse truck 
operators being able to know the total weight of the 
refuse being carried in their trucks, and the incremental 
weight being added by each additional pickup. In a typical refuse collection operation, a 
customer signs a contract which guarantees that a refuse 
receptacle will be emptied on a periodic basis. Presently 
the contract is typically based upon a flat fee and does 
not take into account the actual weight of refuse to be 
removed from the site. The weight of the refuse may vary 
with demolished building materials being very heavy 
whereas cardboard packing or paper packing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of determining a weight of material 
being emptied from a container wherein said container is 

lifted to and lowered from an emptying position in a lift, 
empty and lower cycle by an arm means, and wherein mounted 

on said arm means are at least one front and at least one 
rear first sensor having respective first outputs 

proportional to the weight of said container, said method 
comprising: 


a) selecting at least one measurement position; 
b) calibrating said first sensors by recording 
at said measurement position said respective 

first outputs from each of said first sensors 
for both an empty arm means and for an arm 

means lifting and lowering a calibrating 
weight; 
c) subtracting from said respective first 
outputs recorded from said first sensors for 

said calibrating weight, the respective first 
outputs recorded from said first sensors for 

said empty arm means, at said measurement 
position, during both the lift and lower 

portion of the cycle and recording a 
difference; 
d) lifting, emptying and lowering an unknown 
load and recording said first outputs from 

each of said front and rear first sensors for 
each of said lifting and lowering portions of 

said cycle at said measurement position; 
e) subtracting from said output recorded during 
the lifting portion of said cycle, said 

output recorded during the lowering portion 
of said cycle, at said measurement position, 

to determine a change in output for each 
first sensor; 
f) computing from said change of output at said 
 

front and rear first sensors for said unknown 
weight and said change of output recorded for 

said front and rear first sensors of said 
calibrating weight, at said measurement 

position, the weight of material emptied from 
said container. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said arm 
means includes at least one second sensor having an output 

proportional to an angle of said arm means relative to a 
fixed plane, and wherein said step of selecting at least 

one measurement position comprises selecting a range of 
angles over which said respective first and second outputs 

are recorded and, said further steps include correlating 
said respective front and rear first outputs to said 

second output at a plurality of measurement positions. 
The method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said 
step (f) of computing the weight of material emptied from 

said container includes calculating the weight emptied at 
each measurement position, discarding any calculated 

weights outside of an acceptable range, and averaging the 
remaining weights. 
The method of claim 2 further including the step 
of converting said first and second outputs into a form 

suitable for use in a computational unit. 
The method of claim 4 wherein said step of 
converting said output comprises converting analog signals 

from said sensors to digital signals, prior to said output 
being recorded in said computational unit. 
The method of claim 1 further including the step 
of locating said sensors on a relatively horizontal plane, 

when said arm means is adjacent said sensing position. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said sensors are 
strain gauges, and said step of locating said sensors 

comprises mounting said strain gauges directly onto said 
arm means in a position where strain is proportional to a 

load on said arm means. 
The method of claim 7 wherein said strain gauges 
are located on an upper outer or inner bottom surface of 

the arm means. 
A load weighing apparatus for weighing a load 
lifted, emptied and lowered by an arm means, the arm means 

having a loading portion generally toward one end, and a 
sensing portion located between the other end and said 

loading portion, said apparatus comprising: 
   a first sensor mounted on said load arm on said 

sensing portion to produce a first output proportion to a 
force in said sensing portion of said load arm, at a first 

known location; 
   a second sensor mounted to said load arm on 

sensing portion between said first sensor and the other 
end, to produce a second output proportional to a force in 

said sensing portion of said load arm at a second known 
location; 

   at least one third sensor to produce a third 
output to identify at least one measurement position; 

   a computational unit for separately recording at 
least said first and second outputs at said measurement 

position; 
   a means to separately deliver and input into 

said computational unit at least said first, second and 
third outputs, and 

   a source of electrical power 
   whereby said apparatus can be used to determine 

the difference in weight between an unknown weight lifted 
by said arm means and lowered by said arm means even where 

said arm means is of a non-uniform modulus of elasticity 
 

or a non-uniform area moment of inertia. 
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said arm means 
pivots about said other end and includes at least one 

pivoter, and said pivoter is connected to said arm means 
betwee
n said sensing portion and said pivot point. 
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein a sum or 
difference of said first and second sensor outputs is not 

in a continuous fixed proportion to a load carried by said 
arm means. 
A load weighing apparatus as claimed in claim 9 
wherein said means to separately deliver and input into 

said computational unit at least said first and second 
output includes an analog to digital converter. 
A load weighing apparatus as claimed in claim 9 
wherein said computational unit further includes: 

   a means for simultaneously recording output 
values from said first, second and third sensors for 

lifting and lowering cycle. 
A load weighing apparatus as claimed in claim 13 
wherein said computational unit further includes: 

   a means for selecting a plurality of measurement 
positions in a predetermined weigh zone, for both the lift 

and lower portions of movement of the arm means and means 
for recording said first outputs at each of said selected 

measurement positions. 
A load weighing apparatus as claimed in claim 14 
wherein said computational unit further includes a means 

for combining said recorded outputs respectively of said 
first and second sensors at said measurement positions 

defined by said third sensor, for an empty arm means, for 
an arm means carrying a calibrating weight, and for an arm 

 
means carrying an unknown weight up and an unknow weight 

down through said weigh zone, to determine a weight 
difference between said unknown up weight and said unknown 

down weight. 
A load weighing apparatus as claimed in claim 15 
wherein said means for combining further includes a means 

for statistically analyzing said determined weights 
difference to remove erroneous values. 
A load weighing apparatus as claimed in claim 12 
wherein said computational unit includes means to 

continuously record values from said first, second and 
third sensors, when said arm means is in movement through 

a predetermined weigh zone. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
