<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650156</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Contact scheme for minimizing inductive pickup in magnetoresistive read heads.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B5012	G11B5012	G11B502	G11B502	G11B510	G11B511	G11B539	G11B539	G11B548	G11B548	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A disc drive recording head which senses magnetic flux from a storage medium 
includes an MR sensor positioned on a trailing surface of a disc drive slider. First and 

second electrical contacts connect the MR sensor to first and second pads positioned on 
the trailing surface of the MR slider and minimizes an inductive voltage induced from 

the storage medium during the sensing of the magnetic flux. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOWRY GREGORY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOWRY, GREGORY S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a contact configuration for connecting a 
magnetoresistive sensor for sensing magnetic flux from a storage medium to further 
circuitry, and a storage medium read head including the same. Magnetoresistive (MR) sensors are used in magnetic storage systems to detect 
magnetically encoded information. A time dependent magnetic field from a magnetic 
storage medium or disc directly modulates the resistivity of the MR sensor. The change 
in resistance of the MR sensor can be detected by passing a sense current through the 
MR sensor and measuring the voltage across the MR sensor. The resulting signal can be 
used to recover information from a magnetic storage medium or disc. Practical MR sensors are typically formed using ferromagnetic metal alloys 
because of their high magnetic permeability. A ferromagnetic metal alloy is deposited in 
a thin film upon an electrically insulated substrate or wafer. Changing magnetic fields 
originating from the magnetic storage medium produce a change in the magnetization 
direction of the MR sensor and thereby change the resistance of the sensor. This 
phenomenon is called an MR effect. MR sensors have a maximum signal-to-noise ratio when the active region of the 
sensor has no movable magnetic domain boundaries or no domain boundaries. In other 
words, the active sense area of the MR sensor should be a single domain. The presence 
of domain boundaries in the sensor active area that move when a field is applied gives 
rise to Barkhausen noise, a phenomenon caused by the irreversible motion of a magnetic 
domain in the presence of an applied magnetic field. Barkhausen noise cannot occur if 
no domain boundaries exist. Typically, a single magnetic domain MR sensor is achieved 
by either utilizing geometry, or via boundary control stabilization or inherent 
longitudinal magnetic fields or any combination thereof.  During a read operation, an MR sensor transduces the data field of a medium 
directly by virtue of an MR effect and produces an MR voltage signal. However, the 
MR sensor also couples an ideally 90° out of phase voltage signal due to the inductive 
pickup from the contact loop configuration of the sensor current path providing current 
to the MR sensor (neglecting capacitance). The out of phase signal is undesired because 
it adds a coherent signal that is phase shifted away from the real MR signal attempting to 
be detected through use of the MR effect. Therefore, the MR sensor is detecting two 
different signals from a single
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical contact configuration for connecting a magnetoresistive sensor (36) 
for sensing magnetic flux from a storage medium (35) to further circuitry, the contact 

configuration having first (28) and second (26) electrically conductive paths from said 
magnetoresistive sensor (36) to the further circuitry, characterised in that the conductive 

paths (26,28) are arranged such that they reduce the effect of an inductive pick-up signal 
occurring due to the storage medium (35) on the electrical signal applied to said further 

circuitry via the electrically conductive paths (26,28) and said magnetoresistive sensor. 
A contact configuration according to claim 1, wherein a first of said conductive 
paths (28) overlaps a first portion (26b) of a second of said conductive paths (26) to 

reduce inductive current of the inductive pick-up signal induced from the storage 
medium (35) in a single loop formed by the first conductive path (28), a second portion 

(26c) of the second conductive path (26) and the magnetoresistive sensor (36). 
A contact configuration according to claim 2, wherein the first and second 
conductive paths (28,26) define a three-dimensional configuration residing on at least 

two metalisation layers separated by an insulating layer (50). 
A contact configuration according to claim 3, wherein the first portion (26b) of the 
second electrical contact (26) is positioned on the insulating layer (50). 
A contact configuration according to claim 1, wherein the first (28) and second 
(26) conductive paths together define a plurality of electrically conductive loops 

(38,40,44) in a plane substantially perpendicular to the plane of the storage medium 
(35), the conductive loops (38,40,44) forming cross-over areas between them, and the 

 
first (28) and second (26) conductive paths being electrically insulated at the cross-over 

areas so that current flows from the further circuitry through an input section (18) of the 
plurality of loops (38,40,44), through the magnetoresistive sensor (36) and returns to the 

further circuitry via an output section (20) of the plurality of loops (38,40,44). 
A contact configuration according to claim 5, wherein the plurality of electrically 
conductive loops (38,40,44) comprises a pair of oppositely orientated loops. 
A contact configuration according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the loops are arranged 
such that a first portion of the inductive pick-up signal is induced in a first loop (28) and 

a second portion of the inductive pick-up signal is induced in a second loop (26), and a 
first portion of the inductive pick-up signal is substantially equal in magnitude and 

opposite in polarity to the second portion of the inductive pick-up signal. 
A contact configuration according to any one of claims 5, 6 or 7, wherein the 
conductive paths (28,26) define two loops, the loops being so sized and positioned in 

relation to the magnetoresistive sensor (36) as to reduce the inductive pick-up signal 
during sensing of the magnetic flux. 
A contact configuration according to claim 5, wherein the plurality of loops 
comprises a first loop (40), a second loop (38) and a third loop (44). 
A contact configuration according to claim 9, wherein a first portion of the 
inductive pick-up signal induced in the first loop (40), a second portion of the inductive 

pick-up signal is induced in the second loop (38), and a third portion of the inductive 
voltage signal is induced in the third loop (44), the second portion of the inductive pickup 

signal being substantially equal in magnitude and opposite in polarity to a 
combination of the first portion and a second portion of the inductive pick-up signal. 
A contact configuration according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the conductive paths 
(28,26) define three loops, the loops being so sized and positioned in relation to the 

magnetoresistive sensor (36) as to reduce the inductive pick-up signal during sensing of 
the magnetic flux. 
A contact configuration according to any one of claims 5 to 11, wherein the 
conductive paths (28,26) define a three-dimensional configuration residing on at least 

two metalisation layers separated by non-metalisation layers. 
A contact configuration according to claim 12, wherein a first portion of the 
conductive paths (28,26) resides on a first metalisation layer and a second portion of the 

conductive paths (28,26) resides on a second metalisation layer. 
A contact configuration according to any one of claims 5 to 13, wherein the 
conductive paths (28,26) define a figure-eight configuration. 
A contact configuration according to any preceding claim, wherein the conductive 
paths (28,26) receive a bias current from the external circuitry. 
A storage medium read head (12) for reading data from a storage medium (35) 
which includes at least one electrical contact configuration according to any one of 

claims 1 to 15. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
