<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631017</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Great clearance road joint for bridges and viaducts.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01D1900	E01D1906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01D	E01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01D19	E01D19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
It is made up of: 

two continuity metallic plates (2,14) for the transit plane, provided 
on the structural edges of the opening, connected to the same in such a 

way that, interacting with the lower structural elements (A,B), realizes 
two recesses; 
a support structure (6) in correspondence of the structural 
opening, supporting a deformable transit plane (11); the supporting 

structure (6) 
of the deformable plane (11) being hinged on one structural edge (B) 

and, in 
correspondence of the other edge, upon which it is rested, slides under 

the transit plate (2) contemporaneously sustaining the same; 
a deformable plane (11) suitably coupled to the underlying 
structure (6), upon which it can slide being housed during its sliding 

into the 
recess opposite to the preceding position. 
The main feature of the invention is the double opposed 
bayonet working of the device with a disappearing sliding plane. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TIS SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
T.I.S. S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARNETTO ROBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARNETTO, ROBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is included among the devices realized 
in order to obtain the functional continuity of the structures, particularly 
bridges and viaducts. The invention allows to get over those openings, 
even having big sizes, that usually are present in correspondence of near 
but not continue separations, where there is the chance of relative 
motions due to thermal and/or seismic reasons, without that the same 
determine significant interactions. The present technology provides the use of various devices, in 
the most cases characterized by the combination of slidable supporting 
elements and of deformable elastic elements, serially disposed, in such a 
way that it is in any case assured the continuity of the road. Other 
solutions provide the use of undeformable elements, reciprocally slidable, 
having exactly the same above mentioned scope. Said technologies are basically characterized by remarkable 
vertical sizes, so that usually an interference occurs with the supporting 
structure, thus requiring a suitable adaptation, and by remarkable plan 
dimensions, with the consequence of stability drawbacks for the same 
joint with respect to the braking action, to the buckling and to the lifting of 
the elements during the traffic. The above points involve noticeable costs of the devices and 
expenses for the structural adaptation; very high are also the 
maintenance costs. The present invention is particularly advantageous, since: 
in view of the reduced vertical dimensions, the structural 
interferences are reduced at the minimum level, in some case even 
eliminating them, being it possible to provide the joint within the thickness 
of the pavement; drastically reduces the maintenance operations, in view of 
the possibility of having an easy access and of the king of intervention 
required; optimizes the plan dimensions; simplifies the intrinsic realization problems for the same joint, 
in view of the simple structure characterizing the same. The invention thus proposes an extremely convenient device. 
Another advantageous aspect is that of the very high comfort level for the  
 
traffic, having a continuos functional sliding plane both in length and in 
width. These and other results are obtained, according to the 
invention, by a road joint characterized by a double opposed bayonet 
behaviour, employing a deformable plane able to be absorbed or housed 
during its sliding within the structural articulation originally provided. It is therefore specific object of the present invention a 
dilatat
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Dilatation joint, particularly suitable for bridges and viaducts 
having great clearances, characterized in that it comprises transit 

deformable plane means, and support elements sustaining the transit 
plane to get over the opening, said deformable plane means and said 

support elements being coupled in such a way that they can slide one with 
respect to the other, so that the latter can be housed in a recess obtained 

in a position opposite with respect to a recess where said deformable 
transit plane means are housed. 
Joint according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
deformable transit plane disposed above the structural opening is 

constrained to the structural edge opposite to the edge where the support 
structure to get over the opening is constrained, said plane resting and 

sliding over the same edge. 
Joint according to claim 2, characterized in that the 
deformable plane is constrained to the structure by the plate that 

individuates the recess absorbing the movement of the supporting 
structure to get over the opening and directly sustaining the same 

deformable plane. 
Joint according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
deformable plane during its sliding goes within a recess individuated by 

the transit plate fixed to the structure and simply rested on the deformable 
plane. 
Joint according to claim 5, characterized in that the support 
of the plate on the deformable plane occurs by a surface obtained by a 

blade shape of the same plate, in such a way that said surface is 
homothetic to the engagement aiding shape of the support surface to get 

over the opening near the hinge coupling of the latter to the structure. 
Joint according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
deformable transit plane has a low flexure stiffness and interacts with the 

underlying slidable structure to prevent lifting and/or unstability 
phenomenon due to the horizontal action loads, particularly the braking. 
Joint according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that it comprises a first plate, coupled, at one end, at one edge of the 

opening where the joint is provided, disposed above a plane of the 
structure; support elements provided between the two edges of the 

 
opening to be get over, fixedly connected to the opposite edge of the 

opening with respect to the one of coupling of said first plate and slidingly 
coupled to the edge of the opening coupled with said first plate; elastic 

bearing and sliding means for said support elements; a deformable plane, 
made up of at least a low flexure stiffness element, having sufficient 

horizontal stiffness and strength, provided above said support elements, 
coupled at one end to the free end of said first plate, and, on the other 

end, slidable on the end of said support elements fixed on the opening; 
and a second plate, fixed at one end at the edge of the opening where it is 

not coupled said first plate and provided, on the opposite end, with an 
engagement aiding surface for the sliding of the free end of said 

deformable plane. 
Joint according to claim 7, characterized in that said first 
plate is fixed to said edge of the opening by a groove realized in the body 

containing the road pavement, and an intrados projection of the plate 
housed in said groove. 
Joint according to claim 7 or 8, characterized in that said first 
plate is provided with stiffening ribs corresponding to the interspaces 

between the support elements. 
Joint according to one of the claims 7 - 9, characterized in 
that said plane of the structure provides sloped grooves, for the down flow 

of the water. 
Joint according to one of the claims 7 - 9, characterized in 
that said plane of the structure is sloped toward the opening. 
Joint according to one of the claims 7 - 11, characterized in 
that said support elements are made up of normal section bars. 
Joint according to one of the claims 7 - 12, characterized in 
that said support elements have an engagement aiding surface on the 

end fixed to the opening in order to allow the sliding of said deformable 
plane. 
Joint according to one of the claims 7 - 13, characterized in 
that said elastic bearing and sliding means are made up of rubber slabs or 

ingots, or by linear contact elements, allowing the relative rotation and 
sliding. 
Joint according to one of the claims 7 - 14, characterized in 
that said deformable plane comprises a plurality of interconnected 

modular strips. 
Joint according to claim 15, characterized in that said 
plurality of interconnected modular strips provides coupling means in 

order to avoid the lifting and/or with anti tearing reinforcement. 
Joint according to one of the claims 7 - 16, characterized in 
that said second plate is fixed to the edge of the opening by a device 

similar to the one used for said first plate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
