<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651846</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED PIN TUMBLERS AND CORRESPONDING KEYS FOR CYLINDER LOCKS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B2700	E05B1900	E05B2706	E05B1900	E05B2704	E05B2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B27	E05B19	E05B27	E05B19	E05B27	E05B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDECO SECURITY LOCKS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDECO SECURITY LOCKS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELD PETER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELD, PETER H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to improvements in cylinder 
locks and particularly to the shapes of tumbler pin 
tips and the corresponding key bitting surfaces. Yale type cylinder subassemblies have been well 
known since 1865. Typically, differences between 
cylinders have been developed by adjusting 
incrementally the lengths of the tumbler pins in the 
cylinder and key differs are generated by varying the 
corresponding depths of the bittings on the key. 
Variations in the shape of the tip of the tumbler pins 
are not new. In the case of Taylor, U.S. Patent 
457,753 (1891), these variations provide masterkeying 
capabilities. The positioning of tumbler pins by keys has been 
the subject of continuous improvement and much work in 
the lock art. The Spain et al. patent, U.S. Patent 
3,499,302 (1970), disclosed tumbler pins with chisel-shaped 
tips which were rotatable to predetermined 
positions by skew cut key bittings to operate in 
conjunction with a side bar mechanism. Another Spain 
et al. patent, U.S. Patent 3,722,240, is an improvement 
on the locking mechanism using unique rotating tumblers 
for cooperation with another sidebar. These patents  
 
improved the state of the lock cylinder art by 
disclosing tumbler pins in cylinder mechanisms whereby 
the tumbler pins were adjusted rotationally in addition 
to the traditional elevational positioning. In a 
six-pin cylinder, the ability to rotate each pin to the 
three positions Spain uses, increases the bitting and 
combination potential from 1,000,000 to 729,000,000 
unique keys. With the advent of elevational and rotational 
positioning of a tumbler pin within a cylinder, the 
sides and shapes of the tumbler pin tip and the bitting 
surface became a significant factor in the operation of 
the cylinder. The introduction of the skew cut 
bittings into the cylinder forced the tumbler pins to 
rotate to a precise position. Irregularly configured, 
or imprecise surfaces on either the tumbler pin tip or 
the corresponding key bitting surface would not 
correctly position the tumbler pin and allow operation 
of the cylinder. A more recent patent to Oliver, U.S. 
Patent 4,635,455 (1987), discloses offsetting the tip 
of a chisel pointed tumbler. This increases the 
theoretical bitting and combination possibilities of a 
six-pin tumbler cylinder to 46,656,000,000. Keys 
manufactured to operate with offset tumbler pin tips 
are not interchangeable with keys for cylinders whose 
pin tips are not offset. These slight variations are 
significant to the art of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock comprising: at 

least one tumbler pin tip surface shaped to slope 
from adjacent one side surface of the tumbler pin to 

adjacent an opposite side surface of the tumbler pin 
to provide a single slanting contact surface, and at 

least one key blade surface shaped substantially 
complementary to the tumbler pin tip so that when the 

key blade surface and tumbler pin tip are in initial 
partial contact, the key blade surface will cause 

the tumbler pin tip single slanting contact surface 
to move into contact along the complementary shaped 

key surface, thereby causing the tumbler pin to 
rotate about its axis, so as to be positioned in use in a proper 

unlocking position relative to a cylinder lock. 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein the 

tumbler pin tip surface and key blade surface are 
flat sloping surfaces throughout their contact area. 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein at least 

one of the surfaces is a curved convex surface and 
the other of the surfaces is a curved concave 

surface. 
At least one tumbler pin and a key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein at least 

one of the sloping tumbler pin tips and cooperating 
key blade surfaces is a curved convex surface, and 

the other is partially concave in the central portion 
of the surface and is surrounded on both sides by a 

shaped side portion. 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein at least 

one of the sloping tumbler pin tips and cooperating 
key  

 
blade surfaces is a flat sloping surface and the other 

surface has a flat central portion in the sloping 
center extending from one surface to an opposite 

surface with bevelled shaped  
 

surfaces adjoining both edges of the flat central 
portion. 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 4 wherein at least 

one of the sloping tumbler pin tips and cooperating 
blade surfaces is a curved convex surface with a 

pointed tip and the other is partially concave in the 
central portion and is surrounded on both sides by a 

groove between the shaped side portion and central 
portion, the groove cooperating with the pointed tip 

of the curved convex surface. 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein the key 

blade is of a generally rectangular shape with at 
least one of the complementary shaped areas formed in 

at least a top edge. 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein the key 

blade is of a generally rectangular shape with at 
least one of the complementary shaped areas formed in 

at least a side face. 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein the key 

blade is of a generally flat shape with at least one 
of the complementary shaped areas formed in at least 

a side face. 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 9 wherein at least 

one of the shaped areas is at least one substantially 
conical hole in the key blade, the apex of the hole 

being offset from the location of the axis of a 

corresponding tumbler pin bore. 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein the key 

blade is of a generally flat shape with at least some 
of the complementary bitting areas formed in the 

edges.  
 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein the key 

blade is of a generally cylindrical shape with at 
least some complementary bitting surfaces formed in 

the fore end.  
 
At least one tumbler pin and key for a 
cylinder lock as defined in claim 1 wherein the key 

blade is of a generally cylindrical shape with at 
least some complementary bitting areas formed in the 

side. 
A method of rotating tumbler pins in tumbler 
pin bores of a cylinder lock by means of a configured 

key, the method comprising; providing a surface on a 
tip portion of a tumbler pin to slope generally frcm 

one side edge to the other side edge of the tumbler 
pin to provide a single slanted contact surface, 

forming a surface on the key which is generally 
complementary to the single slanted contact surface 

on the tip of the tumbler portion, contacting the 
surfaces by inserting the key in the lock and biasing 

one of the surfaces against the other so that the 
tumbler pin rotates until the complementary single 

slanted contact surfaces are in full contact with 
each other. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
