<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630546</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUXILIARY VIDEO DATA DECODER WITH LARGE PHASE TOLERANCE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N7035	H04N7035	H04N703	H04N7025	H04N7025	H04N703	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An auxiliary video information decoder, for decoding auxiliary video information signals such as closed caption data, includes a data slicer (210) having a variable slicing level. The slicing level is adjusted in response to the amplitude of a run-in-clock (RIC) signal that is included in the auxiliary video information portion of the video signal. Slicing level adjustment involves averaging the RIC signal amplitude during a substantially integral number of cycles of the RIC signal that occur during a control interval (RICWND). The timing of the RIC signal waveform with respect to the control interval is evaluated to verify that the desired number of cycles of the RIC signal occur during a control interval. The timing evaluation operation involves counting (250) cycles of the RIC signal during a control interval. If the desired number of cycles do not occur, the timing of the control interval is modified (200, 220, 230) with respect to the RIC signal and the timing is reevaluated during a subsequent control interval. The evaluation and timing-modification operations may be repeated until the desired number of cycles of the RIC signal are detected. If repeated operation does not provide the desired result, a control signal may be generated indicating that the video signal may not include auxiliary video information.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TULTS JURI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TULTS, JURI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to detection of
information that may be present in a video signal during vertical
blanking intervals.A video signal typically includes vertical display
intervals, or fields, having a plurality of horizontal line intervals,
e.g. 262.5 lines per field in NTSC video systems. The beginning of
each vertical and horizontal interval is identified by respective
vertical and horizontal sync pulses that are included in a
composite video signal. During a portion of each vertical interval,
information in the video signal may not be intended for display.
For example, a vertical blanking interval spans approximately the
first 20 horizontal line intervals in each field. In addition, several
line intervals adjacent to the vertical blanking period, e.g. line 21,
may be within an overscan region of a video display and will not
be visible.The lack of displayed image information during
blanking and overscan intervals makes it possible to insert an
auxiliary information component, e.g. teletext or closed caption
data, into these intervals. Standards such as Federal
Communications Commissions (FCC) Regulations define the format
for each type of auxiliary information including the positioning of
the information within a vertical interval. For example, the
present closed captioning standard (see e.g. 47 CFR §§ 15.119 and
73.682) specifies that digital data corresponding to ASCII
characters for closed captioning must be in line 21 of field 1. The first step in extracting auxiliary video information
is to locate the auxiliary information. Various approaches may be
used depending on the type of information involved. For example,
recognition of teletext data characteristics such as the framing
code pattern is a method of locating teletext data. Closed caption
information in line 21 may be located by counting video lines, e.g.
counting horizontal sync pulses.After the auxiliary video information is located, the
information must be extracted. In the case of digital data, a "data
slicer" may be used to convert the video signal into binary data.
A data slicer typically operates by comparing the video signal
level to a reference level known as the slicing level. For video
levels that exceed the slicing level, the comparison produces a
logic 1. Video levels that are less than the slicing level produce a
logic 0. As an example, closed caption data in line 21 of the video
signal may exhibit a signal amplitude range of 0 IRE to 50 IRE.
For a signal range of 0 IRE to 50 IRE, a slicing level of 25 IRE
would be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Auxiliary video data decoder apparatus for processing a video
signal (VIDEO), said video signal including an auxiliary

information component occurring during at least one line
(e.g. line 21) out of a plurality of periodic horizontal

lines of said video signal, said auxiliary information
component having a reference component, in particular a

Run In Clock-Signal (RIC), and a data component (DATA),
said reference component having periodic variations at a

predetermined frequency; said apparatus comprising

means (210) for extracting said data component at a
data output (DSOUT) of said apparatus;
threshold means (200, 210) for producing a threshold
value for said auxiliary information component so that

at said data output (DSOUT) a first signal value is
produced in response to levels of said auxiliary

information component below a threshold level and a
second signal value at said data output is produced in

response to levels of said auxiliary information
component above said threshold level,
control means (200) for producing a threshold control
signal (RICCNT) for varying said threshold level and
counting means (250, 280) for generating a count
(CNTVAL) during a window interval, the duration of which

being determined by the duration of a timing control
signal (RICWND) applied to said threshold means (200,

210) for allowing said control means (200) to vary said
threshold level,

   
characterized in that
said counting means (250, 280) are provided to count
at said data output (DSOUT) the periodic variations of

said reference component above and/or below said
threshold value, and
that means (200) are provided for comparing said count
with a minimum value and for producing a control signal

(SETDEL) applied to a variable delay means (220, 230)
for controlling the beginning of said timing control 

signal (RICWND) of fixed duration in such a manner that, if said count is
below said minimum value, said beginning of said timing

control signal is changed for making said count equal or
above said minimum value.
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said counting
means (250, 280) count a substantially integral number

of cycles of said periodic variations of said reference
component.
Apparatus according to claims 1 or 2, comprising

means (240) for generating said timing control signal
(RICWND) in response to a start signal (START);
means (270) for generating said start signal in
response to a first signal transition of said video

signal crossing said threshold level at said data output
(DSOUT) during an enable interval (RICGATE);
said variable delay means (220, 230) being responsive
to a horizontal synchronizing signal (SYNC) of said

video signal for starting said enable interval (RICGATE)
at a variable delay after said horizontal synchronizing

signal for corresponding controlling said beginning of
said timing control signal (RICWND).
Apparatus according to anyone of claims 1 to 3 wherein
said control means (200) includes means (355) for

generating a second control signal indicating a lack of
said auxiliary information component after said changing

the beginning of said timing control signal (RICWND) has
failed to produce a count of said counting means (250,

280) equal or above said minimum value.
Apparatus according to anyone of claims 1 to 4, wherein
said threshold means (200, 210) are initially set by a

control signal (INIT) produced by said control means
(200) to a maximum threshold level above the maximum

input signal range, said maximum threshold level being 
decreased by said control means (200) until occurrence

of a signal transition at said data output (DSOUT).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
