<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622796</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Conductive divider for a tape cartridge magazine with insertion error-preventing element
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2350	G11B3314	G11B2350	G11B1500	G11B1568	G11B23023	G11B1500	H05K900	H05K900	G11B3314	G11B1568	G11B23023	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H05K	H05K	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B23	G11B33	G11B23	G11B15	G11B15	G11B23	G11B15	H05K9	H05K9	G11B33	G11B15	G11B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magazine containing a number of standardized magnetic tape cartridges, for 
loading into an automated device in which a selected cartridge can be removed from the 

magazine and inserted into a data reader, has a number cartridge receptacles therein 
formed by a number of dividers extending the width of the magazine. Each divider 

consists of electrically conductive polymer, and has an electrical connector at a bottom 
thereof which extends through a bottom of the magazine, and which engages an 

electrically conductive path to ground in a base element on which the magazine rests 
within the device, thereby providing an electrostatic discharge path for each cartridge in 

each receptacle. Each divider also has an element extending into the receptacle, which 
is engaged by the cartridge as it is being inserted into the receptacle. Based on the 

standardized configuration of the cartridge, the element has a profile which is configured 
to permit the cartridge to move over the element only when the cartridge has been 

inserted into the receptacle into a selected orientation. If the cartridge is attempted to 
be inserted into the receptacle in any other orientation, the profile prevents such 

insertion, thereby insuring that each cartridge will always be inserted in its receptacle in 
an orientation for correctly inserting the cartridge in the data reader when it is 

automatically removed from the magazine. For a cartridge properly oriented in the 
receptacle, the element also serves as a spring to urge the cartridge against a neighboring 

receptacle, to insure good contact with the electrostatic discharge path. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANDBERG DATA STORAGE AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANDBERG DATA STORAGE AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KVIFTE HALVOR OLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KVIFTE, HALVOR OLAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to a magazine for data carriers, and in particular 
to a magazine for standardized magnetic tape cartridges, having a plurality of receptacles 
formed by a plurality of dividers. It is known to record and store data on a number of different types of storage 
media, such as magnetic tape, optical disks and the like. Because of the limited size of 
such data carriers, the amount of data which can be stored thereon is similarly limited. 
In computing and data retrieval systems wherein a large amount of data is stored, a 
relatively large number of such data carriers are required in order to contain all of the 
necessary data. To retrieve the data from the data carrier, it is necessary to insert the 
carrier into a data reader, such as a tape drive unit. (As used herein, the unit into which 
the data carrier is inserted will be referred to as a "reader," although it may also be use 
for the purpose of writing data on the carrier.) In systems requiring multiple data carriers, it is cumbersome to manually 
successively insert and remove the data carriers from the reader. Many such systems, 
therefore, employ a data carrier magazine, which holds a large number of data carriers, 
with the magazine being loadable into an automated device which contains the reader. 
A selected data carrier can then be automatically removed from the magazine, and 
inserted into the reader wherein the data on the carrier is read, or new data is written on 
the carrier. After the completion of the read or write operation, the data carrier is then 
automatically removed from the reader and is replaced in the magazine. The device  
 
which removes the data carrier from the magazine, inserts it in the reader, and removes 
it from the reader and replaces it in the magazine is generically known as a "loader." Such data carrier magazines generally are in the form of a box-like container, 
which is divided into a number of receptacles for individually receiving a data carrier. A tray-type magazine for tape cassettes is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,561,004, 
which has a frame with sidewalls and an open top and bottom. The sidewalls of channels 
therein arranged in pairs, with each pair of channels receiving a cassette therebetween. 
A plurality of release elements are provided in one of the sidewalls respectively at the 
channels therein. Each release element engages a cassette placed between the channels, 
and holds the cassette between the channels until actuated, so that the cassette can drop 
through
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A holder for a plurality of data carriers which insures 
a selected orientation of each data carrier upon 

insertion thereof in said holder, each data carrier 
having a face with an edge having a unique shape and 

each data carrier being subject to accumulation of 
static electrical charge thereon, said holder being for 

use with a base element on which said holder rests, 
said base element having an exposed path to ground, said 

holder comprising 

a container (2) having a pair of side walls (4) joined 
by end walls, and a bottom (5), forming at least one 

receptacle for a data carrier; 
at least one insertion error-preventing element (7) at a 
location for engaging said data carrier (12) upon 

insertion in said receptacle along an insertion path; each 
insertion error-preventing element (7) including a leaf 

spring (22) extending into said receptacle, and having a 
free end with a profile permitting passage, by 

displacing said leaf spring (22) out of said insertion 
path. 
a plurality of transverse walls (3) extending between 
said side walls (4) in said container (2) and forming a 

plurality of receptacles, each adapted to receive a data  
 

carrier (12) therein in contact with at least one of 
said transverse walls (3), each transverse wall (3) 

consisting of electrically conductive polymer and having 
an electrical connector (10) projecting from a bottom 

thereof; 
said bottom (5) of said container (2) having an opening 
therein disposed above said exposed path (9) to ground 

when said holder rests on said base element (8) and 
disposed in registry with said electrical connector 

(10), said electrical connector projecting through said 
opening into mechanical and electrical contact with 

said exposed path (9) to ground to form an electrostatic 
discharge path through said electrically conductive 

polymer to said path to ground; and 
each of said insertion error-preventing elements (7) 
extending from the transverse wall (3) on which said 

insertion error-preventing element is carried into one 
of said receptacles. 
A holder as claimed in claim 1, for use with a base 
element, wherein said exposed path (9) to ground 

consists of resilient, electrically conductive material, 
and wherein said electrical connector comprises at least 

one prong (10) projecting a distance from a recess (11) 
in said bottom (5) of said transverse wall (3) for 

engaging said resilient, electrically conductive 
material and deforming said resilient, electrically 

conductive material to make said electrical and 
mechanical contact. 
A holder as claimed in claim 1, wherein said side walls 
have a plurality of channels (6) therein extending 

vertically from said bottom (5) of said container (2), 
each channel in one side wall (4) being in registry in a  

 
channel in the other side wall and thereby forming a 

plurality of channel pairs, and wherein said transverse 
walls (3) consist of a plurality of dividers 

respectively removably received in said channel pairs. 
A holder as claimed in claim 1, wherein said transverse 
walls (3) consist of electrically conductive plastic. 
A holder as claimed in claim 1, wherein said transverse 
walls (3) consist of electrically conductive rubber. 
A holder as claimed in claim 1, for use with a data 
carrier (12) having only one curved edge (27), forming 

said edge having a unique shape, and a plurality of 
cornered edges, and wherein said profile at said free 

end of said leaf spring (22) comprises a horizontal 
surface (23) and a vertical surface (24) which catch and 

prevent passage of said cornered edges and which permit 
passage of said curved edge (27). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
