<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628276</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dual motor drive automatic beverage brewing apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47J3140	A47J3140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47J	A47J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47J31	A47J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiple orientation drive device (22) for use with a 
beverage brewing apparatus (20). The beverage brewing 

apparatus is a type having a brew chamber (24) which includes 
a top and bottom assembly (26, 28) and an elongated brewing 

component (36) extending into the brew chamber. The elongated 
brewing component is associated with the drive device such 

that it is linearly and rotatably shiftable in the brew 
chamber. The linear and rotatable shifting are independently 

achieved by the actions of an independent linear drive 
assembly 50 and an independent rotary drive assembly 52. The 

linear drive assembly is associated with the brewing component 
for linearly driving the brewing component in the brew chamber 

and the rotary drive assembly is associated with the brewing 
component for rotating the component independently of the 

linear drive assembly. The present invention also includes 
synchronizing the linear drive assembly and rotary drive 

assembly to simultaneously linearly shift and rotatably shift 
the brewing component in the brew chamber. A sensor assembly 

48 is associated with the drive device to indicate the 
position of the brewing component in the brew chamber. The 

sensor assembly is coupled to a control device 94 which in 
turn is attached to the linear and rotary drive assemblies. 

The control device selectively energizes and deenergizes the 
linear and rotary drive assemblies in response to 

predetermined conditions defined by the control signal from 
the sensor assembly. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUNN O MATIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUNN-O-MATIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORD DAVID F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORD, DAVID F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to drive devices for use
with a beverage brewing apparatus. More specifically, the
present invention envisions a multiple orientation drive
device for use in driving a brewing component in a brew
chamber of the beverage brewing apparatus.A number of brewing devices are available which produce
a brewed beverage using a substantially automated process.
An example of an automatic beverage brewing apparatus is
shown in U.S. Patent No. 5,134,925 to Bunn et al. issued
August 4, 1992, incorporated herein by reference. A
beverage brewing device as shown in Bunn et al. has a brew
chamber which receives a charge of beverage brewing
substance and infuses this substance with water to produce a
brewed beverage therefrom. The brewed beverage is drained
from the brew chamber and dispensed into an appropriate
container. The brew chamber has a top assembly and a bottom
assembly through which are formed a throat and a drain,
respectively. A brewing component or piston extends into
the brew chamber selectively shifting through the throat and 
the drain during a brewing cycle. The brewing component or
piston is operated by a drive device attached thereto.During a brew cycle, the piston is axially shifted
downwardly by the drive device to receive a charge of
brewing substance. The piston then shifts axially upwardly
to close the throat and drain whereupon a quantity of water
is dispensed to infuse the brewing substance and produce a
brewed beverage. The brewed beverage is drained out of the
brew chamber and dispensed into a collection container.
Next, the piston is shifted upwardly to disengage a lower
portion of the piston from the drain thereby draining the
spent beverage brewing substance and any waste water out of
the brew chamber. As shown in Bunn et al., the piston
includes a flush water bore which extends therethrough to
dispense water from a central area of the brew chamber. The
piston is axially rotated and linearly shifted through the
throat and drain to flush the inside surface of the brew
chamber.The drive device used in Bunn et al. employs a single
drive assembly for both rotating and axially shifting the
piston. A sensor is mounted in position relative to one of
the rotating gears of the drive assembly to detect the
movement of magnets mounted in the selected gear. Linear
shifting is achieved by a threaded portion of the piston
shaft being driven through a fixed, cooperatively threaded
nut body. While the integrated rotary and linear drive
device as shown in Bunn et al. is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A beverage brewing apparatus (20) of the type having a brew
chamber (24) with a water delivery piston (36) being generally axially

oriented in said brew chamber and being axially shiftable relative to and
through said brew chamber, a drive device (22) being operatively

associated with said water delivery piston for controllably moving said
water delivery piston upwardly and downwardly and rotating said water

delivery piston in said brew chamber, said apparatus including a first
driving assembly (50) of said drive device for axially shifting said water

delivery piston relative to said brew chamber; and a second driving
assembly (52) of said drive device independent of said first driving

assembly (50) and selectively operable for rotating said water delivery
piston in said brew chamber, characterized in that said first drive

assembly includes a first drive motor (54) and a linkage (72) connected
to said first drive motor, said first drive motor operating said linkage to

act on said water delivery piston to shift said water delivery piston
generally axially; said second driving assembly (52) including a second

drive motor (56) and a pair of gears (36) coupled to said second drive
motor and said water delivery piston, said gears including a drive gear

(88) and an operating gear (90), said drive gear being elongated to allow
said water delivery piston to axially shift yet maintain meshing

engagement of the gears (88, 90) to provide rotary driving of said water
delivery piston over a range of axially displaced positions; said first

driving assembly and said second driving assembly being operatively 
coupled for selectively simultaneously axially displacing and rotating said

water delivery piston in said brew chamber.
A beverage brewing apparatus (20) as claimed in Claim 1,
characterized by: a sensor assembly (48) operatively associated with said

drive device (22) for sensing the position of said water delivery piston
(36) relative to said brew chamber (24) and producing a control signal

indicating the position of said water delivery piston; and a control device
(94) coupled to said sensor assembly and to said first and second driving

assemblies (50, 52) for selectively energizing and de-energizing said first
and second driving assemblies in response to predetermined conditions

defined by said control signal.
A beverage brewing apparatus as claimed in Claim 2,
characterized in that said first drive assembly (50) includes an eccentric

mechanism (59) with a drive hub (60) which is attached to said first drive
motor (54), and a connecting shaft (62) having a first end (64) attached to

said drive hub and a second end (66) attached to said water delivery
piston (36), rotary motion of said drive hub driving said connecting shaft

to linearly act on said water delivery piston; a sensor plate (96)
operatively associated with said eccentric mechanism, said eccentric

mechanism rotating said sensor plate; a plurality of position indicators
(102) spaced apart on said sensor plate corresponding to a predetermined

position of said water delivery piston; and a detector (98) coupled to said
control device (94) and being operatively associated with said sensor 

plate for detecting said position indicators, said detector producing a
control signal indicative of a corresponding relative position of said water

delivery piston.
A beverage brewing apparatus (20) as claimed in Claim 1,
characterized in that said first drive assembly (50) comprises a drive hub

(60) attached to and rotated by said first drive motor (54), said drive hub
having a center of rotation (68); and a first end (64) of said linkage (72)

being operatively attached to said drive hub a radial distance from said
center of rotation, a second end (66) of said linkage being operatively

attached to said water delivery piston, rotation of said drive hub by said
first drive motor producing an eccentric motion for acting on said water

delivery piston to linearly shift said water delivery piston along said
central axis (34) through said brew chamber (24).
A beverage brewing apparatus (20) as claimed in Claim 4,
characterized in that said first drive assembly (50) includes a first pivot

member (76) on said second end (66) of said connecting shaft
cooperatively engaging a second pivot member (74) on a corresponding

end of said water delivery piston (36) for pivotally attaching said linkage
(72) to said water delivery piston.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
