<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638136</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REINFORCED STEEL BEAM AND GIRDER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04C304	E04C304	E04C310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04C	E04C	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04C3	E04C3	E04C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONNER MITCHEL A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONNER MITCHEL A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONNER MITCHEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONNER MITCHEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 REINFORCED STEEL BEAM AND GIRDERBackground of the InventionThis invention relates to reinforced steel beams used in the construction of buildings and bridges.Buildings and bridges are commonly made of steel beams and girders upon which a floor or road surface is laid. The beams and girders are selected from standard rolled sections. Or, they are designed to have enough material in the compression and tension flanges to resist the stress of the load (bending) moment, with an acceptable amount of deflection in the beam at the location of the maximum moment. When a load is placed upon the floor or road surface, the load creates a downward or bending moment which bends the steel beams downwardly. The downward moment places the top of the beam in compression and the bottom of the beam under tension. This load may ultimately cause the beams to fail at some point in the future. By compressing the bottom of the beam, the designer is able to counter-act and reduce the bending effect of the load moment, which will also reduce the horizontal shear in a loaded beam or girder. Counter-acting the load (bending) moment may also aid in the beam's ability to resist the effects of, for example, an earthquake. The life of the beams and the load they can carry can thus be increased by reinforcing the beam so as to produce an upward, or counter, moment in the beam, to counteract the downward moment created by the load placed on the beam.Various methods have been used to reinforce steel beams. One method of reinforcing beams, such as I-beams or T-beams, involves securing steel plates to the beam. This provides the extra strength to the beam; however, it 

increases the weight of the beam. The steel content of a building is one of its most costly components. Thus, the extra steel used in the construction of buildings using this method drastically increases the cost of the building.U.S. Patent 4,006,523, to Mauquoy, describes a method of pre-stressing a steel beam that avoids the use of plating the beam. Mauquoy secures a plurality of varying length transmission elements to the bottom of the beam. Guides and wires are then secured to the transmission elements. The wires extend around the guides. The wires are then stressed to provide an upward moment to the beam to counteract the load. However, before the wires are stressed, supports are placed above and below the beam to compress the beam, to induce an upward moment in the beam. The wires are then tensioned, and the wires, transmission elements, and guides are then encased
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A reinforced steel beam for use in building structures comprising: a steel structural beam; and, means secured to said beam for transmitting an upwardly directed moment to said beam, including a tensioned member carried by said transmitting means, said tensioned member being substantially parallel to said beam's longitudinal axis, whereby said tensioning member creates said upwardly directed moment.
2. The reinforced beam of claim 1 wherein said tensioned member comprises at least one tensioned cable or rod.
3. The reinforced beam of claim 1 wherein the transmitting means comprises a first and a second transmitting member, each having at least one longitudinal bore therethrough through which said tensioned member extends; each said transmitting member being substantially shorter than the length of said beam; said transmitting members being spaced apart and secured to said beam near the ends thereof.
4. The reinforced beam of claim 1 wherein said tensioned member extends through said transmitting means, said reinforced beam further including a first compression plate held against a first end of said transmitting means and a second compression plate held against a second end of said transmitting means, said tensioned member being secured to said compression plates.
5. The reinforced beam of claim 4 wherein said ends of said tensioned member extends through said first and second compression plates and are secured thereto by tension locks.
6. The reinforced beam of claim 4 wherein said transmitting means comprises a single hollow tubular 


member which extends substantially the full length of said beam, said tensioned member extending through said tubular member.
7. The reinforced beam of claim 4 wherein said first and second transmitting means comprise a T-member.
8. The reinforced beam of claim 4 wherein said transmitting means comprises a substantially U-shaped member.
9. An attachment for a steel structural beam which creates a counter-moment in said beam to counter-act loads placed on said beam? said attachment comprising: a transmitting member which transmits an upwardly directed moment to said beam; and a tensioned member carried by said transmitting means, said tensioned member being substantially parallel to saiS beam's longitudinal axis when said attachment is secured to said beam, whereby said tensioned member creates said upwardly directed moment.
10. The attachment of claim 9 wherein said transmitting member comprises a first and a second transmitting element, each element having at least one longitudinal bore therethrough, through which said tensioned member extends; each said transmitting element being substantially shorter than the length of said beam; said transmitting elements being spaced apart and secured to said beam near the ends thereof.
11. The attachment of claim 9 wherein said tensioned member extends through said transmitting member, said attachment further including a first compression plate held against a irst end of said transmitting member and a second compression plate held against a second end of said transmitting member, said tensioned member being secured to said compression plates. 


 12. The attachment of claim 11 wherein said ends of said tensioned member extend through said first and second compression plates and are secured thereto by tension locks.
13. The attachment of claim 11 wherein said transmitting members comprises a hollow tube which extends substantially the full length of said beam, said tensioned member extending through said tube.
14. The attachment of claim 11 wherein said transmitting member is T shaped.
15. The attachment of claim 11 wherein said transmitting member is substantially U-shaped member.
16. A method for reinforcing a structural steel beam used in construction comprising: securing a counter-moment transmitting member to said beam, said transmitting member having at least one bore therethrough; passing a cable through said transmitting member; securing one end of said cable to a first end of said transmitting member; tensioning said cable; and securing another end of said cable to another end of said transmitting member so as to maintain said cable under tension.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein said steps of securing said cable comprise placing compression plates against said ends of said transmitting member, passing said cable through said compression plates.
18. The method of claim 17 further including a step of locking said cable against outer surfaces of said compression plates.
19. The method of claim 16 wherein said beam is part of an existing structure, said method further comprising a first step of exposing at least the ends of 


said beam so that said transmitting member can be secured to said beam, said transmitting member comprising a first half and a second half, said first and second halves being substantially shorter than said beam.
20. The method of claim 18 further including a step of guiding said cable along unexposed portions of said beam. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 13 October 1993 (13.10.93); original claim 18 deleted; original claims 1-17, 19 and 20 amended; (5 pages)]
1. A reinforced steel beam for use in building structures, the steel beam being reinforced by an induced upwardly directed moment, the reinforced steel beam comprising: a steel structural beam; and, an attachment secured to said beam for transmitting an upwardly directed moment to said beam, the attachment including a homogeneous transmitting member and a tensioned member carried by said transmitting means, said tensioned member being substantially parallel to and below said beam's longitudinal axis, whereby said tensioned member creates said upwardly directed moment in said steel beam, said attachment being substantially free of any filling material.
2. The reinforced beam of claim 1 wherein said tensioned member comprises at least one tensioned cable or rod.
3. The reinforced beam of claim 1 wherein the attachment comprises a first and a second transmitting member, each having at least one longitudinal bore therethrough through which said tensioned member extends; each said transmitting member being substantially shorter than the length of said beam; said transmitting members being spaced apart and secured to said beam near the ends thereof.
4. The reinforced beam of claim 3 wherein said tensioned member extends through said attachment, said transmitting member including a first compression plate held against a first end of said transmitting member and a second compression plate held against a second end of said transmitting member, said tensioned member being secured to said compression plates. 


 5. The reinforced beam of claim 4 wherein said ends of said tensioned member extends through said irst and second compression plates and are secured thereto by tension locks.
6. The reinforced beam of claim 4 wherein said transmitting member comprises a single hollow tubular member which extends substantially the full length of said beam, said tensioned member extending through said tubular member.
7. A reinforced steel beam for use in building structures comprising: a steel structural beam; and an attachment secured to said beam for transmitting an upwardly directed moment to said beam, the attachment including a irst and a second transmitting member each comprising a T-member, each having at least one longitudinal bore therethrough, each said transmitting member being substantially shorter than the length of said beam; said transmitting members being spaced apart and secured to said beam near the ends thereof; a first compression plate held against a first end of said transmitting member and a second compression plate held against a second end of said transmitting member; and a tensioned member carried by said transmitting means and extending through said attachment and through said longitudinal bores, said tensioned member being secured to said compression plates, said tensioned member being substantially free of encasing material, said tensioned member being substantially parallel to and below said beam's longitudinal axis, whereby said tensioned member creates said upwardly directed moment.
8. The reinforced beam of claim 4 wherein said transmitting member comprises a generally rectangular member. 


 9. An attachment for a steel structural beam which cieates a counter-moment in said beam to counter-act loads placed on said beam; said attachment comprising: a homogeneous transmitting member which transmits an upwardly directed moment to said beam; and a tensioned member carried by said transmitting means, said tensioned member being substantially free of encasing material, said tensioned member being substantially parallel to said beam's longitudinal axis when said attachment is secured to said beam so that said tensioning member is located below a longitudinal axis of said beam, whereby said tensioned member creates said upwardly directed moment; said attachment being substantially free of any filling material.
10. The attachment of claim 9 wherein said transmitting member comprises a first and a second transmitting element, each element having at least one longitudinal bore therethrough, through which said tensioned member extends; each said transmitting element being substantially shorter than the length of said beam; said transmitting elements being spaced apart and secured to said beam near the ends thereof.
11. The attachment of claim 9 wherein said tensioned member extends through said transmitting member, said attachment further including a first compression plate held against a first end of said transmitting member and a second compression plate held against a second end of said transmitting member, said tensioned member being secured to said compression plates.
12. The attachment of claim 11 wherein said ends of said tensioned member extend through said first and second compression plates and are secured thereto by tension locks. 


 13. The attachment of claim 11 wherein said transmitting members comprises a hollow tube which extends substantially the full length of said beam, said tensioned member extending through said tube.
14. The attachment of claim 11 wherein said transmitting member is T shaped.
15. The attachment of claim 11 wherein said transmitting member is generally rectangular member.
16. A method for reinforcing a structural steel beam used in construction consisting essentially of: securing a counter-moment transmitting member to said beam, said transmitting member having at least one bore therethrough r passing a cable through said transmitting member; securing one end of said cable to a first end of said transmitting member; tensioning said cable after said step of securing said transmitting member to said beam; and securing another end of said cable to another end of said transmitting member so as to maintain said cable under tension.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein said steps of securing said cable comprise placing compression plates against said ends of said transmitting member, passing said cable through said compression plates, and locking said cable against outer surfaces of said compression plates.
19. A method for reinforcing a structural steel beam which is part of an existing structure, said method consisting essentially of: a first step of exposing at least the ends of said beam, securing a counter-moment transmitting member to said beam, said transmitting member having at least one bore 


therethrough and comprising a first half and a second half, said first and second halves being substantially shorter than said beam; passing a cable through said transmitting member; securing one end of said cable to a first end of said transmitting member; tensioning said cable after said step of securing said transmitting member to said beam; and securing another end of said cable to another end of said transmitting member so as to maintain said cable under tension.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein said passing and securing steps include a step of guiding said cable along unexposed portions of said beam. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
