<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637377</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METER AND METHOD FOR IN SITU MEASUREMENT OF THE ELECTROMAGNETIC PROPERTIES OF VARIOUS PROCESS MATERIALS USING CUTOFF FREQUENCY CHARACTERIZATION AND ANALYSIS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R2702	G01N2200	G01R2726	G01R2702	G01R2726	G01N2204	G01N2200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01N	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R27	G01N22	G01R27	G01R27	G01R27	G01N22	G01N22	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The method provides the following steps. Passing the process material through a frequency sensitive measurement cell. Exposing the process material to electromagnetic energy produced by a multi-frequency source. Controlling the multi-frequency source by a computer so as to vary the signal frequency such that an output signal is produced having a distinctive frequency response characteristic. Detecting the output signal and converting the signal to a digital representation. Analyzing the digital representation of the signal to determine the cutoff frequency. Determining the sharpness of the cutoff characteristic by mathematical algorithms. From the measured cutoff frequency and the sharpness of the cutoff characteristic, determining the dielectric constant and the conductivity of the material. Using stored calibration data or equations, computing and displaying the desired material property, e.g., the material's moisture content. And further, using the passband attenuation to determine the density of the material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMEDICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMEDICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEAN BUFORD RANDALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARREN GARY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITEHEAD F LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEAN, BUFORD, RANDALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARREN, GARY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITEHEAD, F., LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application 
Serial No. 871,339 filed April 21, 1992. The present invention relates generally to the in 
situ measurement of the electromagnetic properties, i.e., 
the complex electric permittivity or magnetic 
permeability, of a wide range of process materials or, 
more generally, the measurement of any material parameter 
that may be inferred from measuring the electromagnetic 
properties of the material. Of particular interest is the 
measurement of the amount of moisture in a material. More 
specifically, the present invention relates to a microwave 
apparatus and method of making such measurements. It is well known to use microwave apparatus for 
measuring the dielectric of materials which corresponds to 
the content of moisture or water within the material. For 
example, Scot and Yang, in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,996,490 and 
4,862,062, describe a microwave apparatus and method for 
measuring fluid mixtures. The Scott and Yang device and 
method utilizes a coaxial microwave transmission line, a 
free-running voltage controlled oscillator and a signal 
receiver for monitoring the change in frequency caused by 
impedance pulling of the oscillator due to the change in 
the dielectric constant of the mixture. De, et al., in U.S. Patent No. 4,902,961, describe a 
microwave system for monitoring the content of water in a 
petroleum pipe line. The De, et al. apparatus and method 
uses an S-band antenna and an X-band antenna to determine 
the complex dielectric constant of the fluid in the pipe  
 
line. The overall water content of the pipe line can be 
determined using an S-band main link that transmits a wave 
through a representative portion of the entire pipeline. 
Similarly, Swanson, in U.S. Patent No. 4,812,739, 
describes an apparatus and method for using microwave 
radiation to measure the content of water in a fluid. 
The volume fraction of water in the fluid is measured by 
using first and second microwave beams having different 
frequencies. The beams are transmitted through the liquid 
and their respective absorption losses are calculated. 
The volume fraction of water is determined according to 
the absorption losses. Several moisture measuring devices and methods are 
also known. For example, Knochel, in U.S. Patent No. 
4,546,311, describes a device for measuring moisture 
content. The Knochel patent uses microwaves produced by a 
transmitting arrangement formed by a signal source and 
antenna. The moisture laden substance is exposed to the 
field of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electromagnetic property meter for the measurement of any parameter 
of a material which may be inferred by measuring the electromagnetic 

properties of the material under investigation, comprising 

a source (104) of controllable electromagnetic energy having stable selectable 
frequencies, 
a material measurement chamber (200) having a well defined cutoff frequency 
response characteristic defining a reference cutoff frequency response 

characteristic; 
first coupling means (226) for coupling the electromagnetic energy from the 
source (104) to the measurement chamber (200); 
second coupling means (228) for accepting the energy having interacted 
with the material in said material measurement chamber (200) and having 

been influenced by electromagnetic properties of the material in conjunction 

with the cutoff frequency characteristic of said material measurement 
chamber (200) 
a detector (108) for detecting the electromagnetic energy from the second 
coupling means (228) and producing output signals, 
characterized by
 
a processor (109) for processing output signals from the detector (108) and 

using said output signals to calculate a measured cutoff frequency response 
characteristic of the measurement chamber (200) having the material 

therein, said processor (108) determining the measured cutoff frequency 
response characteristic based on one of 


a) determining the maximum of the derivative of the logarithm of the 
magnitude of said detector signal versus frequency, or 
b) introducing two orthogonally polarized electromagnetic signals into the 
measurement chamber (200), said measurement chamber (200) being 

asymmetrical relative to the two orthogonally polarized electromagnetic 
signals coupled therethrough so as to present distinct cutoff and propagation  

 
characteristics to said orthogonally polarized electromagnetic 

signals, and comparing the output signals corresponding to the two orthogonally 
polarized electromagnetic signals; and 
 
said processor (109) further analyzing said measured cutoff frequency 

response characteristic and determining a parameter of the material under 
investigation using stored calibration data or equations. 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 1, characterized by 
means for analyzing said detector signal to determine the cutoff frequency 

and the sharpness of the cutoff frequency response characteristic, said 
processor deriving properties of the material from said cutoff frequency and 

said sharpness of the cutoff frequency response characteristic. 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in any one of claims 1 or 2, 
characterized in that said first coupling means (226) and/or said second 

coupling means (228) include at least one slotline (372, 374, 376) formed in 
a ground plane (377), and in that a microstrip circuit line (370) is coupled to 

said at least one slotline (372, 374, 376). 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 3, further including 
dielectric material (368) supporting said microstrip circuit line means (370) 

and said at least one slotline (372, 374, 376) to define a microwave circuit 
board (360). 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 4, including metallized 
edging (382) on the outer periphery of said microwave circuit board 

(360). 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 4, characterized in 
that said microstrip circuit line means (370) is substantially transverse to 

said at least one slotline and wherein said microstrip circuit line means 
(370) is embedded within said dielectric material (368). 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 4, including coaxial-to-microstrip 
connector means (344) connected to said microstrip circuit line 

means (370).  
 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 7, including first and 
second dielectric blocks (324,358) sandwiching therebetween said microwave 

circuit board (360). 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 8, including metal 
cover means (330) having opposed outer and inner surfaces, said inner 

surface having a space therein for sequentially receiving said first dielectric 
block (324) followed by said microwave circuit board (360), said coaxial-to-microstrip 

connector means (344) being mounted on said outer surface and 
extending through said cover means for connection to said microstrip line 

means (370) on said microwave circuit board, said metal cover means (330) 
being attached to an outer surface of said measurement chamber (200). 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 9, including a recess 
(322) in said outer surface of said measurement chamber (200) for receiving 

said second dielectric block (324), said recess (322) being in alignment 
with said cover means (330). 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 3, including multiple 
spaced slotlines (372, 374, 376) with said microstrip circuit line means 

(370) being transverse to and disposed across from the centers of each 
slotline. 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 11, characterized in 
that each slotline (372, 374, 376) is about one half wavelength long at a 

selected frequency and is spaced about one quater wavelength at said selected 
frequency from an open end of said microstrip circuit line means 

(370). 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 11, characterized in 
that said slotlines (372, 374, 376) alternately terminate on both ends in either 

a relatively short circuit or an open circuit to produce a standing wave 
within each slotline. 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 3, including multiple 
spaced slotlines (372, 374, 376) with said microstrip line means (370) having  

 
a serpentine configuration which crosses said slotlines at substantially 

right angles. 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, 
characterized in that said measurement chamber (300) comprises a parallel 

plate waveguide. 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, 
characterized in that said measurement chamber (300) has a constant 

cross-sectional area. 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, 
characterized 


in that said measurement chamber (300) is located in the flow path of process 
equipment and 
in that said measurement chamber is electrically isolated from the process 
equipment such that the electromagnetic properties of the material in the 

measurement chamber are unaffected by the process equipment. 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, 
characterized in that said measurement chamber (300) has a vertical dimension 

corresponding to "a" in the following Equation 

f
c
 = 
c
2a
ε
r
 
wherein the different elements are: 


f
c
: cutoff frequency 
c: speed of light 
a: vertical dimension of the measurement chamber (300) 
ε
r
: dielectric constant 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, 
characterized in that said material measurement chamber (300) comprises 

a hollow rectangular measurement chamber that will permit material to flow 
there through such that the energy transmitted across the rectangular 

chamber has a polarization selected such that a well defined cutoff characteristic 
is obtained.  

 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 19, characterized in 
that the well defined cutoff characteristic is defined by the
 following Equation 

f
c
 = 
c
2a
ε
r
 
wherein the different elements are: 


f
c
: cutoff frequency 
c: speed of light 
a: vertical dimension of the measurement chamber (300) 
ε
r
: dielectric constant 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 19, characterized in 
that the well defined cutoff characteristic is defined by the following Equation 


 
wherein the different elements are: 


A(f) : the amplitude versus frequency of the output wave 
l : length of the measurement path 
a : vertical dimension of the measurement chamber (300) 
f
c
: cutoff frequency 
f : any frequency below f
c
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 15, characterized in 
that said material measurement chamber (300) comprises a hollow rectangular 

housing (314). 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 22, characterized by 
an intake transition means (310) for transferring material into said chamber 

and an exit transition means (312) for transferring material out of said 
chamber, said intake transition means converting a flow path for the material 

from circular cross-section to rectangular cross-section, said exit transition  
 

means (312) converting the flow path of the material from rectangular 
cross-section to circular cross-section. 
An electromagnetic property meter as claimed in claim 23, characterized in 
that 


said measurement chamber is located in the flow path of process equipment 
and 
in that said measurement chamber (300) is electrically isolated from the 
process equipment such that the electromagnetic properties of the material 

in the measurement chamber are unaffected by the process equipment. 
A method for the measurement of a parameter of a material which may be 
determined by measuring electromagnetic properties of the material under 

investigation, comprising the steps of 

generating controllable electromagnetic energy having stable selectable 
frequencies, 
passing material through a measurement chamber, said measurement 
chamber having a well defined cutoff frequency response characteristic defining 

a reference cutoff frequency response characteristic; 
coupling said electromagnetic energy through said measurement chamber, 
wherein the material in said measurement chamber affects the amplitude or 

phase characteristics of said electromagnetic energy, 
detecting said electromagnetic energy after having interacted with said material 
in said measurement chamber and producing output signals, 
characterized by
 
using said output signals to determine a measured cutoff frequency response 

characteristic of the measurement chamber (200) having the material 
therein based on one of 


a) determining the maximum of the derivative of the logarithm of the 
magnitude of said output signal versus frequency, or 
b) introducing two orthogonally polarized electromagnetic signals into the 
measurement chamber (200), said measurement chamber (200) being 

asymmetrical relative to the two orthogonally polarized electromagnetic 
signals coupled therethrough so as to present distinct cutoff and propagation  

 
characteristics to said orthogonally polarized electromagnetic 

signals, and comparing the output signals corresponding to the two orthogonally 
polarized electromagnetic signals; and 
 
analyzing said measured cutoff frequency response characteristic and 

determining a parameter of the material under investigation using stored 
calibration data or equations. 
The method as claimed in claim 25, characterized in that said analyzing 
step includes determining the cutoff frequency and the sharpness of the 

cutoff frequency response characteristic, and deriving a parameter of the 
material therefrom. 
The method as claimed in claim 25, characterized in that the step of 
determining the parameter under investigation comprises determining the 

moisture of the material. 
The method as claimed in claim 25, characterized by the step of using the 
passband attenuation to determine the density of the material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
