<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651666</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BALLOON ASSEMBLY WITH SEPARATELY INFLATABLE SECTIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M2902	A61M2902	A61M2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M29	A61M29	A61M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dilatation or other similar catheter for intraluminal use which has an elongated shaft and an inflatable member or section on the distal extremity of the catheter shaft which has multiple working sections, a first working section which elastically expands upon inflation to a first pressure within a first pressure range and a second working section which elastically expands upon inflation to a second pressure within a second pressure range which is at least in part higher than the first pressure range. The first working section may be inflated to secure the catheter within the body lumen and then the second working section may be inflated to dilatate the body lumen.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAGAOISAN CELSO J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUNI KETAN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAGAOISAN, CELSO, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUNI, KETAN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to a balloon assembly for catheters which are
suitable for intraluminal procedures such a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty
(PTCA).PTCA is a widely used procedure for the treatment of coronary heart disease.
In this procedure, a balloon dilatation catheter is advanced into the patient's coronary
artery and the balloon on the catheter is inflated within the stenotic region of the patient's
artery to open up the arterial passageway and increase the blood flow through the artery.
To facilitate the advancement of the dilatation catheter into the patient's coronary artery,
a guiding catheter having a preshaped distal tip is first percutaneously introduced into the
cardiovascular system of a patient by the Seldinger technique through the brachial or
femoral arteries. The catheter is advanced therein until the preshaped distal tip of the
guiding catheter is disposed within the aorta adjacent the ostium of the desired coronary
artery. The guiding catheter is twisted or torqued from the proximal end, which extends
out of the patient, to guide the distal tip of the guiding catheter into the ostium. A
balloon dilatation catheter may then be advanced through the guiding catheter into the 
patient's coronary artery until the balloon on the catheter is disposed within the stenotic
region of the patient's artery. The balloon is inflated to open up the arterial passageway.One type of catheter frequently used in PTCA procedures is an over-the-wire
type balloon dilatation catheter. Commercially available over-the-wire type dilatation
catheters include the SIMPSON ULTRA-LOW PROFILE®, the HARTZLER ACX®, the
HARTZLER ACX II™, the PINKERTON .018™ and the ACS TEN™ balloon dilatation
catheters sold by the assignee of the present invention, Advanced Cardiovascular Systems,
Inc. (ACS). Over-the-wire type dilatation catheters are described and claimed in U.S.
Patent 4,323,071 (Simpson-Robert).When using an over-the-wire dilatation catheter, a guidewire is usually
inserted into an inner lumen of the dilatation catheter before it is introduced into the
patient's vascular system and then both are introduced into, and advanced through, the
guiding catheter to its distal tip which is seated within the ostium. The guidewire is first
advanced out the seated distal tip of the guiding catheter into the desired coronary artery
until the distal end of the guidewire extends beyond the lesion to be dilatated. The
dilatation catheter is then advanced out of the distal tip of the guiding catheter
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An inflatable member (12) having:

a first inflatable working section (20) which upon inflation
to an internal pressure within a first pressure range expands

substantially in an elastic mode to a first inflated diameter and
which is substantially less compliant at pressures above the

first pressure range; and
a second working section (21) which upon inflation to an
internal pressure within a second pressure range, higher than the

first pressure range at least in part, expands substantially in
an elastic mode to a second inflated diameter and which is

substantially less compliant at pressures above the second
pressure range.
The inflatable member of claim 1 wherein the first working
section (20) is located proximal to the second working section

(21).
The inflatable member of claim 1 wherein the first working
section (30) is located distal to the second working section

(31).
The inflatable member of claim 2 wherein a third working
section (40) is located distal to the second working (41) section

which upon inflation within a third pressure range, lower at
least in part than the second pressure range, expands to a third

inflated diameter.
The inflatable member of claim 4 wherein the first pressure
and the third pressure are essentially the same.
The inflatable member of claim 1 wherein the working
sections are formed of a polymer containing at least 70% of an

olefinic ionomer selected from the group consisting of sodium,
lithium and zinc ionomers and blends thereof. 
The inflatable member of claim 1 wherein the second working
section exhibits substantially no expansion at pressures within

the first pressure range which expands the first working section.
A method of making an inflatable member comprising:-

a) extruding a tube
b) heating and pressurizing a balloon portion of the tube,
characterised by:-
c) said tube being formed of an olefinic ionomer containing
polymer;
d) said balloon portion having a first and a second section;
e) said heating and pressurizing step comprising:-
f) heat treating said balloon portion at a temperature within
50°C of the crystalline melting point thereof;
g) expanding said first section to a first outer diameter by
subjecting the first section to an elevated internal fluid

pressure; and
h) heat shrinking the expanded first section of the tube to a
second outer diameter which is significantly smaller than the

first outer diameter
i) to form an inflatable member having two working sections
which inflate at different pressure levels.
The method of claim B wherein the second section is heat
treated for a period of 5 minutes to 60 minutes.
A balloon dilatation catheter (10) comprising:

(a) an elongated catheter shaft having proximal and distal
extremities and an inner lumen extending therein; and (b) an

inflatable member on the distal extremity of the catheter shaft,
the inflatable member having an interior in fluid communication

with the inner lumen extending within the catheter shaft,
characterized by the inflatable member (12) being an inflatable

member according to claim 1 and

the first and second working sections (20 
&
 21) having 
interiors in fluid communication with the inner lumen (16)

extending within the catheter shaft (11).
The balloon dilatation catheter of claim 10 wherein the
catheter shaft has an inner tubular member (14) which extends

through the interior of the inflatable member (12).
The balloon dilatation catheter of claim 11 wherein the
first working section (20) is located proximal to the second

working section (21) and the second working section has a distal
end which is sealingly secured about the inner tubular member

(14).
The balloon dilatation catheter of claim 11 wherein the
first working section (30) is located distal to the second

working section (31) and the first working section has a distal
end which is sealingly secured about the inner tubular member

(14).
The balloon dilatation catheter of claim 11 wherein the
first working section (42) is located proximal to the second

working section (41) and wherein the dilatation catheter includes
a third working section (40) which has an interior in fluid

communication with the inner lumen (16) within the catheter shaft
(11), which is located distal to the second working section, and

which inflates to a third inflated diameter within a third
pressure range lower at least in part than the second pressure

range.
The balloon dilatation catheter of claim 14 wherein the
first working section and the third working section are adapted

to expand at essentially the same pressure.
The inflatable member of claim 1 or the balloon dilatation
catheter of claim 10 wherein an essentially noninflatable section

(53) is disposed between the first and second working sections
(50 
&
 51) of the inflatable member. 
The balloon dilatation catheter of claim 11 wherein the
inner tubular member (14) is a guidewire (18) receiving tubular

member.
The balloon dilatation catheter of claim 11 wherein the
inner tubular member is a guiding member.
The balloon dilatation catheter of claim 10 wherein the
working sections are formed of a polymer containing at least 70%

of an olefinic ionomer selected from the group consisting of
sodium, lithium and zinc ionomers and blends thereof.
The balloon dilatation catheter of claim 10 wherein the
second working section of the inflatable member exhibits

substantially no expansion at pressures within the first pressure
range which expands the first working section.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
