<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657697</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Microprocessor-based temperature control circuit.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23N502	F23N510	G05B1502	G05B1502	G05D2319	G05D2319	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23N	F23N	G05B	G05B	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23N5	F23N5	G05B15	G05B15	G05D23	G05D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A temperature control circuit which is capable of 
operating a microprocessor on a very low voltage source. The 

temperature control circuit uses a pair of field effect 
transistors and a zener diode in an oscillator circuit to amplify 

the source voltage. A microprocessor is supplied by the 
amplified source voltage, and is connected through a transistor 

to a temperature sensing portion of the circuit. The 
microprocessor uses the transistor to turn the power to the 

temperature sensing circuit portion off between temperature 
samples. By turning the temperature sensing circuit power off 

between samples, the average power drain by the control circuit 
is an amount that can be met by the amplified voltage from the 

low voltage source. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOBART CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOBART CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEPORE RAMOND M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLIN PAUL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEPORE, RAMOND M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLIN, PAUL S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to temperature control 
circuits, and more particularly, to a microprocessor-based 
temperature control circuit that can be used with a low voltage 
power supply such as a thermopile. A typical low voltage power supply is disclosed in 
Bohan, Jr., U.S. Patent No. 4,734,658. This type of power supply 
contains an oscillator circuit for stepping-up a very low voltage 
supplied by a thermoelectric generator means or thermopile. The 
voltage output from the oscillator circuit can be rectified and 
regulated for use in energizing very low power solid state 
temperature control components. However, this type of power supply circuit has limited 
output current capability, and therefore, is unable to power a 
microprocessor-based temperature control circuit. It is 
desirable to use a microprocessor in a temperature control system 
in order to acquire more accurate temperature readings and a more 
rapid response to a temperature change. Accordingly, there is a need for a temperature control 
circuit that incorporates a microprocessor, yet can be powered by 
a low voltage source such as a thermopile. The present invention is directed towards a 
microprocessor-based temperature control circuit which is powered 
by a low voltage source such as a thermopile, and which is 
capable of reliably operating at input voltages as low as 150 
millivolts. The temperature control circuit is capable of 
running a microprocessor on such a low voltage source, by using 
an efficient power supply circuit to transform millivolt, high 
current input into a voltage output of 4-6 volts and a current  
 
output of less than 750 microamps, and by using the 
microprocessor in conjunction with a field effect transistor to 
turn the temperature sensing portion of the circuit off between 
temperature samples to conserve power from the supply. In the temperature control circuit, the microprocessor 
can be programmed to take a temperature sample multiple times per 
second. During a temperature sample, the microprocessor turns on 
the power to the temperature sensing portion of the circuit 
through the transistor. A temperature signal from a temperature 
sensor, such as a thermistor, is then amplified by the 
temperature sensing portion of the circuit and input to the 
microprocessor. After receipt of the amplified temperature 
signal, the microprocessor discontinues the signal to the 
transistor, thereby switching off the power to the temperature 
sensing portion of the circuit. The load drain on the power 
supply
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A temperature control circuit comprising: 
   a low voltage source of direct current; 

   means for amplifying and storing a D.C. voltage from 
said source to produce a regulated direct current potential; 

   a microprocessor-based temperature sensing circuit 
powered by said regulated direct current potential, said 

temperature sensing circuit including means for measuring a 
temperature and outputting a signal corresponding to said 

measured temperature; and 
   means for turning power to said temperature sensing 

circuit on and off in response to a signal from a microprocessor, 
said temperature sensing circuit being powered on when a 

temperature measurement is being taken and powered off when a 
temperature measurement is not being taken. 
The circuit of claim 1, wherein said low voltage source 
of direct current is a thermopile. 
The circuit of claim 2, wherein said thermopile is 
heated by a flame. 
The circuit of claim 3, wherein said amplifying means 
includes a transformer connected to a voltage controlled current 

switching means. 
The circuit of claim 4, wherein said amplifying means 
includes a transformer having a primary winding and a secondary 

winding, said primary winding being connected to said low voltage 
source at a first end, said secondary winding being connected to 

a voltage regulating means, and said voltage controlled current 
switching means being connected between said voltage regulating 

means and a second end of said primary winding. 
The circuit of claim 5, wherein said voltage regulating 
means is a zener diode. 
The circuit of claim 6, wherein said voltage controlled 
current switching means is at least two field effect transistors. 
The circuit of claim 7, wherein said microprocessor 
includes an analog to digital converter that can be turned on and 

off, and said microprocessor is capable of operating on a low 
voltage power supply. 
The circuit of claim 8, wherein said means for 
measuring a temperature is a thermistor in communication with 

said microprocessor. 
The circuit of claim 9, wherein said means for turning 
power to said temperature sensing circuit on and off is a voltage 

controlled current switch connected to said microprocessor. 
The circuit of claim 10, wherein said voltage 
controlled current switch is a field effect transistor. 
A temperature control circuit comprising: 
   a source of low voltage direct current potential; 

   an oscillator connected to said low voltage source, 
said oscillator including, a transformer having a first winding 

and a second winding, a voltage controlled current switching 
means connected to said first winding of said transformer and to 

said source of low voltage direct current potential, a voltage 
regulating means connecting said voltage controlled current 

switching means to said second winding of said transformer, means 
for rectifying a signal output from said transformer, said 

rectifying means connected to said second winding and said 
voltage regulating means, means for storing a regulated voltage 

output, and a common ground conductor means connecting said 
storing means, said second winding, said low voltage source and 

said voltage controlled current switching means; and
 

   a temperature sensing circuit supplied by said 
regulated voltage output, said temperature sensing circuit 

including, 
   a microprocessor, 

   an analog circuit connected to said microprocessor, 
said analog circuit including a thermistor and means for 

amplifying a signal from said thermistor before it is input to 
said microprocessor, 

   a voltage controlled current switch connected between 
said microprocessor, said analog circuit, and said common ground 

conductor for periodically switching off power to said analog 
circuit in response to a signal from said microprocessor, said 

microprocessor sending a signal to said voltage controlled 
current switch between temperature measurements. 
The circuit of claim 12, wherein said voltage 
controlled current switching means is a pair of field effect 

transistors. 
The circuit of claim 13, wherein said voltage 
controlled current switch is a field effect transistor having a 

gate, a drain and a source, said drain being connected to said 
analog circuit, said gate being connected to said microprocessor, 

and said source being connected to said common ground conductor. 
The circuit of claim 14, wherein said microprocessor 
includes an analog to digital converter that can be turned on and 

off, and said microprocessor is capable of operating on a low 
voltage power supply. 
A power supply circuit comprising: 
   a low voltage source of direct current; 

   a transformer having a primary winding magnetically 
coupled with a secondar
y winding;
 

   a solid state current switching means connected in 
series with the primary winding and the low voltage source; 

   a voltage regulating means connected between the solid 
state current switching means and the secondary winding, and 

   means for rectifying and filtering a signal from the 
secondary winding of the transformer, said rectifying means 

connected to the voltage regulating means and the secondary 
winding. 
The circuit of claim 16, wherein said solid state 
current switching means is at least two field effect transistors 

connected in parallel. 
The circuit of claim 17, wherein said voltage 
regulating means is a zener diode. 
The circuit of claim 18, wherein said transformer is 
non-inverting. 
The circuit of claim 19, wherein said low voltage 
source is a thermopile. 
The circuit of claim 20, wherein said thermopile is 
heated by a flame. 
The circuit of claim 21, wherein said transformer has a 
turns ratio of 50:1. 
A temperature control circuit comprising; 
   a low voltage source of direct current; 

   means for amplifying voltage from said source and 
producing a higher voltage direct current; and 

   a microprocessor-based temperature sensing circuit 
supplied by said amplified direct current voltage, said 

 
temperature sensing circuit including means for measuring a 

temperature and controlling a heat source. 
The circuit of claim 23, wherein said temperature 
sensing circuit is switched on and off by the microprocessor to 

conserve power. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
