<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632227</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multi-function lighting device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F21L400	F21L400	F21V1400	F21V1406	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F21L	F21L	F21V	F21V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F21L4	F21L4	F21V14	F21V14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-function lighting device in the nature of a miniature 
flashlight and which can serve as a miniature lantern or lamp, as 

well as a miniature flashlight, and as a miniature signaling 
device. The lighting device includes a housing with a head for 

directing light axially outwardly in the nature of a collimated 
beam, so that the device can function as a flashlight. Connected 

to the head end is a transparent or translucent sleeve which is 
slidable with respect to the light source. Thus, when the head and 

the sleeve are shifted axially outwardly, the light source is 
located within the transparent or translucent sleeve. When the 

light source is energized, light will emanate primarily through the 
translucent or transparent sleeve and the amount of light emanating 

from the head end is substantially reduced. The device is also 
effective to operate as a signaling device in which the light is 

energized and de-energized in a sequencing or so-called "blinking" 
operation. Various embodiments of the device are disclosed. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YEE VINCENT M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YEE, VINCENT M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YEE VINCENT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YEE, VINCENT M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates in general to certain and useful 
improvements in a multi-function lighting device and more 
particularly, to a lighting device which is miniature in size and 
can be hand-held and capable of operating as a flashlight or a 
lantern, or as a signaling device. Heretofore, there has not been any multi-function lighting 
device which can operate as a lantern or as a signaling device or 
as a flashlight itself. Most flashlights are single function in 
that they are designed to generate a beam of light extending 
axially outwardly from the head of the flashlight. While most 
flashlights are effective for that purpose, they are also generally 
limited to that purpose. There have also been several embodiments of a so-called 
"miniature flashlight" in which relatively small batteries are 
included in the handle or housing of the flashlight and which 
operate a light bulb fitted within a reflector in the head end or 
so-called "head" of the flashlight. Exemplary of this type of 
flashlight is U.S. Patent No. 4,851,974, U.S. Patent No. 4,656,565, 
and U.S. Patent No. 4,658,336. There has been a need for a lighting device which is small in 
size and which is hand-held and can be easily carried on an  
 
individual. Further, there has been a need for a lighting device 
of this type which can function not only as a flashlight, but also 
as a lantern or a signaling device. Light from a flashlight can only travel a relatively short 
distance and moreover, the batteries have a limited life span when 
generating power for an incandescent light source. Further, they 
are not effective for generating a signal at a long distance. As 
a result, there is also a need for a device which can operate as a 
lantern or as a signaling device and which is capable of generating 
light which can be seen for some distance.  The present invention, in a broad aspect, relates to a multi-function 
lighting device. In this case, the lighting device can 
operate as a flashlight or the device can operate as a lamp or so-called 
"lantern." In still another embodiment of the invention, 
the lighting device can operate as a type of signaling device. The 
present invention is also effective in that the lighting device can 
actually function as a type of entertainment lighting device. In the present invention, the term "signaling", as used in 
connection with a signaling device, is used in the context of 
sending an advisory signal, such as a warning signal or an 
emergency light signal. The term "entertainment", as used in 
c
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A miniature hand-holdable multi-function lighting device which 
is capable of operation as a flashlight and as a lantern, said 

lighting device comprising: 

a) an elongate housing; 
b) a head mounted on and extended axially outwardly 
from said housing and being shiftable with respect to 

said housing; 
c) a sleeve capable of transmitting light radiation 
located intermediate said housing and said head and being 

shiftable with said head and with respect to said 
housing; and 
d) a light source mounted on said housing and being 
located in proximity to an end of said head in which 

light can pass axially therefrom as a beam, said light 
source also being locatable intermediate said sleeve when 

said sleeve and head are shifted so that the device is 
capable of operation as a lantern. 
The lighting device of Claim 1 further characterized in that 
said head is provided with an opening at one end and is provided 

with a reflector at that end facing axially outwardly from said 
head with respect to said housing. 
The lighting device of Claim 1 further characterized in that 
said reflector is adapted to receive said light source for use in 

operation as a flashlight. 
The lighting device of Claim 2 further characterized in that 
said light source becomes separated from said reflector and permits 

only a small amount of axially directed light to pass from said 
head when said sleeve and head are shifted axially outwardly with 

respect to said housing. 
The lighting device of Claim 1 further characterized in that 
a coupling is located on one end of said sleeve and is also 

slidable along said housing, said coupling having means for 
controlling the limits of movement of said sleeve and said head. 
A lighting device which is capable of operation as a 
flashlight so that light can extend outwardly therefrom in somewhat 

of a collimated beam and which can also permit a controlled passage 
of radial light in place of, or in addition to, the axial 

transmission of light, said lighting device comprising: 

a) an elongate housing; 
b) an end section on said housing extending axially 
with respect to the housing and which section is 

translucent or transparent to permit light distribution 
therethrough; 
c) a light source mounted on said housing and capable 
of being located with respect to the translucent or 

transparent light section are also with respect to the 
end section for axial transmission of light; and 
d) means for causing a relative positioning of said 
light source relative to the light transparent or 

translucent section so that light may be directed either 
axially or radially, said last-name means also enabling 

positioning of the light source to provide a substantial 
amount of radial light dissipation and with a limited and 

controlled amount of axial light distribution. 
The lighting device of Claim 6 further characterized in that 
said light source and end section is shifted axially outwardly with 

respect to said housing and permits only a small amount of axially 
directed light to pass through said opening when said means causing 

a relative positioning causes an axially shifted outward movement 
of said end section with respect to said housing. 
In a miniature hand-holdable flashlight having an elongate 
housing and a light head emitting head mounted on and extended 

axially outwardly from said housing; a conversion means enabling 
operation as a lamp, said conversion means comprising: 


a) a sleeve in said housing and being capable of 
transmitting light radiation; 
b) means coupling said sleeve to said head so that said 
sleeve is shiftable with said head and with respect to 

said housing; and 
c) a light source mounted on said housing and being 
located in proximity to an end of said head in which 

light can pass axially therefrom as a beam, said light 
source also being locatable intermediate said sleeve when 

said sleeve and head are shifted so that the device is 
capable of operation as a lamp. 
The flashlight of Claim 8 further characterized in that said 
flashlight is provided with an opening at one end and is provided 

with a reflector at that end facing axially outwardly from said 
head with respect to said housing and that said reflector is 

adapted to receive said light source for use in operation as a 
flashlight. 
The flashlight device of Claim 9 further characterized in that 
said light source becomes separated from said reflector and permits 

only a small amount of axially directed light to pass from said 
head when said sleeve and head are shifted axially outwardly with 

respect to said housing. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
