<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637607</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Flame retardant polyetherimide-containing compositions.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08K300	C08K322	C08L7900	C08L7908	C08L10100	C08L10100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08K	C08K	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08K3	C08K3	C08L79	C08L79	C08L101	C08L101	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved, flame retardant and/or smoke suppressant 
polyetherimide-containing composition is provided. The flame retardance 

and smoke suppression capabilities of the polyetherimide-containing 
composition are improved by adding an effective amount of an oxide of 

molybdenum, preferably from about 0.1 to 15% by weight and more 
preferably between about 0.2 and 10 % by weight, based on the entire 

weight of the composition. The preferred polyetherimide containing 
composition comprises siloxane polyetherimide copolymers. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASER RAYMOND HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASER, RAYMOND HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is related to copending U.S. Application Nos. 
07/925,968 filed August 5, 1992; 07/739,610 filed August 2, 1991; 
and 07/739,614 filed August 2, 1991. The present invention relates to flame retardant blends of 
polyetherimide-containing compositions. More particularly, the invention 
relates to polyetherimide-containing compositions having oxides of 
molybdenum as flame retardants and/or smoke suppressants. Many applications for engineering thermoplastics, especially those 
in the transportation field, require that the thermoplastics be flame 
retardant. Flame retardant polyetherimide compositions have been used, 
for example, in the construction of aircraft and automobile parts as well 
as insulation for wiring. In addition to exhibiting good flame retardant 
properties, polyetherimides posses advantageous physical and chemical 
properties. Flammability standards are embodied in the 1986 amendments to 
Part 25 - Air worthiness Standards - Transport Category Airplanes of 
Title 14, Code of Federal Regulations. (See, 51 Federal Register 26206, 
July 21, 1986 and 51 Federal Register 28322, August 7, 1986.) These 
standards are based on heat calorimetry tests developed at Ohio State 
University. Such tests are described in the above-cited amendments to 
14 C.F.R. part 25, and are referred to commonly as the Ohio State 
University (or "O.S.U.") heat release tests.  In the area of flame retardants for plastics, U.S. patent No. 
4,992,505 to Liu notes that the use of fire retardants and other additives 
in plastics is highly selective. It is recognized, for example, that flame 
retardants tend to be unpredictable and to have a high degree of 
specificity, i.e., they are not universally effective in all plastics. Rather, 
they may be inoperable or their effectiveness may vary from poor to 
excellent depending upon the particular plastic material to which they are 
added. The effectiveness of a particular material as a flame retardant in 
one class of thermoplastic thus may imply little as to its effectiveness in 
other classes of thermoplastics. Quite unexpectedly, the present inventor discovered that a novel 
flame retardant thermoplastic composition can be prepared by combining 
oxides of molybdenum with polyetherimide-containing compositions. 
These flame retardant polyetherimide compositions can be designed to 
pass the flammability tests cited in Part 25 of Title 14 in the Code of 
Federal Regulations. Accordingly, these compositions have utility at 
least as flame retardant or smoke
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermoplastic composition having improved flame 
retardance or smoke suppression comprising a polyetherimide-containing 

composition and a flame retarding or smoke suppressing amount of 
oxides of molybdenum. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 1, wherein the 
polyetherimide in said Polyetherimide-containing composition has 

repeating units of the formula: 
 

and, optionally, repeating units of the formula 
 

where T is -O- or a group of the formula -O-Z-O- wherein the divalent 
bonds of the -O- or the -O-Z-O group are in the 3, 3'; 3, 4'; 4, 3', or 

the 4, 4' positions; 
Z is  

and (B) divalent organic radicals of the general formula 
 

where x comprises divalent radicals of the formula 
   -CyH2y-, 

 
-O- or -S- 

where y is an integer from 1 to about 5; and R is a divalent organic 
radical comprising (a) aromatic hydrocarbon radicals having from 6 to 

about 20 carbon atoms and halogenated derivatives thereof, (b) alkylene 
radicals having from 2 to about 20 carbon atoms, and (c) divalent 

radicals of the general formula 

 

where Q comprises 
   -S-, -O-, 

 
or -CxH2x- 

wherein x is an integer from 1 to about 5; n and m independently are 
integers from 1 to about 10, g is an integer from 1 to about 40 and R₁-R₄ 

are, independently, -H, -CH₃, -C₂H2zCH₃ or phenyl, where z is an 
integer from 1 to about 5. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 2, wherein the 
polyetherimide-containing compositon further comprises repeating units 

of the formula 
 

where M is 
 

where B is -S- or 
 

and R' is R or a group of the formula 

The thermoplastic composition of Claim 2, wherein n and m 
are integers from 1 to about 5, g is an integer from 5 to about 25 and 

each of R₁-R₄ is methyl. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 2, wherein said 
polyetherimide-containing composition comprises a substantially random 

copolymer of siloxane polyetherimide. 
The thermoplasic composition of Claim 2, wherein said 
polyetherimide-containing composition comprises a siloxane 

polyetherimide block copolymer. 
The thermoplasic composition of Claim 2, wherein said 
polyetherimide-containing composition comprises a siloxane 

polyetherimide alternating copolymer. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 1, wherein the 
amount of said oxides of molybdenum is greater than about 0.05 percent 

based on the weight of the entire composition 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 8, wherein the 
amount of said oxides of molybdenum is greater than about 0.1 percent 

based on the weight of the entire composition. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 9, wherein the 
amount of said oxides of molybdenum is greater than about 0.2 percent 

based on the weight of the entire composition. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 8, wherein the 
amount of said oxides of molybdenum is not sufficient to cause 

significant increase in the specific gravity of the resulting polymer. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 8, wherein the 
amount of said oxides of molybdenum is not sufficient to cause 

significant decrease in the ductility and impact properties of the resulting 
polymer. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 8, wherein the 
amount of said oxides of molybdenum is less than about 15 percent by 

weight based on the weight of the entire composition. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 8, wherein the 
amount of said oxides of molybdenum is less than about 10 percent by 

weight based on the weight of the entire composition. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 1, wherein said 
oxides of molybdenum comprises molybdic oxide, ammonium 

octamolybdate, or mixtures thereof. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 15, wherein said 
oxides of molybdenum comprises molybdic oxide having the formula 

MoO₃. 
The thermoplastic composition of Claim 1, further 
comprising at least one additional thermoplastic resin selected from 

vinyl resins, polyester resins, polyamide resins, polyacetal resins, 
polyether resins, polyetherester resins, poly (etherimide ester) resins, 

poly (sulfone) resins, poly (ethersulfone) resins, and interpolymers 
comprising units of any of the foregoing resins. 
A thermoplastic composition having improved flame 
retardance or smoke suppression comprising a polyetherimide-containing 

composition and an amount of an oxides of molybdenum sufficient to 
result in a maximum smoke level of less than about 90 as measured by 

the National Bureau of Standards Smoke Chamber. 
The thermoplastic composition of claim 18, wherein said 
smoke level is less than about 70 as measured by the National Bureau of 

Standards Smoke Chamber. 
The thermoplastic composition of claim 19, wherein said 
smoke level is less than about 50 as measured by the National Bureau of 

Standards Smoke Chamber. 
A thermoplastic composition having improved flame 
retardance or smoke suppression consisting essentially of a 

polyetherimide-containing composition and a flame retarding or smoke 
suppressing amount of oxides of molybdenum. 
An article of manufacture comprising the thermoplastic resin 
composition of Claim 1. 
A process for preparing the thermoplastic composition of 
Claim 1, comprising dry blending oxides of molybdenum with a 

polyetherimide-containing composition and then extruding the 

composition. 
A process for preparing the thermoplastic composition of 
Claim 1, comprising mixing oxides of molybdenum with the 

polyetherimide-forming reactants during the synthesis and polymerization 
of the polyetherimide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
