<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646166</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CAKE-LIKE DETERGENT AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C11D3395	C11D3395	C11D702	C11D706	C11D710	C11D712	C11D714	C11D716	C11D1700	C11D1700	C11D1704	C11D1704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C11D3	C11D3	C11D7	C11D7	C11D7	C11D7	C11D7	C11D7	C11D17	C11D17	C11D17	C11D17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A solid cake-like detergent comprising an alkali metal hydoxide, a hardness sequestering agent, and other optional ingredients is disclosed. A mixture of above ingredients is placed in hopper (18) with the valve (34) in its closed position. A container (52) is moved under throat (20) and the support plate is closed to move the container to an upper position and actuate a start switch which vibrates the hopper and the container. Simultaneously, water is sprayed into throat (20) from nozzle (24) and the hopper valve is withdrawn from the throat. The mixture flows downwardly as an annular curtain. The moistened detergent mixture falls into container (52) and is allowed to solidify and form the final cake-like product.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WINBRO GROUP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WINBRO GROUP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERRY HUBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERRY KENNETH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERRY HUBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERRY KENNETH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CAKE-LIKE DETERGENT AND METHOD OF MANUFACTUREFIELD OF INVENTIONThis invention relates to a process for producing a solid cake-like detergent for use in institutional and industrial dishwashers and the cake-like detergent.BACKGROUND AND BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONDetergents used in industrial and institutional warewashing machines have been problematical, whether liquid, powder or solid detergents are used. These problems include: safety problems in handling the detergents, particularly high alkaline (more than 12% caustic) detergents; chemical stability; caking; softening; dehydration; homogeneity; and dispensing equal amounts of detergent and additives at a uniform rate. There are also manufacturing problems with the institutional and industrial detergents. Most of these problems have been adequately discussed in prior art. See Re. 32,763 and 32,818, and the references cited therein, for a discussion of such problems.In order for a detergent to be effective, whether of high or low alkalinity, the detergent must be able to clean all surfaces, be dispensed uniformly and be used with minimal foaming. To meet these requirements, additives are combined with the detergent. Chlorine-based compounds and defoamers are the common additives used in these detergents. The chlorine-based compounds are particularly important for removing coffee and tea stains.For industrial and institutional ware washing machines, the detergents used should have the characteristics of being dispensed from a container or the like uniformly, that is, at a controlled rate, into the wash water. Highly alkaline detergents are the most suitable for superior cleaning. In addition to the uniform dispensing of the detergent, the components of the detergent itself should be homogeneous such that there is no variation in the strength of the detergent delivered including any additives within the detergent. This homogeneity can be easily achieved with liquid detergents but for high alkaline solid detergents homogeneity has been difficult to achieve. 

 Prior to the liquid cast solid detergents disclosed in the above-referenced reissue patents, the problems of solid detergents were acknowledged to be the difficulty in forming solid detergents with high alkalinity which would provide a constant rate of delivery, in blending highly alkaline detergents with sequestering agents, and in mixing highly caustic materials in an aqueous solution to produce a homogeneous product. The other additives typically found in the detergents, such as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claim 1. A method of making a solid cake-like detergent for ware and hard surface washing which includes: blending an alkali metal hydroxide and a hardness sequestering agent to form a powdered detergent mixture; flowing the mixture to form a particulate stream; moistening the particulates; and depositing the moistened particulates in a receptacle where the solid cake-like detergent is formed.
Claim 2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the alkali metal hydroxide is selected from the group consisting of sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide, and the hardness sequestering agents is selected from the group consisting of silicates, phosphates, carbonates and borates.
Claim 3. The method of Claim 2 wherein the phosphate is selected from the group consisting of M-PO3M-OM or cyclic Pθ3M-(—PO3—)
n
-P03M wherein M is an alkali metal and n is a number ranging from 1 to 60.
Claim 4. The method of Claim 2 wherein the carbonates include sodium carbonate and potassium carbonat .
Claim 5. The method of Claim 1 wherein the alkali metal hydroxide is hydratable.
Claim 6. The method of Claim 1 wherein the sequestering agent is hydratable.
Claim 7. The method of Claim 1 wherein the detergent mixture includes a chlorine compound.
Claim 8. The method of Claim 7 wherein the chlorine is encapsulated.
Claim 9. The method of Claim 1 wherein the detergent mixture includes defoamers.
Claim 10. The method of Claim 1 which includes: flowing the powdered detergent mixture downwardly. 


 Claim 11. The method of Claim 10 which includes: flowing the powdered detergent mixture downwardly in the form of an annular curtain.
Claim 12. The method of Claim 11 which includes: contacting at least the inner surface of the annular curtain with water.
Claim 13. The method of Claim 11 which includes: contacting the entire curtain with water.
Claim 14. The method of Claim 12 wherein the water is in the form of a cone-shaped spray, the perimeter of the base of the cone contacting the descending curtain.
Claim 15. The method of Claim 11 which includes: flowing the powdered detergent mixture over a baffle to form the descending curtain.
Claim 16. The method of Claim 10 which includes: moistening the powdered detergent mixture by contacting the outer surface of the downwardly moving stream with water. Claim 17. The method of Claim 10 wherein the downwardly moving powdered detergent comprises a plurality of columns.
Claim 18. The method of Claim 1 which includes: retaining the deposited particles in the receptacle while the particles harden into the solid cake-like detergent.
Claim 19. The method of Claim 18 wherein the receptacle is a thermoplastic recepticle.
Claim 20. The method of Claim 1 which includes packing the mixture by vibrating.
Claim 21. A solid cake-like detergent for ware and hard surface washing formed according to the method of Claims 1 or 2. 


 Claim 22. The solid cake-like detergent of Claim 21 wherein the receptacle in which solid cake-like detergent is formed is the container for said cake-like detergent.
Claim 23. The solid cake-like detergent of Claim 21 wherein the receptacle is a disposable container for said solid cake-like detergent. Claim 24. An apparatus for forming a solid cake-like detergent for ware and hard surface washing which comprises: means to hold a powdered detergent mixture comprising an alkali metal hydroxide and a hardness sequestering agent; means to discharge the powdered detergent mixture as a flowing particulate stream; means to moisten the flowing powder particulates; and means to collect the moistened particulates.
Claim 25. The apparatus of Claim 24 which comprises: means to vibrate the moistened powdered detergent mixture.
Claim 26. The apparatus of Claim 24 which includes: a baffle downstream of the means to discharge the powdered detergent mixture so as to shape the stream into the form of a descending annular curtain.
Claim 27. The apparatus of Claim 26 which includes: a nozzle to discharge water to moisten the flowing particulates.
Claim 28. The apparatus of Claim 27 wherein the nozzle is disposed under the baffle and discharges a hollow cone-like spray.
Claim 29. A package surrounding and in contact with all but one surface of a solid cake-like alkaline detergent for ware and hard surface washing formed according to the method of Claims 1 or 2.
Claim 30. The package of Claim 29 further comprising 


a cover secured to the package.
Claim 31. A detergent composition which comprises: a three-dimensional, uniform, solid, cake-like alkaline warewashing detergent which includes: an alkali metal hydroxide; an effective amount of a hardness sequestering agent; and a chlorine additive substantially uniformly dispersed throughout said cake-like detergent.
Claim 32. The composition of Claim 31 wherein the alkali metal hydroxide is selected from the group consisting of sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide, and the hardness sequestering agent is selected from the group consisting of silicates, phosphates, carbonates and borates.
Claim 33. The composition of Claim 32 wherein the alkali metal hydroxide is sodium hydroxide.
Claim 34. The composition of Claim 31 wherein the hardness sequestering agent is a phosphate hardness sequestering agent.
Claim 35. The method of Claim 33 wherein the phosphate is selected from the group consisting of M-PO3M- OM or cyclic θ3M-(—PO3—)
n
-Pθ3M wherein M is an alkali metal and n is a number ranging from 1 to 60.
Claim 36. The composition of Claim 32 wherein the carbonates include sodium carbonate and potassium carbonate.
Claim 37. The composition of Claim 31 wherein the chlorine is encapsualted in pellet-like form.
Claim 38. The composition of Claim 31 wherein the detergent mixture includes defoamers.
Claim 39. A method for dispensing warewashing detergent into a warewashing zone of a warewasher for 


 washing alkaline detergent-resistant ware, using a solid cake-like alkaline detergent composition of claims 1 or 27 which includes: (a) placing said solid cake-like alkaline detergent composition in a detergent dispensing device having a spray means, in a position with respect to the horizontal and with respect to said spray means, for dispensing detergent downwardly from said detergent composition to the warewashing zone of a warewashing machine, whereby the side of the solid cake-like, alkaline detergent composition not surrounded by said receptacle-shaped container is contained within the interior of said detergent dispensing device and is oriented to provide the interior of said detergent dispensing device with essentially one unsurrounded, exposed, drainable surface of the solid cake-like alkaline detergent composition; (b) impinging a spray of aqueous liquid from said spray means upon said unsurrounded, exposed, drainable surface to dissolve detergent composition at a generally consistent rate and thereby form an aqueous liquid detergent containing said detergent composition in the aqueous liquid, which aqueous liquid detergent drains downwardly from said unsurrounded, exposed, drainable surface generally simultaneously with said impinging; (c) permitting generally simultaneously the downwardly-draining aqueous liquid detergent to flow out of said detergent dispensing device and into said warewashing zone for the purpose of washing alkaline detergent-resistant ware therein; and (d) controlling the duration of said step (b) , thereby controlling the amount of said aqueous liquid detergent composition flowing into said warewashing zone, thereby controlling the concentration of said detergent composition in said warewashing zone.
Claim 40. The method of Claim 39 wherein said unsurrounded, exposed, drainable surface generally faces toward said spray means.
Claim 41. The method of Claim 39 wherein said solid 


cake-like, alkaline detergent composition is placed in accordance with said step (a) in an inverted position above said spray means, such that said unsurrounded, exposed, drainable surface faces downwardly toward said spray means.
Claim 42. The method of Claim 39 wherein in said step (a) said solid cake-like, alkaline detergent composition is placed in an inverted position over said spray means, and said impinging is provided by a spray oriented generally perpendicularly to said unsurrounded, exposed, drainable surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
