<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644807</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SLAG CONTROL SHAPE RELEASE APPARATUS FOR MOLTEN METAL VESSELS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22D4300	B22D4300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22D	B22D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22D43	B22D43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AJF INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AJF, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORTE GARY F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGUIRE JAMES P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORTE, GARY, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGUIRE, JAMES, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SLAG CONTROL SHAPE RELEASE APPARATUS FOR MOLTEN METAL VESSELSCROSS REFERENCE TO CO-PENDING APPLICATIONS The present invention is a continuation-in-part application of co-pending United States Patent Application Serial No. 07/898,014, filed June 12, 1992 in the names of Gary L. Forte, James P. McGuire and Wayne Miller for "SLAG CONTROL SHAPE RELEASE APPARATUS FOR MOLTEN METAL VESSELS."BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention:The present invention relates, in general, to metal making apparatus and, specifically, to molten metal receptacles and, more specifically, to slag control shapes used in molten metal vessels. Description of the Art:In metal making processes, such as steel making, molten metal is transferred from a furnace or converter by a ladle to a tundish or directly to a casting machine. In all metal making processes, and, in particular, in steel making processes, a layer of slag containing metal impurities forms above the top surface of the molten metal within the ladle and the tundish. When the molten metal is discharged from the ladle or tundish, it is necessary to maintain a separation between the slag and the molten metal so that high quality steel without significant amounts of slag can be produced.The slag forms a layer of impurities several inches thick on top of the layer of molten metal in the ladle and in the tundish. In addition, the flow of molten metal through the discharge nozzle in the ladle or tundish creates a vortex which introduces a conically- shaped rotation to the molten metal immediately above the discharge nozzle. When a sufficient quantity of molten metal is maintained within the ladle or tundish, the vortex forms completely within the molten metal layer and does not reach to the slag layer atop the molten metal 

layer. However, when the level of molten metal within the ladle or tundish drops below the predetermined critical depth, the vortex reaches into the slag layer and draws slag through the center of the vortex to the discharge nozzle along with molten metal. This causes the introduction of slag into the molten metal as it is discharged from the ladle or the tundish and results in steel having less than desirable quantities as well as creating a potentially hazardous situation. In order to prevent the introduction of slag into the molten metal, various slag control shapes, such as balls, frusto-conical bodies, etc., as shown in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,725,045 and 4,968,007, are introduced into the transfer ladle or tundish. Such slag control shapes or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is:
1. A slag control shape release apparatus for a molten metal receptacle having an open top, side and bottom walls, an interior cavity containing a layer of slag covering a layer of molten metal, a discharge nozzle formed in the bottom wall, a cover removably closing the open top end of the receptacle, the cover having a bore extending therethrough and a slag control shape insertable into the receptacle, the apparatus comprising: means, mounted on the cover, for releasably mounting the slag control shape with respect to the cover; means, connected to the mounting means, for actuating the mounting means to release the slag control shape from the mounting means and to allow the descent of the slag contro shape into the molten metal receptacle, the actuating means being operable from a location remote from the cover mounted on the molten metal receptacle; and means, attached to the slag control shape, for controlling the rate of descent of the slag control shape into the molten metal receptacle after release of the slag control shape from the mounting means.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the descent controlling means comprises: a reel mounted on the cover; a rotatable shaft mounted in the reel; and a flexible cable wound in a plurality of turns around the shaft and attached at one end to the slag control shape.
3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising: means for maintaining the rate of rotation of the shaft constant after release of the slag control shape from the mounting means. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the constant rotation rate maintaining means comprises: a plate movably disposed adjacent to one end of the shaft; and biasing means for urging the plate into engagement with the shaft at a predetermined frictional force to provide a constant resistance to rotation of the shaft.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the mounting means comprises: a yoke mounted on the cover; a bore formed in the yoke; a plunger movably mounted in the bore having first and second ends; biasing means, mounted in the bore about the plunger, for normally biasing the first end of the plunger outward from the yoke; an arm pivotally attached to the yoke; a pin slidably mounted in the arm and having first and second ends, the first end of the pin releasably engaging the first end of the plunger of the yoke; biasing means, mounted in the arm about the pin, for normally biasing the second end of the pin outward from the arm; a bore formed in the arm for releasably receiving a slag control shape therein; and the second end of the pin releasably engaging the slag control shape mounted in the arm to hold the slag control shape in the arm and being retractable away from the slag control shape to release the slag control shape for descent into a molten metal receptacle below the cover.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising: 


 another flexible cable having a first end connected to the plunger; the another cable having a second end located remote from the plunger at an easily accessible position for retraction of the plunger and the pin from the first position to a second, retracted position in which the pin separates from the slag control shape and allows the slag control shape to descend into the molten metal receptacle.
7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein: the bore in the arm is co-axially disposed above the bore in the cover and the discharge nozzle in the molten metal vessel when the cover is mounted on the molten metal receptacle.
8. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the reel further comprises: a pair of spaced support arms mounted on the mounting means; a spindle mounted between the pair of support arms; and the shaft rotatably mounted on the spindle between the pair of support arms.
9. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the shaft has a plurality of spiral grooves formed thereon, each groove receiving one turn of the flexible cable.
10. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the second end of the pin has an open-ended recess formed therein, the recess engaging the hanger of the slag control shape and holding a hanger against an adjacent surface of the arm.
11. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the second end of the pin releasably engages a bore formed in 


a hanger of the slag control shape to hold the hanger in the arm.
12. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising: means for detecting the number of revolutions of the shaft as the cable is unwound from the shaft after release of the slag control shape from the mounting means.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the detecting means comprises: sensor means for sensing each rotation of the shaft; and means, responsive to the sensor means, for counting each revolution of the shaft.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the shaft has a plurality of spiral grooves formed thereon, each groove receiving one turn of the flexible cable therein.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising: means, responsive to the sensor means, the counting means and the predetermined diameter of the spiral grooves in the shaft, for calculating the length of flexible cable unwound from the shaft after the slag control shape is released from the mounting means.
16. A slag control shape release apparatus for a molten metal receptacle having an open top, side and bottom walls, an interior cavity containing a layer of slag covering a layer of molten metal, a discharge nozzle formed in the bottom wall, a cover removably closing the open top end of the receptacle, the cover having a bore 


extending therethrough and a slag control shape insertable into the receptacle, the apparatus comprising: means, mounted on the cover, for releasably mounting the slag control shape on the cover; means, connected to the mounting means, for actuating the mounting means to release the slag control shape from the mounting means on the cover into the molten metal receptacle, the actuating means being operable from a location remote from the cover mounted on the molten metal receptacle; the mounting means including: a yoke mounted on the cover; a bore formed in the yoke; a plunger movably mounted in the bore and having first and second ends; first biasing means, mounted in the bore for normally biasing the first end of the plunger outward from the yoke; an arm pivotally attached to the yoke; a pin slidably mounted in the arm and having first and second ends, the first end of the pin releasably engaging the first end of the plunger of the yoke; a bore formed in the arm for releasably receiving a slag control shape therein; second biasing means, mounted in the arm for normally biasing the second end of the pin into the bore in the arm; and the second end of the pin releasably engaging the slag control shape disposed in the bore in the arm to hold the slag control shape in the arm and being retractable away from the slag control shape to release the slag control shape for descent into a molten metal receptacle below the cover.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: 


 a reel mounted on the cover; a rotatable shaft mounted in the reel; and a flexible cable wound in a plurality of turns around the shaft and attached at one end to the slag control shape.
18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein: the bore in the arm is co-axially disposed above the bore in the cover and the discharge nozzle in the molten metal receptacle when the cover is mounted on the molten metal receptacle.
19. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the second end of the pin has an open-ended recess formed therein, the recess engaging the hanger of the slag control shape and holding a hanger against an adjacent surface of the arm.
20. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the second end of the pin releasably engages a bore formed in a hanger of the slag control shape to hold the hanger in the arm.
21. A molten metal receptacle containing a layer of slag covering a layer of molten metal, the receptacle having an open top end, side and bottom walls and a discharge nozzle formed in the bottom wall, the molten metal receptacle comprising: a cover for removably closing the open top end of the receptacle; a bore formed in the cover, the bore being located substantially over the discharge nozzle when the cover is mounted on the receptacle; a slag control shape having a specific gravity to buoyantly float at an interface between the slag layer and the molten metal layer; 


 means, mounted on the cover, for releasably mounting the slag control shape to the cover; means, connected to the mounting means, for actuating the mounting means to release the slag control shape from the cover into the molten metal receptacle, the actuating means being operable from a location remote from the cover mounted on the molten metal receptacle; and means, attached to the slag control shape, for controlling the rate of descent of the slag control shape into the molten metal receptacle after release of the slag control shape from the mounting means.
22. The molten metal receptacle of claim 21 wherein the descent controlling means comprises: a reel mounted on the cover; a rotatable shaft mounted in the reel; and a flexible cable wound in a plurality of turns around the shaft and attached at one end to the slag control shape.
23. The molten metal receptacle of claim 22 further comprising: means for maintaining the rate of rotation of the shaft constant after release of the slag control shape from the mounting means.
24. The molten metal receptacle of claim 23 wherein the constant rotation rate maintaining means comprises: a plate movably disposed adjacent to one end of the shaft; and biasing means for urging the plate into engagement with the shaft at a predetermined frictional force to provide a constant resistance to rotation of the shaft. 


 25. The molten metal receptacle of claim 21 wherein the mounting means comprises: a yoke mounted on the cover; a bore formed in the yoke; a plunger movably mounted in the bore having first and second ends; biasing means, mounted in the bore about the plunger, for normally biasing the first end of the plunger outward from the yoke; an arm pivotally attached to the yoke; a pin slidably mounted in the arm and having first and second ends, the first end of the pin releasably engaging the first end of the plunger of the yoke; biasing means, mounted in the arm about the pin, for normally biasing the second end of the pin outward from the arm; a bore formed in the arm for releasably receiving a slag control shape therein; and the second end of the pin releasably engaging the slag control shape mounted in the arm to hold the slag control shape in the arm and being retractable away from the slag control shape to release the slag control shape for descent into a molten metal receptacle below the cover.
26. The molten metal receptacle of claim 25 further comprising: another flexible cable having a first end connected to the plunger; the another cable having a second end located remote from the plunger at an easily accessible position for retraction of the plunger and the pin from the first position to a second, retracted position in which the pin separates from the slag control shape and allows the slag control shape to descend into the molten metal receptacle. 


 27. The molten metal receptacle of claim 25 wherein: the bore in the arm is co-axially disposed above the bore in the cover and the discharge nozzle in the molten metal vessel when the cover is mounted on the molten metal receptacle.
28. The molten metal receptacle of claim 22 wherein the reel further comprises: a pair of spaced support arms mounted on the mounting means; a spindle mounted between the pair of support arms; and the shaft rotatably mounted on the spindle between the pair of support arms.
29. The molten metal receptacle of claim 22 wherein the shaft has a plurality of spiral grooves formed thereon, each groove receiving one turn of the flexible cable.
30. The molten metal receptacle of claim 25 wherein the second end of the pin has an open-ended recess formed therein, the recess engaging the hanger of the slag control shape and holding a hanger against an adjacent surface of the arm.
31. The molten metal receptacle of claim 25 wherein the second end of the pin releasably engages a bore formed in a hanger of the slag control shape to hold the hanger in the arm.
32. The molten metal receptacle of claim 22 further comprising: means for detecting the number of revolutions of the shaft as the cable is unwound from the shaft after 


release of the slag control shape from the mounting means.
33. The molten metal receptacle of claim 32 wherein the detecting means comprises: sensor means for sensing each rotation of the shaft; and means, responsive to the sensor means, for counting each revolution of the shaft.
34. The molten metal receptacle of claim 33 wherein the shaft has a plurality of spiral grooves formed thereon, each groove receiving one turn of the flexible cable therein.
35. The molten metal receptacle of claim 34 further comprising: means, responsive to the sensor means, the counting means and the predetermined diameter of the spiral grooves in the shaft, for calculating the length of flexible cable unwound from the shaft after the slag control shape is released from the mounting means.
36. A slag control shape release apparatus for a molten metal receptacle having an open top, side and bottom walls, an interior cavity containing a layer of slag covering a layer of molten metal, a discharge nozzle formed in the bottom wall, a cover removably closing the open top end of the receptacle, the cover having an aperture extending therethrough and a slag control shape insertable into the receptacle, the apparatus comprising: means, mounted on the cover, for releasably mounting the .lag control shape with respect to the cover; and means, connected to the mounting means, for actuating the mounting means to release the slag control shape from the mounting means and to allow the free 


descent of the slag control shape into the molten metal receptacle, the actuating means being operable from a location remote from the cover mounted on the molten metal receptacle.
37. The apparatus of Claim 36 wherein the mounting means comprises: a pin slidably mounted on the cover; and biasing means, coupled to the pin, for normally urging the pin to a first, extended position in which the pin engages a hanger [attached to and] extending from the slag control shape through the aperture in the cover for supporting the slag control shape with respect to the cover.
38. The apparatus of Claim 37 wherein the actuating means comprises: a flexible cable having a first end connected to the pin; the cable having a second end located remote from the pin at an easily accessible position for retraction of the pin from the first position to a second, retracted position in which the pin separates from the slag control shape and allows the slag control shape to freely drop into the molten metal receptacle.
39. The apparatus of Claim 37 wherein the actuating means comprises: a first eccentric cam mounted on the cover; a first cable fixedly connected at one end to the first cam and to the pin at another end; a second eccentric cam mounted on the molten metal receptacle; a second cable fixedly connected to the second cam and extending to a position remote from the second ca ; and 


 the first and second cams being disposed in close proximity when the cover is mounted on the receptacle such that movement of the second cable causes rotation of the second cam into engagement with and rotation of the first cam to move the first cable in a direction to retract the pin from the first extended position to the second retracted position to release the pin from engagement with slag control shape.
40. The apparatus of Claim 37 further comprising: a lid pivotally mounted on the cover, the lid removably closing the aperture in the cover, the pin and the biasing means being mounted on the lid; an aperture formed in the lid for receiving the hanger of the slag control shape therethrough.
41. The apparatus of Claim 36 further comprising: a bore formed in the cover; and the mounting means releasably mounting the slag control shape in the bore in the cover when the cover is mounted on the top of the molten metal receptacle.
42. The apparatus of Claim 41 wherein: the bore in the cover is substantially aligned with the discharge nozzle in the molten metal receptacle when the cover is mounted on the top of the molten metal receptacle.
43. The apparatus of Claim 36 further comprising: a through bore formed in the cover; a lid pivotally mounted on the cover and covering the bore when in a first position; an aperture formed in the lid; and 


 a hanger attached to and extending outward from the slag control shape, the hanger being insertable through the bore in the cover and the aperture in the lid and extending outward from the lid; the mounting means engaging the hanger on the slag control shape to releasably mount the slag control shape on the cover.
44. A slag control shape release apparatus for a molten metal receptacle having an open top, side and bottom walls, an interior cavity containing a layer of slag covering a layer of molten metal, a discharge nozzle formed in the bottom wall, a cover removably closing the open top end of the receptacle, the cover having an aperture extending therethrough and a slag control shape insertable into the receptacle, the apparatus comprising: a bore formed in and extending through the cover, the bore substantially aligned with the discharge nozzle in the molten metal receptacle when the cover is mounted on the top of the molten metal receptacle; a pivotal member pivotally mounted on the cover and extending across at least a portion of the bore in the cover; a pin slidably mounted on the pivotal member; biasing means, coupled to the pin, for normally urging the pin to a first, extended position in which the pin engages a hanger extending from the slag control shape through the bore in the cover and an aperture formed in the pivotal member for supporting the slag control shape in the bore of the cover; and actuating means, connected to the pin, for moving the pin to a second, retracted position in which the pin disengages from the hanger allowing the slag control shape to freely drop from the cover into the molten metal receptacle, the actuating means being operable from a location remote from the cover mounted on the top end of the molten metal receptacle. 


 45. A molten metal ladle containing a layer of slag covering a layer of molten metal, the ladle having an open top end, side and bottom walls and a discharge nozzle formed in the bottom wall, the molten metal ladle comprising: a cover for removably closing the open top end of the ladle; an aperture formed in the cover; a slag control shape having a specific gravity to buoyantly float at a slag layer - molten metal layer interface in the ladle; a hanger extending from the slag control shape, the hanger insertable through and outward from the aperture in the cover; means, mounted on the cover, for releasably mounting the slag control shape with respect to the cover; and means, connected to the mounting means, for actuating the mounting means to release the slag control shape from the mounting means and to allow the free descent of the slag control shape into the ladle, the actuating means being operable from a location remote from the cover mounted on the ladle.
46. The receptacle of Claim 45 wherein the mounting means comprises: a pin slidably mounted on the cover; and biasing means, coupled to the pin, for normally urging the pin to a first, extended position in which the pin engages a hanger extending from the slag control shape through the aperture in the cover for supporting the slag control shape with respect to the cover.
47. The receptacle of Claim 46 wherein the actuating means comprises: a flexible cable having a first end connected to the pin; 


 the cable having a second end located remote from the pin at an easily accessible position for retraction of the pin from the first position to a second, retracted position in which the pin separates from the slag control shape and allows the slag control shape to freely drop into the ladle.
48. The apparatus of Claim 46 further comprising: a lid pivotally mounted on the cover, the lid removably closing the aperture in the cover, the pin and the biasing means being mounted on the lid; an aperture formed in the lid for receiving the hanger of the slag control shape therethrough; the pin and the biasing means being mounted on the lid.
49. The receptacle of Claim 45 wherein: the aperture in the cover is substantially aligned with the discharge nozzle of the ladle when the cover is mounted on the top end of the ladle.
50. The apparatus of Claim 45 wherein the actuating means comprises: a first eccentric cam mounted on the cover; a first cable fixedly connected at one end to the first cam and to the pin at another end; a second eccentric cam mounted on the molten metal receptacle; a second cable fixedly connected to the second cam and extending to a position remote from the second cam; and the first and second cams being disposed in close proximity when the cover is mounted on the receptacle such that movement of the second cable causes rotation of the second cam into engagement with and rotation of the first cam to move the first cable in a 


direction to retract the pin from the first extended position to the second retracted position to release the pin from engagement with slag control shape.
51. The apparatus of Claim 45 further comprising: a bore formed in the cover; and the mounting means releasably mounting the slag control shape in the bore in the cover when the cover is mounted on the top end of the ladle. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
