<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610097</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Gas collecting unit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5097	A61G1000	A61M1606	A61B5083	A61M1606	A62B2700	A61B508	A61B508	A62B2700	A61G1004	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61G	A61M	A61B	A61M	A62B	A61B	A61B	A62B	A61G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61G10	A61M16	A61B5	A61M16	A62B27	A61B5	A61B5	A62B27	A61G10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a gas collecting unit (8) suitable 
for the examination of a patient's respiratory gas, which gas 

collecting unit is supplied from one or a plurality of gas 
sources (1) with a gas to be respired by a patient, and which 

gas collecting unit is used for delivering a gas, which at 
least partially contains a gas expired by a patient, to a 

measuring device (13) for examination, and said gas collecting 
unit (8) comprising a dome (15) having a shell (17) which at 

least partially encloses a gas space (18) and which dome 
includes an opening (19) for pushing the head of a patient 

therethrough at least partially into the gas space (18) within 
the dome, and a collar (16) having a wall (20) which extends 

around the dome opening (19) and which collar includes a neck 
opening (22) surrounded by the wall (20) for introducing the 

head of a patient therethrough towards the gas space (18) and 
the wall (20) of said collar connecting the shell of said dome 

(20) against the skin of a patient. The wall (20) surrounding 
the neck opening (22) of the collar is at least partially made 

of an elastic material for stretching the opening by virtue of 
a force applied thereto, whereby the circumference of the neck 

opening also increases but, upon concluding the stretching, 
the wall surrounding said neck opening tends to reduce the 

size of the neck opening and, thus, the circumference of the 
neck opening decreases towards that preceding the stretching. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTRUMENTARIUM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTRUMENTARIUM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUISMAEKI PERTTI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUISMAEKI, PERTTI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a gas collecting unit adapted 
for use by a patient. The invention is particularly relevant to a gas collecting 
unit suitable for the examination of a patient's respiratory 
gas and supplied from one or a plurality of gas sources with 
a gas to be respired by a patient. Such a gas collecting unit 
may be used for delivering a gas, which at least partially 
contains a gas expired by a patient, to a measuring device for 
examination. Such gas collecting units may comprise a dome 
having a shell which at least partially encloses a gas space 
and which dome includes an opening for pushing the head of a 
patient therethrough at least partially into the gas space 
within the dome, and a collar having a wall which extends 
around the dome opening and which collar includes a neck 
opening surrounded by the wall for introducing the head of a 
patient therethrough towards the gas space, the wall of said 
collar connecting the dome shell against the skin of a 
patient. The gas collecting unit separates the surrounding 
gas space from that remaining inside. In a variety of medical measurement and treatment procedures, 
the gas respired or intended to be respired by a patient must 
be isolated from the ambient air. A reason may be, for 
example, that a gas received by a patient for respiration must 
have a composition that differs from ambient air in a desired 
fashion. Another reason may be the need of measuring the 
concentrations of a gas respired by a patient, in which case 
the mixing of ambient air with the respiratory gas would 
produce a measuring error. Another possible reason is that the 
gas respired or intended to be respired by a patient could, 
upon seeping into the ambient air, produce a hazard to others 
in the room or extra costs as a result of wasting expensive gas.  
 There are several ways of preventing the mixing of a gas 
respired by a patient and the ambient air. One possibility is 
the isolation of a patient in a space totally sealed from 
ambient air and containing a gas with a controllable 
composition. Another possibility is to use a mask which seals 
against the face of a patient, covers the mouth and nose and 
through which the patient breathes. Drawbacks encountered in the former method include e.g. the 
large size of a required apparatus and the resulting expensive 
price and complicated operation. Also, various procedures on 
a patient may become impossible or more difficult to perform 
with a patient in a totally isolated space. On the other hand, 
th
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gas collecting unit adapted for use by a patient 
comprising: 


a dome (18) which partly encloses a gas space, the 
dome having a first opening (19); and 
a collar (16) having a wall (20) which is capable of 
forming a sealing connection around the first opening of 

the dome, and a neck opening (22) which is resilient and 
which is capable of being expanded to allow the head of a 

patient to pass therethrough and of then being allowed to 
contract; 
 
   characterized in that the neck opening (22) is adapted 

to make a sealing connection with the skin of the patient 
when partially contracted to isolate the gas space from ambient air 

and wherein with the collar (16) 
in an unextended state, a circumference of the inner 

surface of the wall (20) measured parallel to the edges of 
the neck opening (22) increases on moving away from the 

neck opening (22) for at least a portion of the collar 
(16). 
A gas collecting unit as set forth in any preceding 
claim, characterized in that said collar wall (20) 

surrounds a void (21) existing between the neck opening 
(22) of the collar and the gas space (18) of the dome, 

whereby the head of a patient can be advanced towards the 
gas space of the dome (18) through said neck opening and 

void. 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in claim 2, 
characterized in that the wall of said collar surrounding 

the void (21) has an inner surface circumference which 
increases from both the neck opening (22) and the dome (15) 

towards the midway point of the void. 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized in that the wall of said collar surrounding  

 
the void (21) has an inner surface circumference which is 

at its maximum at approximately the midway point of the 
void. 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in any preceding 
claim wherein the neck opening is formed in the wall (20). 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in any preceding 
claim wherein the neck opening (22) is surrounded by the 

wall (20). 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in claim 6, 
characterized in that with said wall (20) of the collar 

(16) in an unextended state, the neck opening (22) has a 
circumference which is less than that of the part of a 

patient's body around which part of the body said neck 
opening (22) is intended to be sealed. 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in claim 6 or 7, 
characterized in that the wall (20) has a thickness of less 

than 0.5 mm. 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in claim 8, 
characterized in that the wall (20) has a thickness of 

approximately 0.25 mm or less. 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in any of claims 6 to 
9, characterized in that the wall (20) is at least 

partially made of an elastic material. 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in claim 10, wherein 
said elastic material is rubber. 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in any of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the collar (16) is 

adapted such that on application of a sufficient stretching 
force to the neck opening (22) of said collar (16) the  

 
circumference of said neck opening should increase to at 

least double without a rupture to the collar. 
A gas collecting unit as claimed in any of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the collar (16) is 

adapted such that upon concluding the expansion of the neck 
opening, a circumference of said neck opening decreases 

almost to what it was prior to the expansion provided that 
contraction of the size of the neck opening is allowed to 

proceed freely. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
