<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649756</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Thermal transfer recording medium
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M526	B41M5395	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M5	B41M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermal transfer recording medium includes a 

sheet-like base member and a hot-melt ink layer 
containing a colorant and a hot-melt material. The 

hot-metal material contains an ethylene-based 
low-melting point crystalline material and an 

ethylene-based resin material. The ethylene-based resin 
material has a melt index of not more than 60 and 

amounts to 15 to 30% by weight of the hot-melt ink 
layer. The hot-melt ink layer is set in an amorphous or 

microcrystalline state and satisfies the following 
condition: 


I/I
O
 ≦ 0.9 
 
 where I is a diffraction peak 

intensity in a range of 21.3 to 21.5° originated from an 
ethylene-based crystal and I
O
 is a halo intensity in a 
range of 16 to 17° originated from an amorphous part 

when the hot-melt ink layer is measured by an X-ray 
diffraction method. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a thermal transfer 
recording medium for transferring a hot-melt recording 
medium to a transfer medium by using a thermal head. A method of urging a thermal transfer recording 
medium against a transfer medium on a thermal head at a 
predetermined pressure to melt a hot-melt colorant layer 
(ink layer) of the thermal transfer recording medium 
with thermal energy applied from the thermal head and to 
transfer the colorant layer to the transfer medium has 
been conventionally employed to transfer the thermal 
transfer recording medium to the transfer medium. 
During this transfer, most of the hot-melt colorant 
layer on the thermal transfer recording medium is 
transferred to the transfer medium. In order to perform 
recording using a thermal transfer recording medium, a 
thermal transfer recording medium having an area equal 
to or larger than a recording area is required. For 
this reason, a recording method using a thermal transfer 
recording medium is more expensive than an 
electrophotographic method and an ink-jet method. In order to reduce the recording cost, a multi-time 
thermal transfer recording medium which can be used a 
plurality of times has been developed. An example of 
such a multi-time thermal transfer recording medium is 
described in Published Unexamined Japanese Patent 
Application No. 54-68253. In this example, a micro  
 
porous layer is formed using a resin, and a thermal ink 
is impregnated in the pores of the porous layer, thereby 
forming a thermal transfer recording medium. In this 
thermal transfer recording medium, the thermal ink is 
transferred from the pores to a transfer medium due to a 
permeation phenomenon. However, it takes a long period 
of time to melt the thermal ink with heat and cause it 
to permeation through the pores. The printing speed is 
low due to the above phenomenon, and the exudation 
amount of the thermal ink is also limited. As a result, 
it is difficult to obtain a transfer image having a high 
density. A proposal similar to the above prior art is 
made in Published Unexamined Japanese Patent Application 
No. 55-105579, but the same problem as described above 
is also posed. Published Unexamined Japanese Patent Application 
No. 56-89984 discloses a multi-time thermal transfer 
recording medium in which an organic pigment (e.g., 
carbon black), a fine powder of a metal or metal oxide 
(e.g., aluminum or aluminum oxide), or any other inorganic 
pigment is added as a filler in a solid ink layer 
of the recording
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermal transfer recording medium comprising: 

a sheet-like base member; and 
a hot-melt ink layer, formed on said sheet-like base 
member, containing a colorant and a hot-melt material,
 
   characterized in that said hot-melt material 

contains an ethylene-based low-melting point crystalline 
material and an ethylene-based resin material having a 

melt index of not more than 60 and amounting to 15 to 
30% by weight of said hot-melt ink layer and said 

hot-melt ink layer is set in an amorphous or 
microcrystalline state and satisfies the following 

condition: 

I/I
O
 ≤ 0.9 
 
where I is a diffraction peak intensity in a range of 

21.3 to 21.5° originated from an ethylene-based crystal 
and I
O
 is a halo intensity in a range of 16 to 17° 
originated from an amorphous part when the hot-melt ink 

layer is measured by an X-ray diffraction method. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that 

said hot-melt ink layer has a heat absorption peak curve  
 

obtained by measurement using a differential scanning 
calorimeter (DSC) to fall within a range of ±30°C of a 

peak temperature. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said hot-melt ink layer satisfies the following 

condition: 

I/I
O
 ≤ 0.8. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said colorant is one of a pigment and a dye. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that 
30 to 50 wt% of said low-melting point crystalline 

material are contained in said hot-melt ink layer. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that 
30 to 50 wt% of said colorant are contained in said 

hot-melt ink layer. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said ethylene-based low-melting point crystalline 

material is at least one material selected from the 
group consisting of a low-molecular weight polyethylene 

wax, polyethylene oxide wax, paraffin oxide wax,  
 

carnauba wax, candelilla wax, rice wax, wood wax, 
beeswax, lanolin, coconut wax, oxide wax ester, emulsion 

type oxide wax, urethane type wax, alcohol type wax 
(oxide microcrystalline wax), amide wax, waxes based on 

montan wax (bleached montan wax, nonbleached montan wax, 
purified wax, oxide wax, ester wax, and partially 

saponified ester wax), PO wax, polyethylene wax oxide, 
rosin, rosin methylolamide, ester gum, and a higher 

fatty acid. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said ethylene-based resin material is a copolymer of 

ethylene and one monomer selected from the group 
consisting of methylmethacrylate, ethylmethacrylate, 

n-propylmethacrylate, iso-propylmethacrylate, 
methylacrylate, ethylacrylate, n-propylacrylate, 

iso-propylacrylate, acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, 
maleic acid, vinyl acetate, or a terpolymer of ethylene 

and one group and another monomer selected from the 
group of vinyl chloride and vinylidene chloride selected 

from the group. 
A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said medium is used as a multi-time thermal transfer 

recording medium.  
 
An ink ribbon cassette comprising: 

a cassette case; and 
an ink ribbon which is incorporated in said cassette 
case and consists essentially of a thermal transfer 

recording medium comprising a sheet-like base member and 
a hot-melt ink layer, formed on said sheet-like base 

member containing a colorant and a hot-melt material,
 
   characterized in that said hot-melt material 

contains an ethylene-based low-melting point crystalline 
material and an ethylene-based resin material having a 

melt index of not more than 60 and amounting to 15 to 
30% by weight of said hot-melt ink layer and said 

hot-melt ink layer is set in an amorphous or 
microcrystalline state and satisfies the following 

condition: 

I/I
O
 ≤ 0,9 
 
   where I is a diffraction peak intensity in a range 

of 21.3 to 21.5° originated from an ethylene-based 
crystal and I
O
 is a halo intensity in a range of 16 to 
17° originating from an amorphous port when the hot-melt 

ink layer is measured by an X-ray diffraction method. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
