<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651426</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods for reducing contaminants in plasma etch chambers.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23F400	C23F400	H01J3732	H01J3732	H01L2102	H01L21302	H01L213065	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23F	C23F	H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23F4	C23F4	H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plasma etch chamber includes a modified focus ring which is used in conjunction with 
chamber pressure throttling to eject contaminants in the focus ring away from the substrate just 

before the etching cycle is completed. Additionally, process gas is directed against the inner 
wall of the chamber to create a swirling flow of plasma within the chamber and thus disturb any 

contaminant-generating field adjacent the chamber wall. A process gas, or a non-reactive 
purge 

gas, may also be supplied from a diffuser atop the cathode, to direct a gas layer along the top 
and sides of the chamber to reduce contaminant build-up on the chamber surfaces. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLACKBURN GREG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAVA JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGOVERN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZENZON YAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLACKBURN, GREG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAVA, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGOVERN, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZENZON, YAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of microelectronic substrate processing in a 
plasma environment within a processing chamber. One method of etching semiconductor substrates to create microelectronic circuits thereon 
uses a process gas which is energized into an etching plasma within a vacuum etch chamber. 
This method is described in detail in United States Patent No. 4,298,443, Maydan, et al., which 
is fully incorporated herein by reference. The plasma etch chamber disclosed therein includes 
a multi-sided upwardly extending cathode, which is enclosed within an outer housing which 
serves as an anode. A plurality of masked substrates are received on the cathode. To process 
the substrates, the chamber is maintained at a pressure of 5 to 200 milli-torr 
and a process gas 
is charged into the chamber and energized into an etching plasma by an RF power supply. After 
the etching of the substrates is completed, the RF power supply is de-energized 
or uncoupled, 
and the substrate is removed. Process gas must be constantly introduced into the chamber to maintain the plasma. In 
one known plasma etch chamber, a plurality of vertical gas tubes extend upwardly from the 
chamber base adjacent each apex of the multi-sided cathode to supply the process gas into the 
chamber. A plurality of holes are located through the circumferential wall of the tubes at 
various heights from the chamber base, and the gas exiting therefrom is directed across the face 
of the substrates on the adjacent cathode faces, or across the cathode faces adjacent the 
substrates. Because the gas enters a very low pressure area having a voltage gradient therein,  
 
the gas instantaneously forms a plasma as it leaves the gas tubes. As soon as the voltage 
gradient is removed, the plasma will collapse back into the process gas. The plasma formed from the process gas selectively etches exposed surfaces of the 
substrate by electron bombardment and chemical attack. The substrate is masked with a resist, 
and free electrons expelled from the plasma bombard the substrate to remove material from the 
surface of the substrate until the required etch depth is reached in the non-resist 
protected areas 
thereof. The bombarding electrons travel primarily normal to the lines of uniform electric 
potential in the plasma. Although the lines of equal electrical potential are generally parallel to 
the large flat surface of the substrate and cathode, the electric field bends about the edge of the 
substrate where the substrate is raised from
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of transporting contaminants away from a 
substrate in a processing chamber, comprising: 

evacuating the chamber; 
introducing a process gas into the chamber; 

establishing an electric field in the chamber to maintain 
the process gas as a plasma; 

processing the substrate in the chamber; and 
changing the pressure in the chamber during substrate 

processing therein to move contaminants away from the 
surface of the substrate. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is processed 
within a focus ring having an aperture in a wall thereof. 
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the step of 
processing the substrate is performed at a first pressure 

and the step of changing the pressure in the chamber 
comprises changing the pressure to a second pressure 

before de-energizing the electric field which maintains 
the plasma. 
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the 
processing chamber is an etch chamber. 
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the 
step of changing the chamber pressure is performed no 

more than ten seconds before the electric field is de-energized. 
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the 
step of changing the pressure in the chamber comprises 

continuously reducing the pressure in the chamber during 
a predetermined time period before the electric field is 

de-energized. 
The method of claims 2 to 6, wherein the aperture is 
disposed at a location from the substrate at which a dark 

field is established during substrate etching. 
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the 
pressure in the chamber is decreasing as the plasma 

collapses. 
The method of claims 2 to 8, wherein said aperture is a 
longitudinal slot. 
The method of claim 9, wherein said slot is 0.318 cm (1/8 
inch) wide. 
The method of claims 2 to 8, wherein said aperture is 
triangular. 
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the 
chamber pressure is increased and decreased to move 

polymer away from the surface of the substrate. 
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the 
step of changing the pressure in the chamber during 

substrate processing is performed periodically. 
An apparatus for processing a substrate (12) in a plasma 
and transporting contaminants away from the substrate, 

comprising:
 

a sealable chamber (10) capable of being evacuated for 
substrate processing; 

a gas supply (42,44;92;100,104) and exhaust (16) in 
communication with said sealable chamber (10); 

a pressure controller (110) upwardly and downwardly 
adjusting the pressure in said chamber (10) during 

processing to change the chamber pressure at least at one 
preselected moment during substrate processing therein; 

and 
means for establishing an electric field in said chamber 

(10) capable of supporting gas in said chamber as a 
plasma. 
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said pressure 
controller (110) reduces said chamber pressure prior to 

de-energization of said electric field establishing means 
and towards the completion of a substrate processing 

operation. 
The apparatus of claim 14 or 15, wherein said pressure 

controller (110) changes the chamber pressure by 
adjusting said exhaust (16). 
The apparatus of claims 14 to 16, wherein the pressure 
controller changes the chamber pressure by adjusting said 

gas supply (42,44;92;100,104). 
The apparatus of claims 14 to 17, further including at 
least one gas tube (40) received in said chamber (10) and 

supplied with process gas from said process gas supply 
(100) and housing at least one aperture (44) therein to 

direct process gas against the inner wall (24) of said 
chamber (10). 
The apparatus of claims 14 to 18, wherein said pressure 
controller (110) includes a microprocessor controller 

(110). 
A focus ring (50) having a circumferential wall (52) for 
inhibition of charged particle bombardment at oblique 

angles of a substrate (12) positioned within the ring 
(50) when undergoing processing within an etch chamber 

(10), comprising: 
apertures (58;70) defined through the circumferential 

wall (52) of the focus ring (50) and positioned and sized 
so as to promote movement of gas and plasma gas species 

therethrough without significantly compromising the 
inhibition of oblique angle particle bombardment of the 

substrate (12). 
The focus ring of claim 20, wherein said apertures 
(58;70) are slots (58). 
The focus ring of claim 20, wherein said apertures 
(58;70) are triangular (70). 
The focus ring of claims 20 to 22, wherein said apertures 
(58;70) are located through said wall (52) to register a 

dark field during substrate etch operations. 
A plasma etch chamber (10), comprising: 
a sealable housing (20) forming an electrode (20); 

a second electrode (30) received in said housing (20);
 

at least one pedestal (32) located on one of said 
electrodes (20,30) for receiving substrates (12) thereon 

for processing in the chamber (10); and 
at least one gas tube (40) received within said housing 

(20) and including at least one aperture (44) therein to 
direct process gas against the inner wall (24) of said 

housing (20). 
The chamber of claim 24, wherein the pedestal (32) is 
located on said second electrode (30). 
The chamber of claim 24 or 25, wherein said aperture (44) 
directs process gas obliquely against said inner wall 

(24). 
The chamber of claims 24 to 26, wherein said second 
electrode (30) is multi-faceted, and a gas tube (40) is 

positioned adjacent each intersection (34) of the 
multiple facets (36) of said electrode (30). 
The chamber of claims 25 to 27, wherein said gas tube 
(40) includes a plurality of said apertures (44) which 

direct process gas against said housing inner walls (24). 
The chamber of claims 25 to 28, wherein said gas tube 
(40) includes at least one aperture (42) therein to 

direct process gas adjacent said second electrode (30). 
A method of reducing the formation of contaminants in a 
plasma etch chamber during plasma etch operations, 

comprising the steps of: 
providing a process gas to form a plasma within the 

chamber; and
 

directing a portion of the process gas into engagement 
with the chamber wall. 
The method of claim 30, wherein a gas tube is provided to 
direct process gas into the chamber and into engagement 

with the chamber inner wall. 
The method of claim 30 or 31, wherein the plasma formed 
by the process gas engaging the chamber inner wall 

travels around at least a portion of the inner wall of 
said chamber. 
The method of claims 30 to 32, wherein a diffuser located 
on the top of the cathode directs process gas into 

engagement the inner wall of the chamber. 
A plasma etch chamber (10), comprising: 
a sealable housing (20) having an outer wall (24) and a 

cover (26) which form an anode; 
a cathode (30) received in said sealable housing (20) and 

including at least one pedestal (32) located on a face 
(36) thereof for receiving substrates (12) for processing 

in the chamber (10); and 
a diffuser (80) disposed on said cathode (30) to direct a 

gas against said cover (26). 
Plasma etch chamber of claim 34, wherein said gas is a 
non-reactive gas. 
Plasma etch chamber of claim 34, wherein said gas is a 
reactive process gas. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
