<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658917</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fine-processing apparatus using low-energy neutral particle beam
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B81C500	B81C500	C23F402	C23F402	G21K100	G21K100	H01J37305	H01J37305	H01L2102	H01L21302	H01L213065	H05H146	H05H146	H05H300	H05H302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B81C	B81C	C23F	C23F	G21K	G21K	H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	H01L	H05H	H05H	H05H	H05H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B81C5	B81C5	C23F4	C23F4	G21K1	G21K1	H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H05H1	H05H1	H05H3	H05H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fine-processing apparatus using a low-energy 
neutral particle beam is disclosed. The apparatus comprises 

a plasma chamber for generating a high-density plasma 
therein, an electrode for drawing out a low-energy ion beam 

from the plasma chamber, a neutralizing chamber in which 
a reactive gas is introduced so as to contact the ion beam 

to neutralize the ion beam through charge exchange and 
produce a neutral particle beam, and regulating means for 

aligning the direction of motion of the neutral particle 
beam produced in the neutralizing chamber toward an object 

to be processed. The fine processing is effected by assist 
of bombardment with the low-energy neutral particle beam 

simultaneously with a reaction of the reactive gas adsorbed 
on the surface of the object to be processed. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a fine-processing 
apparatus using a low-energy neutral particle beam in 
microfabrication technology that can be applied to the 
production of semiconductor devices, micromachining or the 
like. More particularly, the present invention relates 
to a fine-processing apparatus wherein a low-energy neutral 
particle beam and a reactive gas are simultaneously applied 
to an object to be processed, i.e., workpiece, thereby 
effecting fine processing precisely to realize a line width 
of not greater than 0.3 µm, for example, while minimizing 
damage to the workpiece. In fine processing of semiconductor devices, etc., 
dry etching that uses plasma or charged particles, e.g., 
ions, is now generally employed as a leading etching 
technique. With the development of the dry etching 
technique, the degree of integration of semiconductor 
devices has increased, and circuit patterns have been 
demanded to be made finer. As a result, the following 
problems have arisen with respect to the conventional 
dry etching method using plasma or charged particles. First, the electric charge carried by charged 
particles causes the surface of the workpiece to become 
charged. As a result, the orbit of the following charged 
particles is deflected, so that it becomes impossible to 
perform processing of high accuracy. Secondly, with the achievement of reduction in 
pattern size in the horizontal direction, the thickness of 
an insulating layer such as an oxide film has also become 
thin. Therefore, breakdown of such an insulating layer 
is likely to occur owing to the charging of the workpiece 
surface caused by the charged particles. Thirdly, the surface of the workpiece may be damaged 
by high energy charged particles.  These are serious problems that hinder improvement 
in the degree of integration of devices. Although a great variety of methods have been 
attempted to solve the above-described problems, it is 
impossible to fundamentally solve the problems as long 
as charged particles are used for fine processing. Under 
these circumstances, examination has recently started with 
regard to fine processing employing neutral particles. For 
example, there is a method of forming a neutral particle 
beam by jetting out heated gas molecules from a nozzle. 
However, this method has disadvantages in that since gas 
molecules are heated, reaction of the furnace material with 
the gas molecules gives rise to a serious problem, and that 
it is difficult to obtain a neutral particle beam of large 
dia
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fine-processing apparatus using a low-energy 
neutral particle beam, comprising: 

   a plasma chamber for generating a high-density plasma 
therein; 

   an electrode for drawing out a low-energy ion beam 
from said plasma chamber; 

   a neutralizing chamber in which a reactive gas is 
introduced so as to contact said ion beam to neutralize 

said ion beam through charge exchange and produce a neutral 
particle beam; and 

   regulating means for aligning the direction of motion 
of said neutral particle beam produced in said neutralizing 

chamber toward an object to be processed. 
A fine-processing apparatus according to Claim 1, 
wherein said high-density plasma is generated by hot-filament 

discharge, hollow cathode discharge, LaB₆ cathode 
discharge, high-frequency discharge, or microwave discharge. 
A fine-processing apparatus according to Claim 2, 
wherein a space potential of said plasma generated in said 

plasma chamber is about several tens of volt. 
A fine-processing apparatus according to Claim 2, 
wherein said plasma is generated by discharging a halogencontaining 

reactive gas or an inert gas supplied into said 
plasma chamber. 
A fine-processing apparatus according to Claim 1, 
wherein said reactive gas is a halogen-containing gas. 
A fine-processing apparatus according to Claim 1, 
wherein the energy level of said neutral particle beam is 

less than 100 eV. 
A fine-processing apparatus according to Claim 5, 
wherein said fine processing is an etching which is effected 

by assist of bombardment with said low-energy neutral 
particle beam simultaneously with a reaction of said 

halogen-containing reactive gas adsorbed on the surface 
of said object to be processed. 
A fine-processing apparatus according to Claim 1, 
wherein said drawing out electrode is provided at the outlet 

of said plasma chamber and is placed at negative potential. 
A fine-processing apparatus according to any of the claims 1-wherein 
said drawing out electrode is a disc-shaped 

electrode including a number of pores, 
   wherein preferably 

a shielding electrode for shielding said plasma 
within said plasma chamber is provided inside of said 

drawing out electrode at the outlet of said plasma chamber, 
   wherein preferably 

wherein said shielding electrode is an electrically floating 
electrode, 

   wherein preferably 
wherein said shielding electrode is a disc-shaped electrode 

including a number of pores, 
   wherein preferably 

wherein said regulating means is an electrode provided 
outside of said drawing out electrode at the outlet of 

said plasma chamber, and said neutralizing chamber is 
defined between said drawing out electrode and said 

regulating electrode, 
   wherein preferably 

wherein said regulating electrode is maintained at the 
ground potential, 

   wherein preferably 
wherein said regulating electrode is a disc-shaped electrode 

including a number of pores, 
   wherein preferably 

wherein said object to be processed is installed in a vacuum 
container provided adjacent to said neutralizing chamber, 

   wherein preferably 
wherein said object to be processed is installed on a sample 

table provided in said vacuum chamber, 
   wherein preferably 

wherein said sample table is communicated with a cooling 
means for cooling said object to be processed to a 

predetermined temperature, and
 

   wherein preferably 
wherein said sample table is connected to a motor for 

rotating said sample table at a predetermined speed. 
A fine-processing apparatus using a particle beam, 
comprising: 

   a plasma chamber for generating a plasma therein; 
   an electrode for drawing out ion beam; and 

   a neutralizing chamber to produce a neutral particle 
beam. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
