<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649576</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MONITORING BATTERY CAPACITY UNDER FAST DISCHARGE CONDITIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M1048	H01M1042	G01R3136	H02J700	H01M1042	H01M1044	H02J700	G01R3136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	G01R	H02J	H01M	H01M	H02J	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M10	H01M10	G01R31	H02J7	H01M10	H01M10	H02J7	G01R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A battery detect circuit (32) is connected to the battery with the current input to the battery and extracted from the battery measured with a sense resistor (50) and then converted to charge and discharge pulses with a V/F converter (52). A microcontroller (64) is operable to increment a Nominal Available Charge (NAC) register (180) during a charge operation, and to increment a Discharge Count Register (DCR) (184) during a discharge operation. The NAC register (180) indicates the available charge, which value is output to a display (34). The maximum value to which the NAC value can rise is limited by a value stored in the last measured discharge register (182). This value represents the value stored in the DCR (184) whenever the battery is discharged from an apparent full state to a fully discharge state. This results in a qualified transfer to the LMD register (182) such that no knowledge of the actual battery charge is necessary. The microcontroller (64) is operable to determine the rate of discharge corresponding to the voltage across the sense resistor (50). When the rate of discharge exceeds a predetermined discharge rate, the operation of the microcontroller (64) is partially inhibited. When the rate of discharge falls below the predetermined discharge rate, the microcontroller (64) is again allowed to operate in a normal operating mode.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BENCHMARQ MICROELECT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BENCHMARQ MICROELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREEMAN DAVID LOUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANDAU JOHN EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS WALLACE EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREEMAN, DAVID, LOUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANDAU, JOHN, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS, WALLACE, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains in general to rechargeable batteries and,
more particularly, to circuitry for controlling the charging operation and
monitoring the parameters of the battery during and after the recharging operation. With the advent of portable electronic systems for personal and business
use, rechargeable batteries have seen an increased and widespread use. One
problem that has risen with respect to rechargeable batteries has been the length of
time that a battery can be used after it has been charged. Although manufacturers
rate a battery for a given portable computer or battery operated device as to the
number of hours that it will operate, the actual operating time is a function of a
number of parameters. For example, personal computers provide a variable load
which is a function of the peripheral devices that are activated, such as the screen,
the hard disk, etc., such that the operating life of the battery will vary as a function
of how often these peripheral devices are used. Power consumption by the
peripherals has conventionally been reduced by utilizing increasingly sophisticated
power management tools to minimize the amount of power that is drained from the
battery, thus extending the operating time of the battery for a given charge.
Another problem encountered with rechargeable batteries is partial charging. The
manufacturers specifications are directed toward a relatively new battery with a
"full" charge. If, for some reason, the battery does not have a full charge, the
user has no knowledge of how much operating time he has on a particular battery.
Since rechargeable batteries typically have a relatively flat voltage over their
charge life, very little warning is typically available as to when the battery is
nearing its end of discharge. Further, the condition of a battery, i.e., its age, etc.,
also effects the amount of charge that can be stored in a given battery. This could
result in a fully charged battery driving the battery operated device for a shorter
period of time than expected. Battery-pack systems have been developed to provide information regarding
the condition of the battery, the state of charge of the battery, etc., with these
devices integrated into the battery-pack itself. Such a device is disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 4,289,836, issued to Lemelson on September 15, 1981. These battery-pack
systems have been utilized with the battery to both condition the battery and
provide some information as to the amount of charge that is in the battery, i.e., a
measure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A battery monitoring circuit (16) for operating with high discharge
rates, comprising:


a voltage monitor (52) for monitoring the voltage of the battery
(10);
a discharge rate sensor (52, 64) for monitoring the rate at which
charge is removed from the battery as a rate of discharge;

   
characterised by

   a processor (32) for processing the monitored voltage output from
said voltage monitor to determine during discharging of the battery

whether the voltage of the battery has fallen below a predetermined end
of discharge voltage level (EDV1) which indicates the battery is nearing

an end of discharge voltage; and

   an inhibit circuit for operating in an inhibit mode to inhibit said
processing operations of said processor when said rate of discharge is

above a predetermined discharge rate (Vsax) that is at such a level that
the monitored voltage output will not be a valid indicator of charge state,

said inhibit circuit (32) returning said processor to a normal operating
mode when said rate of discharge falls below said predetermined

discharge rate or after a predetermined stabilisation period thereafter.
The monitoring circuit of Claim 1, and further comprising a
switchable load (61) for being switched across the battery to provide a

predetermined discharge rate when said processor is returned from the
inhibit mode to the normal operating mode.
The monitoring circuit of Claim 2, wherein said switchable load is
switched across the battery for a short duration of time after said 

processor is returned from the inhibit mode to the normal operating
mode.
The monitoring circuit of Claim 2, wherein said switchable load
comprises a transistor (59) having a gate and a source/drain path, the

gate being driven by a control signal (EMPTY) generated by said inhibit
circuit when said inhibit circuit changes said processor from the inhibit

mode to the normal operating mode, and one side of said source/drain
path of said transistor being connected to one side of the battery and

the other side of said source/drain path of said transistor being
connected through a resistive load (61) to the other side of the battery.
The monitoring circuit of any preceding claim, wherein the output
of said discharge sensor is compensated as a function of temperature.
The monitoring circuit of any preceding Claim, wherein said
discharge rate sensor comprises:


a sense resistor (50) disposed in series with the battery and the
load;
a sense resistor voltage monitoring circuit (52) for monitoring the
voltage across said sense resistor and converting said voltage to a pulse

stream, the rate of occurrence of the pulses in said pulse stream varying
as a function of the voltage acro
ss said sense resistor; and
a counter for counting the number of pulses generated by said
voltage monitoring circuit in said pulse stream and generating a count

value, said count value being utilised by said processor as the output of
said discharge sensor.
A method for monitoring the operating parameters of a battery
that operates with high discharge rates, comprising the steps of: 


monitoring the voltage across the battery to provide a monitored
output voltage;
monitoring the amount of charge removed from the battery as a
function of time and determining the discharge rate of the battery;

   
characterised by

   providing a processor operable in a normal operating mode and an
inhibit mode;

   processing the monitored voltage with the processor to determine,
during discharging of the battery, whether the voltage of the battery has

fallen below a predetermined end of discharge voltage level (EDV1)
which indicates the battery is nearing an end of discharge voltage, the

step of processing operating the processor in either the inhibit mode to
inhibit said determining operation of said processor or in the normal

operating mode to resume said determining operation of said processor;

   detecting in a first detecting step when the discharge rate of the
battery exceeds a predetermined discharge rate threshold, that is at such

a level that the monitored voltage output will not be a valid indicator of
charge state;

   controlling the step of processing to operate the processor in the
inhibit mode when the first step of detecting has detected a discharge

rate in excess of the predetermined discharge rate threshold;

   detecting in a second detecting step when the discharge rate falls
from a point above the predetermined discharge rate threshold to a point

below the predetermined discharge rate threshold; and

   controlling the step of processing to operate the processor in the
normal operating mode when the second detecting step has detected the

discharge rate falling from a point above the predetermined discharge
rate threshold to a point below the predetermined discharge rate

threshold or after a predetermined stabilisation period thereafter. 
The method of Claim 7, and further comprising disposing a
predetermined load across the battery when the discharge rate has been

detected to go from a point above the predetermined discharge rate
threshold to a point below the predetermined discharge rate threshold.
The method of Claim 8, wherein the step of disposing the load
across the battery comprises disposing the load across the battery for a

short duration of time after the discharge rate has been detected in the
second detecting step to go from a point above the predetermined

discharge rate threshold to a point below the predetermined discharge
rate threshold.
The method of any of Claims 7 to 9, wherein the step of
determining the discharge rate comprises:


disposing a sense resistor in series with the battery and the load;
monitoring the voltage across the sense resistor;
converting the monitored voltage into a pulse stream having
pulses that vary in repetition as a function of the voltage process sense

resistor;
counting the number of pulses in the pulse stream to provide a
count value; and
the step of monitoring the amount of charge removed from the
battery as a function of time to determine the discharge rate determining

the discharge rate by determining the rate at which the count value
changes.
The method of any of Claims 7 to 10, and further comprising, the
step of compensating the discharge rate as a function of temperature of

the battery.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
