<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618727</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENCODER AND DECODER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M740	G06T900	H04N726	H03M1300	H04N752	G06T900	H04N141	H04N730	H04N1411	H04N752	H03M746	H04N1413	H03M746	H03M1300	H04N1413	H04N1411	H04N141	H04N730	H04N764	H03M740	H04N764	H04N726	H04N754	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	G06T	H04N	H03M	H04N	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H03M	H04N	H03M	H03M	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H03M	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M7	G06T9	H04N7	H03M13	H04N7	G06T9	H04N1	H04N7	H04N1	H04N7	H03M7	H04N1	H03M7	H03M13	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N7	H04N7	H03M7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There are provided and encoder (2) which encodes pixel data by an ADRC method; a divider (3) which divides the data 
from the encoder (2) into a plurality of bit planes; an encoder (4) which encodes the data for every bit plane by run length coding 

and Hoffman coding; and a framing circuit (5) which adds error correcting codes to the encoded pixel data. The data encoded by 
the ADRC method are divided into the bit planes for MSB, 2nd MSB, ... LSB, the bit planes are processed by the run length coding 

and Hoffman coding. Hence it is possible to compress the data with a high compressiblity, and at the same time, minimize the 
lowering of the restoration capability of the data when errors are created. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDO TETSUJIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDO, TETSUJIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI, KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an encoder and a
decoder which are, for example, suitable to a CODEC or the
like for encoding and compressing information and for decoding
compressed information to original information.Heretofore, an apparatus called "CODEC" has been
proposed. The CODEC is an apparatus for encoding and
compressing image data at the time of transmission or
recording of image data. The encoding of image data has been
standardized on the basis of video CODEC (coder and encoder)
recommendation H.261 which was concluded by International
Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee (CCITT) under
the control of International Telecommunication Union (ITU) in
December 1990. Dynamic image encoding is used, for example,
in the fields of broadcasting, communication, and so on, for
the purpose of transmitting a signal to a remote place with a
standard television or a high definition (HD) television used
as a signal source and, for example, in the fields of storage,
and so on, for the purpose of local signal processing. As a
video format based on the recommendation H.261, there is a
common intermediate format (CIF) by which regional differences
in television system (in the whole world) are exemplified to
make communications between CODECs possible. The resolution of an image based on the CIF is 352
dots in horizontal direction and 288 dots in vertical
direction.An encoding portion of a video CODEC generally
encodes input video data through an encoder, multiplex-encodes
the data and once stores the data in a transmission buffer.
Then, the encoding portion encodes the stored data through a
transmission encoder and transmits the data as an encoded bit
string. A decoding portion thereof decodes the transmitted
and encoded bit string video data through a transmission
decoder and once stores the data in a reception buffer. Then,
the decoding portion multiplex-decodes the data and decodes
the data to obtain an original video signal. In the case of
transmission of such a large quantity of image data, the image
data is encoded and compressed at the time of transmission
thereof, and the encoded and compressed image data is decoded
at the time of reception thereof. Accordingly, the video
CODEC can be used not only at the time of transmission of an
image but at the time of recording of image data, for example,
in a VTR. Particularly, image data of a high definition
television type which has been rapidly advanced recently
requires a large quantity of data different from the image
data of a standard television
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An encoder comprising:

a first encoding means (2) for encoding pixel information by a first method to
effect data compression, said first method used in said first encoding means being

calculating a dynamic range determined on the basis of maximum (MAX) and
minimum (MIN) values of a plurality of pixels contained in a two-dimensional block

and encoding said pixel information with a variable bit length suited to the dynamic
range;
a dividing means (3) for dividing the pixel information encoded by said first
encoding means into a plurality of bit planes;
an error correcting code addition means (5) for adding an error correcting
code to encoded image information; characterised by
a second encoding means (4) for performing encoding by a second method to
effect data compression at each of a plurality of bit planes generated by said dividing

means, said second method being variable length coding and using coding parameters
that vary depending upon which bit plane is being encoded; and characterised in that
said error correction code is added to said encoded image data compressed by
said second encoding means.
An encoder as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said second method used in said
second encoding means is encoding for a continuous length of pixel information.
An encoder as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said second method used in said
second encoding means is encoding by using statistical characteristic of pixel

information.
An encoder as claimed in Claim 1, wherein generation of said bit planes is
carried out at every block constituted by a predetermined number of pixels.
An encoder as claimed in Claim 1, wherein 
generation of said bit planes is carried out at a frame unit.
An encoder as claimed in claim 1, wherein bit
shifting is performed at the time of the generation of said

bit planes.
An encoder as claimed in claim 1, wherein said
plurality of bit planes are composed of at least a plane

constituted by a MSB, a plane constituted by an n-th MSBs and
a plane constituted by a LSB.
An encoder as claimed in claim 7, ,wherein
processing is performed with said MSB plane arranged at the

head among said plurality of bit planes.
An encoder as claimed in claim 7, wherein MSBs
in said plane constituted by MSBs are arranged in terms of

time or space in accordance with a predetermined rule .
An encoder as claimed in claim 7, wherein said
second encoding means performs encoding with all data in said

plane constituted by MSB made "0" when there is no plane
constituted by MSBs.
An encoder as claimed in claim 7, wherein at
least information indicating the fact that the number of

allocation bits for quantization is "0" is outputted instead
of said plane constituted by MSBs when there is no plane

constituted by MSBs.
An encoder as claimed in claim 7, wherein said
second encoding means performs encoding at least on the basis

of the information sequence of said plane constituted by MSBs
and plane constituted by LSBs.
A decoder comprising:

an error correcting means (8) for performing error 
correction on the basis of an error correcting code added to input pixel information;
a first decoding means (9) for decoding an output of said error correcting
means by a first method to effect data decompression, said first method being variable

length decoding using decoding parameters that vary depending upon which bit plane
is being decoded;
a conversion means (10) for converting pixel information of a plurality of bit
planes decompressed by said first decoding means into block data and dynamic range

data; and
a second decoding means (11) for decoding an output of said conversion
means by a second method to effect data decompression and to thereby obtain original

image information, said second method used in said second decoding means using
block data, and dynamic range data supplied by said conversion means (10).
A decoder as claimed in Claim 13, wherein said first method used in said first
decoding means is decoding information encoded for a continuous length of pixel

information.
A decoder as claimed in Claim 13, wherein said first method used in said first
decoding means is decoding information encoded by using statistical characteristic of

pixel information.
A decoder as claimed in Claim 13, wherein said plurality of bit planes
obtained by decoding in said first decoding means are formed by bit shifting.
A decoder as claimed in Claim 13, wherein said plurality of bit planes
obtained by decoding in said first 

decoding means are generated at every block constituted by a
predetermined number of pixels.
A decoder as claimed in claim 13, wherein said
plurality of bit planes obtained by decoding in said first

decoding means are generated at a frame unit.
A decoder as claimed in claim 13, wherein said
plurality of bit planes obtained by decoding in said first

decoding means are composed of at least a plane constituted by
MSBs, a plane constituted by n-th MSBs and a plane constituted

by LSBs.
A decoder as claimed in claim 19, wherein
encoded information corresponding to said plane constituted by

MSBs is decoded first in one and the same block or in one and
the same frame by said first decoding means.
A decoder as claimed in claim 19, wherein MSBs
in said plane constituted by MSB in said plurality of planes

decoded by said first decoding means are arranged in terms of
time or space in accordance with a predetermined rule.
A decoder as claimed in claim 19, wherein at
least the fact that the number of allocation bits for

quantization is "0" is recognized in the decoder side when
data in said plane constituted by MSBs obtained by decoding in

said first decoding means are all "0".
A decoder as claimed in claim 19, wherein at
least information indicating the fact that the number of

allocation bits for quantization is "0" is given and
recognized when there is no information corresponding to said

plane constituted by MSBs to be decoded by said first decoding
means. 
A decoder as claimed in claim 19, wherein said
second decoding means performs decoding on the basis of the

information sequence of at least said plane constituted by
MSBs and plane constituted by LSBs among said plurality of

planes obtained by decoding in said first decoding means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
