<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617306</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image projection apparatus with an autofocusing system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N931	G03B2153	H04N928	H04N928	G03B2153	H04N931	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G03B	H04N	H04N	G03B	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N9	G03B21	H04N9	H04N9	G03B21	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image projection device comprising at least one display panel 
(26,27,28), 

a projection lens system (C) and an autofocus system is 
described. The 

focus-error detection system comprises an auxiliary radiation source 
(50) delivering a 

focus measuring beam (b), an auxiliary lens (61) for capturing 
radiation (b
r
) diffusely 
reflected by a projection screen (D), and a detection unit (60) for 

measuring the size of 
a spot (S) formed on the screen by the beam (b). 

The auxiliary radiation source is positioned at the same distance from 
the lens as the display panel, i.e. they are in the same optical plane. 

The focus measuring beam passes the projection 200m lens. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARMICHAEL ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARMICHAEL, ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an image projection apparatus comprising a 
display system having at least a display panel for generating an image to be projected, a 
projection lens system for projecting the image formed by the display system on a 
projection screen, a focus-error detection system provided with an auxiliary radiation 
source which supplies a focus measuring beam, and a detection unit for converting the 
focus measuring beam radiation reflected by the projection screen into a focus-error 
signal. The term image projection device is considered to have a wide meaning 
and comprises a device for displaying, for example a video image, a graphic image, 
numerical information or a combination thereof. The images may be both monochrome 
and color images. In the latter case the display system may comprise three chrominance 
channels for, for example the primary colors red, green and blue, each accommodating 
a display panel. A display panel may be constituted by the display screen of a cathode 
ray tube but is preferably a liquid crystalline panel. In the latter case the display system 
comprises an illumination unit for illuminating the panel or the panels. In the current image projection devices which comprise one projection 
lens system in the form of a zoom lens for projecting a magnified image on a projection 
screen which is present at, for example several meters from the projection device, each 
change of the projection distance necessitates refocusing of the image by readjusting the 
zoom lens manually or possibly via a remote control unit. Moreover, optical elements 
of the image projection device may be displaced with respect to each other due to, inter 
alia temperature variations, so that the projected image may be defocused. The known 
image projection devices thus require an additional quantity of time, attention and 
expertise of the user. The convenience of use of an image projection device would be  
 
enhanced considerably if it were provided with an autofocus system, i.e. a system with 
which the distance between a display panel and the projection screen is measured and 
the focus of the projection lens system is automatically adjusted with reference to said 
measurement. An image projection device in which an auxiliary radiation source emits 
an invisible, infrared measuring beam to the screen and in which the radiation beam 
reflected by the screen is received by a position-sensitive detector is described in the 
published Japanese Patent Application (Kokai) 3-149538. The distance
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Image projection projection comprising: 

an image display system having at least one image display panel (26,27,28) for generating an 
image to be projected, 
a projection lens system (C) for projecting the image from the display system (26,27,28) on a 
projection screen (D), and 
a focus error detection system having an auxiliary radiation source (50) delivering a focus 
measuring beam (b) and a detection unit (62) for converting the focus-measuring beam (b
r
) 
reflected by the screen in a focus-error signal, 
 
characterized in that 


the auxiliary radiation source (50) is arranged in a plane which, viewed from the 
projection lens system (C), effectively coincides with the plane of the image display 

panel (26,27,28), 
the auxiliary radiation source (50) is imaged by the projection lens system (C) into a spot (S) on 
the projection screen (D), 
an auxiliary lens system (61) is provided for imaging the spot (S) into a secondary spot (S') on the 
detection unit (62), 
and in that the detection unit (62) is arranged to measure the spot-size of the secondary spot (S'). 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the projection 
lens system (C) is a zoomlens, characterized in that the focus-error signal is applied to an 

actuator (M, 55,56) of a movable lens group (G
1
) of the zoomlens. 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in 
that the auxiliary radiation source is arranged in the plane of the display panel outside 

this panel. 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in 
that the auxiliary radiation source (50) is arranged in a plane which is the mirror image of 

the plane of a display panel with respect to a wavelength-selective reflector (22) which is 
arranged at an acute angle to the optical axis of the projection lens system (C).  

 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, characterized in that 
the acute angle is an angle of 45° and in that the auxiliary radiation source (50) is arranged 

in an even line with the said optical axis. 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, 
characterized in that the detection unit comprises a CCD photodiode matrix (63) arranged at 

the position where the secondary spot is formed upon correct imaging of the auxiliary 
radiation source (50) onto the projection screen (D). 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6, 
characterized in that a first surface of the detection unit (62) through which the reflected 

focus measuring beam enters this unit is arranged at an acute angle with the optical axis 
of the auxiliary lens system (61). 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, 
characterized in that the detection unit comprises: 


a diaphragm (70) arranged at the position where the secondary spot (S') is formed upon sharp 
imaging of the auxiliary source (50) onto the projection screen (D); and 
a photodetector (72) arranged behind the diaphragm opening (71). 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, characterized in that 
the size of the diaphragm opening (71) corresponds to the size of the secondary spot (S') formed 

when the focus measuring beam (b) is focused on the projection screen (D). 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, characterized in that 
the diaphragm opening is a slit (101), the length direction of which is parallel to the direction 

along which the secondary spot (S') moves upon displacement of the projection screen (D) along 
the optical axis of the projection lens system (C). 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, characterized in that 
the detection unit comprises, in this order and viewed from the auxiliary lens system (110), an 

anamorphotic system (111), a diaphragm (112) having a slit opening (113) with the slit direction, 
substantially parallel to the direction of maximum optical power of the anamorphotic 

system (111), and a photodetector (114). 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 11, 
characterized in that means (80,85) are provided for axially moving a first spot generated by the auxiliary radiation source (50) with respect to 

the projection screen (D) and in that the output of the detection unit is coupled to one input 
of a signal processing circuit (82,83) which is coupled to the said means (80) for  

 
axially moving the first spot. 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 12, characterized in that 
the means for axially moving the first spot are constituted by an actuator (80) for 

periodically and axially moving the auxiliary radiation source (50). 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in Claim 12, characterized in that 
the means for axially moving the first spot are constituted by an actuator (85) for 

periodically moving a movable lens group (61) of the projection lens system (C). 
Image projection apparatus as claimed in any one of the Claims 1 to 11, 
characterized in that the radiation source comprises at least two radiation emitting 

elements (90,91) displaced from one another in both a first direction parallel to the optical axis 
of the projection lens system (C) and a second direction perpendicular to the first direction 

and in that the detection unit comprises a number of detectors (96,97) corresponding to the 
number of radiation emitting elements (90,91). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
