<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632646</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Active matrix display device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G336	H04N312	H04N310	G09G320	H04N570	H04N544	H04N570	G09G336	G09G320	H04N544	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	H04N	H04N	G09G	H04N	H04N	H04N	G09G	G09G	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	H04N3	H04N3	G09G3	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	G09G3	G09G3	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An active matrix display device is disclosed 
which realizes changing over between a wide display and 

a normal display with a simple construction. The active 
matrix display device includes picture elements disposed 

in rows and columns on a horizontally elongated screen. 
A gate line is connected to each picture element row 

while a data line is connected to each picture element 
column. A signal line for supplying a video signal and 

data lines are connected by way of sampling switches. A 
horizontal shift register controls sequential opening 

and closing operations of the sampling switches. The 
picture element columns of the horizontally elongated 

screen are divided into a predetermined area allocated 
to a normal display and a pair of expansion areas 

included in a wide display. The horizontal shift 
register is divided into a predetermined stage section 

corresponding to the predetermined area and expansion 
stage sections corresponding to the expansion areas. 

Upon wide display, the predetermined and expansion stage 
sections of the horizontal shift register are 

interconnected serially into an integrated condition, 
but upon normal display, the expansion stage sections 

are disconnected from the predetermined stage section. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to an active matrix
display device in accordance with the precharacterizing
part of claim 1 which can change over between a display of
the aspect ratio of 16:9 and another display of the aspect
ratio of 4:3. An active matrix display device of that kind
is known from PATENT ABSTRACTS OF JAPAN, vol. 14, No. 391,
(E-968), JP-A-02143781.Development of active matrix display devices
conforming to the high definition television standards has
been and is performed in recent years. An active matrix
display device conforming to the high definition television
standards has such a horizontally elongated screen as shown
in FIG. 5 and allows a display of the aspect ratio of 16:9
(such display will be hereinafter referred to as wide
display). A large number of picture elements PXL are
disposed in rows and columns on the screen so as to satisfy
the aspect ratio of 16:9. Meanwhile, another active matrix
display device having 
an ordinary screen size performs another display of the
aspect ratio of 4:3 (such display will be hereinafter
referred to as normal display). In an active matrix
display device of the high definition television
standards, a structure which allows changing over
between a wide display and a normal display is known.
In order to perform a wide display with the active
matrix display device of the high definition television
standards, all picture element columns are used as seen
in FIG. 5. On the other hand, in order to effect a
normal display, since conversion in aspect ratio to 4:3
is involved, only those of the picture element columns
which belong, for example, to a central area B shown in
FIG. 5 are used to construct a display screen. In this
instance, areas A and C on the opposite sides of the
central area B are masked, for example, with side black.Various means have been proposed for a changing
over method between a wide display and a normal display.
One of such methods involves compression processing of a
video signal as illustrated in FIGS. 6(A) and 6(B).
When a video signal for a normal display is inputted as
seen from the waveform of FIG. 6(A), it is first
converted by A/D conversion into digital data. In order
to distribute the digital data only to the central area 
B of the horizontally elongated screen shown in FIG. 5,
compression processing for each one horizontal period (lH)
is performed at a desired ratio as seen from the waveform
of FIG. 6(2). The digital data obtained by the compression
processing is distributed to the area B while fixed data
for a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An active matrix display device, comprising:

a plurality of picture elements (PxL) disposed in rows
and columns on a horizontally elongated screen, the columns

of said picture elements being divided into a first area
(B) allocated to a normal display and a second area (A, C)

included in a wide display;
a gate line (1) connected to each of the rows of said
picture elements;
a vertical drive circuit (2) connected to the gate
lines (1);
a data line (3) connected to each of the columns (1-L,
L+1-M, M+1 N) of said picture elements (PxL);
a signal line (4) for supplying a video signal (Vsig);
a plurality of sampling switches (SW) for interconnecting
said signal line (4) and the data lines (3); and
a horizontal shift register (SRA, SRB, SRC) for
controlling sequential opening and closing operations of

said sampling switches (SW), said horizontal shift register
being divided into a predetermined first, second and third

stage section (SRA, SRB, SRC), wherein the second stage
section corresponds to those of the columns of said picture

elements in said first area (B) and said first and third
stage sections (SRA, SRC) correspond to those of the

columns of said picture elements in said second area (A,
C), and masking means for supplying, upon normal display, a

signal of a fixed level to those of the data lines which
belong to said second area to mask said second area,
 
   characterized in that


a first gate circuit (G0) is connected to an input
terminal of said first stage section (SRA) and to a second

gate circuit (G1) which is interposed between an output of
said first stage section (SRA) and an input terminal of

said second stage section (SRB), a third gate circuit (G2)
is interposed between an output terminal of said second

stage section (SRB) and an input terminal of said third
stage section (SRC), said first to third gate circuits (G0-G2)

including logic means (AND1 to ANDS, OR1) so that said
first to third gate circuits (G0-G2) can be switchably

controlled according to a desired normal display mode or
widened display mode by control signals (CTL0, CTL1, CTL2)

supplied from a common control line, and
in that said masking means are individually constituted
from transfer gates (GA, GB, GC) which are individually

connected to each of the data lines (3) of the columns of
said display screen, wherein
said transfer gates (GA, GB, GC) are provided
separately from said first to third gate circuits and can

be controlled by applying masking control signals (CTLA,

CTLA
, CTLBL, CTLBH) separately for said first area (B) and
said second area (A, C) and separately from said control

signals (CTL0, CTL1, CTL2) applied to said first to third
gate circuits (G0-G2), and
for a masking process two separate masking signals
(MSKA, MSKB) each having a predetermined level are

respectively applied to said data lines (3) of said first
area (B) and said second area (A, C) respectively, and the display of said second area (A, C) can

be selected in accordance with a display mode such as
normal display mode or widened display mode as a

white display, dark display or a desired intermediate
color display.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
