<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628376</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor electrical heater and method for making same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K3500	H05B306	H05B302	B23K3500	H01L21768	H05B306	B23K2622	H05B303	A24F4700	H05B314	H05B314	A24F4700	B23K2600	B23K3530	H05B302	B23K3530	H01L2170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	H05B	H05B	B23K	H01L	H05B	B23K	H05B	A24F	H05B	H05B	A24F	B23K	B23K	H05B	B23K	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K35	H05B3	H05B3	B23K35	H01L21	H05B3	B23K26	H05B3	A24F47	H05B3	H05B3	A24F47	B23K26	B23K35	H05B3	B23K35	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is disclosed for mechanically and electrically 
bonding metallic materials and semiconductor materials. The 

method according to the invention may be used, for example, in 
forming a semiconductor electrical heater, particularly for use in 

electrical smoking articles. A metallic element 2, such as a 
copper alloy power supply tab, is laser welded to a semiconductor 

element 1, such as a doped silicon resistive heater element. A 
laser beam L is directed through a hole 3 in the copper alloy tab 

to melt some silicon material 5, which flows into the hole in the 
copper tab, reacts and intermixes with the copper and solidifies 

to form a slug containing copper silicide. A protective material 
such as nickel may be applied to protect the copper silicide from 

oxidation if desired. An ohmic, low resistance contact and high 
strength bond is provided between the parts. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAS AMITABH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAS, AMITABH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for
bonding a metallic element to a semiconductor
element, and to a semiconductor electrical
heater. More particularly, the invention relates to an electrical smoking article
comprising a semiconductor electrical heater.It has been shown that semiconductor material, such as
silicon doped with impurities, can be used to form resistive
heating elements having a relatively large, preselectable,
electrical resistivity. Such heating elements can be used in
compact, lightweight heaters that can be repeatedly cycled from
room temperature to temperatures in excess of 800°C without
substantial thermal degradation or changes in operating
characteristics.EP-A-0 615 411, which forms part of the state of the art
only by virtue of Article 54(3) EPC, discloses an electrically
heated smoking article 
in which electrical power is applied to several heater elements
of the type described above through respective ohmic contacts.
The ohmic contacts must have a low electrical resistance in
order to concentrate the generation of heat in the bulk of the
semiconductor material and thereby avoid excess power
consumption and thermal degradation of the contact area.
Furthermore, the contacts must be mechanically and chemically
robust in order to withstand thermal stresses and oxidation
caused by repeated heating cycles, and mechanical stresses
caused during use by the mechanical contact of tobacco smoking
material against the heating elements. Ideally, the contacts
should be easy and inexpensive to make.In electrically heated smoking articles of this type,
(a) mechanical clips that clamp against ohmic contact pads,(b) metallic leads bonded to ohmic contacts or (c)metallic
"tabs" that make direct ohmic contact with the semiconductor
heating element can be employed in order to apply power from a
metallic conductor through the ohmic contacts.The present invention relates to an improved method for
providing metallic "tabs" that make direct ohmic contact with a
semiconductor element. The method can be used in forming a
semiconductor electrical heater for use in an electrical
smoking article. In view of the above background, it has been desired to
form a low-resistance ohmic contact directly between a metallic
element and a semiconductor element;
to provide a mechanically and chemically robust bond
between a metallic element and a semiconductor element that
withstands mechanical stresses that can be caused by physical
contact with the semiconductor element during use and that
withstands repeated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for bonding a metallic element and a
semiconductor element comprising:


(a) providing a metallic element (2)(2') having a hole
(3)(3') therethrough;
(b) positioning a semiconductor element (1)(1')
adjacent the hole of the metallic element;
(c) applying a controlled amount of heat (L) (L'') to
cause an amount of semiconductor material (5) to melt and flow

into the hole and react with the metallic material;
(d) allowing the reacted materials to solidify in the
hole to provide a bond having a substantially ohmic electrical

resistance between the metallic element and the semiconductor
element.
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step (c) of
applying a controlled amount of heat comprises directing a laser

beam (L) (L'') at the semiconductor element (1) through the hole
(3)(3') in the metallic element (2)(2').
A method according to claim 2 wherein the step of
directing a laser beam (L) (L'') at the semiconductor element

(1)(1') comprises pulsing a Nd:YAG laser directed at the
semiconductor element (1)(1').
A method according to claim 2 or 3 wherein a plurality
of laser beam pulses (L) (L'') are directed at the semiconductor

element (1)(1') through the hole (3)(3') in the metallic element
(2)(2').
A method according to claim 2, 3 or 4 wherein the laser
beam (L) is directed substantially perpendicularly to a surface of

the semiconductor element (1).
A method according to claim 2, 3 or 4 wherein the laser
beam (L'') is directed at an angle other than substantially

perpendicular to a surface of the semiconductor element (1'). 
A method according to any of claims 2 to 6 wherein the
laser beam (L) (L'') is directed to at least partially impinge on

the metallic material around the sides of the hole (3)(3').
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step (c) of
applying a controlled amount of heat comprises applying a

microflame to the semiconductor element (1)(1') through the hole
(3)(3') in the metallic element (2)(2').
A method according to any preceding claim further
comprising preheating the semiconductor element (1)(1') and the

metallic element (2)(2') before the step (c) of applying a
controlled amount of heat.
A method according to claim 8 or 9 further comprising
providing an inert gas at the area of adjacence of the

semiconductor element (1)(1') and the metallic element (2)(2').
A method according to claim 10 wherein the inert gas is
argon or nitrogen.
A method according to any preceding claim further
comprising forming the hole (3)(3') in the metallic element

(2)(2').
A method according to claim 12 wherein forming the hole
(3)(3') comprises directing a laser beam at the metallic element

(2)(2').
A method according to claim 13 wherein forming the hole
(3)(3') in the metallic element (2)(2') and the step (c) of

applying a controlled amount of heat are achieved with a single
laser beam (L)(L').
A method according to any preceding claim further
comprising cleaning at least one surface of at least one of the

elements before the step (b) of positioning the hole (3)(3') of
the metallic element (2)(2') adjacent a semiconductor element

(1)(1'). 
A method according to claim 15 wherein the surface
cleaning comprises wet chemical etching.
A method according to claim 15 wherein the surface
cleaning comprises mechanical cleaning.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
metallic element (2)(2') and the semiconductor element (1)(1') are

held in intimate surface contact during at least the steps (c) and
(d).
A method according to any preceding claim further
comprising applying an oxidation-resistant material (9) over an

exposed surface of the reacted materials (5')(5'').
A method according to claim 19 wherein applying an
oxidation-resistant material (9) comprises bonding the oxidation-resistant

material to the exposed surface (7')(7'') of the reacted
materials (5')(5'').
A method according to claim 19 or 20 wherein applying an
oxidation-resistant material (9) comprises melting an oxidation-resistant

metal.
A method according to claim 21 wherein melting an
oxidation-resistant metal comprises melting nickel.
A method according to claim 21 or 22 wherein melting an
oxidation-resistant 
metal comprises directing a laser beam (L') at
the oxidation-resistant metal.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing a metal that is reactive with the

semiconductor material (1)(1') to form a metal compound.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing copper. 
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing an alloy of copper and a transition

metal resistant to oxidation and which forms compounds with the
semiconductor material (1)(1').
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing an alloy of copper and nickel,

chromium, titanium or molybdenum.
A method according to any of claims 1 to 27 wherein step
(a) comprises providing a copper-phosphor bronze alloy.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (b) comprises providing a semiconductor element (1)(1') of

silicon doped with dopant impurities to provide a predetermined
electrical resistivity which reacts with the metal of the metallic

element (2)(2') to form a metal silicide.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (b) comprises providing a resistive heater element and the

step (a) comprises providing a power supply conductor.
A method according to claim 30 further comprising
adapting the bonded resistive heater element and power supply

conductor for use in an electrical smoking article.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (b) comprises providing silicon doped with dopant impurities

and the step (a) comprises providing a copper alloy.
A method according to any preceding claim further
comprising applying a clip (10) to support the metallic element

(2)(2') and the semiconductor element (1)(1').
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (b) comprises providing a semiconductor element (1)(1')

having a dimension in the range from 0.1 mm to 0.5 mm. 
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing a thin foil metallic element (2)(2')

having dimension less than 0.4 mm.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing a thin foil metallic element (2)(2')

having a dimension less than 0.25 mm.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing a thin foil metallic element (2)(2')

having a dimension in the range from 0.08 mm to 0.2 mm.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing a thin foil metallic element (2)(2')

having a dimension in the range from 0.15 mm to 0.2 mm.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing a metallic element having a hole

(3)(3') having a diameter in the range from 0.1 mm to 0.8 mm.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (a) comprises providing a metallic element having a

frustoconical hole (3') therethrough.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
step (c) includes causing an amount of metallic material (6) to

melt.
A method according to claim 41 wherein causing an amount
of metallic material (6) to melt comprises contacting the metallic

material with molten semiconductor material.
A method according to claim 41 wherein causing an amount
of metallic material to melt comprises directing a laser beam

(L)(L'') to at least partially impinge on the metallic material
around the sides of the hole (3)(3').
A method according to any preceding claim wherein all the
steps are carried out in a total time of less than 3 seconds. 
A method according to any preceding claim wherein all the
steps are carried out in a total time of less than 1 second.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein all the
steps are carried out in a total time of less than 0.5 seconds.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the
steps (c) and (d) are carried out in a total time between 20 msec

and 50 msec.
A semiconductor electrical heater comprising a metallic
element (2)(2') having a hole (3)(3') therethrough, a

semiconductor resistive heater element (1)(1') and a
bond

having a substantially ohmic electrical resistance
between the metallic element and the semiconductor

element, wherein a portion of the semiconductor element is
adjacent a portion of the metallic element and substantially

covers the hole from one side, and wherein the
bond includes located within the hole a solidified product

(5')(5'') of semiconductor material that has reacted with metallic
material.
A semiconductor heater according to claim 48 wherein the
solidified reacted product (5')(5'') located within the hole

(3)(3') comprises the solidified product of reacting molten
semiconductor material with molten metallic material.
A semiconductor heater according to claim 48 or 49
wherein the metallic element (2)(2') comprises copper.
A semiconductor heater according to claim 50 wherein the
metallic element (2)(2') further comprises a transition metal

resistant to oxidation and which forms compounds with the
semiconductor material.
A semiconductor heater according to claim 51 wherein the
transition metal is nickel, chromium, titanium or molybdenum.
A semiconductor heater according to claim 48, 49 or 50
wherein the metallic element (2)(2') comprises a copper-phosphor

bronze alloy. 
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
53 wherein the semiconductor element (1)(1') comprises silicon

doped with dopant impurities to provide a predetermined electrical
resistivity.
A semiconductor heater according to claim 54 wherein the
dopant impurities comprise n-type dopants.
A semiconductor heater according to claim 55 wherein the
n-type dopants comprise phosphorous.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
56 wherein the solidified reacted product (5') (5'') comprises

copper silicide.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
57 further comprising an oxidation-resistant material (9')(9'')

located on an exposed surface (7') (7'') of the solidified reacted
product (5') (5'').
A semiconductor heater according to claim 58 wherein the
oxidation-resistant material forms a cap (9')(9'') that

substantially covers the exposed surface (7')(7'') of the
solidified reacted product (5') (5'') to substantially isolate the

solidified reacted product from the atmosphere.
A semiconductor heater according to claim 58 or 59
wherein the oxidation-r
esistant material comprises nickel.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
60 wherein a maximum dimension of the heater is less than 35 mm.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
61 wherein the heater has an electrical resistance between 0.5Ω

and 3.0Ω.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
62 wherein the semiconductor element (1) (1') has a dimension in

the range from 0.1 mm to 0.5 mm. 
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
63 wherein the metallic element (2)(2') comprises a thin metallic

foil having a dimension less than 0.4 mm.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
64 wherein the metallic element (2)(2') has a dimension less than

0.25 mm.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
65 wherein the metallic element (2)(2') has a dimension in the

range from 0.08 mm to 0.2 mm.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
66 wherein the metallic element (2)(2') has a dimension in the

range from 0.15 mm to 0.2 mm.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
67 wherein the hole (3)(3') in the metallic element (2)(2') has a

diameter in the range from 0.1 mm to 0.8 mm.
A semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to
68 wherein the hole (3') is frustoconical.
A semiconductor electrical heater according to any of
claims 48 to 69 wherein the semiconductor element comprises doped

silicon and the substantially ohmic bond includes copper silicide
located within the hole (3)(3') and formed as the solidified

product (5')(5'') of reacting molten semiconductor material with
molten metallic material.
An electrical smoking article comprising a housing, an
electrical control circuit arranged in the housing and a

semiconductor heater according to any of claims 48 to 70
electrically connected to the control circuit for activating and

controlling a current flow through the heater. 
An electrical smoking article according to claim 71
comprising a plurality of semiconductor heaters according to any

of claims 48 to 70 each electrically connected to the control
circuit for independently activating and controlling a current

flow through each heater.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
