<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644097</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A current return assembly for railway traction and brushes therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B61F1500	B61F1528	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B61F	B61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B61F15	B61F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A current return assembly (15,29) for railway 
traction and brushes therefor, wherein the brushes 

comprise a conductive body of metalgraphite (1,40) and 
a small plate of a lightweight material (2,46) coupled 

to the conductive body by means of a centering wedge 
(5,47), the resultant brushes having reduced weight and 

being adapted for reliable utilization at an optimum 
contact pressure and with a consequently increased 

service life even under severe conditions of operation 
and acceleration stresses on the order of 20 g. 
The reduction in weight of the brushes and 
consequent reduction in the mechanical stresses caused 

thereby, enable the assembly (15,29) to be made of 
light alloy. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RISOMESA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RISOMESA S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIGORELLI ROMUALDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIGORELLI, ROMUALDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a current 
return assembly for railway traction, and to brushes 
therefor. It is known that electric locomotives must be 
ensured a ground return path for their power supplies 
through the locomotive own wheels and the rails. This return path should be able to carry, 
with but minimal voltage drops, currents of high 
intensity, on the order of 2000 to 3000A, which must 
not be flowed through the bearings of wheel-carrying 
axles to which the wheels are keyed. For this purpose, current return assemblies 
are mounted on the bogies of electric locomotives which 
can transfer, by means of electric contact brushes 
housed slidably in sockets of a brush holder body, 
electric current to the end of the axle through a 
collector which comprises a contact cap of bronze 
secured on the axle end. While the load current of an electric 
locomotive can be, and usually is, distributed over a 
plurality of return paths, each return path should be 
capable of transferring large currents in the 500 to  
 
600A range, usually split among several brushes. The design and fabrication of such return 
assemblies for rail traction requires that a plurality 
of conflicting problems be reconciled. The return assemblies should be mechanically 
robust and easy to take down for inspection and 
servicing. The life allowance of the brushes should be 
quite long and ensure a coverage of no less than one 
million kilometers, in order to cut the inspection and 
maintenance operations down to a minimum. The brushes should have high electric 
conductivity, minimal contact loss, and a minimal 
frictional coefficient. Additionally to being robust, the whole of 
the return assemblies should be capable of withstanding 
the multivarious adverse actions of their environment: 
varying temperature and moisture, weather and saline 
agents, dirt, sand, external shocks, etc. With the ever growing speeds of rail 
transportation, in particular fast and high-speed rail, 
added to these problems is that of reducing the mass of 
the mechanical parts to a minimum, especially of those 
anchored directly on the bogie. In fact, due to the combined effects of the  
 
train speed around a bend and the bogie rotation 
relative to the car structure, large centrifugal forces 
can easily develop, with accelerations in the 20g 
range. To the centrifugal effects, there add 
accelerations, mainly in a transverse direction 
thereto, due to vibrations of the bogie generated by 
rail gaps, rail switches, lack of planarity of the 
rails,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A current return assembly (15,19) for 
railway traction, comprising a flanged brush holder 

body (15) provided with a plurality of housings 
(16,17,18), a flanged closure cap (29) of said body 

(15) and a plurality of brushes (1,10), each housed in 
one of said housings (16,17,18) and connected 

electrically by means of a flexible electric connection 
(11,12) to said body (15), characterized in that said 

body (15) and said cap (29) are aluminum alloy castings 
and that each of said brushes (1,10) comprises: 


a conductive body (1,40) of sintered 
metalgraphite in the general shape of a right 

parallelepipedon with a contact surface, having a width 
L and thickness ST, the opposite face of said 

parallelepipedon from said contact surface being 
provided with a wedge-shaped recess or an engagement 

wedge, with a corner edge (4) perpendicular to said 
thickness ST, 
a centering plate (2,46) of a lightweight 
material in the general shape of a right 

parallelepipedon with a base section equal to said 
contact surface, provided with an engagement wedge 

(5,47) mating with said wedge-shaped conductive body 
recess and being engaged in said recess or with a  

 
wedge-shaped recess mating with said conductive body 

engagement wedge, said plate (2,46) coupled to said 
conductive body (1,40) forming a brush with a 

perpendicular height to said contact surface greater 
than said thickness ST even when the brush is worn. 
An assembly as in Claim 1, wherein said 
brush holder body (15) is made of a GAS9MG aluminum 

alloy and said cap (29) is made of a GD-AlSi12 aluminum 
alloy. 
An assembly as in the preceding claims, 
wherein said centering plate (2,46) is provided, on its 

opposite face from said engagement wedge or said 
wedge-shaped recess, with a recess (6,52) in the shape 

of a cylinder segment for housing a constant pressure 
spring therein. 
An assembly as in the preceding claims, 
wherein said centering plate (2,46) is of bakelized 

cloth. 
A brush for a current return assembly for 
railway traction, characterized in that it comprises: 


a conductive body (1,40) of sintered 
metalgraphite in the shape of a right parallelepipedon 

with a rectangular contact surface having a width L and 
thickness ST, the opposite face of said parallelpipedon 

from said contact surface being provided with a  
 

wedge-shaped recess or an engagement wedge, with the 
corner edge perpendicular to said thickness ST, 
a centering plate (2,46) of a lightweight 
material in the shape of a right parallelepipedon with 

a base section equal to said contact surface, provided 
with an engagement wedge (5,47) mating with said 

wedge-shaped conductive body recess and being engaged 
in said recess or with a wedge-shaped recess mating 

with said engagement wedge, said plate (2,46) coupled 
to said conductive body forming a brush with a 

perpendicular height to said contact surface greater 
than said thickness ST even when the brush is worn. 
A brush as in Claim 5, wherein said 
centering plate (2,46) is provided, on the opposite 

face from said engagement wedge or said wedge-shaped 
recess, with a recess (5,52) in the shape of a cylinder 

segment for housing a constant pressure spring. 
A brush as in Claims 5 and 6, wherein said 
centering plate (2,46) is of bakelized cloth. 
A brush as in Claims 5, 6 and 7, wherein 
the combination of said plate (2,46) and said 

conductive body (1,40) forms a brush of standard 
height. 
A brush as in Claims 5 to 8, wherein the 
spread angle of said engagement wedge is between 130°  

 
and 150°. 
A brush as in Claims 5 to 9, wherein said 
conductive body (1,40) is provided, at said 

wedge-shaped recess or engagement wedge, with a pair of 
cylindrical openings (9,10) for engaging and securing a 

pair of connection cable terminals (11,12) and with 
pouring gates (9A,10A) communicated to said cylindrical 

openings. 
A brush as in Claims 5 to 10, wherein 
said contact surface is on the order of 40x20 mm and 

said conductive body height is on the order of 35 mm. 
A brush as in Claims 5 to 9, wherein said 
conductive body (40) is provided with a turret (42) 

extending in opposition with said contact surface and 
being terminated with said wedge-shaped recess or said 

engagement wedge (47), said turret (42) being 
through-penetrated parallel with said contact surface 

by a cylindrical socket (43) for insertion of an 
electric connection braid (45), said turret (42) being 

provided with a pouring gate (46) communicated to said 
cylindrical socket. 
A brush as in Claim 12 comprising a 
copper bush (44) housed in said cylindrical socket (43) 

and soldered thereto, said bush being provided with at 
least one opening at said pouring gate (46).  

 
A brush as in Claims 12 and 13, wherein 
said plate (46) is provided with a pair of teeth 

(48,49) flanking said engagement wedge or said 
wedge-shaped recess, co-operating with said turret (42) 

to locate said small plate (40) relative to said turret 
(42) in the direction of said width L. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
