<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649996</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Harsh environment line swivel.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16G1500	F16G1508	H02G108	H02G108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16G	F16G	H02G	H02G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16G15	F16G15	H02G1	H02G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A harsh environment swivel is disclosed. The 
swivel is of the type having first and second swivel 

heads 2,3 located at opposite ends of a generally hollow 
swivel body 4. A swivel shaft 6 is attached to the 

first swivel head 2 and secured within the hollow body 4 
by a locking nut 8. The swivel shaft 6 rotates about 

tapered roller bearings 12,16 which transmit tensile 
loading from the swivel shaft 6 to the hollow body 4. A 

plurality of progressively more restrictive seals 17 
restrict the passage of debris into the interior of the 

hollow body. In a further embodiment, a swivel having 
independently rotating swivel heads 33,34 at either end 

is disclosed. A method of flushing debris from the 
interior of a swivel is also disclosed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DCD DESIGN MFG LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DCD DESIGN 
&
 MANUFACTURING LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EPKENS HEIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EPKENS, HEIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to swivels for providing a 
rotatable connection between two cables, between a cable 
and another object, or between two objects. In 
particular, the invention pertains to such swivels where 
they may be subjected to harsh environments, including 
being exposed to water or dirt. Swivels and their use are well known. Swivels have 
commonly been used to connect together two lines or 
cables where rotation at the point of connection is 
desired. For example, when an electrical or 
telecommunications cable is being pulled through a 
conduit by the use of a pulling or fish line, the cable 
is typically unrolled off a large reel at one end of the 
conduit as it is pulled through. As the cable unrolls, 
it sometimes develops twists that, if not corrected, 
could damage the cable under the tension applied for 
long pulls. The use of a swivel between the end of the 
cable and the pulling line enables any such twists to be 
removed as the cable may rotate independent of the 
pulling line. In other applications, a swivel is critical to the 
operation of combined underground boring and cable 
pulling. In this situation, a pilot hole is drilled 
through the underground structure where a cable is to be 
run. Once the pilot hole is completed, a drill steel is 
inserted back through the hole and a cutting head 
attached to the drill steel. The drill steel is then  
 
connected to a boring machine which drives the cutter, 
either through direct rotation or through the 
application of pneumatic or hydraulic pressure to motors 
on the cutter. Typically a cable, or in some instances 
a conduit or casing, is connected to the rear of the 
cutting head so that pulling the cutting head back 
through the pilot hole not only enlarges the pilot hole 
to the desired diameter but also serves to pull the 
cable or conduit as the hole is cut. Accordingly, since 
the cutting head is rotating to enlarge the pilot hole, 
in order to be able to pull a cable or conduit through 
the hole a swivel must form part of the connection 
between the cutting head and the cable or conduit. Yet a further application of such swivels involves 
use on cables for lifting, such as would be used on 
cranes or the like. When lifting objects with a crane 
it is usually desirable or necessary to be able to 
rotate the lifted object to facilitate movement or re-positioning. 
In order to prevent the application of 
rotational forces on the crane's lifting cable, line 
swivels are often incorporated on the harness or sling 
used to attach
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A swivel comprising: 

(a) first and second swivel heads (2,3) situated 
at opposite ends of a generally hollow swivel body 

(4), said first swivel head (2) being in 
rotational engagement with said hollow body (4), 
(b) a swivel shaft (6) attached to said first 
swivel head (2) and rotationally received within 

said hollow body (4), 
(c) retaining means (7) securing said swivel shaft 
(6) within said hollow body (4), said retaining 

means permitting rotational movement of said shaft 
(6), and hence said first swivel head (2), 

relative to said hollow body (4) and said second 
swivel head (3), 
(d) bearing means (9) within said hollow body (4) 
allowing for reduced frictional rotation of said 

swivel shaft within said hollow body (4) when said 
swivel shaft (6) is under tensile loading; and, 
(e) sealing means (17) between said first swivel 
head, said swivel shaft (6) and said hollow body 

(4), said sealing means (17) becoming 
progressively more restrictive to the passage of 

particulate and liquid debris from a position 
exterior to said hollow body (4) to the interior 

 
of said hollow body (4). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 1 wherein said 
bearing means (9) includes a first set of tapered roller 

bearings (12) located on the interior surface of said 
hollow body (4) and encompassing said swivel shaft (6), 

said tapered roller bearings (12) being situated 
interior to said sealing means (17). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein said 
retaining means (7) comprises a locking nut (8) threaded 

onto the end of said swivel shaft (6), said locking nut 
(8) being tightened against said bearing means (12) 

thereby securing said swivel shaft (6) within said 
hollow body (4). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein 
said sealing means (17) includes a first gap seal (18) 

between the outer surfaces of said first swivel head (2) 
and said hollow body (4), said gap seal (18) restricting 

the passage of particulate material into said hollow 
body (4). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 4 wherein said 
sealing means (17) further includes a second seal (19) 

situated between said first swivel head (2) and said 
hollow body (4), said second seal (19) being interior to 

said gap seal (18) and providing a restriction to debris 
passing through said gap seal (18). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 5 wherein said 
sealing means (17) further includes a third seal (22) 

interior to said second seal (19), said third seal (22) 
restricting passage of debris, that passes through said 

second seal (19), into the interior of said hollow body 
(4). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 6 wherein said 
sealing means further comprises a fourth seal (24) 

interior to said third seal (22), said fourth seal (24) 
restricting the entry of debris or liquid into the 

interior of said hollow body (4). 
A swivel as claimed in any preceding claim 
including means (27) to flush debris from the interior 

of said hollow body (4). 
A swivel as claimed in any of claims 2 to 8 
wherein said bearing means includes a second set of 

tapered roller bearings (16) encompassing said swivel 
shaft (6), said second set of tapered roller bearings 

(16) being situated at a distance from said first set of 
tapered roller bearings (12). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 9 wherein each of 
said first and said second sets of tapered roller 

bearings (12,16) are interior to said sealing means 
(17). 
A swivel as claimed in any of claim 5 wherein said 
second sealing means (19) comprises a pair of contacting 

ring members (20) bearing against one another in 
frictional and rotational contact so as to restrict the 

passage of liquid and debris into said hollow body (4). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 6 wherein said third 
sealing means (22) comprises a pair of sealing rotatable 

flocked washers (23). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 7 wherein said fourth 
sealing means (24) comprises a radial lip seal (25,26) 

fixed to the interior of said hollow body (4) and biased 
against the exterior surface of said swivel shaft (6) to 

prevent the passage of debris or liquid into the 
interior of said hollow body (4). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 8 wherein said means 
(27) to flush debris from inside said hollow body 

comprises a grease fitting (28) communicating with the 
interior of said hollow body (4) such that the injection 

of grease through said fitting (28) forces debris within 
said hollow body (4) back through said sealing means to 

be expelled from said swivel. 
A swivel as claimed in any of claims 3 or 14 
wherein said first set of tapered roller bearings (12) 

are pre-loaded into said hollow body (4), said first set 
of tapered roller bearing (12) and said swivel shaft (6) 

securely held within said hollow body (4) and prevented 
 

from axial movement through tightening said locking nut 
(8) against said first set of tapered roller bear
ings. 
A swivel as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
said second swivel head (3) is fixedly attached to said 

hollow body (4). 
A swivel as claimed in any of claims 1 to 15 
wherein said second swivel head (3) is in rotational 

engagement with said hollow body (4). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 17, comprising: 

(a) a pair of swivel shafts (36,37) attached to 
said swivel body (35), said swivel shafts (36,37) 

being received within said first and said second 
swivel heads (33,34), respectively; 
(b) retaining means (38) securing said swivel 
shafts (36,37) within said swivel heads (33,34), 

said retaining means (38) permitting rotational 
movement of said swivel heads (33,34) about said 

swivel shafts (36,37) and said swivel body (35); 
(c) bearing means (39) for reduced frictional 
rotation of said swivel heads (33,34) about said 

swivel shafts (36,37); and, 
(d) sealing means (40) between said swivel heads 
(33,34) and said swivel body (35), said sealing 

means (40) being progressively more restrictive to 
 

the passage of particulate and liquid debris into 
said swivel body (35) and said swivel heads 

(33,34). 
A swivel as claimed in claim 17 or 18 wherein said 
retaining means (38) comprises locking nuts threaded 

onto the ends of said swivel shafts (36,37), said 
locking nuts being tightened against one set of said 

tapered roller bearings and also serving to prevent 
axial movement of said roller bearings on said swivel 

shafts. 
A swivel as claimed in claims 17, 18 or 19 further 
comprising external means (50) to inspect whether each 

of said first and second swivel heads (33,34) rotates 
freely and independently about said swivel shafts 

(36,37). 
A swivel as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
at least one of said first and said second swivel heads 

(2,3,33,34) have pulling eyes (29) to allow connection 
of said swivel to other objects. 
A swivel as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
said first and said second swivel heads (2,3,33,34), 

said swivel body (4,35) and said swivel shaft (1,2,3,37) 
are comprised of a high strength, corrosion resistant 

metal. 
A method of flushing debris from the interior of a 
swivel, having sealing means (17,40) and bearing means 

(9,39) interior to said sealing means, the method 
comprising injecting a lubricant into the interior of 

said swivel opposite to the direction of entry of said 
debris and away from said bearing means such that said 

debris is flushed out of said swivel. 
A method as claimed in claim 23 wherein said 
lubricant is grease. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
