<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630267</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TREATMENT OF LIQUID ON DEMAND
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L220	A61L224	C02F900	A61L220	C02F900	C02F178	A61L200	C02F178	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	C02F	A61L	C02F	C02F	A61L	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L2	A61L2	C02F9	A61L2	C02F9	C02F1	A61L2	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A liquid treatment system receives untreated liquid from a pressurized source and outputs treated liquid on demand. An ozone containing gas from a generator is combined with untreated liquid to accomplish the desired treatment before the liquid is output; and the necessary operations include pumping, venting, a demand event switch, and a control system to accomplish the necessary functions. A valved liquid passageway conducts untreated liquid to a contact region, accumulated gas is vented from the system. A demand event can be manual operation of an output switch or manual operation of an outflow valve that causes a liquid level change within the system. Treated liquid outflow can occur by gravity, as a passive outflow in response to opening an inflow valve, and as an active outflow driven by a pump.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BURRIS WILLIAM ALAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BURRIS, WILLIAM ALAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURRIS WILLIAM ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURRIS, WILLIAM ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention involves ozone purification or treatment of liquid with equipment made small enough and inexpensive enough to deal with small quantities of liquid on a demand basis.By this invention, I have reduced the size, complexity, and expense of equipment for treating liquid with ozone on a demand basis; and by carefully selecting and combining components, I have been able to make smaller scale ozone treatment equipment operate conveniently and reliably for safely treating liquid rapidly for small volumes and flow rates. Equipment according to my invention can be operated under a residential countertop, for example, to treat liquid flow on a small scale.US 3 823 728 discloses a tank working on overpressure. A float-controlled switch controls the water level in tank. An ozone generator generates ozone which is forced into tank. A delay timer is electrically connected to switch, pump and generator, and a pressure-responsive vent valve vents any excessive gas pressure from the top of tank.US 4 599 166 discloses an atmospheric pressure ozone water purification apparatus wherein the raw water is purified by ozone by continuous recirculation of the water in the line until the probe of a measuring device monitoring the potability of the water announces that potability has been restored, the circulation pump and the ozone generator are shut off, while at the same time the shut-off valve is changed to the open position so that water can again be taken from the water faucet. In a further embodiment a separate pump allows the drawing of water when potability is reached. The circulation pump and the drinking water pump are alternatively locked.US 4 619 763 discloses a pressurized ozone water purification apparatus, wherein a batch of polluted water is first introduced in a tank after pretreatment with ozone in a venturi injector, than the pretreated water is recirculated from the tank back to the same tank after passing through the same venturi injector used in advance, where ozone is added.A liquid treatment system according to the invention is claimed in claim 1.The liquid treatment system of this invention is connected to a pressurized source of untreated liquid to provide ozone treated liquid on demand by using a generator that makes an ozone containing gas. The treatment system includes a valved passageway and a pumping system arranged for contacting untreated liquid with the ozone containing gas for an interval sufficient to accomplish the intended treatment. A control system responds to a demand event
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A liquid treatment system connected to a pressurized source (11) of untreated liquid to provide treated liquid on demand, said system comprising a generator (20) that makes an ozone containing gas, said system further comprising:

a. a valved liquid passageway for conducting said liquid from said source (11) through said system to an outflow means (15) via a contact region;
b. a pumping system (21, 25) for exclusively receiving said ozone containing gas from said generator (20) and untreated liquid from said pressurized source (11);
c. a containment chamber (18, 48, 58) downstream of said pumping system arranged for containing said liquid at a liquid pressure lower than the pressure of said source (11);
d. a control system (12) arranged for operating said generator (20), said pumping system (21, 25), and said valved liquid passageway during each treatment cycle to deliver said untreated liquid and said ozone containing gas to said contact region and to deliver treated liquid to said outflow means from said liquid treatment system; said control system being operable automatically to initiate said treatment cycle in response to a demand event indicating a demand for treated liquid; said control system being arranged to operate during each treatment cycle compatibly with said outflow means (15) of treated liquid from said treatment system, said outflow means (15) being chosen.from the group consisting of:

o a gravity outflow means operating in response to opening an output valve for said treated liquid
o a passive outflow means, operating in response to opening an inflow valve under control of said control system so that liquid inflow causes outflow of said treated liquid, and
o an active outflow means, operating in response to actuating a pump controlled by said control system to cause outflow of said treated liquid;
e. a demand switch (32,44) arranged in communication with said control system (12) to provide said demand event by changing state in response to a manually activated system operable in a predetermined one of a pair of direct and indirect configurations, said direct configuration comprising arrangement of said manually activated system for directly operating said demand switch (32,44), and said indirect configuration comprising arrangement of said manually activated system for operating an output valve (14) for drawing treated liquid from a treated liquid reservoir (13), the liquid level of which controls the state of said demand switch; and
f. a sensor (30) arranged for sensing the concentration of ozone in said treated liquid and wherein said control system (12) is arranged to be responsive to said sensor (30) for treating said liquid.
The liquid treatment system of claim 1 including a liquid filter arranged downstream from said source.
The liquid treatment system of claim 1 including a gas venting system (24, 26, 27,28) arranged for enabling gas to escape from said system after said contact while preventing liquid from escaping from said system.
The liquid treatment system of claim 3 wherein said venting system includes a porous hydrophobic material arranged to allow gaseous outflow while blocking liquid outflow.
The liquid treatment system of claim 3 wherein said venting system is arranged for reducing the escape of ozone to the atmosphere.
The liquid treatment system of claim 1 including a porous hydrophobic material arranged for preventing liquid from contacting an ozone escape reducing element in said venting system.
The liquid treatment system of claim 1 including means (22) for preventing flow of liquid into said generator (20).
The liquid treatment system of claim 7 wherein said flow preventing means includes a porous hydrophobic material arranged for blocking liquid flow and for allowing flow of said ozone containing gas.
The liquid treatment system of claim 1 wherein said pumping system (21, 25) includes a venturi (21) arranged so that when said liquid passes through said venturi, said ozone containing gas is drawn from said generator into said venturi.
The liquid treatment system of claim 1 wherein said pumping system (21, 25) includes a pump arranged for pumping and mixing said liquid and said ozone containing gas.
The liquid treatment system of claim 1 wherein said pumping system (21, 25) includes a gas pump for pumping said ozone containing gas from said generator to said contact region.
The liquid treatment system of claim 1 wherein said treated liquid containment chamber is unpressurized.
The liquid treatment system of claim 1 wherein said control system (12) is arranged for operating said generator (20) and said pumping system (21, 25) for at least a minimum time during each treatment cycle to ensure sufficient treatment.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
