<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655337</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ink jet printer head and method for manufacturing the same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J214	B41J214	B41J221	B41J221	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ink jet printer head and an ink jet printer which express a half tone with a 
simple construction in accordance with the density data. The ink (13) and the 

transparent solvent (10) are quantified and mixed based on the density data for 
each of the specified pixels. The ink (13) and the transparent solvent (10) are 

supplied to a mixing chamber (2) from respective conduits (6, 7). Supply of the 
components to the mixing chamber (2) is controlled by operation of respective 

piezoelectric elements (8, 9) and/or heating elements (33, 34). The liquid ink drop 
mixture is deposited onto a recording medium, so as to deposit a predetermined 

density of the liquid ink drop onto the recording medium based on the density data 
for each of the specified pixels. Therefore, a half tone can be represented with 

certitude in accordance with density data with a simple construction. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDO MAKOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURAKAMI TAKAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDO, MAKOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURAKAMI, TAKAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an ink jet printer head and an ink jet printer, and 
more particularly to an improvement of on-demand ink jet printer that can print a 
half tone. Conventionally, the on-demand ink jet printer takes the form of a printer for 
discharging liquid ink drops from a nozzle in accordance with a recording signal to 
print the material to be printed on a recording medium such as paper or film. Such 
a type of printer is becoming more and more widely used simply because the size 
of the printer can be reduced and the cost thereof can be reduced as well. At the same time, particularly in offices, document preparation using a 
computer, often referred to as desktop publishing, has become very popular. Quite 
recently, requirements have grown more and more strong not only for outputting 
characters and figures but also for outputting natural color images such as 
photographs together with characters and figures. For printing such high-quality 
natural images, a half tone representation is very important. In such on-demand ink jet printers, methods have become very popular 
which use a piezo element, or which use a heating element. The method which 
uses the piezo element involves applying pressure to the ink by the distortion of 
the piezo element to discharge the ink from the nozzle. The method which uses the 
heating element involves heating and boiling the ink with the heating element to 
discharge the ink with the pressure of the bubbles thus generated. In addition, ink jet printers are available which vary a voltage and a pulse 
width to be given to the piezo element or the heating element and control a liquid 
ink drop that is discharged to render variable the diameter of printing dots so as to 
provide gradation representation. Ink jet printers are also available which provide 
gradation representation in matrixes using the dithering method by constituting 
one pixel with a matrix comprising, for example, 4 x 4 dots without changing the 
dot diameter. However, as described above, in the on-demand ink jet printer, the method 
for changing a voltage and pulse width applied to the piezo element or the heating 
element has the following drawbacks: when the voltage and the pulse width 
applied to the piezo element and the heating element are lowered too much, ink  
 
cannot be discharged, meaning that the minimum liquid drop diameter is limited. 
Consequently, the number of gradation levels that can be represented is low. Low-density 
representation in particular cannot be done. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ink jet printer head comprising : 
   quantifying and mixing means for quantifying and mixing ink (13) or a 

transparent solvent (10) to said transparent solvent (10) or said ink (13) by 
controlling first pressure giving means (9/34) in accordance with given density 

data; and 
   liquid discharge means for discharging a liquid ink drop comprising a liquid 

mixed by said quantifying and mixing means by controlling second pressure 
giving means (8/33) to deposit the ink on a recording medium, wherein 

   a half tone is printed by the density modulation of said liquid ink drop. 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 1, wherein the first and second 
pressure giving means of said quantifying and mixing means and said liquid 

discharge means use a combination of a piezo element (8) and a piezo element (9), 

a heating element (34) and a heating element (33), a piezo element (8) and a 
heating element (33), or a heating element (34) and a piezo element (9). 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 1, wherein said liquid ink drop is 
modulated in density and the size of said liquid ink drop is modulated. 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 1, wherein said transparent 
solvent (10) or said ink (13) is introduced before quantifying and mixing said ink 

(13) and said transparent solvent (10). 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 1, wherein; 
   a barrier membrane section (5) of said ink (13) and said transparent solvent 

(10) provides unidirectional valve means. 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 5, wherein said unidirectional 
valve means (5) provides a projecting section in a panel-like substrate and a radial 

slit in said projecting section. 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 1, comprising : 
   a first orifice (35) which is filled with said transparent solvent (31), and a 

second orifice (36) which is filled with said ink (32). 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 7, comprising : 
   a mixing room (37) for mixing said transparent solvent and said ink. 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 7, wherein said mixing room (37) 
has a predetermined cylinder, and said first orifice (35) is provided on the bottom 

surface of said cylinder and said second orifice (36) is provided on the side plane 
of said cylinder. 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 8, wherein the water repellency 
processing is applied to said mixing room (37). 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 8, wherein a path for introducing 
said ink or said transparent solvent to said mixing room (37) is provided an orifice 

plate (406). 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 7, wherein the aperture area of 
said first (35) or second (36) orifice is set to a value which is less than that of the 

aperture area of said second (36) or first (35) orifice. 
The ink jet printer head according to claim 12, wherein the aperture area of 
said first (35) or second (36) orifice is set to a value which is less than a half value 

of the aperture area of said second (36) or first (35) orifice. 
An ink jet printer comprising : 
   an ink jet printer head according to any of claims 1 to 13. 
A method for manufacturing an ink jet printer head, wherein a resist pattern 
and an electroplated metal pattern are repeatedly formed as multi-layer together 

with an orifice plate (406), the orifice plate comprising (406) : 
   a cylindrical mixing room (37) for quantifying and mixing ink and 

transparent solvent; 
   a first orifice (35) in which said transparent solvent (31) or said ink (32) is 

discharged, formed on the bottom surface of said mixing room (37); 
   a second orifice (36) in which said ink (32) or said transparent solvent (31) is 

discharged, formed on the side plane of said mixing room (37);
 

   a mixing groove (38) for introducing said ink (32) or said transparent solvent 
(31) to said second orifice (36). 
The method for manufacturing the ink jet printer head according to claim 15, 
comprising the step of : 

   exposing and developing a resist film formed on a base metal (410) with a 
predetermined height, and forming a first resist pattern (411) consisting of a first 

cylinder corresponding to said first orifice and a second cylinder having the same 
shape as said first cylinder; 

   forming a first metal pattern (412) by electroplating a specified metal to the 
same height as said first resist pattern (411) on said base metal (410); 

   forming a second resist pattern (413) on said first resist pattern (411) and said 
first metal pattern (412), in which the upper plane side of said first cylinder has a 

shape corresponding to the bottom surface shape of said mixing room (37) with the 
thickness depending on said second orifice (36), and the upper plane side of said 

second cylinder has a shape corresponding to said mixing groove (38) extending to 
said mixing room (37) with the thickness depending on said second orifice (36); 

   forming a second metal pattern (414) by electroplating said specified metal 
to the same height as said second resist pattern (413) on said first metal pattern 

(411) and said second resist pattern (412); 
   forming a third resist pattern (415) having a shape corresponding to said 

mixing room (37) at the upper plane side of said first cylinder on said second resist 
pattern (413); 

   forming a metal film (416) with said specified metal on said second (413) 
and third (415) resist patterns and said second metal pattern (414), and forming a 

third metal pattern (417) by electroplating said specified metal which is thinner 
than said third resist pattern (415); and 

   removing said first, second, and third resist patterns (411, 413, 415), peeling 
said first, second, and third metal patterns (412, 414, 417) from said base metal 

(410), and forming said orifice plate (406). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
