<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642626</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HYDRAULIC RADIAL PISTON MACHINES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01B1300	F01B1306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01B	F01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01B13	F01B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine comprising two shells (1, 2) of a part-cylindrical form, the shells (1, 2) connectable together along a parting plane (3) in which the central axes of the drive-shaft (4) and pintle-valve (5) lie. Each housing element (1, 2) is provided with a number of semi-circular recesses (such as 8, 16) which form into circular apertures (such as 26) when the housing elements (1, 2) are connected together. Other circular apertures are formed to provide support surfaces for the working elements of the machine. A cylinder-barrel (42) mounted to rotate on the stationnary pintle-valve (5), and is provided with a number of radial cylinders (90) each containing a piston (93) operatively connected to a surrounding annular track ring (105).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIPAT AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIPAT AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNOLD GEORGE DUNCAN MCRAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAIR ARTHUR ATHOLL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMA CHRISTIAN HELMUT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNOLD, GEORGE DUNCAN MCRAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAIR, ARTHUR ATHOLL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMA, CHRISTIAN HELMUT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HYDRAULIC RADIAL PISTON MACHINESField of the InventionThis invention relates to positive displacement rotary radial piston hydraulic machines, and is particularly directed at a more economical and efficient form of housing structure for such machines. In the radial piston type of hydraulic machine, a cylinder-barrel is mounted for rotation on a ported pintle-valve, and is provided with a number of generally radial cylinders. Each cylinder contains a piston and each piston engages a slipper which contacts a surrounding annular track-ring. The arcuate-ports in the pintle-valve are connected to fluid inlet and outlet passageways in the housing and thus rotary movement of the cylinder-barrel is accompanied by radial displacement of the pistons and corresponding displacement of fluid through these passageways. The control-system acts in determining the degree of eccentricity required between the track-ring and pintle-valve, in order to supply the desired rate of fluid to a hydraulic circuit.Description of the Prior ArtFixed-displacement gear-pumps currently account for about 80% of all hydrostatic pump sales, with the more versatile, but more expensive variable-displacement type of piston pump taking most of the balance.Despite widespread agreement that variable-displacement hydraulic systems provide significant efficiency advantages over fixed-displacement ones, no existing variable-displacement piston pump design is capable of competing with fixed-displacement pumps on cost. 

 In part, this is due to the many quite complex internal components required in a variable-displacement piston pump, such as the pistons and the cylinder barrel. Nowadays with modern CNC production machinery and using inexpensive processes such as sintered powder-metallurgy, these components are no-longer significantly more expensive to produce than the intermeshing spur gears and associated floating bearings of a gear pump.However, the bulk of the differences in cost is largely due to the complex and high-precision housing structures which have been required throughout the 100 year history of variable-displacement piston pumps. Typically, the housing structure comprises two or more broadly cylindrical or circular elements.U.S. Patent No. 3,750,533 shows an example of such a housing for a piston machine, and where each housing element is provided with a central aperture in order to support the drive-shaft and pintle-valve respectively. However, the multitude of machining operations required to produce all the necessary features in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine having a drive-shaft, comprising two shells connectable together along a parting plane in which the rotating axis of the drive-shaft lies and wherein the interior of each said shell is formed with a number of generally semi-circular formations and/or recesses, respective pairs of said formations and/or recesses form apertures or pockets to receive and/or support internal elements of said hydrostatic machine.
2. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 1 wherein one or more fluid-passageways are formed in either one or both said shells to provide fluid distribution means.
3. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 2 wherein at least one of said fluid-passageways is exposed to the exterior surface of its respective said shell to provide an external-opening, and where each said external-opening is available for connection to a respective fluid-conduit for the transmission of hydraulic energy.
4. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 3 wherein at least one of said fluid-passageways is extended to the interior surface of its respective said shell to provide an internal-opening on one of said formations and/or recesses, each said internal-opening arranged to join a respective duct provided on a pintle-valve.
5. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine 


according to claim 4 wherein each associated said internal-opening and duct are positioned to join at an interface non-coincident with said parting plane.
6. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 2 wherein the longitudinal axis of at least one of said fluid-passageway is perpendicular to said parting plane.
7. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 1 wherein said drive-shaft is supported on one or more bearings disposed between said semi-circular formations and protrudes from said housing to act as input or output member for mechanical-power transmission.
8. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 7 wherein the joining surface of at least one said shells at said parting plane is provided with a lubrication-groove or grooves to provide access for fluid contained within said apertures or pockets to lubricate and cool said bearing supporting said drive-shaft.
9. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 7 wherein said drive-shaft is operatively connected to a cylinder-barrel, rotation of said cylinder-barrel in said housing causes fluid contained within said apertures or pockets to be displaced and circulated through said lubrication-grooves or grooves.
10. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 6 wherein either of both said housing shells are provided with mounting holes that open to both interior and exterior surfaces, and screws fitted into said holes act in 


 locking said shells together in the assembled condition.
11. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 6 wherein one said housing shell is provided with mounting holes that open to both interior and exterior surfaces, the other said housing shell is provided with mounting holes that open only on the interior surface, and screws engaging said holes act in locking said shells together in the assembled condition.
12. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claims 10 or 11 wherein the longitudinal axis of said mounting holes is arranged to be generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of any one of said fluid-passageways.
13. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 3 wherein at least one said fluid-passageway is extended to the interior surface of its respective said shell to provide an internal-opening on one of said formations and/or recesses, each said internal-opening connecting via a deformable seal-ring with a respective duct provided on a pintle-valve, and where each said seal-ring is so positioned within the said housing to avoid intercepting said parting plane.
14. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 1 wherein each said shell is provided with two outwardly extending arms, each of the said arms of one said shell being combined to one of the opposing arms of the other said shell, said arms joining along said parting plane to form the mounting flange for the said hydrostatic machine.
15. A radial piston hydrostatic machine including a housing according to any one of the preceding claims. 


 16. A radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 15 comprising a pintle-valve formed with a pair of arcuate-slots, a cylinder-barrel provided with generally radial cylinder bores is mounted for rotation on said pintle-valve, a piston disposed in each said cylinder bore and moveable therein, said pistons being operatively connected to a surrounding annular track-ring, at least two internal longitudinal passages in said pintle-valve for transfering hydraulic fluid to and from said arcuate slots to said fluid passageways in said shells, said cylinder bores communicating with respective ports within the internal surface of said cylinder-barrel and arranged to co-operate successively with said arcuate slots in said pintle-valve as said cylinder-barrel rotates.
17. A radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 16 wherein said track-ring is supported on a pivot-pin to define an axis of articulation, said pivot-pin protrudes from opposite sides of said track-ring to engage into respective pairs of said semi-circular recesses to be held fast once said shells are attached together.
18. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 17 wherein said track-ring is provided with a control-pin, said control-pin protruding from one side of said track-ring to be operatively connected by two hydraulic rams of unequal size, the action of said rams causing movement of said track-ring about said pivot-pin in a direction transverse to said parting plane.
19. A housing for a radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 15 wherein at least one or more said 


formations and/or recesses in each said shell combine together to envelope about the circumference of said pintle valve once said shells are attached together.
20. A radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 15 as dependent on claim 2 wherein said radial piston machine comprises a pintle-valve formed with a pair of arcuate-slots, a cylinder-barrel provided with generally radial cylinder bores is mounted for rotation on said pintle-valve, a piston disposed in each said cylinder bore and moveable therein, said pistons being operatively connected by associated slippers to a surrounding annular track-ring, a pair of rigid guidance rings disposed around said cylinder-barrel to retain said slippers against said track ring, and where a single groove is provided on each said slipper to engage with either one of said pair of guidance rings, said guidance rings being thus held in spaced relationship and prevented from contacting the interior walls of said housing shells.
21. A radial piston hydrostatic machine according to claim 15 as dependent on claim 2 wherein one or more passageways are formed in either one or both said shells into which elements of the control-system for said machine are located, the longitudinal axis of said passageway being arranged perpendicular to said parting plane. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
