<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630647</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compositions and methods of manufacture of oral dissolvable medicaments
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G336	A23G354	A23G300	A61K31465	A61K900	A23G334	A61J700	A24B1500	A24B1516	A24F4700	A61K900	A61K31465	A23G356	A23G300	A61J700	A24F4700	A61J300	A61K920	A61J300	A61K920	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	A23G	A61K	A61K	A23G	A61J	A24B	A24B	A24F	A61K	A61K	A23G	A23G	A61J	A24F	A61J	A61K	A61J	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G3	A23G3	A23G3	A61K31	A61K9	A23G3	A61J7	A24B15	A24B15	A24F47	A61K9	A61K31	A23G3	A23G3	A61J7	A24F47	A61J3	A61K9	A61J3	A61K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Dosage form and method of manufacture for producing a medicament capable 
of absorption through mucosal tissues. The drug (24) is to be incorporated into a 

dissolvable matrix (22). An appliance or holder (26) is attached to the dissolvable 
matrix (22) and mounted or sealed against button (28). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to compositions and
methods of manufacture of oral dissolvable matrixes for
medicaments used in the buccal, sublingual, pharyngeal, and
esophageal transmucosal delivery of the medicaments. More
particularly, the present invention is directed to
compositions, and methods and apparatus for producing such
compositions, for noninvasive administration of dose-to-effect
amounts of medicaments through the mucosal tissues
of the mouth, pharynx, and esophagus.Recently, numerous advancements have taken place in
the field of pharmacology and pharmaceutics with respect to
the administration of drugs to treat various conditions.
Despite the tremendous advancements in the field, however,
drugs continue to be administered using substantially the
same techniques that have been used for many decades. The
vast majority of pharmaceutical agents continue to be
administered either orally or by injection. Nevertheless,
it is frequently found in the art that neither of these
administration routes are effective in all cases, and both
administration routes suffer from several disadvantages.Oral administration is probably the most prevalent
method of administering pharmacological medicaments. The
medicament is generally incorporated into a tablet,
capsule, or a liquid base, and then swallowed. The oral
administration modality is often preferred because of its
convenience. In addition, oral administration is generally 
nonthreatening, painless, and simple to accomplish for most
patients.Nevertheless, oral administration of drugs suffers
from several disadvantages. One disadvantage is that
pediatric and geriatric patients frequently have difficulty
swallowing pills and other solid dosage-forms, and such
patients often refuse to cooperate in swallowing a liquid
medication. In addition, for many medicaments, the act of
swallowing the medicament often requires fluids and
increases gastric volume and the likelihood of nausea and
vomiting.A further problem with oral administration is that the
rate of absorption of the drug into the bloodstream after
swallowing varies from patient to patient. The absorption
of the drug is dependent upon the movement of the drug from
the stomach to the small and large intestines and the
effects of secretions from these organs and on the
resulting pH within the stomach and intestines. Anxiety
and stress can dramatically reduce these movements and
secretions, prevent or reduce the final effects of the
drug, and delay onset of the drug's effects.Most significant is the fact
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A drug-containing dosage-form composition for use in
transmucosal delivery of the drug to a patient, said dosage-form

comprising:

a soluble matrix material;
a pharmacologically effective dose of a potent drug being
capable of absorption through mucosal tissues of the mouth,

pharynx, and oesophagus and being dispersed throughout the
matrix material and formed into a substantially solid integral

mass which is capable of dissolving in the mouth of the patient
so that the drug is released for absorption through mucosal

tissues of the mouth, pharynx and oesophagus upon dissolution
of the integral mass in the mouth of the patient;
a permeation enhancer which is also dispersed throughout
the integral mass, the permeation enhancer being capable of

modifying the permeability of the mucosal tissues of the mouth,
pharynx, and oesophagus towards the drug in order to facilitate

transmucosal absorption of the drug; and
holder means secured to the integral mass so as to form
a drug-containing dosage-form, the holder means being

configured so as to permit convenient insertion and removal of
the drug-containing integral mass into and out of the mouth of

the patient.
A composition according to claim 1, wherein the
permeation enhancer is not dispersed uniformly throughout the

integral mass.
A composition according to claim 2, wherein more of
the permeation enhancer is dispersed about the outer periphery

of the dosage-form than is in the centre portion of the dosage-form.
A composition according to claim 1, wherein the drug
is dispersed substantially uniformly throughout the matrix

material.
A composition according to claim 1, wherein the
soluble matrix material comprises a soluble carbohydrate 

material, a soluble fat material, a soluble protein material,
a soluble wax material, or a soluble hydrocarbon material.
A composition according to claim 1, wherein soluble
matrix material comprises a soluble carbohydrate material

present in a solidified molten matrix, or as a compressed
powder.
A composition according to claim 6, wherein the drug
is incorporated into a compressed powder matrix in

microencapsulated form, or included within a microsponge.
A composition according to claim 5, wherein the
soluble matrix material comprises soluble carbohydrate

material in the form of a hydrogel, or a gelatin.
A composition according to claim 1, wherein the
permeation enhancer comprises a bile salt, or a synthetic

permeation enhancer.
A composition according to claim 1, wherein the
drug-containing integral mass further includes a lubricating

agent, or a surfactant, dispersed substantially uniformly
throughout the integral mass in order to aid in the manufacture

of the drug-containing dosage-form.
A composition according to claim 1, wherein the
drug-containing integral mass further includes maltodextrin

dispersed substantially uniformly throughout the integral mass
in order to aid in dissipating any unpleasant flavours of the

drug in the integral mass.
A composition according to claim 1, wherein the
drug-containing integral mass further includes at least one

flavour enhancer dispersed substantially uniformly throughout
the integral mass.
A composition according to claim 1, wherein the
drug-containing integral mass further includes a substantially

water-insoluble component dispersed substantially uniformly
throughout the integral mass in order to make slower the

dissolution of the integral mass in the mouth of the patient.
A composition according to any one of claims 1 to
13, wherein the potent drug is substantially lipophilic.
A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 
13, wherein the potent drug is substantially nonlipophilic.
A method for producing a drug-containing dosage-form
for use in transmucosal delivery of the drug to a patient, the

method comprising the steps of:

(a) obtaining a pharmacologically effective dose of a
potent drug capable of absorption through mucosal tissues of

the mouth, pharynx and oesophagus;
(b) obtaining a soluble matrix material to form a drug-containing
matrix such that the drug is dispersed throughout

the drug-containing matrix;
(c) mixing the drug and the matrix material to form a
drug-containing matrix such that the drug is dispersed

throughout the drug-containing matrix
(d) dispersing a permeation enhancer throughout the
integral mass, the permeation enhancer being capable of

modifying the permeability of the mucosal tissues of the mouth,
pharynx and oesophagus towards the drug in order to facilitate

transmucosal absorption of the drug;
(e) forming a substantially solid integral mass from the

drug-containing matrix which is capable of dissolving in the
mouth of the patient so that the drug is released for

absorption through mucosal tissues of t he mouth, pharynx, and
oesophagus upon dissolution of the integral mass in the mouth

of the patient; and
(f) incorporating a holder as part of the integral mass
in order to form the drug-containing dosage-form.
A method according to claim 16, wherein the
permeation enhancer is not dispersed uniformly throughout the

integral mass.
A method according to claim 16, wherein a higher
concentration of the permeation enhancer is dispersed about the

outer periphery of the dosage-form than in the centre portion
of the dosage form.
A method according to claim 16, wherein the potent
drug is dispersed substantially uniformly throughout the matrix

material.
A method according to claim 16, wherein the 
permeation enhancer comprises a bile salt, or a synthetic

permeation enhancer.
A method according to claim 16, wherein the drug
possesses sufficient nonlipophilic properties such that a

permeation enhancer is needed to enable the drug to be absorbed
through the mucosal tissue.
A method according to claim 16, wherein the holder
is incorporated into the integral mass by compression of the

drug-containing matrix around the holder during forming step
(e).
A method according to claim 16, wherein the holder
is incorporated as part of the integral mass by affixing the

holder to the integral mass after forming step (e).
A method according to any one of claims 16 to 23,
wherein the drug-containing matrix includes at least one

flavour enhancer, or includes maltodextrin in order to aid in
dissipating any unpleasant flavours of the drug.
A method according to any one of claims 16 to 24,
wherein a substantially water-insoluble component is added to

the drug-containing matrix such that the dissolution of the
integral mass in the mouth of the patient is made slower by the

substantially water-insoluble component in the drug-containing
matrix.
A method according to any one of claims 16 to 25,
wherein the drug is selected from the group consisting of a

substantially lipophilic, or a substantially nonlipophilic
drug, a drug having opioid agonist effects on the patient, a

drug having opioid antagonist effects on the patient, a drug
which is potent, a fast-acting drug, a drug having effects on

the central nervous system of the patient, a drug having
effects on the cardiovascular system of the patient, a drug

having effects in the renal vascular system of the patient, a
drug having effects on the respiratory system of the patient.
A method according to any one of claims 16 to 26,
wherein the permeation enhancer comprises a lipid soluble

supplement which acts a permeation enhancer.
A method according to any one of claims 38 to 49, 
wherein the drug-containing matrix comprises a sweetener.
A method according to claim 28, wherein the
sweetener is an artificial sweetener.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
