<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629557</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Corrugated cardboard tube and pallet using the same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31C300	B31C300	B65D1900	B65D1900	B65D1938	B65D1940	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31C	B31C	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31C3	B31C3	B65D19	B65D19	B65D19	B65D19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A corrugated cardboard tube (1A) includes a tubular laminar structure 
of single-lined corrugated cardboard which includes a plurality of strips of single-lined 

corrugated cardboard (2) spirally wound into a substantially cylindrical 
configuration to form corresponding single-lined corrugated cardboard layers (3₁ to 

3₆) overlapping and bonded with each other in a radial direction. Each of the strips 
of single-lined corrugated cardboard (2) is composed of an elongated liner sheet (2b) 

and a corrugated sheet (2a), having a plurality of parallel ridges (2d) and furrows, 
and being spirally turned in a direction perpendicular to the ridges (2d). The 

corrugated cardboard tube (1A) is used as a load bearing member adapted to 
support a load acting in a direction (S) axially of the corrugated cardboard tube 

(1A). The corrugated cardboard tube (1A) may also be used as leg members of a 
pallet (6) and, in such case, the corrugated cardboard tubes (1A) are bonded at their 

opposite annular ends to upper and lower tables (6a and 6b) to complete the pallet 
(6). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOSHII HISASHI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOSHII, HISASHI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSHII HISASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSHII, HISASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a corrugated cardboard tube made 
of single-lined corrugated cardboard and also to a pallet using a plurality of 
corrugated cardboard tubes as load bearing members. Corrugated cardboard has many features. Specifically, not only is the 
corrugated cardboard light-weight, but it has a high physical strength for a given 
weight. In addition, the corrugated cardboard has a capability of absorbing impacts 
and shocks. For this reason, the corrugated cardboard has long been used not 
only as material for various boxes, but also as material forming part or the 
entirety of a pallet for the support of contents thereon such as disclosed in, for 
example, United States Patents No. 2,728,545, No. 3,683,822, No. 4,831,938, No. 
4,792,325 and No. 4,867,074. Unlike multiply cardboard, the corrugated cardboard 
is extremely easy to be dissolved, having an excellent capability of being recycled. Fig. 12 illustrates the prior art pallet 70 comprising upper and lower 
tables 71 and 72 and load bearing members or flat spacer legs 73, all of which are 
made of corrugated cardboard. According to the prior art, each of the upper and 
lower tables 71 and 72 and the flat spacer legs 73 is made up a laminar structure 
including a plurality of webs of double-lined corrugated cardboard 2M of a 
structure comprising a pair of flat liner sheets 2b with a corrugated sheet 2a 
sandwiched and bonded in position therebetween by the use of an adhesive 
material. Each flat spacer leg 73 has opposite annular end faces glued to the 
upper and lower tables 71 and 72 by means of a suitable adhesive material so as 
to receive a load, imposed by contents placed on the upper table 72, in a vertical 
direction A perpendicular to any one of the upper and lower tables 71 and 72. It has been found that each flat spacer leg 73 employed in the prior 
art pallet fails to make a maximized utilization of physical properties and  
 
workability of the corrugated cardboard 2M, and therefore, not only is the pallet 
still far from exhibiting a sufficient strength, but also the productivity is low. In other words, each of the flat spacer legs 73 employed in the prior 
art pallet is of a structure wherein a plurality of generally oblong flat webs of 
multiply double-lined corrugated cardboard 2M are bonded face-to-face together 
into a flat laminar structure, having opposite end faces bonded to the upper and 
lower tables 71 an 72. Therefore, the spacer legs 73 have a problem in that both 
of the compressive strength with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A corrugated cardboard tube which comprises a tubular laminar 
structure of single-lined corrugated cardboard, said tubular laminar structure 

including a plurality of strips of single-lined corrugated cardboard spirally wound 
into a substantially cylindrical configuration to form corresponding single-lined 

corrugated cardboard layers overlapping and bonded with each other in a radial 
direction, each of said strips of single-lined corrugated cardboard composed of an 

elongated liner sheet and a corrugated sheet having a plurality of parallel ridges and 
furrows, each of said strips of single-lined corrugated cardboard being spirally 

turned in a direction perpendicular to the ridges. 
The corrugated cardboard tube as claimed in Claim 1, wherein each 
of said strips of single-lined corrugated cardboard has side edges opposite to each 

other and is wound into the substantially cylindrical configuration with the side 
edges of one turn of the respective strip of single-lined corrugated cardboard held 

in abutment with, but neither overlapped with nor spaced from, the adjacent side 
edges of the next succeeding turn of the respective strip of single-lined corrugated 

cardboard. 
The corrugated cardboard tube as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein 
each of said strips of single-lined corrugated cardboard is wound with the 

corrugated sheet and the liner sheet oriented radially inwardly and radially 
outwardly of the corrugated cardboard tube. 
The corrugated cardboard tube as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, further comprising a reinforcement member bonded to at least one of a 

radially outer surface of the outermost one of the single-lined corrugated layers and 
a radially inner surface of the innermost one of the single-lined corrugated layers. 
The corrugated cardboard tube as claimed in Claim 4, wherein said 
reinforcement member comprises a plurality of tapes of paper wound into a 

substantially cylindrical configuration in overlapping relation with each other in a 
direction radially thereof. 
The corrugated cardboard tube as claimed in any one of the preceding 
 

claims, wherein the ridges of the corrugated sheet forming a part of each single-lined 
corrugated cardboard layer is inclined relative to a longitudinal axis of the 

corrugated cardboard tube. 
A pallet which comprises upper and lower tables, and a plurality of 
corrugated cardboard tubes each being of a construction as defined in any one of 

the preceding claims, said corrugated cardboard tubes being positioned between the 
upper and lower tables with opposite annular ends of the corrugated cardboard tube 

bonded firmly to the upper and lower tables. 
The pallet as claimed in Claim 7, wherein each of said upper and 
lower tables comprises a flat laminar structure of corrugated cardboard including 

a plurality of flat web of corrugated cardboard bonded together, said flat laminar 
structure having a plurality of reinforcement holes defined therein in a predetermined 

pattern corresponding to the shape of any of the annular end faces of each 
corrugated cardboard tube so as to extend inwardly thereof, each of said 

reinforcement holes being filled with an adhesive filler material such that the 
annular end face of each corrugated cardboard tube can be firmly interlocked with 

the associated table by means of a deposit of the adhesive filler material. 
The pallet as claimed in Claim 8, wherein the adhesive filler material 
filled in each reinforcement hole is a resinous adhesive material mixed with a filler 

material. 
The pallet as claimed in Claim 8 or 9, wherein the adhesive filler 
material filled in each reinforcement hole contains an adhesive material of the same 

kind as an adhesive material used to connect the opposite annular end faces of each 
corrugated tube with the upper and lower tables. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
