<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656616</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Technique to increase the apparent dynamic range of a visual display.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G320	G09G320	G09G334	G09G334	G09G506	G09G506	H04N5202	H04N5202	H04N566	H04N566	H04N574	H04N574	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G5	G09G5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of digital signal translation wherein the value of a data word 

48
 is dithered over time such that the average value of the data word 
48
 is a 
more accurate approximation of the desired value of than is possible with a 

single data word of the same resolution. Three non-exclusive embodiments 
are taught using multiple memory lookup tables 
58
 to perform the 
translation function. 
In one embodiment a counter 
60
 is used to sequentially select lookup 
tables for each translation. A second embodiment uses a random means to 

select the current lookup table. A third embodiment applies temporal 
dithering to the technique of spatial dithering to dither super-pixels and 

increase the number of intensity levels a display is capable of displaying. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of digital display systems, more particularly to digital 
spatial light modulator (SLM) display systems. Digital display systems create visual images from quantized video data. Digital displays 
have many advantages when compared to the typical analog display which uses a cathode ray 
tube (CRT), including increased accuracy of image rendition and the prospect of low-cost high-definition 
implementation. However, without proper consideration for representation of the 
image's dynamic range, a digital system can induce new artifacts. Because the data in a digital 
system is quantized, the display has a finite number if intensity levels that can be displayed. 
Discrete intensity levels can detract from the overall image quality, causing visual artifacts such 
as false contouring. If the number of discrete levels is increased, the picture quality is increased 
and the effects of artifacts are decreased. As the number of discrete intensity levels grows, the 
cost of the system increases. Up to a point, this is due more to the increased throughput and 
frame storage memory required than to the increased accuracy of the sampling circuitry.  A method and system for digital signal translation is disclosed wherein 
the value of a data word is dithered over time such that the average value of the 
data word is an approximation of the desired value of the data word. The invention provides for digital signal translation wherein the value 
of a data word is dithered over time such that the average value of said data 
word is an approximation of the desired value of said data word. The invention further provides for increasing the apparent dynamic 
range of a display system comprising digitizing the video data for each pixel, 
translating said data and varying said translation operation over time such 
that the average translated data value is an approximation of the desired 
data value. It is an advantage of this invention to reduce number of image data bits 
required to be acquired, processed, and displayed in order to produce an image. 
A reduction in the number of bits will lead to a reduction in the cost of an image 
display system. It is another advantage of this invention to provide an efficient 
method of digital signal translation that reduces quantization errors. It is a 
further advantage of this invention to provide for the linearization of a nonlinear 
video signal and the smooth translation of color and intensity data.  Fig. 1is a graph of a typical luminosity
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of increasing the apparent dynamic range of a display 
system, said method comprising: 

addressing a memory with an input data word and a table select word, 
said memory producing an output data word; and 

varying said table select word over an interval of time such that said 
output word varies over said interval, wherein an average value of 

said output word over said interval approximates a desired output 
data value. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said output data word is a function of 
said input data word said function compensating for a non-linearity in 

said display system. 
The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said table select word may 
assume one of four values. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said table select word is 
varied for each input data word. 
The method of claim 2, wherein said input data word is a portion of an 
input data stream, said input data stream representing a video scene, 

the method further comprising: 
detecting the amount of motion in said video scene, wherein said table 

select word is varied at a rate dependent on the motion detected in 
said video scene. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said input data word 
represents the brightness data of a video image. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said input data word 
represents the color data of a video image. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said table select word 
selects one of four translation lookup tables, said table select word is 

chosen randomly for each input data word. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said input data word 
represents one pixel in a video image, wherein said table select word is 

dependent on the position of said pixel in said video image. 
A digital data translation system comprising; 
a memory comprising at least two lookup tables, each of said lookup 

tables capable of producing an output data word in response to an 
input data word, wherein said output data word is a function of said 

input data word; and 
a sequencer for selecting one of said lookup tables, said sequencer 

changing the selection of said lookup tables to output a different 
output data word, wherein an average of all said output data words 

approximates a desired output data word value. 
The system of claim 10, wherein said sequencer is a counter. 
The system of claim 10, wherein said sequencer is a random number 
generator. 
The system of claim 10, wherein said input data word is a portion of a 
video data stream comprised of sequential image frames, each image 

frame comprised of rows of pixels, wherein said sequencer selects a 
lookup table for each frame of video data. 
The system of claim 10, wherein said input data word is a portion of a 
video data stream comprised of sequential image frames, each image 

frame comprised of rows of pixels, wherein said sequencer selects a 
lookup table for each line of video data. 
The system of claim 10, wherein said input data word is a portion of a 
video data stream comprised of sequential image frames, each image 

frame comprised of rows of pixels, wherein said sequencer selects a 
lookup table for each pixel of video data. 
The system of claim 10, wherein said input data word is a portion of a 
video data stream comprised of sequential image frames, each image 

frame comprised of rows of pixels, said at least two lookup tables 

comprising four memory lookup tables, wherein a translation lookup 
table is randomly selected by said sequencer for each input data word. 
A digital data translation system comprising; 
a means for converting an input data word to a first output data word, 

said first output data word having a value which approximates a 
desired output data value; and 

a means for altering the conversion performed by said means for 
converting, such that said means for converting outputs additional 

 
output data words, said additional output data words also approximate 

said desired output data value, wherein an average value of said first 
output data word and said additional output data words approximates 

said desired output data value. 
The system of claim 17, wherein said means for converting is a 
memory look-up table. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
