<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610367</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INFORMATION BROADCASTING SYSTEM AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B7185	H04B7185	H04H2040	H04H4090	H04H6027	H04H6087	H04N7173	H04N7173	H04N720	H04N720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04H	H04H	H04H	H04H	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04H20	H04H40	H04H60	H04H60	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An information broadcasting system (100) provides a large number of subscribers access to a large amount of information using one or more satellite transmission channels. The system (100) can also use cable television transmission channels. A program supplier station (102) stores an information database (112) and tags all the information in the database with indices so as to form a single hierarchical structure which encompasses the entire information database (112). Portions of the information database (112) are transmitted often, at least once per day, in order to provide the basic subscriber with information need to access the remainder of the database (112). The information provided by the basic subscriber service, which will typically include at least 50 gigabytes of data, is available to all subscribers without requiring two way communications between the subscribers and the program supplier station. Using a tiered system for scheduling transmission of the 50 gigabytes or so of information included in the basic subscriber service, as well as an intelligent subscriber request anticipation scheme for retrieving information before the subscriber asks for it, the present invention provides subscribers with reasonably quick access to all the contents of the large database while using only a modest amount of bandwidth.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INFORMATION BROADCASTING SYSTEM AND METHODThe present invention relates generally to the transmission or broadcasting of digital information to a wide base of subscribers, and particularly to methods and systems for providing access by many subscribers to an almost unlimited amount of information and/or programming material.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe goal of computerized information servers is to provide a system that encourages use by subscribers, provides access to a large range of information, and which is flexible and inexpensive for information publishers. Computerized information services which exist today include Prodigy, CompuServe, and Dialog. Typically, the user either pays a monthly fee or a connect time fee for the most basic service and additional or special services are provided for additional fees.All of the above mentioned computer services require two way com-Tiunications between the user and the information server in order to serv. each new request by the user. In other words, the user sends and then selected data is transmitted individually to that user in response to his/her request. This two way "query based" communication scheme is also prevalent in other types of information servers. For instance, the "pay per view" services provided by cable television companies allow a subscriberto call the company and request a movie. The company then sends 

 a signal to the subscriber's television signal decoder to enable it to decode the program on a particular channel during the period of time associated with the requested movie. In this case, the "information" (a program or movie) is being transmitted in any case, but subscribers are only provided access to the program if they pay a special fee.Two major distinctions between the present invention and the prior art query based information servers are (1 ) the present invention has a bandwidth that is thousands of times of greater than the prior art systems, thereby enabling highspeed, low cost distribution of information, and (2) the present invention greatly reduces the amount of two-way communication required between subscribers and the information server by automatically transmitting information that responds to most anticipated "requests" by subscribers. Only those subscriber requests not satisfied by the automatically transmitted information need to be conveyed to the information server.The goal of the present invention is to provide widespread, high speed access to a virtual omniscient database having typically well in excess of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An information transmission system comprising: a set of one or more computer memory devices on which is stored an information database; database editing means, coupled to said one or more computer memory devices, for generating a hierarchically arranged set of indices for referencing data in said information database, including distinct indices for referencing distinct portions thereof, and for embedding said indices in said information database; scheduling means for scheduling transmission of selected portions of said information database, including assigning each selected portion of said information database one or more scheduled transmission times; transmission means, coupled to said scheduling means and said one or more computer memory devices, for transmitting a stream of data packets containing said selected portions of said information database in accordance with said scheduled transmission times; said scheduling means including means for dividing said selected portions of said information database into a prioritized set of tiers, wherein all the selected portions of said information database in each tier are transmitted at a corresponding repetition rate, wherein the repetition rate for higher priority tiers is higher than the repetition rate for lower priority tiers; and subscriber stations which receive said transmitted stream of data packets, each subscriber station including filtering means for specifying a set of requested data packets which comprises a subset of said transmitted data packets and for downloading into a memory storage device those of said received data packets which match said specified set of requested data packets.
2. The information transmission system of claim 1 , wherein 


 said set of indices include timestamps therein indicating when each said portion of the information database referenced by an index is schedule to be transmitted; and said subscriber stations including means for decoding said timestamps in said indices; whereby subscribers can be informed as to the how long it will take to receive a specified portion of the information database.
3. The information transmission system of claim 2, wherein each timestamp includes a repetition rate value indicating how often the associated portion of the information database is transmitted, and a time skew value indicating in conjunction with said repetition rate value a scheduled transmission time for the associated portion of the information database.
4. The information transmission system of claim 3, wherein the timestamp in indices referencing portions of the information database not scheduled for transmission is null, indicating that said referenced portions of the information database are transmitted only upon request by subscribers.
5. The information transmission system of claim 1, wherein said transmission means includes a central program transmission station which transmits said stream of data packets, and one or more cable television systems which receive the transmitted stream of data packets and retransmit said stream of data packets via cables to a set of subscribers.
6. The information transmission system of claim 5, wherein one or more of said cable television systems includes the ability to insert into the stream of retransmitted data packets additional "local programming" data packets.
7. The information transmission system of claim 1 , wherein a portion of the transmission bandwidth available to said transmission means is reserved 


 for transmitting portions of said information database requested by subscribers; said information transmission system including subscriber request response means for receiving requests from subscribers, said requests each specifying a portion of said information database; and said scheduling means including means for scheduling transmission of requested portions of said information database.
8. The information transmission system of claim 1 , wherein one or more subsets of said subscriber stations are interconnected via a local area network, including a network server which receives said transmitted stream of data packets on behalf of an associated set of subscribers, said network server including means for referencing a specified set of data packets requested by said associated set of subscribers, and means for downloading into a memory storage device those of said received data packets which match said specified set of requested data packets; whereby overhead associated with receiving the stream of data packets and downloading for storage a specified subset thereof is shared by a set of subscribers.
9. The information transmission system of claim 1 , wherein said transmission means transmits said data packets using multiple transmission channels; and said subscriber stations include means for receiving data packets for each of said multiple transmission channels.
10. The information transmission system of claim 9, wherein said information database includes video program materials as well as non-video information; said transmission means transmits data packets containing at least selected portions of said video program materials on at least one of said multiple transmission channels and transmits primarily non-video information on at least one other one of said multiplicity of transmission channels; and 


 a multiplicity of said subscriber stations include means for receiving and storing video program materials.
11. The information transmission system of claim 1 , said filtering means comprising a buffer for temporarily storing received data packets, a filter list storage device for storing packet filter data referencing said specified set of requested data packets, and processing means for comparing said data packets temporarily stored in said buffer with said packet filter data and then forwarding those data packets in said buffer which match said packet filter data to a predefined destination; whereby each subscriber station receives all transmitted data packets but forwards only requested data packets to said predefined destination.
12. The information transmission system of claim 1 , said filtering means including look ahead means for automatically specifying additional data packets to be downloaded, wherein said requested data packets and said additional data packets each have associated indices at defined positions in said hierarchically arranged set of indices and said additional data packets are selected using predefined criteria with regard to said defined positions of their associated indices relative to the defined positions of said requested data packets; whereby said subscriber station automatically downloads data packets containing data related to data contained in requested data packets, thereby anticipating potential additional requests that a user may make and speeding access thereto. 


 13. An information transmission system comprising: a set of one or more computer memory devices on which is stored an information database; database editing means, coupled to said one or more computer memory devices, for generating a hierarchically arranged set of indices for referencing data in said information database, including distinct indices for referencing distinct portions thereof, and for embedding said indices in said information database; scheduling means for scheduling transmission of selected portions of said information database, including assigning each selected portion of said information database one or more scheduled transmission times; transmission means, coupled to said scheduling means and said one or more computer memory devices, for transmitting a stream of data packets containing said selected portions of said information database in accordance with said scheduled transmission times; and a multiplicity of subscriber stations for receiving said transmitted stream of data packets, each subscriber station including filtering means for specifying a set of requested data packets which comprises a subset of said transmitted data packets and for downloading into a memory storage device those of said received data packets which match said specified set of requested data packets; said filtering means furthermore including look ahead means for automatically specifying additional data packets to be downloaded, wherein said requested data packets and said additional data packets each have associated indices at defined positions in said hierarchically arranged set of indices and said additional data packets are selected using predefined criteria with regard to said defined positions of their associated indices relative to the defined positions of said requested data packets; whereby said subscriberstation automatically downloads data packets containing data related to data contained in requested data packets, thereby anticipating potential additional requests that a user may make and speeding access thereto. 


 14. The information transmission system of claim 13, wherein said set of indices include timestamps therein indicating when each said portion of the information database referenced by an index is schedule to be transmitted; and said subscriber stations including means for decoding said timestamps in said indices; whereby subscribers can be informed as to the how long it will take to receive a specified portion of the information database.
15. The information transmission system of claim 14, wherein each timestamp includes a repetition rate value indicating how often the associated portion of the information database is transmitted, and a time skew value indicating in conjunction with said repetition rate value a scheduled transmission time for the associated portion of the information database.
16. The information transmission system of claim 15, wherein the timestamp in indices referencing portions of the information database not scheduled for transmission is null, indicating that said referenced portions of the information database are transmitted only upon request by subscribers.
17. The information transmission system of claim 13, wherein said transmission means includes a central program transmission station which transmits said stream of data packets, and one or more cable television systems which receive the transmitted stream of data packets and retransmit said stream of data packets via cables to a set of subscribers.
18. The information transmission system of claim 17, wherein one or more of said cable television systems includes the ability to insert into the stream of retransmitted data packets additional "local programming" data packets.
19. The information transmission system of claim 13, wherein a portion of the transmission bandwidth available to said transmission means is reserved 


for transmitting portions of said information database requested by subscribers; said information transmission system including subscriber request response means for receiving requests from subscribers, said requests each specifying a portion of said information database; and said scheduling means including means for scheduling transmission of requested portions of said information database.
20. The information transmission system of claim 13, wherein one or more subsets of said subscriber stations are interconnected via a local area network, including a network server which receives said transmitted stream of data packets on behalf of an associated set of subscribers, said network server including means for referencing a specified set of data packets requested by said associated set of subscribers, and means for downloading into a memory storage device those of said received data packets which match said specified set of requested data packets; whereby overhead associated with receiving the stream of data packets and downloading for storage a specified subset thereof is shared by a set of subscribers.
21. The information transmission system of claim 13, wherein said transmission means transmits said data packets using multiple transmission channels; and said subscriber stations include means for receiving data packets for each of said multiple transmission channels.
22. The information transmission system of claim 21 , wherein said information database includes video program materials as well as non-video information; said transmission means transmits data packets containing at least selected portions of said video program materials on at least one of said multiple transmission channels and transmits primarily non-video information on at least one other one of said multiplicity of transmission channels; and 


 a multiplicity of said subscriber stations include means for receiving and storing video program materials.
23. The information transmission system of claim 13, said subscriber stations including a data filter subsystem comprising a buffer for temporarily storing received data packets, a filter list storage device for storing packet filter data referencing said specified set of requested data packets, and processing means for comparing said data packets temporarily stored in said buffer with said packet filter data and then forwarding those data packets in said buffer which match said packet filter data to a predefined destination; whereby each subscriber station receives all transmitted data packets but forwards only requested data packets to said predefined destination.
24. An information transmission method comprising the steps of: storing an information database on one or more memory devices; generating and storing on said memory devices a hierarchically arranged set of indices for referencing data in said information database, including distinct indices for referencing distinct portions thereof, and embedding said indices in said information database; scheduling transmission of selected portions of said information database, including assigning each selected portion of said information database one or more scheduled transmission times; transmitting a stream of data packets containing said selected portions of said information database in accordance with said scheduled transmission times; said scheduling step including dividing said selected portions of said information database into a prioritized set of tiers, wherein all the selected portions of said information database in each tier are transmitted at a corresponding repetition rate, wherein the repetition rate for higher priority tiers is higher than the repetition rate for lower priority tiers; receiving said transmitted stream of data packets at subscriber stations; 


 at each subscriber station, storing filter data specifying a set of requested data packets which comprises a subset of said transmitted data packets; and at each subscriber station, downloading into a memory storage device those of said received data packets which match said specified set of requested data packets.
25. The information transmission method of claim 24, wherein said generating step generates indices including timestamps therein, said timestamps indicating when each said portion of the information database referenced by an index is schedule to be transmitted; said method including decoding said timestamps in said indices at said subscriber stations; whereby subscribers can be informed as to the how long it will take to receive a specified portion of the information database.
26. The information transmission method of claim 25, wherein each timestamp includes a repetition rate value indicating how often the associated portion of the information database is transmitted, and a time skew value indicating in conjunction with said repetition rate value a scheduled transmission time for the associated portion of the information database.
27. The information transmission system of claim 26, wherein the timestamp in indices referencing portions of the information database not scheduled for transmission is null, indicating that said referenced portions of the information database are transmitted only upon request by subscribers.
28. The information transmission method of claim 24, wherein said transmitting step includes transmitting said stream of data packets to one or more cable television systems which receive the transmitted stream of data packets and retransmit said stream of data packets via cables to a set of subscribers. 


 29. The information transmission method of claim 28, wherein one or more of said cable television systems inserts into the stream of retransmitted data packets additional "local programming" data packets.
30. The information transmission method of claim 24, wherein said scheduling step includes reserving a portion of transmission bandwidth available for said transmitting step for transmitting portions of said information database requested by subscribers; said method including receiving requests from subscribers, said requests each specifying a portion of said information database; and said scheduling step including scheduling transmission of requested portions of said information database.
31. The information transmission method of claim 24, wherein one or more subsets of said subscriber stations are interconnected via a local area network including a network server; said method including receiving at said network server said transmitted stream of data packets on behalf of an associated set of subscribers, storing data in said network server referencing a specified set of data packets requested by said associated set of subscribers, and downloading into a memory storage device associated with said network server those of said received data packets which match said specified set of requested data packets; whereby overhead associated with receiving the stream of data packets and downloading for storage a specified subset thereof is shared by a set of subscribers.
32. The information transmission method of claim 24, wherein said transmitting step transmits said data packets using multiple transmission channels; and said receiving step includes receiving data packets from selected ones of said multiple transmission channels. 


33. The information transmission method of claim 32, wherein said information database includes video program materials as well as non-video information; said transmitting step transmits data packets containing at least selected portions of said video program materials on at least one of said multiple transmission channels and transmits primarily non-video information on at least one other one of said multiplicity of transmission channels; and at a multiplicity of said subscriber stations, receiving and storing video program materials.
34. The information transmission method of claim 24, said receiving and downloading steps including: at each subscriber stations, temporarily storing received data packets in a buffer, storing a filter list comprising packet filter data referencing said specified set of requested data packets, comparing said data packets temporarily stored in said buffer with said packet filter data and then forwarding those data packets in said buffer which match said packet filter data to a predefined destination; whereby each subscriber station receives all transmitted data packets but forwards only requested data packets to said predefined destination.
35. The information transmission method of claim 24, said storing filter data step furthermore including automatically specifying additional data packets to be downloaded, wherein said requested data packets and said additional data packets each have associated indices at defined positions in said hierarchically arranged set of indices and said additional data packets are selected using predefined criteria with regard to said defined positions of their associated indices relative to the defined positions of said requested data packets; whereby said subscriberstation automatically downloads data packets containing data related to data contained in requested data packets, thereby 


 aπticipating potential additional requests that a user may make and speeding access thereto.
36. An information transmission method comprising the steps of: storing an information database on one or more memory devices; generating and storing on said memory devices a hierarchically arranged set of indices for referencing data in said information database, including distinct indices for referencing distinct portions thereof, and embedding said indices in said information database; scheduling transmission of selected portions of said information database, including assigning each selected portion of said information database one or more scheduled transmission times; transmitting a stream of data packets containing said selected portions of said information database in accordance with said scheduled transmission times; receiving said transmitted stream of data packets at subscriber stations; at each subscriber station, storing filter data specifying a set of requested data packets which comprises a subset of said transmitted data packets; and at each subscriber station, downloading into a memory storage device those of said received data packets which match said specified set of requested data packets. said storing filter data step furthermore including automatically specifying additional data packets to be downloaded, wherein said requested data packets and said additional data packets each have associated indices at defined positions in said hierarchically arranged set of indices and said additional data packets are selected using predefined criteria with regard to said defined positions of their associated indices relative to the defined positions of said requested data packets; whereby said subscriberstation automatically downloads data packets containing data related to data contained in requested data packets, thereby anticipating potential additional requests that a user may make and speeding access thereto. 



37. The information transmission method of claim 36, wherein said generating step generates indices including timestamps therein, said timestamps indicating when each said portion of the information database referenced by an index is schedule to be transmitted; said method including decoding said timestamps in said indices at said subscriber stations; whereby subscribers can be informed as to the how long it will take to receive a specified portion of the information database.
38. The information transmission method of claim 37, wherein each timestamp includes a repetition rate value indicating how often the associated portion of the information database is transmitted, and a time skew value indicating in conjunction with said repetition rate value a scheduled transmission time for the associated portion of the information database.
39. The information transmission system of claim 38, wherein the timestamp in indices referencing portions of the information database not scheduled for transmission is null, indicating that said referenced portions of the information database are transmitted only upon request by subscribers.
40. The information transmission method of claim 36, wherein said transmitting step includes transmitting said stream of data packets to one or more cable television systems which receive the transmitted stream of data packets and retransmit said stream of data packets via cables to a set of subscribers.
41. The information transmission method of claim 40, wherein one or more of said cable television systems inserts into the stream of retransmitted data packets additional "local programming" data packets.
42. The information transmission method of claim 36, wherein said scheduling step includes reserving a portion of transmission bandwidth 


 available for said transmitting step for transmitting portions of said information database requested by subscribers; said method including receiving requests from subscribers, said requests each specifying a portion of said information database; and said scheduling step including scheduling transmission of requested portions of said information database.
43. The information transmission method of claim 36, wherein one or more subsets of said subscriber stations are interconnected via a local area network including a network server; said method including receiving at said network server said transmitted stream of data packets on behalf of an associated set of subscribers, storing data in said network server referencing a specified set of data packets requested by said associated set of subscribers, and downloading into a memory storage device associated with said network server those of said received data packets which match said specified set of requested data packets; whereby overhead associated with receiving the stream of data packets and downloading for storage a specified subset thereof is shared by a set of subscribers.
44. The information transmission method of claim 36, wherein said transmitting step transmits said data packets using multiple transmission channels; and said receiving step includes receiving data packets from selected ones of said multiple transmission channels.
45. The information transmission method of claim 44, wherein said information database includes video program materials as well as non-video information; said transmitting step transmits data packets containing at least selected portions of said video program materials on at least one of said multiple 


transmission channels and transmits primarily non-video information on at least one other one of said multiplicity of transmission channels; and at a multiplicity of said subscriber stations, receiving and storing video program materials.
46. The information transmission method of claim 36, said receiving and downloading steps including: at each subscriber stations, temporarily storing received data packets in a buffer, storing a filter list comprising packet filter data referencing said specified set of requested data packets, comparing said data packets temporarily stored in said buffer with said packet filter data and then forwarding those data packets in said buffer which match said packet filter data to a predefined destination; whereby each subscriber station receives all transmitted data packets but forwards only requested data packets to said predefined destination. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
