<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655277</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Amorphous aluminosilicate catalyst.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J2100	B01J2112	B01J3700	B01J3710	C01B3300	C01B3346	C01B3900	C01B3902	C01B3904	C01B3940	C07C500	C07C527	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	C07C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J21	B01J21	B01J37	B01J37	C01B33	C01B33	C01B39	C01B39	C01B39	C01B39	C07C5	C07C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A novel family of substantially amorphous aluminosilicate catalysts and a process for the 
manufacture thereof are described. In the process, a source of silica, a source of alumina 

and a source of an alkali metal are mixed in an aqueous medium and then subjected to 
hydrothermal treatment at a temperature of from 20°C to 200°C for a period of from 1 

hour to 250 hours, the reaction conditions and duration being selected so as to produce a 
solid which is substantially amorphous. 
The invention also extends to the use of the catalyst in acid catalyzed reactions such as the 
skeletal isomerization of normal olefins, in particular normal butene, and to the use of the 

catalyst as a support in metal catalyzed reactions. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CSIR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CSIR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICOLAIDES CHRISTAKIS PANAYIOT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICOLAIDES, CHRISTAKIS PANAYIOTOU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a novel family of aluminosilicate catalysts, to a process for the 
manufacture thereof, to the use of a catalyst in accordance with the invention in acid 
catalyzed reactions such as the skeletal isomerization of normal olefins, in particular 
normal butene, and to the use of a catalyst in accordance with the invention as a support in 
metal catalyzed reactions. Alkyl lead compounds, which have been conventionally used as anti-knock additives to 
motor fuels, exhibit undesirable properties such as the toxicity of the lead and their 
poisoning effect on catalytic converters. As a result, a need has arisen worldwide for 
other high octane compounds to be blended into the pool of fuel components available from 
refineries and synfuel plants. Because of certain limits to the extent to which oil refineries and synfuel plants can 
increase the octane number of available fuel pool components, the demand for isoalkenes, 
especially in the C₄ to C₅ range, has risen considerably in recent years. One of the 
products which can be synthesized from isobutene is methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE), 
which is a valuable octane boosting fuel additive. As a consequence, there is an increased 
demand for isobutene and for isomerization processes for the conversion of linear butenes 
to isobutene. Similarly, linear pentenes can be converted to isopentenes which could then 
be used to produce tert-amyl methyl ether (TAME).  Isomerization processes can be directed towards either skeletal isomerization or double 
bond isomerization. Skeletal isomerization is concerned with the reorientation of the 
molecular structure of a hydrocarbon, so as to increase the number of side chains. Double 
bond isomerization is concerned with the relocation of a double bond between carbon 
atoms forming part of a chain, and is not of great interest in the context of increasing 
octane values. A large number of isomerization processes has been described in the literature, which has 
been summarized by Butler and Nicolaides in Catalysis Today, Vol. 18, 1993, 443 - 471. 
Some of these processes rely on the use of metal oxides or crystalline aluminosilicates, 
some of them halogenated and others not, some of them containing metals and others not, 
some of them requiring a diluent in the isomerization reaction and others not. Most of the 
zeolite and halogenated alumina catalysts for the isomerization of linear butenes have a 
short life due to the formation of coke during the isomerization reaction, resulting from 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for the manufacture of a catalyst suitable for use in acid catalyzed 
reactions, or as a support in metal catalysed reactions, including the steps of: 


(a) mixing a source of alumina, a source of silica and a source of an alkali 
metal in an aqueous medium so as to form a reaction mixture; 
(b) subjecting the reaction mixture of step (a) to hydrothermal treatment, at a 
temperature of from 20°C to 200°C, for a period of from 1 hour to 250 

hours, so as to allow the source of silica to react with the source of alumina 
to form an aluminosilicate solid and an aqueous solution; and 
(c) separating the solid from the aqueous solution, 
 
characterized in that, in step (b), the reaction conditions and duration are selected 

such as to produce a solid which is substantially amorphous. 
A process as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that, in step (a), at least one of a 
source of phosphorus and a source of metal is mixed with the source of alumina, 

the source of silica and the source of an alkali metal. 
A process as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that step (a) is carried out in the 
presence of a suitable template. 
A process as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that step (b) is controlled, 
conducted or interrupted such that the solid obtained is at least 30% amorphous. 
A process as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the solid obtained from step 
(c) is washed with water in a washing step (d), until the water is substantially free 

of excess ions. 
A process as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that step (d) is followed by a step 
(e) in which the solid obtained from step (d) is calcined in air at a temperature of 

from 300°C to 800°C, for a period of from 0,5 hours to 20 hours. 
A process as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that it includes an additional step 
(f) in which the calcined product of step (e) is subjected to ion exchange at a 

temperature of from 10°C to 100°C, with an aqueous solution of an ammonium salt 
or of a strong acid 
A process as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the catalyst is subjected, in a 
further step (g), to further washing until it is substantially free of excess ions. 
A process as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that, subsequent to step (g), the 
catalyst is calcined in air, in a step (h), at a temperature of from 300°C to 800°C. 
A process as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the source of silica is selected 
from sodium silicate, colloidal silica, waterglass, fumed silica, silicic acid, silica 

gel, tetra ethyl orthosilicate, or a combination thereof. 
A process as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the source of alumina is 
selected from sodium aluminate, a simple aluminium salt, an oxide of aluminium, a 

hydroxide of aluminium, or a combination thereof. 
A process as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that the template is selected from 
tetra propyl ammonium bromide, pyridine, piperidine, ammonia, or a combination 

thereof. 
A process as claimed in claim 12, characterized in that, in step (a), the molar ratio 
of the template to the silica is between 1:200 and 1:1. 
A process as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that, in step (a), the molar ratio of 
silica to alumina in the reaction mixture is between 1000:1 and 1:1000. 
A catalyst suitable for use in acid catalysed reactions or as a support in metal 
catalysed reactions, comprising a mixed oxide reaction product of a source of silica 

and a source or alumina, wherein the molar ratio of silica to alumina present in the 
mixed oxide reaction product is from 1000:1 to 1:1000, characterized in that the 

mixed oxide reaction product is at least 30% amorphous. 
A catalyst as claimed in claim 15, comprising a mixed oxide reaction product of a 
source of silica, a source of alumina and a source of phosphorus pentoxide, 

characterized in that the molar ratio of silica to alumina present in the reaction 
product is between 1:1 and 1:10. 
A catalyst as claimed in claim 16, characterized in that it also comprises a metal 
oxide, the ratio of the metal oxide to alumina being between 1:1 and 1:10. 
A process for the skeletal isomerization of linear olefins, including the step of 

contacting a feed stream containing the linear olefins with an aluminosilicate 
catalyst at a temperature of from 250°C to 550°C, at a total pressure of from 10 

kPa absolute to 5000 kPa absolute, at a mass hourly space velocity of from 0,2 to 
20 per hour, characterized in that the aluminosilicate catalyst is a catalyst in 

accordance with claim 15. 
A process as claimed in claim 18, characterized in that it is conducted in the 
presence of a suitable diluent, and in that the molar ratio of diluent to hydrocarbon 

feedstock is from 0,01:1 to 20:1. 
A process as claimed in claim 19, characterized in that the diluent is selected from 
nitrogen, water, an alkane, hydrogen, or a mixture of any two or more thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
