<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658617</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dispersants for lubricating oil
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10M13300	B01F1738	B01F1738	B01F1716	C10M13352	B01F1716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10M	B01F	B01F	B01F	C10M	B01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10M133	B01F17	B01F17	B01F17	C10M133	B01F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Novel ashless dispersants that have reduced reactivity 
toward fluoroelastomers are described. They are oil-soluble 

products obtained by a process which comprises reacting 
(i) a long chain succinic acylating agent wherein the long 

chain is derived from a polyolefin with (ii) an alkoxylated 
diethylene triamine having an average of from 1 to 2 N-substituted 

C
2
 or C
3
 hydroxyalkyl groups per molecule. These 
reactants being employed in proportions of at least 2 moles 

of the acylating agent per mole of the alkoxylated diethylene 
triamine, with the proviso that where the average of 

N-substituted C
2
 or C
3
 hydroxyalkyl groups is 1.7 or more, 
the proportions are such that there are more than 2 moles 

of the acylating agent per mole of the alkoxylated diethylene 
triamine. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHYL PETROLEUM ADDITIVES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHYL PETROLEUM ADDITIVES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCATTERGOOD ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCATTERGOOD, ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to new and highly useful dispersants
for use as additives to natural and synthetic
lubricating oils. More particularly this invention relates
to novel ashless dispersants that have reduced reactivity
toward fluoroelastomers.A continuing problem in the art of lubrication is to
provide lubricant compositions which satisfy the demands
imposed upon them by the original equipment manufacturers.
One such requirement is that the lubricant satisfy one or
more tests for fluoroelastomer degradation under specified
laboratory test conditions. The commercial reality is that
if the lubricant is unable to pass the applicable test or
tests, it is unlikely to meet acceptance in the market-place.
Standard test methods for evaluating fluoroelastomer
compatibility of lubricant compositions include the
Volkswagen P.VW 3334 Seal Test and the CCMC Viton Seal Test
(CEL L-39-T-87 Oil/Elastomer Compatibility Test).More recently, a new, even more severe fluoroelastomer
test procedure has been developed, namely the Volkswagen
P.VW 3344 Seal Test. This test is so severe that a variety
of commercially-available premium motor oils from various
manufacturers have been found to fail this test.Thus a need has arisen for a dispersant that exhibits
reduced antagonism toward fluoroelastomers in at least one
of the above standard test procedures. At the same time it
is desired that the dispersant be relatively easy to produce
at low cost from readily available starting materials.This invention is deemed to fulfill the foregoing need
in an effective and efficient manner. The dispersants of 
this invention exhibit little antagonism toward fluoroelastomers
and most if not all are capable of achieving passing
results in one or more of the foregoing test procedures.
Moreover, the dispersants are relatively easy to produce at
low cost. Indeed, one of the starting materials is currently
in widespread use in the manufacture of dispersants
and the other starting material can be readily produced
from readily available starting materials.In accordance with this invention there is provided an
oil-soluble dispersant obtained by reacting a long chain
alkyl or alkenyl succinic acylating agent with an alkoxylated
diethylene triamine having an average of from 1 to 2 N-substituted
C2 or C3 hydroxyalkyl groups per molecule, the
reactants being employed in proportions of at least 2 moles
(typically from 2 to 2.8 moles, and preferably from 2 to
2.5 moles) of said acylating agent per mole of said alkoxylated
diethylene triamine, with the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An oil-soluble dispersant obtained by reacting a
long chain alkyl or alkenyl succinic acylating agent

derived from a polyalkene having a number average molecular
weight of 900 to 5000,

with
an alkoxylated diethylene triamine having an average of

from 1 to 2 N-substituted C
2
 or C
3
 hydroxyalkyl groups per
molecule, the reactants being employed in proportions of at

least 2 moles of said acylating agent per mole of said alkoxylated
diethylene triamine, with the proviso that where

said average of N-substituted C
2
 or C
3
 hydroxyalkyl groups
is 1.7 or more, said proportions are such that there are

more than 2 moles of said acylating agent per mole of said
alkoxylated diethylene triamine.
A dispersant according to Claim 1 wherein said
hydroxyalkyl groups are hydroxyethyl groups.
A dispersant according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein
said reactants are employed in proportions of from 2 to 2.5

moles of said acylating agent per mole of said alkoxylated
diethylene triamine.
A dispersant according to any of Claims 1 through
3 wherein said average number N-substituted hydroxyalkyl

groups per molecule of the dispersant is in the range of
1.1 to 1.6.
A dispersant according to any of Claims 1 through
3 wherein said average number of N-substituted hydroxyalkyl

groups per molecule of the dispersant is in the range of
1.1 to 1.3.
A dispersant according to any of Claims 1 through 
3 wherein said average number of N-substituted hydroxyalkyl

groups per molecule of the dispersant is in the range of
1.4 to 1.6.
A dispersant according to any of Claims 1 through
6 wherein said acylating agent is derived from a polyalkene

having a number average molecular weight in the range of
1200 to 2500.
A dispersant according to any of Claims 1 through
6 wherein said acylating agent is derived from a polyalkene

having a GPC number average molecular weight that substantially
corresponds to either 1300 or 2100.
A dispersant according to any of the preceding
Claims wherein said acylating agent is a polyisobutenyl

succinic acylating agent.
A dispersant according to any of the preceding
Claims wherein said dispersant is post-treated with at

least one post-treating agent.
A dispersant according to Claim 10 wherein said
post-treating agent is selected from (a) acyclic dicarboxylic

acids having up to 6 carbon atoms in the molecule and
wherein the carboxyl groups are attached to adjacent carbon

atoms, (b) anhydrides of the said dicarboxylic acids, (c)
acyl halides of the said dicarboxylic acids, and (d) acyclic 

mono- and/or dihydrocarbyl esters of the said dicarboxylic
acids having no more than 7 carbon atoms per hydrocarbyl

group.
An oil-soluble dispersant obtained by reacting
(i) a long chain alkyl or alkenyl succinic acylating agent

derived from a polyalkene having a number average molecular
weight of 900 to 5000,

with (ii) an alkoxylated diethylene triamine having an
average of from 1 to 2 N-substituted C
2
 or C
3
 hydroxyalkyl
groups per molecule, and reacting the product so formed

with (iii) at least one post-treating agent selected from
(a) acyclic dicarboxylic 
acids having up to 6 carbon atoms
in the molecule and wherein the carboxyl groups are

attached to adjacent carbon atoms, (b) anhydrides of the
said dicarboxylic acids, (c) acyl halides of the said

dicarboxylic acids, and (d) acyclic mono- and/or dihydrocarbyl
esters of the said dicarboxylic acids having no more

than 7 carbon atoms per hydrocarbyl group, wherein the
proportions of (i), (ii) and (iii) are such that there are

from 1.5 to 2.5 moles of (i) and from 0.1 to 0.7 mole of
(iii) per mole of (ii) with the proviso that per mole of

reactant (ii) the total of reactants (i) and (iii) is at
least 2 moles.
A dispersant according to Claim 12 wherein said
total of reactants (i) and (iii) is from 2.05 to 2.8 moles

per mole of (ii).
A dispersant according to Claim 12 wherein said
total of reactants (i) and (iii) is from 2.1 to 2.5 moles

per mole of (ii).
A dispersant in accordance with any of Claims 10
through 14 wherein said post-treating agent is maleic anhydride. 
A composition which comprises a homogeneous mixture
of oil of lubricating viscosity and a dispersant according

to any of the preceding claims.
A composition according to Claim 16 further comprising
one or more of viscosity index improver, zinc dialkyl

dithiophosphate, alkali or alkaline earth metal detergent,
antioxidant, and antifoam agent.
The use in a lubricant composition of a dispersant
according to any of Claims 1 through 15 to minimize

fluoroelastomer degradation that generally results on exposure
of a fluoroelastomer to a lubricant containing a

nitrogen-containing dispersant.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
