<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612437</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CHARGED PARTICLE ENERGY ANALYSER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J914	H01J914	H01J4900	H01J4944	H01J4948	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J9	H01J9	H01J49	H01J49	H01J49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A charged particlee analyser (1) comprises an inner electrode (2) and an outer electrode (3) defining a gap between opposed curved surfaces of the electrodes for the passage of charged particles deflected on application of an electric field from a source to a detector (12) in surface analysis techniques. The electrodes are preferably hemispherical or part-hemispherical and are formed from a sheet of metal by a pressing technique. Preferably the electrodes (2, 3) are each formed to a tolerance of within about 0.13 mm so as to achieve a high transmission at a high resolution. A base plate (4) for the electrodes (2, 3) is preferably formed of two spaced, relatively thin sheets (29, 30) joined at a plurality of discrete points.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISONS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISONS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLTON IAN ROBERT NELSON ROAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLTON, IAN, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Charged Particle Energy AnalyserThis invention relates to charged particle energy analysers of a type where a charged particle is deflected while travelling along a path in a gap between two electrodes across which an electric field is applied. More particularly, the invention relates to such analysers having electrodes with a curved or part- curved surface, such as part-spherical, toroidal or cylindrical electrodes.Conventionally, electrodes for such analysers have been machined from a solid block of metal. For example part-spherical electrodes machined from solid stainless steel are described in a paper by Simpson in Review of Scientific Instruments Volume 35 Number 12 (December 1964) pages 1698 to 1704 and part-spherical electrodes machined from solid aluminium are illustrated in a paper by Pullen et al in Journal of Chemical Physics Volume 53 Number 2 pages 768 to 782. The machining of electrodes from a solid block has enabled electrodes of a desired shape to be manufactured to high tolerances with little distortion, which has allowed analysers incorporating such electrodes to have a high resolution and transmission efficiency. However, the machining of e.g. hemispherical electrodes from a solid block of metal is relatively expensive and difficult to repeat on a commercial scale, and the electrodes so formed have tended to be heavy and bulky which is disadvantageous under some conditions.It has also been suggested for example in a paper by Brunt, Read and King in the Journal of Physics E 1977Volume 10 pages 134 to 139, to use hemispherical electrodes formed by a spinning technique. Electrodes"can be formed more cheaply by a spinning technique but tend to be less accurately shaped which can affect the 

 resolution and/or transmission efficiency of the analyser. This is particularly disadvantageous in high performance analysers. In the arrangement proposed in the paper by Brunt et al the spun electrodes require cleaning by mechanical abrasion and solvent action or acid etching prior to use and the problem of achieving a high transmission efficiency is not addressed.Viewed from one aspect, the present invention provides a charged particle energy analyser comprising a pair of electrodes having opposed curved surfaces and arranged so as, on application of an electric field, to deflect a charged particle following a path therebetween, wherein at least one said electrode is formed from a sheet of metal by a pressing technique.Viewed from another aspect, the present invention provides a charged particle
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A charged particle energy analyser comprising a pair of electrodes having opposed curved surfaces and arranged so as, on application of an electric field, to deflect a charged particle following a path therebetween, wherein at least one said electrode is formed from a sheet of metal by a pressing technique.
2. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one said electrode is formed by deep drawing.
3. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said metal is aluminium.
4. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said electrodes are hemispherical or part-hemispherical.
5. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein at least one said electrode has an integral annular flange.
6. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the curved surface of at least one said electrode is formed over a substantial part of its surface to a tolerance of within about 0.13mm.
7. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein a central region of at least one said electrode is formed to a tolerance of within about 0.13mm and a peripheral region is formed to a lower tolerance. 


 8. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in claim 1 , wherein said central region has an angular extent of substantially 15° to 165°.
9. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in any preceding claim, which has a transmission of more than 100,000 counts per second at a resolution of better than 1 eV under conditions wherein Ag3d5/
2
 electrons are emitted from a silver sample irradiated with unmonochromated MgK
α
 characteristic X-rays from a source having an anode power of 300W.
10. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in claim 9, wherein the transmission under said conditions is at least 130,000 counts per second at a resolution of 0.85 eV.
11. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in any preceding claim, comprising two hemispherical or part-hemispherical electrodes separated by a radial gap equivalent to about 50% of the mean radius of the electrodes.
12. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in any preceding claim, comprising an inner hemispherical or part-hemispherical electrode and an outer hemispherical or part-hemispherical electrode, the flanges of which are arranged to lie in the same diametral plane or in a plane lying parallel to a diametral plane.
13. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in any preceding claim, comprising an inner part- hemispherical electrode having an angular extent of substantially 8° to 172° and an outer part hemispherical electrode having an angular extent of substantially 5
β
 to 175*. 


 14. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein mounting apertures are punched through an integral flange of at least one said electrode, which flange is formed from an unbent peripheral portion remaining after pressing.
15. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said electrodes are arranged to be mounted to a base plate, which base plate comprises spaced parallel sheets secured to each other at discrete points across their overlying areas.
16. A charged particle energy analyser as claimed in claim 15, wherein said sheets are held at a fixed spacing from each other by means of annular spacers and are secured to each other by means of bolts received through said annular spacers.
17. A charged particle energy analyser electrode having a curved surface formed by application of a pressing technique to a solid sheet of metal.
18. A method of forming a charged particle energy analyser electrode having a curved surface, comprising pressing a solid sheet of metal through an aperture in a die by means of a tool having a shape conforming to said curved surface.
19. A method as claimed in claim 18, further comprising applying a normal force to a peripheral portion of said sheet of metal during pressing.
20. A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein said unbent peripheral portion forms a mounting flange on said electrode. 


 21. A method as claimed in claim 18, 19 or 20, further comprising using a deep drawing technique.
22. A method as claimed in any of claims 18 to 21, wherein one or more of the dimensions of the sheet of metal, the dimensions of the punch tool and die, tool pressure and normal pressure on the blank are controlled to produce an electrode having a curved surface to a tolerance of within about 0.13mm.
23. A base plate for mounting one or more electrodes in a charged particle energy analyser, comprising a pair of sheets overlying each other in spaced apart parallel relation and secured to each other at discrete points across their common area.
24. A base plate as claimed in claim 23, wherein said sheets are held at a fixed spacing from each other by means of annular spacers and are secured to each other by means of bolts received through said annular spacers.
25. A base plate as claimed in claim 23 or 24, wherein apertures in said parallel sheets for mounting one or more electrodes can be formed by punching. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
