<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649037</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Diffractive optical device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B6124	G02B518	G02B518	G02B6124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B5	G02B5	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A diffractive optical device includes a 
substrate for allowing transmission therethrough of 

light to be diffracted; and a grating section located 
on the substrate and including a plurality of grating 

elements each having multiple discrete phase levels. 
The plurality of grating elements are arranged at 

different grating periods in different areas of a 
surface of the substrate and have the phase levels in 

different numbers in accordance with the grating period. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGAWA HISAHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIONO TERUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGAWA, HISAHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIONO, TERUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a diffractive
optical device, especially a diffractive optical
device preventing reduction in the diffraction efficiency
even in an area having a small grating period.A diffractive optical device, which utilizes
diffraction of light, has a grating pattern for diffraction.
The grating pattern is formed by arranging a
plurality of grating elements on a substrate. The
diffraction efficiency, which is the ratio of light
which can be diffracted with respect to the light
incident on the diffractive optical device, is determined
by the grating pattern. Generally, how high the
diffraction efficiency can be is a matter of a prime
importance in determining the quality of the diffractive
optical device.One of conventional diffractive optical
devices is a diffractive microlens used for diffracting
light which is incident thereon vertically. Briefly
referring to Figures 1 and 2, such a conventional
diffractive microlens 100 will be described. Figure 1
is a plan view of the microlens 100 illustrating a
grating pattern thereof, and Figure 2 is a cross sectional
view of the microlens 100. The microlens 100
includes a substrate 11. Light which is incident vertically
on a bottom surface of the substrate 11 is collected
or collimated above the substrate 11. As is
shown in Figure 1, a plurality of grating elements 18 
are arranged concentrically on a top surface of the
substrate 11 to form a grating pattern. A period at
which the grating elements 18 are arranged (hereinafter,
referred to as a "grating period") becomes progressively
smaller toward the outer periphery of the
substrate 11. As is shown in Figure 2, each grating
element 18 has a rectangular cross section.Figure 3 is a cross sectional view of another
diffractive microlens 200 proposed by J. Jahns and
S. J. Walker in "Two-dimensional array of diffractive
microlenses fabricated by thin film deposition", Applied
Optics Vol. 29, No. 7, pp. 931-936 (1990). The
microlens 200 includes a substrate 11 and a plurality
of grating elements 28 arranged on a top surface of the
substrate 11. Each grating element 28 has multiple
discrete phase levels. In the example shown in
Figure 3, each grating element 28 has four phase levels
including the top surface of the substrate 11. Adopting
such a way of counting, each grating element 18 in
the microlens 100 in Figure 2 has two phase levels.
This way of counting the phase levels of the grating
elements will be used throughout this specification.While the diffractive microlens 100 has a
diffraction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A diffractive optical device (10) comprising:

a light source for generating light of at least a wavelength λ
0
 to be diffracted;
a substrate (1) for allowing transmission therethrough of
light of a wavelength λ
0
 to be diffracted; and
a grating section (2) located on the substrate (1) and
including a plurality of grating elements (21) each having

multiple discrete phase levels,
the plurality of grating elements (21) including a first
plurality (2A) of grating elements (21) having a first

phase level, and a second plurality (2B) of grating elements
(21) having a second phase level different from said

first phase level,
wherein the plurality of grating elements (21) is arranged
at different grating periods in different areas of the

surface of the substrate (1),

characterized by the following features:

the first plurality (2A) of grating elements (21) is arranged
at periods smaller than the period which makes the

diffraction efficiency of the first plurality (2A) of
grating elements (21) equal to that of the second plurality

(2B) of grating elements (21) when said light of wavelength λ
0
 is incident at
an offset angle with respect to the vertical direction of

a disposition plane of the plurality of grating elements
(21);
the second plurality (2B) of grating elements (1) is arranged
at periods larger than said period.
A diffractive optical device according to claim 1, characterized
in that the number of the phase levels becomes

progressively smaller as the grating periods decrease.
A diffractive optical device (10) according to claim 2,
characterized in that


the number of the phase levels is at least three in an
area where the grating period is at least a first value

obtained by multiplying said wavelength λ
0
 by a
first prescribed number, that
the number of the phase level is two in an area where the
grating period is less than the first value, and that
the first prescribed number is substantially between 1.5
and 3.
A diffractive optical device (10) according to claim 3,
characterized in that the grating section (2) has a duty

ratio of substantially between 0.15 and 0.5 in the area
where the grating period is less than the first value.
A diffractive optical device (10) according to claim 3,
characterized in that


the number of the phase levels is at least four in an area
where the grating period is at least a second value obtained

by multiplying said wavelength λ
0
 by a second
prescribed number, that
the number of the phase levels is three in an area where
the grating period is smaller than the second value and at

least the first value, and that
the second value is substantially between two and five and
greater than the first prescribed number.
A diffractive optical device (10) according to claim 5,
characterized in that 


the number of the phase levels is at least five in an area
where the grating period is at least a third value obtained

by multiplying said wavelength λ
0
 by a third
prescribed number, that
the number of the phase levels is four in an area where
the grating period is smaller than the third value and at

least the second value, and that
the third value is substantially between four and seven
and greater than the second prescribed number.
A diffractive optical device (10) according to one of
claims 1 to 6, characterized in that the grating elements

(21) have different heights in accordance with their number
of phase levels.
A diffractive optical device (10) according to one of
claims 1 to 7, characterized in that the bottommost level

among the multiple discrete phase levels is the surface of
the substrate (1).
A diffractive optical device (10) according to one of
claims 1 to 8, characterized in that the
 smallest grating
period is greater than 1/2n of said wavelength λ
0

where n is the refractive index of the substrate
(1), and that the duty ratio of the grating section (2)

changes as a function of the grating periods.
A diffractive optical device (10) according to one of
claims 1 to 9, characterized in that the grating elements

(21) are symmetrically arranged with respect to the center
thereof and are arched in an identical direction, and that

the grating period becomes progressively smaller in said
direction. 
A diffractive optical device (20) according to one of
claims 1 to 9, characterized in that the plurality of

grating elements (22) is extended in straight lines in an
identical direction, and that


the grating period changes in a direction which is perpendicular
to that direction in which the grating elements

(22) are extended.
A diffractive optical device (70) according to one of
claims 1 to 11, characterized in that


the grating section (2) is covered with a thin film (7).
A diffractive optical device (70) according to claim 12,
charcterized in that the thin film (7) is reflective.
A diffractive optical device (70) according to claim 12,
characterized in that the thin film (7) is anti-reflective.
A diffractive optical devive (10) according to one of
claims 1 to 14, characterized in that the substrate (1)

includes a light guide region (12) for propagating said
light.
A diffractive optical device (10) according to one of
claims 1 to 15, characterized in that the first phase

level is smaller than the second phase level.
A diffractive optical device (60) comprising:

a light source for generating light of at least a wavelength λ
0
 to be diffracted;
a substrate (1) for allowing transmission therethrough of
light of a wavelength λ
0
 to be diffracted; and
a grating section (2) located on the substrate (1) and
including a plurality of grating elements (26),
wherein the plurality of grating elements (26) includes a
first plurality of grating elements having a first duty 

ratio and a second plurality of grating elements having a
second duty ratio different from said first duty ratio,
wherein the plurality of grating elements (26) is arranged
at different grating periods and different areas of the

surface of the substrate (1),

characterized in that

the smallest grating period is greater than 1/2n of said
wavelength λ
0
 where n is the refractive index of
the substrate, that
the first plurality of grating elements (26) is arranged
at periods smaller than the period which makes the diffraction

efficiency of the first plurality of grating
elements equal to that of the second plurality of grating

elements (26) when said light of wavelength λ
0
 is incident at an offset angle
with respect to the direction of a disposition plane of

the plurality of grating elements (26), that
the second plurality of grating elements is arranged at
periods larger than said period.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to claim 17,
characterized in that the duty ratio is less than 0.5 in

an area where the grating period is less than three to
four times said wavelength λ
0
.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to claim 18,
characterized in that the duty ratio becomes progressively

smaller as the grating period decreases.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to one of
claims 17 to 19, characterized in that the plurality of

grating elements (26) has different heights which change
as a function of the grating periods.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to claim 20,
characterized in that the height of the plurality of grating 

elements (26) becomes progressively smaller in accordance
with a decrease in the grating period in an area

where the grating period is less than 3 to 4 times said
wavelength λ
0
.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to one of
claims 17 to 21, characterized in that the grating elements

(26) are symmetrically arranged with respect to the
center thereof and are arcked in an identical direction,

and that the grating period becomes progressively smaller
in said direction.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to one of
claims 17 to 21, characterized in that


the plurality of grating elements is extended in straight
lines in an identical direction, and that the grating

period changes in a direction which is perpendicular to
said direction in which the grating elements are extended.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to one of
claims 17 to 23 characterized in that the grating section

(2) is covered with a thin film (7).
A diffractive optical device (60) according to claim 24,
characterized in that the thin film (7) is reflective.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to claim 24,
characterized in that the thin film (7) is non-reflective.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to one of
claims 17 to 26, characterized that the substrate (1)

includes a light guide region for propagating the light.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to one of
claims 17 to 27, characterized in that the grating elements 

(26) in a part of the grating section have at least
three discrete phase levels.
A diffractive optical device (60) according to one of
claims 17 to 28, characterized in that the first duty

ratio is smaller than the second duty ratio.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
