<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642377</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND DEVICE IN A FILTER VALVE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D4624	B01D4624	B01D4642	B01D4642	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D46	B01D46	B01D46	B01D46	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and a device for cutting off a gas flow through a filter element (5) in a ceramic filter of high-temperature type upon breakage of the filter element (5), wherein a pulling member (12) which is fixed to the lowermost part of the filter element (5) causes a valve (10) to be closed upon breakage of the filter element (5), whereby the outlet of the filter element (5) for normally cleaned gases is closed by the lower detached part (5b) of the filter element, falling down upon breakage of said element, stretching the pulling member (12) when falling down such that said pulling member causes the cut-off mechanism of the valve (10) to close the valve (10) at the outlet of the filter element (5).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and a device for 
cutting off a gas flow through a ceramic filter element in a 
filter of high-temperature type in connection with breakage 
of the filter element. When filtering hot gases at high temperatures, for example 
when cleaning flue gases in combustion plants, filter elements 
of a ceramic type of many different embodiments are 
used today. In one embodiment filters may be composed of a 
large number of filter elements in a large filter container. 
This container is provided at its upper part with an outlet 
for cleaned gases and at its lower part with a collection 
space for dust separated in the filter and fallen down from 
the filter elements. Uncleaned gas enters the space below 
the filter elements at the side of the container. The filter 
elements may be suspended from a plate, provided with holes, 
in the upper part of the container where the plate supports 
the individual filter elements. Each hole in the plate is 
equipped with a filter element suspended below the hole, 
which filter element cleans the gases which flow through the 
filter element and further out through that hole in the 
plate which is associated with the respective filter element, 
the gas above the plate thus becoming free from dust 
and being brought to the outlet of the filter container. 
Dust from the uncleaned gas will adhere to the outside of 
the different filter elements. This dust will loosen when a 
gas is brought to pass through the filter elements in 
reverse direction during periodically recurring cleanings of 
the filter compound. The dust from the collection space is 
fed out at the lower part of the container.  
 Ceramic materials of the type included in filters of the 
kind described above have a stochastic composition from the 
point of view of strength, which is caused by the fact that 
in each produced ceramic component imperfections in the 
internal structure of the ceramic exist. This may lead to 
breakage of the component if this is subjected to stress, 
for example in the form of temperature transients. In a filter with many filter elements there is always a risk 
that one or more filter elements will break, usually in such 
a way that part of the filter element falls down from its 
position. The consequence of this breakage of the filter 
element is that a certain part of the gas - that part which 
passes through the broken filter element - is admitted 
through this element in uncleaned state, which is totally 
unacceptable since a sub-quantity of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for cutting off a gas flow through a ceramic filter 
element (5) upon breakage of the filter 

element (5) in a filter comprising
 
a filter container (1),
 
a plate (3) provided with openings (4) across the filter 

container (1) such that the plate (3) divides the filter 
container (1) into an upper and a lower space, and
 
a number of filter elements (5) suspended below the openings 

(4) in the plate (3),
characterized in that
 upon breakage of a filter element 
(5) the lowermost part (5b) becomes detached from the filter 

element (5) and falls down, whereby a pulling member 
(12) is stretched, said pulling member being fixed to the 

falling down part (5b) as well as to a valve member (10) 
which is caused by the pulling member (12) to close the 

opening (4) adjacent the valve member (10), whereby the gas 
flow through the filter element (5) is stopped. 
A method according to claim 1, 
characterized in that
 
upon breakage of the filter element (5), the pulling member 

(12) triggers a mechanism which is adapted to release stored 
energy, whereby the valve member (10) is influenced by a 

force to close the opening (4) at the associated filter 
element (5), the stored energy being obtained, for example, 

from a pressurized pneumatic or hydraulic container, or a 
tensioned spring, or a suspended weight, or a chemical 

charge. 
A gas filter device 
comprising
  
 

a filter container (1),
 
a plate (3) provided with openings (4) across the filter 

container (1) such that the plate (3) divides the filter 
container (1) into an upper and a lower space, and
 
a number of ceramic filter elements (5) suspended below the openings 

(4) in the plate (3),
characterized in that
 each filter element (5) is provided 
with a pulling member (12) which is secured to a lowermost 

part (5b) of the filter element (5) and to a valve member (10) 
adjacent to the opening (4) associated with the filter 

element (5), whereby, upon breakage of the filter element (5) and 
detachment of the lowermost part (5b), the pulling member 

(12) is stretched and the opening (4) is closed by the valve member (10) such 
that the gas flow is cut off. 
A device according to claim 3, 
characterized in that
 
the pulling member (12) consists of a wire, or
 a link 
mechanism, or a chain, or a similar member. 
A device according to claim 3, 
characterized in that
 
the valve member (10) consists of a flap valve, a 

throttle valve, or a ball valve. 
A device according to claim 3, 
characterized in that
 
the lowermost part of the filter element (5) at the fixing 

point of the pulling member (12) is provided with an extra 
weight in the form of a metal or a ceramic for the purpose 

of increasing the kinetic energy of the falling down part 
(5b) upon breakage of the filter element (5). 
A device according to claim 3, 
characterized in that
 
the valve member (10) is adapted to be closed with a force 

produced by means of stored energy which is released by a 
cut-off mechanism controlled by the pulling member (12), 

wherein the stored energy is obtained from a pressurized 
pneumatic or hydraulic container, or a tensioned spring, or 

a suspended weight, or a chemical charge. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
