<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652596</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Imager and fabrication thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L2712	H01L27146	H01L2715	H01L2184	H01L3110	H01L2715	H01L27146	H01L2712	H01L29786	H01L2966	H01L3110	H01L2177	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L21	H01L31	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L29	H01L29	H01L31	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radiation imager includes a photosensor array having 
a plurality of individually addressable pixels, each pixel having a 

photosensor island and an associated thin film transistor (TFT) 
disposed to selectively electrically couple the photosensor island to a 

predetermined address line. In each pixel a single common 
passivation layer is disposed over the TFT and the photosensor 

island such that the passivation layer is adjacent to both the outer 
surfaces of the TFT and portions of the photosensor island. In a 

method of fabricating a photosensor array as described above, after 
depositon of a source-drain metal layer, the layer is left unpattemed 

until after the photosensor island has been formed. In the formation of 
the photosensor island the source-drain metal layer serves as an etch 

stop to protect the TFT. Following formation of the photosensor 

island, the source-drain metal layer is patterned to form source and 
drain electrodes and fabrication of the TFT is completed. The single 

common passivation layer is then deposited over both the TFT and 
the photosensor island. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIAMBATTISTA BRIAN WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWASNICK ROBERT FORREST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEI CHING-YEU NMN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIAMBATTISTA, BRIAN WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWASNICK, ROBERT FORREST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEI, CHING-YEU (NMN)
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application relates to solid state radiation imagers
and in particular to a common passivation barrier for transistor and
photodiode components and the method of fabricating such an
imager.Solid state imagers typically include a photosensor
array coupled to a scintillating medium. Radiation absorbed in the
scintillator generates optical photons which in turn pass into a
photosensor, such as a photodiode, in which the optical photon is
absorbed and an electrical signal corresponding to the incident
optical photon flux is generated. Substantially hydrogenated
amorphous silicon (a-Si) is commonly used in the fabrication of
photosensors due to the advantageous photoelectric characteristics
of a-Si and the relative ease of fabricating such devices. In particular,
photosensitive elements, such as photodiodes, can be formed in
connection with necessary control or switching elements, such as thin
film transistors (TFT's), in a relatively large array.Imager and display arrays are typically fabricated on
large substrates on which many components, including TFTs, address
lines, and devices such as photosensors, are formed through the
deposition and patterning of layers of conductive, semiconductive,
and insulative materials. The array is comprised of pixels, with the
address lines and associated TFTs being coupled together to enable
the photosensor in each pixel of the array to be respectively 
addressed, so that, for example, the charge developed by each
photosensor can be selectively read. The TFT fabrication process
involves several patterning steps to produce the desired arrangement
of a channel region between a source and a drain electrode with the
desired arrangement of semiconductive material disposed between
the electrodes and over the gate electrode. The TFT is electrically
coupled to a respective photosensor, such as a photodiode, which is
disposed to absorb incident photons and accumulate the resulting
charge produced in the diode.The fabrication process for such an imaging array
typically includes steps to fabricate the TFT, including forming source
and drain electrodes and associated contact pads to address lines
and the photosensor. The TFT and related assemblies are then
coated with a protective passivation coating, which must then be
patterned to provide via openings for electrical contact between the
photosensor body and an underlying photosensor electrode (or
contact pad, which couples the photosensor to the TFT. The a-Si for
the photodiode body is then deposited and patterned; the presence
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A solid state radiation imager (100) comprising:

a photosensor array (120) disposed on a substrate (105), said
photosensor array comprising a plurality of individually-addressable pixels

(110), each of said pixels comprising:
a photosensor (150) having a body comprising photosensitive material
disposed on an electrically conductive contact pad (142) comprising a first

conductive material; characterised by
a thin film transistor, TFT, (130) having a source-drain metal layer
(140) comprising said first conductive material; said source-drain metal

layer being electrically coupled to and contiguous with said photosensor
contact pad; said source-drain metal layer further being electrically coupled

to an address line (145);
a substantially monolithic common passivation layer (160) disposed
over said TFT and said photosensor, said passivation layer being disposed

adjacent to an outer surface of said TFT and at least portions of an outer
surface of the photosensor island, said passivation layer having a via (165) forming

a contact area (159) on said photosensor;
and
a light transmissive common electrode layer (170) disposed over said
common passivation layer and in said via, said common electrode being

coupled to said photosensor at said contact area (159) of said photosensor
body.
The radiation imager of claim 1 wherein said common
passivation layer comprises an organic dielectric material.
The radiation image of claim 2 wherein said organic dielectric
material comprises polyimide.
The radiation imager of claim 1 wherein said common 
passivation layer comprises an inorganic dielectric material.
The radiation imager of claim 4 wherein said inorganic
dielectric material is selected from the group consisting of silicon oxide and

silicon nitride.
The radiation imager of claim 1 wherein said passivation layer
comprises a first and a second stratum, one of said strata comprising

inorganic material and the other of said strata comprising organic dielectric
material.
The radiation imager of claim 1 wherein said photosensor
island is disposed adjacent to said contact pad such that substantially no

passivation layer material is disposed therebetween at any position where said
photosensor island overlies said contact pad.
The radiation imager of claim 7 wherein said photosensor
island contact pad comprises chromium.
The radiation imager of claim 8 wherein the source (137) and
drain (139) of said TFT comprise a conductive material selected from the

group consisting of molybdenum and titanium.
The radiation imager of claim 9 wherein said photosensor
comprises a photodiode.
A method of fabricating an imager array (100) having a
plurality of pixels (110), the method comprising, for pixels in the imager

array, the steps in the order recited of:

forming a thin film transistor (TFT) body (130) on a substrate (105), 
said TFT body comprising a gate electrode (132), a gate dielectric material

layer (134), a semiconductor material layer (136), and a doped
semiconductor material layer (138) disposed over said semiconductor material

layer, the step of forming said TFT body further comprising removing the
gate electrode material, said semiconductor material layer, and said doped

semiconductor material layer from regions of said pixel other than the region
in which said TFT body is disposed;
depositing a source-drain metal layer (140) over said TFT body and

remaining portions of the pixel area, said source-drain metal layer being
disposed on said gate dielectric layer in said remaining portions of said pixel

area;
forming a photosensor island (150) on said source-drain metal layer,
said photosensor island occupying portions of said pixel other than where

said TFT is disposed, said source-drain metal layer being an etch protectant
to protect said TFT body from etchants used in the formation of said

photosensor island; and
patterning said source-drain metal layer so as to form respective
source (137) and drain (139) electrodes on said TFT body and associated

contacts to said photosensor island and predetermined address lines (145),
said source-drain metal layer comprising an uninterrupted metal layer

between one of said source and drain electrodes and an electrically
conductive contact pad of said photosensor island.
The method of claim 11 wherein the step of forming said
photosensor island further comprises the steps of:


depositing a layer of photosensitive material over said source-drain
metal layer;
forming a mask over said layer of photosensitive material, said mask
having a selected pattern corresponding to said photosensor island; and
etching said photosensitive material so as to remove exposed
photosensitive material and expose said source-drain metal layer in unmasked

areas of the pixel.
The method of claim 12 wherein said
photosensitive material comprises amorphous silicon.
The method of claim 13 wherein said source-drain
metal layer comprises a material selected from the

group consisting of chromium and titanium.
The method of claim 13 wherein said source-drain
metal layer consists of a single layer of

molybdenum.
The method of claim 15 wherein said molybdenum
source-drain metal is deposited so as to have a selected

thickness, said thickness being of sufficient magnitude
such that the thickness remaining following formation of

said photosensor island is not less than about 90% of
said selected thickness.
The method of claim 12 wherein the step of
etching said layer of photosensitive material comprises

etching said photosensitive material with an etchant
selective to the metal comprising the upper surface of

said source-drain metal layer.
The method of claim 17 wherein the photosensor
material etchant selective to said source-drain material

comprises fluorine or chlorine.
The method of claim 18 wherein the step of
depositing said source-drain metal layer comprises

depositing a first conductive layer (142) and depositing
an etch stop layer (144) over said first conductive

layer.
The method of claim 19 wherein both said first
conductive layer and said etch stop layer comprise

conductive material. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said first
conductive layer comprises molybdenum.
The method of claim 20 wherein said etch stop
layer comprises a material selected from the group

consisting of chromium and titanium.
The method of claim 22 wherein the step of
forming said photosensor island further comprises

removing portions of the source-drain etch stop layer
exposed upon the completion of the etching of said a-Si

to form said photosensor island.
The method of claim 11 further comprising the
step of depositing a single common passivation layer

(160) over the pixel following the formation of said
source and drain electrodes such that said passivation

layer is disposed adjacent to the outer surfaces of said
TFT and said photosensor island.
The method of claim 24 wherein said passivation
layer comprises an inorganic dielectric material.
The method of claim 24 wherein said passivation
layer comprises an organic dielectric material.
The method of claim 24 further comprising the
step of forming a common electrode (170) over said

passivation layer, said common electrode being disposed
in electrical contact with a selected contact area

(159) of said photosensor island.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
