<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625326</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Disposal device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47J3160	A47J3144	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47J	A47J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47J31	A47J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A disposal device (20) for use with a beverage 
brewing apparatus (28) to dispose of spent beverage 

brewing substances. The beverage brewing apparatus (28) 
is the type which uses a beverage brewing substance which 

is disposed in a brewing chamber and infused with a liquid 
to produce a brewed beverage. A drain conduit (30) 

extends from the brewing chamber and communicates with the 
disposal device (20) for removing a slurry of moist 

beverage brewing substance and liquid waste from the 
brewing chamber of the apparatus (28) into the disposal 

device (20). The disposal device (20) includes a housing 
(22) which houses a strainer basket (34). The strainer 

basket (34) is rotatably retained in the housing (22). 
The drain conduit (30) from the beverage brewing apparatus 

deposits the spent beverage brewing substance inside of 
the strainer basket (34). The strainer basket (34) is 

rotated to centrifugally remove a liquid component of the 
spent beverage brewing substance and drain such liquid out 

through a drain port (104) in the housing (22). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUNN O MATIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUNN-O-MATIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIDDEN WILLIAM E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIDDEN, WILLIAM E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to devices for
disposing of spent beverage brewing substances from an
automatic beverage brewing apparatus. More particularly,
the present invention pertains to devices which receive a
spent brewing material, containing waste liquids, from a
beverage brewing apparatus and extract the waste liquid
portion of the spent beverage brewing substance.Automatic beverage brewing apparatus are
commonly used in high volume applications such as
restaurants, catering organizations and other high volume
food production institutions. A typical automatic
beverage brewing apparatus has a body which positions a
funnel below a heated water source. The funnel contains
a beverage brewing substance which is infused with heated
water dispensed into the funnel to produce a brewed
beverage. A brewed beverage is drained from the funnel
into a serving decanter positioned underneath the funnel. Such a beverage brewing apparatus requires that
the beverage brewing substance be measured and deposited
into the funnel for each batch of beverage produced.
Additionally, this activity inherently requires the
removal of the spent brewing substance after it has been
infused with hot water and a brewed beverage produced
therefrom. The need to fill the funnel with a beverage
brewing substance and remove the spent substance from the
funnel is labor intensive and prone to error due to
mismeasurement or failure to remove the spent brewing
substance from the funnel before producing another batch
of brewed beverage.Recently, automatic beverage brewing apparatus
have been produced which substantially automate the
beverage brewing process. Such an apparatus is shown in
pending U.S. Patent No. 5,134,925 to Bunn et al., issued
August 4, 1992. The apparatus shown in Bunn et al.
includes an automatic brewing substance dispenser for
dispensing a predetermined amount of beverage brewing
substance into a brewing chamber. The brewing process is
automated including automatically controlled brewing,
dispensing, and chamber cleaning. After the brewing
process is complete, the spent brewing substance is
exhausted from the brewing chamber through a drain conduit
into a spent beverage brewing substance basket or waste
pail.A problem arises, however, in handling the spent
brewing substance. The volume of the brewing substance
and waste water requires frequent periodic removal and
dumping. In other words, it would be desirable to
accumulate the spent brewing substance from numerous
brewing cycles in order to reduce the amount of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spent beverage brewing substance disposal device (20) for use
with a beverage brewing apparatus (28), said beverage brewing apparatus

(28) having a drain conduit (30) for removing a slurry of moist beverage
brewing substance and waste liquid therefrom, said disposal device (20)

comprising:

a housing (22) having a base (24), walls (26) and an opening
(98) formed through an area of said walls communicating with said drain

conduit for receiving said slurry;
a strainer basket (34) disposed in said housing for receiving said
slurry, said strainer basket having a side wall (36);
a rotating device (38) operatively associated with said strainer
basket, said rotating device rotating said strainer basket for centrifugally

extracting a substantial portion of a liquid component of said slurry from
said strainer basket leaving a drained material component in said strainer

basket; said strainer basket including an inner end wall (142), and open
outer end (52) with said side wall extending therebetween;
a drain port (40) in said housing for draining said liquid
component centrifugally removed from said slurry out of said housing;
a structure associated with said device for directing slurry from
said drain conduit to the interior of the basket (34);

   wherein said side wall (36) is porous, the said substantial
portion of the liquid component being extracted through said porous side

wall (36), in use; and characterized by

   a foraminous end wall (138) positioned between said open
outer end (52) and said inner end wall(142), the foraminous end wall 

(138) defining, with the inner end wall (142) and the surface of the
strainer basket therebetween, a drain chamber, the surface of said strainer

basket in said drain chamber providing less resistance to the extraction of
liquid therethrough than the remainder of the porous side wall of said

strainer basket.
A spent beverage brewing substance disposal device (20) as
claimed in Claim 1, characterized by:


a plurality of drain holes extending through said strainer basket
wall in said drain chamber, each of said drain holes (146) having a

greater diameter than the pores forming the porous side wall of said
strainer basket.
A spent beverage brewing substance disposal device (20) as
claimed in Claim 1, characterized by:


a removing assembly (42) for removing said drained material
component from said strainer basket after draining said liquid component

from said slurry.
A spent beverage brewing substance disposal device (20) as
claimed in Claim 3, characterized in that said removing assembly

comprises:

an arm (44) extending into said housing and into said strainer
basket, a blade (46) attached to said arm for facilitating removal of said

drained material component from an inside surface of said strainer
basket; and 
a drive mechanism (50) operatively associated with said arm for
controllably moving said blade positioned inside said strainer basket for

removing said drained material component therefrom.
A spent beverage brewing substance disposal device (20) as
claimed in Claim 4, characterized in that one wall of said housing is

provided with an enlarged aperture formed therethrough, said enlarged
aperture (98) being dimensioned for receiving said strainer basket

therethrough; and

   a cap body (100) overlying said enlarged aperture (98), said cap
body having a disposal opening (54) and an arm opening (102)

extending therethrough, said arm extending through said arm opening for
removal of said drained material component from said stainer basket and

out through said disposal opening.
A spent beverage brewing substance disposal device (20) as
claimed in Claim 5, characterized by:


a funnel structure (90) attached to said housing and extending
from said housing for cooperatively communicating with said drain

conduit, said funnel structure being disengagable from said drain conduit
upon movement of said housing from beneath said beverage brewing

apparatus.
A spent beverage brewing substance disposal device (20) as
claimed in Claim 1, characterized by:


a base structure (84), said housing being attached to said base
structure; 
a moving assembly (86) for selectively moving said base
structure relative to said brewing apparatus, said moving assembly

providing selective movement of said base structure and attached to said
housing beneath said beverage brewing apparatus; and
a coupling assembly (32, 92) for selectively placing said housing
in communication with said drain conduit, said coupling assembly

selectively placing said housing in communication with said drain
conduit upon movement of said base structure into position relative to

said brewing apparatus.
A spent beverage brewing substance disposal device (20) as
claimed in Claim 7, characterized by:


said rotating device (38) and said removing assembly (42) being
operatively associated said based structure.
A method of disposing of spent beverage brewing substances
produced by a beverage brewing apparatus (28), said method being

carried out using a device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
characterized by the steps of:


discharging a slurry of waste liquid and moist beverage brewing
substance produced by said beverage brewing apparatus (28) into a

strainer basket (34) retained in a housing (22), said strainer basket having
a porous wall (36) for allowing liquid to pass therethrough and drain into

said housing;
rotating said strainer basket in said housing for centrifugally
extracting a liquid component from said slurry leaving a drained material

component in said strainer basket; 
draining said liquid component from said housing;
inserting a removal assembly (42) for removing a drained
component of said slurry through an opening (98) in said strainer basket

while said strainer basket is rotating; and
directing said drained component of said slurry out of said
strainer basket using said removal assembly, at least a position of said

drained material component accumulating against said removal assembly
and moving towards said opening (98) of said strainer basket.
A beverage brewing machine comprising a drain conduit (30)
for a slurry of waste water and spent beverage brewing substance, and a

spent beverage brewing substance disposal device as claimed in any one
of Claims 1 to 8.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
