<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610616</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Two-stage wet oxidation process for treating wastewater.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F1106	C02F1108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F11	C02F11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A two-stage wet oxidation process for COD removal from 
high strength wastewater is disclosed in which the 

wastewater stream (10) is treated in a first stage 
subcritical wet oxidation zone (20) at temperatures 

between about 250
o
 and 374
o
C to remove a substantial 
portion of the COD, and, subsequently, all or a portion of 

the first stage oxidized waste stream is treated in a 
second stage supercritical wet oxidation zone (28) at 

temperatures of 374
o
 to about 600
o
C to remove any 
remaining COD content. Both stages of wet oxidation 

treatment are carried out at essentially the same system 
pressure. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZIMPRO ENVIRONMENTAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZIMPRO ENVIRONMENTAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPA WILLIAM M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMANN RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPA, WILLIAM M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMANN, RICHARD W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is concerned with the wet oxidation of 
wastewater for COD removal, and is particularly concerned 
with a two-stage wet oxidation process for high strength 
wastewater. Wet oxidation is a well known technology for the 
destruction of pollutants in wastewater. The process involves 
treatment of the wastewater with an oxidant, generally 
molecular oxygen from an oxygen-containing gas, at elevated 
temperatures and pressures. Wet oxidation at temperatures below the critical 
temperature of water, 374°C, is termed subcritical wet 
oxidation. The subcritical system operates at sufficient 
pressure to maintain a liquid water phase. This is a 
commercially used treatment process employed for conditioning 
sewage sludge, the oxidation of caustic sulfide wastes, 
regeneration of powdered activated carbon, and the oxidation 
of chemical production wastewaters, to name only a few 
applications. Complete removal of all pollutants from 
wastewater by wet oxidation at subcritical conditions 
generally cannot be achieved. Thus, subcritical wet oxidation 
may not provide the high degree of treatment required by 
governmental regulations for direct discharge of the oxidized  
 
effluent to the environment. A number of U.S. Patents 
disclose processes designed to achieve complete removal of 
pollutants from wastewaters by wet oxidation. Morgan in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,849,536 and 3,917,460 
discloses a process and apparatus for wet combustion of 
pulping liquors. The wet oxidation occurs at subcritical 
conditions in two stages within a single vessel with air from 
the first stage oxidation separated prior to introduction of 
air for oxidation in the second stage. In U.S. Patent No. 4,141,829 Thiel et al. describe a 
subcritical wet oxidation with a catalytic vapor phase 
oxidation of volatile organics in the offgases. Bodenbenner et al. in U.S. Patent No. 4,347,144 disclose 
a two-stage subcritical wet oxidation process where a majority 
of the wastewater COD is removed in the first stage and an 
oxidizing agent stronger than oxygen is added to the liquid 
phase in the second stage for complete COD removal. Horak et al. in U.S. Patent No. 4,525,283 describe a 
catalytic two-stage subcritical wet oxidation system where 
both metal ions and carbonaceous materials are employed as 
catalysts for wet oxidation of wastewater. In U.S. Patent. No. 4,604,957 Cederquist discloses a 
subcritical two-stage wet oxidation process where a large 
excess of oxygen is used in the second stage oxidation and 
then the oxygen is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for wet oxidation of wastewater containing more 
than about 20 grams per liter of chemical oxygen demand (COD) 

comprising the steps: 

(a) mixing said wastewater and an oxygen-containing gas 
to form an oxidation mixture; 
(b) heating said oxidation mixture in a first reaction 
zone to a temperature greater than about 250°C and 

less than 374°C, and at a pressure sufficient to 
maintain a portion of said wastewater in the liquid 

phase, for a time sufficient to remove a 
substantial portion of the COD therefrom; 
(c) thereafter, at essentially the same pressure, 
heating at least a portion of said thus treated 

oxidation mixture from step (b), in a second 
reaction zone, to a temperature greater than 374°C 

and less than about 600°C for a time sufficient to 
remove substantially any remaining portion of COD 

therefrom; and 
(d) cooling said thus treated oxidation mixture from 
step (c), and separating the mixture to a gaseous 

phase and an oxidized liquid phase. 
A process according to claim 1 wherein essentially all of 
the oxidation mixture is heated to a temperature greater than 

374°C and less than about 600°C in said second reaction zone. 
A process according to claim 1 wherein only a liquid phase 
of said oxidation mixture is withdrawn from said first 

reaction zone and is heated to a temperature greater than 
374°C and less than about 600°C in said second reaction zone. 
A process according to claim 1 wherein only a vapor phase 
of said oxidation mixture is withdrawn from said first 

reaction zone and is heated to a temperature greater than 
374°C and less than about 600°C in said second reaction zone. 
A process according to claim 4 wherein the majority of 
wastewater and any volatile components therein is volatilized 

to the vapor phase which is withdrawn from said first reaction 
zone and is heated to a temperature greater than 374°C and 

less than about 600°C in said second reaction zone. 
A process according to claim 1 further comprising adding 
additional oxidant to that portion of the oxidation mixture 

heated to a temperature greater than 374°C and less than about 
600°C in said second reaction zone. 
A process according to claim 1 wherein said oxygen-containing 
gas of step (a) is at least equal to the 

stoichiometric amount required for complete removal of the COD 
of said wastewater. 
A process according to claim 1 wherein said oxygen-containing 
gas of step (a) is at less than the stoichiometric 

amount required for complete removal of the COD of said 
wastewater. 
A process according to claim 1 wherein said cooling of said 
thus treated oxidation mixture from step (c) is by heat 

exchange with said oxidation mixture of step (a). 
A process according to claim 1 further comprising cooling 
said thus treated oxidation mixture of step (c) from said 

second treatment zone by heat exchange with said thus treated 
oxidation mixture from step (b) from said first treatment 

zone. 
A process for wet oxidation of wastewater containing more 
than about 20 grams per liter of chemical oxygen demand (COD) 

comprising the steps: 

(a) mixing said wastewater and an oxygen-containing gas 
to form an oxidation mixture; 
(b) heating said oxidation mixture in a first reaction 
zone to a temperature greater than about 250°C and 

less than 374°C, and at a pressure sufficient to 
maintain a portion of said wastewater in the liquid 

phase, for a time sufficient to remove a 
substantial portion of the COD therefrom; 
(c) volatilizing to the vapor phase the majority of 
said wastewater and any volatile component therein 

within said first reaction zone; 
(d) thereafter, at essentially the same pressure, 
heating said vapor phase portion of said thus 

treated oxidation mixture from step (b), in a 
second reaction zone, to a temperature greater than 

374°C and less than about 600°C for a time 
sufficient to remove substantially any remaining 

portion of COD therefrom; and 
(e) cooling said thus treated oxidation mixture from 
step (d), and separating the mixture to a gaseous 

phase and an oxidized liquid phase. 
A process according to claim 11 further comprising adding 
additional oxidant to said vapor phase portion of the 

oxidation mixture heated to a temperature greater than 374°C 
and less than about 600°C in said second reaction zone. 
A process according to claim 11 wherein said oxygen-containing 
gas of step (a) is at least equal to th
e 
stoichiometric amount required for complete removal of the COD 

of said wastewater. 
A process according to claim 11 wherein said oxygen-containing 
gas of step (a) is at less than the stoichiometric 

amount required for complete removal of the COD of said 
wastewater. 
A process according to claim 11 wherein said cooling of 
said thus treated oxidation mixture from step (d) is by heat 

exchange with said oxidation mixture of step (a). 
A process according to claim 11 further comprising cooling 
said thus treated oxidation mixture of step (d) from said 

second treatment zone by heat exchange with said thus treated 
vapor phase of step (c) from said first treatment zone. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
