<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0007907</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUDIBLE VOLTAGE-IMPEDANCE TESTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R1500	G01R1512	G01R19145	G01R19155	G01R2714	G01R2714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R15	G01R15	G01R19	G01R19	G01R27	G01R27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERENDONK BENGT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERENDONK, BENGT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOJARSKI VICTOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOJARSKI, VICTOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUDIBLE VOLTAGE-IMPEDANCE TESTERBackground of the Invention1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates to voltage and resistance testers and, in particular, to such testers that generate an audible signal representative of the unknown voltage or resistance.2. Description of the Prior Art: A listing of all the prior art known to applicant is set forth below:Patent No. Inventor Date Issued3,805,155 Tsuda et al 19743,903,471 Hiraga et al 19753,944,921 Tsuda et al 19763,956,697 Nery 19763,962,630 Chaffee 19764,015,201 Chaffee 19774,039,937 Laass 1977In brief, although the prior art discloses devices which can generate audible signals in response to an external resistance or voltage, it has generally been necessary that the device be switched from measuring resistances to measuring voltages and vice versa. In addition, none of the prior art discloses or suggests generating an audible sound in response to an unknown alternating current voltage which is indicative not only of its frequency but also of its amplitude. 

Furthermore, none of the prior art known to the applicant discloses or suggests an audible voltage-resistance tester which utilizes an inexpensive integrated circuit timer, interconnected to the remaining circuit components of the tester to operate as a multi-vibrator for providing the output signal to a speaker.An audible voltage-resistance tester according to the present invention comprises an integrated circuit timer interconnected with the remaining circuit components so as to operate as a multi-vibrator whose instantaneous frequency is dependent upon the resistance or voltage of an interconnected source. The source is interconnected to the tester by a pair of probes which in turn inter- connect to an input module that transforms the unknown resistance or voltage source into a form directly usable by the multi-vibrator so as to generate an output frequency by the multi-vibrator indicative of the resistance of the unknown source, its DC or AC voltage, or a combination of these parameters. The source connected across the probes is placed in series with a battery and an input module. The input module includes a first network that generates a current proportional to the average DC half-wave rectified voltage of the source if the source includes an AC voltage component, this current being combined with a current proportional to the source's instantaneous voltage. This combined current is interconnected to a second* network comprising a resistor and- capacitor so as to charge the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An audible voltage-impedance tester compri¬ sing:
A) first and second test probes for connecting to an unknown source;
B) an input module electrically connected to the second test probe, comprising:
1) a first network for at least partially rectifying an alternating current input from the unknown source, if the source includes an alternating current voltage, the network including a capacitor for storing at least a portion of this rectified current so as to discharge this charge as a first current proportional to the alter¬ nating current-amplitude of the unknown source to a first node of the network, the network further comprising means for generating a second current proportional to the instantaneous current passing through the unknown source, the second current combining with the first current at the first node to yield a first network output current;
2) a second network comprising at least a resistor and capacitor in series and interconnected to the first node of the first network for charging the capacitor of the 


 second network at a rate propor¬ tional to the network output current from the first network;
C) an oscillator interconnected to the second network and having an oscillating output signal frequency proportional to the charging rate of the capacitor of the second network;
D) an electroacoustic transducer connected at one end to the output of the oscilla¬ tor for generating an audible signal responsive to the oscillator output signal;
E) a constant voltage source of electrical power; and
F) means for interconnecting the other end of the electroacoustic transducer, the oscillator and first probe to the source of constant voltage electrical power for powering the same; whereby the oscillator generates a zero voltage reference output signal, causing a corresponding audible sound to be generated by the transducer when the first and second probes are electrically contacted to each other, and whereby the oscillator generates distinct output signals causing corresponding audible sounds to 'be generated by the transducer when the first and second probes are connected across resistive unknown sources, DC voltage unknown sources, AC voltage unknown sources, or combinations thereof so that each unknown source is distinguishable by a distinct sound. 


 2. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 1, wherein the input module further comprises means for protecting the interconnected oscilla tor means from voltages of the unknown source in excess of the oscillator's rated maximum voltage.
3. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 2, wherein the over-voltage protection means comprises a zener diode with its anode electrically connected to the first probe and a second diode having its cathode connected to the cathode of the zener diode and its anode electrically connected to the first node of the first network, the second diode inhibiting current flow through the zener diode from the source of constant voltage electrical power while allowing the zener diode to enter its constant voltage breakdown state if the unknown voltage source as sensed by the zener diode exceeds the zener diode's breakdown voltage point.
4. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 3 wherein the over-voltage protection means passes a leakage current from the source of constan voltage electrical power to the first node of the first network so as to slowly charge the capacitor of the secon network when the first and second probes are open- circuited, whereby the oscillator output means is periodi cally activated by the second network so as to inform the user that the tester is energized. 


 5. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 1 further comprising:
G) a light-emitting diode in series with the electroacoustic transducer for visually indicating the oscillator signal activating the transducer as well as to reduce the current flow through the transducer and thus reduce the power requirements of the constant voltage power source.
6. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 1, wherein the first network comprises a diode having its anode interconnected to the second test probe, a first resistor and a second resistor connec¬ ted together at one end to the cathode of the diode, a third resistor connected at the other end of the first resistor and connected at its other end to the other end of the second resistor, the capacitor of the first network connected to the junction of the second and third resistors, the junction of the first and third resistors forming the first output current node of the first network.
7. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 6, wherein the oscillator means comprises an integrated circuit timer connected to operate as a multivibrator having a discharge output, a threshold output, a trigger, and an output stage output, wherein the threshold output and trigger output are interconnected to the junction of the resistor and capacitor of the second network, the discharge output is connected to the other side of the resistor of the second network and the electroacoustic transducer is connected to the 


output stage output, wherein the. operating frequency of the oscillator is dependent upon the time period necessary for the capacitor of the second network to charge to approximately two-thirds the constant voltage power source output voltage and to discharge to one- third of this power source output voltage.
8. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 7, wherein the input module further comprises over voltage protection means for protecting the interconnected oscillator means from voltages of the unknown source in excess of the oscillator's rated maximum voltage.
9. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 8, wherein the constant voltage source of electrical power is a battery, wherein the means for interconnecting the electroacoustic transducer, oscillator means and first probe to the battery is a switch, and wherein the electroacoustic transducer is a speaker.
10. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 1, wherein the electroacoustic transducer is a speaker, wherein the constant voltage source of electrical power is a battery, and wherein the means for interconnecting the transducer, oscillator means, and first probe to the source of constant voltage power is a switch.
11. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 10, further comprises:
G) a hand-holdable case for housing the input module, oscillator means, speaker battery and switch.
OM - WI 


 12. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 11, wherein the case has a rectangular cross-section and wherein the tester incorporates a pair of leads respectively connected from the first and second probes to the switch and input module.
13. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 11, wherein the case is substantially of a cylindrical cross-sectibnal shape with one of the two probes emanating from one of the end terminations of the case, and wherein the tester comprises a lead connected to the other probe at one end and the input module or switch at its other end.
14. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 1, wherein the resistor and capacitor of the second network of the input module has a time constant approximately one-tenth the half cycle period of the highest frequency unknown source to be sensed by the tester for sources including an AC component, so that the oscillator means generates a first output signal causing a corresponding audible sound to be generated by the transducer during one half cycle of the unknown source and a second output signal causing a corresponding audible sound to be generated by the transducer distinct from the first output signal and sound generated therefrom during the other half cycle of the unknown source, whereby the fundamental frequency of the unknown source is clearly heard due to the change in sound generated by the transducer during each half cycle of the unknown source. 


 15. An audible voltage-impedance tester comprising:
A) a battery with a constant voltage and with a reference terminal;
B) means for removably contacting across an unknown source, said means having first and second probes, the first probe switchably interconnected to the battery;
C) input means interconnected to at least the second probes of the unknown source contacting means and to the reference terminal of the battery and including a resistor and a capacitor serially connected to each other for electri¬ cally sensing the current passing through the unknown source;
D) a multi-vibrator interconnected to the resistor and capacitor and powered by the battery, the multi-vibrator having an output with a signal generated thereon that changes state when the capacitor of the input means charges and discharges between two voltage states, the first state being a first fraction of the battery voltage and the second state being a second, smaller, fraction of the battery voltage; and
E) an electroacoustic transducer connected to the output of the multi-vibrator for generating a sound representative of the output signal of the multi- vibrator; 


whereby the audible tester senses resistances or voltages without coupling the unknown source to the battery in a manner so as to be in series with the multivibrator, but connects the unknown source to the battery so as to influence the charge and discharge rate of the resistor- capacitor network of the input module, thereby generating a distinct output by the multi-vibrator which drives the electroacoustic transducer.
16. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 15, wherein the multi-vibrator comprises an integrated circuit timer interconnected to operate as a multi-vibrator controlled by the charge and discharge voltage of the capacitor of the input module.
17. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 16, wherein the input module further comprises means for protecting the multi-vibrator and the components of the input module from voltages in excess of their rated voltages.
18. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 17, wherein the over-voltage protection means of the input module comprises a zener diode having its anode connected to the first probe and a second diode having its cathode connected to the cathode of the zener diode and anode connected to the resistor of the resistor- capacitor network of the input module. 


 19. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 15, further comprising:
F) a light-emitting diode connected in series with the electroacoustic trans¬ ducer so as to visually indicate the multi-vibrator output signal as well as to limit the current flow through the transducer.
20. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 19, wherein the input module further comprises at least a partial rectifying direct current storage network electrically connected to the second prob and having a current flow proportional to the average partially rectified direct current value of the unknown source, said output connected to the resistor of the resistor-capacitor charging network, whereby the multi- vibrator generates at least a component frequency propor¬ tional to the partially rectified direct current value of the unknown source.
21. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 20, wherein the resistor and capacitor of the input module has a time constant approximately one-tenth the half cycle period of the highest frequency unknown source to be sensed by the tester if the source includes an AC component, so that the multi-vibrator generates a first frequency output signal during one half cycle of the unknown source and a second output signal distinct from the first output signal during the second half cycle of the unknown source, whereby the fundamental frequency of the unknown source is clearly heard due to the change in frequency of the transducer during each half cycle of the unknown source. 



 22. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 15, wherein the resistor and capacitor of the input module has a time constant approximately one-tenth the half cycle period of the highest frequency unknown source to be sensed by the tester if the source includes an AC component, so that the multi-vibrator generates a first frequency output signal during one half cycle of the unknown source and a second frequency output signal distinct from the first output signal during the second half cycle of the unknown source, whereby the fundamental frequency of the unknown source is clearly heard due to the change in frequency of the transducer during each half cycle of the unknown source.
23. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 15, further comprising:
F) a hand-holdable case for housing the input module, output oscillator means, speaker, battery and switch.
24. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 23, wherein the means for removably contacting across an unknown source includes a pair of leads respectively connected to the first and second probes.
25. An audible voltage impedance tester as defined in Claim 23, wherein the case is substantially of a cylindrical cross-sectional shape with one of the two probes emanating from one of the end terminations of the case, and wherein the means for removably contacting across an unknown source includes a lead connected to the other probe. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
