<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641486</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF AND ARRANGEMENT FOR BOND WIRE CONNECTING TOGETHER CERTAIN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT COMPONENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21607	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Certain components of an integrated circuit package are disclosed herein including one or more dies (16), each of which has an array of die output/input bond pads (18), and die support means (12), for example a substrate or leadframe, which includes an array of electrically conductive leads. There is also disclosed herein a technique for wire bond connecting the bond pads of a particular die to either the bond pads (38) of a second die (34) or to the electrically conductive leads of the substrate or leadframe using a thermosonic or thermocompression ball bonding tool. In accordance with this technique, where at least one die is invovled, connections are made to the bond pads of that die by means of stitch bonding in a way which does not damage the die.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT SEMICONDUCTOR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATHEW RANJAN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN LUU T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH ARNOLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATHEW, RANJAN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN, LUU, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, ARNOLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A METHOD OF AND ARRANGEMENT FORBOND WIRE CONNECTING TOGETHER CERTAININTEGRATED CIRCUIT COMPONENTSThe present invention relates generally to an integrated circuit package and other such electronic devices, and more particularly to a specific technique for wire bonding together certain components making up the integrated circuit package or other such devices.A typical integrated circuit package includes a die having an array of die output input bond pads and means for supporting the die, for example a substrate or leadframe, including an array of electrically conductive leads respectively connected to corresponding die bond pads by means of cooperating bonding wires. An example of such a package is illustrated in FIG. 1 and generally designated by the reference numeral 10. Integrated circuit package 10 is shown including a substrate 12 having on its top surface thereof an array of electrically conductive leads, one of which is indicated at 14. Substrate 12 supports a die 16 having an array of die output/input bond pads, one of which is indicated at 18. The electrically conductive lead 14 is shown connected with die bond pad 18 by means of an electrically conductive bonding wire 20. 

 In the particular example illustrated in FIG. 1 , a thermosonic or thermocompression ball bonding tool is used to first ball bond the free end of the wire 20 to pad 18, as indicated by the ball bond 22, and thereafter stitch bond the opposite end of the bonding wire to lead 14, as indicated by the stitch bond 24. The free end of a capillary 26 forming part of the overall ball bonding tool is shown completing the stitch bond at lead 14. It is conventional practice to make the first, ball bond at the pad on the die and the second, stitch bond at the lead on the substrate rather than the reverse. This is because, in most cases, conventional thermosonic or thermo¬ compression wire bonding tools utilize capillaries that exceed the size of the bond pad which is typically 4 mils square. As a result, if the capillary 26 is used to make a second, stitch bond directly to die bond pad 18, as illustrated in FIG. 2, the capillary will, most likely, impact the passivation area and other features of the die immediately surrounding the pad, thereby possibly producing cracks, cratering and other damage. No such damage occurs when the capillary is used to connect wire 20 to pad 18, as illustrated in FIG. 1 , since the capillary always remains apart from the surrounding area of the pad by the thickness of ball bond 22.Even though it is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS:
1. In the manufacture of an electronic device including first and second components, a method of electrically connecting said components together, comprising the steps of:
(a) forming an electrically conductive bump on said second component; and
(b) using a thermosonic or thermocompression ball bonding tool, connecting an electrically conductive bonding wire to each of said components by first ball bonding the free end of the bonding wire to said first component and thereafter stitch bonding an opposite end of the bonding wire to the electrically conductive bump on the second component.
2. A method according to Claim 1 wherein said second component is a die bond pad forming part of a die.
3. A method according to Claim 2 wherein said first component is an electrically conductive lead forming part of a substrate or leadframe.
4. A method according to Claim 2 wherein said first component is a die bond pad forming part of a second die.
5. In the manufacture of an integrated circuit package including a die which includes an array of die output/input bond pads and which is supported by means including an array of electrically conductive leads, a method of electrically connecting each of said leads with a corresponding one of said die bond pads, comprising the steps of:
(a) forming an electrically conductive bump on each of said corresponding die bond pads; and 



 (b) using a thermosonic or thermocompression ball bonding tool, connecting an electrically conductive bonding wire to each lead and its corresponding die bond pad by first ball bonding the free end of each bonding wire to its associated lead and thereafter stitch bonding an opposite end of the bonding wire to the electrically conductive bump on the corresponding die bond pad.
6. A method according to Claim 5 wherein each of said electrically conductive bumps is formed on its die bond pad by first ball bonding the free end of an electrically conductive bonding wire onto the die bond pad using said ball bonding tool and thereafter, using the same tool, stitch bonding the same wire to its ball bonded end at a point on said wire immediately adjacent said ball bonded end such that the ball bond and the stitch bond together form said electrically conductive bump.
7. A method according to Claim 5 wherein the pitch between said die bond pads is finer than the pitch between said leads.
8. A method according to Claim 5 wherein said means supporting said die is a substrate with said leads printed on one surface thereof.
9. A method according to Claim 5 wherein said means supporting said die is a leadframe.
10. in the manufacture of an integrated circuit package including a first die and a second die, each of which includes an array of die output/input bond pads, a method of electrically connecting each of the bond pads of said first die with a corresponding one of the die bond pads of the second die, comprising the steps of: (a) forming an electrically conductive bump on each of the die bond pads of the second die; and
(b) using a thermosonic or thermocompression ball bonding tool, connecting an electrically conductive bonding wire to each die bond pad of the first die 


and its corresponding die bond pad of the second die by first ball bonding the free end of each bonding wire to its associated die bond pad of the first die and thereafter stitch bonding an opposite end of the bonding wire to the electrically conductive bump on the corresponding die bond pad of the second die.
11. A method according to Claim 10 wherein each of said electrically conductive bumps is formed on its die bond pad by first ball bonding the free end of an electrically conductive bonding wire onto the die bond pad using said ball bonding tool and thereafter, using the same tool, stitch bonding the same wire to its ball bonded end at a point on said wire immediately adjacent said ball bonded end such that the ball bond and the stitch bond together form said electrically conductive bump.
12. In an electronic device including first and second components, an arrangement for electrically connecting said components together, comprising:
(a) an electrically conductive bump formed on said second component; and (b) an electrically conductive bonding wire connected to each of said components, said wire having one end ball bonded to said first component and its opposite end stitch bonded to the electrically conductive bump on the second component.
13. An arrangement according to Claim 12 wherein said second component is a die bond pad forming part of a die.
1 . An arrangement according to Claim 13 wherein said first component is an electrically conductive lead forming part of a substrate or leadframe.
15. An arrangement according to Claim 13 wherein said first component is a die bond pad forming part of a second die. 


 16. In an integrated circuit package including a die which includes an array of die output input bond pads and which is supported by means including an array of electrically conductive leads, an arrangement for electrically connecting each of said leads with a corresponding one of said die bond pads, comprising: (a) an electrically conductive bump formed on each of the corresponding die bond pads of said second die; and
(b) an electrically conductive bonding wire connected to each lead and its corresponding die bond pad, each of said bonding wires having one end thereof ball bonding to its associated lead and its opposite end stitch bonded to the electrically conductive bump on the corresponding die bond pad.
17. In an integrated circuit package including a first and second die, each of which includes an array of die output/input bond pads, an arrangement for electrically connecting each of the die bond pads of said first die with a corresponding one of the die bond pads of said second die, comprising: (a) an electrically conductive bump formed on each of the corresponding die bond pads of said second die; and
(b) an electrically conductive bonding wire connected to each die bond pad of said first die and the corresponding die bond pad of the second die, each of said bonding wires having one end thereof ball bonding to its associated die bond pad of said first die and its opposite end stitch bonded to the electrically conductive bump on the corresponding die bond pad of said second die.
18. In the manufacture of an electronic device including first and second components, the latter of which includes an array of finely pitched electrically conductive contact points, a method of electrically connecting together said array of finely pitched contact points of said second component with corresponding contact points forming part of said first component, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) forming an electrically conductive bump on each of said finely pitched contact points; and 


 (b) using a thermosonic or thermocompression ball bonding tool including a capillary, fine pitch bonding an electrically conductive bonding wire to each pair of corresponding contact points without interference from said capillary by ball bonding the free end of a bonding wire to each of the contacts of said first component and thereafter stitch bonding an opposite end of the bonding wire to an electrically conductive bump on a corresponding finely pitched contact point of said second component.
19. A method according to Claim 18 wherein said second component is a die.
20. In the manufacture of an electronic device including first and second components having corresponding arrays of adjacent electrically conductive contact points, a method of electrically connecting together corresponding pairs of said contact points, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a thermosonic or thermocompression ball bonding tool;
(b) using said tool, connecting a first electrically conductive bonding wire to a first corresponding pair of said contact points by first ball bonding the free end of said bonding wire to the contact point of said first pair on said first component and thereafter stitch bonding an opposite end of the bonding wire with the contact point of said first pair on said second component;
(c) using said tool, connecting a second electrically conductive bonding wire to a second corresponding pair of contact points immediately adjacent said first pair of contact points by first ball bonding the free end of said second bonding wire to the contact point of said second pair on said second component and thereafter stitch bonding an opposite end of the second bonding wire with the contact point of said second pair on said first component; and
(d) repeating steps (b) and (c) for any successive pairs of contact points. 


 ' ^
21. A method according to Claim 20 wherein each of the contacts of said pairs that receive a stitch bond, prior to receiving its stitch bond, is provided with an electrically conductive bump upon which the stitch bond is made. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
