<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651646</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THERAPEUTIC CONJUGATES OF TOXINS AND DRUGS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3822	A61K4748	A61K3843	A61P3100	A61K39395	A61K3843	C07K1610	A61K3800	C07K1630	A61K3800	C07K1608	A61K39395	C07K1618	A61K4748	A61K3100	A61P3500	A61K3100	C07K1618	A61P3502	A61P3500	A61P3100	A61K3822	C07K14435	C07K14435	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61K	A61K	C07K	A61K	C07K	A61K	C07K	A61K	C07K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61K	C07K	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K47	A61K38	A61P31	A61K39	A61K38	C07K16	A61K38	C07K16	A61K38	C07K16	A61K39	C07K16	A61K47	A61K31	A61P35	A61K31	C07K16	A61P35	A61P35	A61P31	A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A conjugate useful in cancer or infectious disease therapy is a drug or modified toxin which is a native toxin devoid of a functioning receptor binding domain and a protein which reacts with a substance associated with a targeted cell or pathogen. The targeted substance internalizes the conjugate into the cell cytoplasm, and then kills the cell. The protein prior to conjugation has at least one mercapto group which becomes a site for conjugation to the toxin or drug. Also provided are methods for producing the conjugate, pharmaceutical compositions of the conjugate and uses of the conjugate to prepare medicaments useful in therapy.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMMUNOMEDICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMMUNOMEDICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDENBERG DAVID M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFITHS GARY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN HANS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LENTINE-JONES ANASTASIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDENBERG, DAVID, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFITHS, GARY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN, HANS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LENTINE-JONES, ANASTASIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to therapeutic conjugates
of a drug or modified toxin and a protein which reacts with
a substance associated with a targeted cell which
internalizes the conjugate into the cell.The present invention also relates to improved and
optimized methods for site-specific conjugation of antibody-or
antibody fragments with toxins or drugs.The present invention further relates to compositions
and methods useful in cancer therapy.The present invention further relates to compositions
and methods useful in viral, microbial and parasitic therapy.Drugs and toxins which are internalized into a cell are
extremely potent cytotoxic agents of cells that are
responsible for many human diseases. Because of their high
activity, these agents have been attached to monoclonal
antibodies in order to form cytotoxic agents which
specifically bind to target cells. These immunotoxins are,
therefore, very useful in therapy for cancer, viruses,
parasites, and other infectious organisms.Various methods have been used to attach toxins and
drugs to monoclonal antibodies; however, a need continues to
exist for a site-specific method to form a stable conjugate
of a protein, particularly, an antibody or antibody fragment,
and a toxin or drug having a therapeutic effect similar to
that of a toxin.US-A-4,867,973 discloses a conjugate between an antibody and a therapeutic substance and EP-A-0193161
discloses a conjugate between an antibody and a drug or toxin. The
conjugation occurs via sulfhydryl groups of the
antibody, but conjugates disclosed in
these documents do not comprise a polysaccharide or polyol group. EP-A-0315456 discloses an
immunoglobulin, or immunoglobulin fragment covalently linked to a low molecular weight
polysaccharide derivative. This document does not disclose a low molecular weight polysaccharide
linked to an immunoglobulin or immunoglobulin fragment through a mercapto-binding linker.One object of the present invention is to readily produce a highly immunoreactive conjugate of a toxin or drug and antibody or antibody fragment which is stable.Another object of the invention is to provide a method for introducing toxins or drugs into an antibody or antibody fragment.Another object of the present invention is to provide 
medicaments for use in methods of therapy with a stable
conjugate of a toxin or drug and an antibody or antibody
fragment.Another object of the present invention is to provide a
medicaments for use in a method of treating patients having
human cancers, lymphomas and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A conjugate comprising:

a protein which reacts with a substance of a targeted cell or microbe, said
protein being conjugated through a first mercapto-binding linker to a drug or modified

toxin devoid of a functional receptor-binding domain, and further conjugated through at
least a second mercapto-binding linker to at least one polysaccharide or polyol group,

   wherein the protein mercapto groups linked to said linkers are derived from
reduction of at least one disulfide bond, and

   wherein the targeted substance internalises the conjugate into the cell or microbe's
cytoplasm.
The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the cell is a cancer cell, such as a lymphoma,
carcinoma, sarcoma, leukaemia or myeloma cell.
The conjugate of claim 1 wherein the microbe is a virus, bacterium, rickettsia,
mycoplasma, protozoan or fungus.
The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the microbe is a pathogenic microbe, such as a
virus, protozoan, bacterium, fungus, mycoplasma or rickettsia..
The conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the targeted substance is a
membrane receptor, an intracellular antigen or receptor, a viral antigen or a viral induced

antigen.
The conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the targeted substance is a
surface antigen, such as a surface membrane receptor, immunoglobulin, antibody, enzyme,

naturally occurring receptor or lectin.
The conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the protein is a peptide,
polypeptide, hormone, lymphokine, growth factor, albumin, cytokine, enzyme, immune

modulator, receptor protein, antibody or antibody fragment. 
The conjugate of claim 7, wherein the protein is an antibody or an antibody
fragment, such as an Fv, single chain antibody, Fab, F(ab)
2
, Fab' or F(ab')
2
 fragment, and
the targeted substance is an antigen with which the antibody or antibody fragment reacts.
The conjugate of any one of claims 7 or 8 wherein the antibody is a monoclonal
antibody.
The conjugate of claim 9 wherein the monoclonal antibody is targeted against

Streptococcus agalactiae, Legiionella pneumophilia
, 
Streptococcus pyogenes, Escherichia
coli, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Neisseria meningitidis, Pneumococcus, Hemophilis

influenzae B, Treponema pallidum
, Lyme disease spirochetes, 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Mycobacterium leprae, Brucella abortus
 or 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
, HTV-1, HTV-2,
HIV-3, Hepatitis A, B, C, D, rabies virus, influenza virus, cytomegalovirus, 
Herpes
simplex
 I and II, human serum parvo-like virus, respiratory syncytial virus, Varicella-Zoster
virus, measles virus, adenovirus, human T-cell leukemia viruses, Epstein-Barr virus,

murine leukemia virus, mumps virus, vesicular stomatitis virus, Sindbis virus,
Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus, Wart virus, Blue tongue virus, Sendai virus, feline

leukemia virus, Reo virus, polio virus, Simian virus 40, mouse mammary tumor virus,
Dengue virus, Rubella virus, 
Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium vivax, Toxoplasma
gondii, Trypanosoma rangeli, Trypanosoma cruzi, Trypanosoma rhodesiensei,

Trypanosomal brucei, Schistosoma mansoni, Schistosoma japanicum, Babesia bovis,
Elmeria tenella, Onchocerca volvulus, Leishmania tropica, Trichinella spiralis, Theileria

parva, Taenia hydatigena, Taenia ovis, Taenia saginata, Echinococcus granulosus,
Mesocestoides corti, Mycoplasma arthridtidis, M. hyorhinis, M. orale, M. arginini,

Acholeplasma laidlawii, M. salivarium
 or 
M. pneumoniae
.
The conjugate of claim 8 or 9, wherein the antibody may be a whole
immunoglobulin such as IgG, IgM, IgA, IgD or IgE.
The conjugate of any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein the antibody or antibody
fragment is a chimeric or hybrid antibody fragment with dual or multiple antigen or

epitope specificities. 
The conjugate of claim 1 wherein the protein is (i) a genetically engineered and/or
recombinant protein, (ii) a single-chain or multiple-chain protein, (iii) incorporates an

antigen binding site and (iv) functions 
in vivo
 as a targeting vehicle in the same way as
natural immunoglobulin fragments.
The conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the protein had, prior to
conjugation, at least one disulphide linkage which is reducible to form a

dimercaptoprotein.
The conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the drug or modified toxin is
abrin, alphatoxin, diphtheria toxin, exotoxin such as a modified Pseudomonas exotoxin,

gelonin, pokeweed antiviral protein, ricin, saporin, puromycin, cycloheximide or
ribonuclease.
The conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the polysaccharide is dextran.
The conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 16 wherein the polyol is polyethylene
glycol.
A pharmaceutical composition comprising the conjugate of any one of claims 1 to
17 in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
The composition of claim 18, in sterile, injectable form.
The composition of any one of claims 18 or 19, comprising a mixture of conjugates

wherein the proteins of the conjugates are a mixture of antibodies and immunoglobulin
classes.
The conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 17 or the composition of any one of claims
18 to 20, for use in therapy. 
Use of the conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 17 or the composition of any one of
claims 18 to 20 in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of cancer or a

microbial infection.
A method for preparing the conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the
protein, prior to conjugation, had at least one disulphide linkage which is redu
cible to form
a dimercaptoprotein, the method comprising the steps of: (a) reacting said protein with a

disulfide reducing agent to form said dimercaptoprotein; (b) linking the toxin or drug to the
dimercaptoprotein through a first mercapto-binding linker; and (c) linking a polysaccharide

or polyol to the dimercaptoprotein through a second mercapto-binding linker.
The method of claim 23, wherein the dimercaptoprotein is stabilized, preferably by
lyophilisation, prior to being contacted with the toxin.
A method of producing the conjugate of claim 1 wherein the protein is a Fab or
Fab
1
 fragment, comprising the steps of: (a) partially reducing an intact antibody that
specifically binds to an antigen associated with a targeted cell or microbe, with a reducing

agent for cleaving disulfide bonds, in an amount sufficient to generate a plurality of
proximal free sulfhydryl groups but insufficient to render immunologically inactive said

antibody or to completely cleave the antibody heavy chain, and recovering partially
reduced antibody; (b) cleaving said partially reduced antibody to generate a F(ab')
2
 or
F(ab)
2
 fragment, and recovering said fragment; and either (c) reacting said F(ab')
2
 or
F(ab)
2
 fragment with at least one polysaccharide or polyol group coupled to a mercapto-reactive
linker, to conjugate said polysaccharide or polyol group to said fragment, and

recovering the resultant conjugate; (d) cleaving the remaining disulfide groups linking the
heavy chains of the product of step (c) with a reducing agent for cleaving disulfide groups,

and recovering the resultant polysaccharide- or polyol-conjugated Fab' or Fab fragment
having at least one free sulfhydryl group; and (e) reacting the product of step (d) with a

drug or modified toxin devoid of a functional receptor-binding domain and coupled to a
mercapto-reactive linker, and recovering the resultant conjugate or (c') reacting said

F(ab')
2
 or F(ab)
2
 fragment with a drug or modified toxin devoid of a functional receptor-binding
domain and coupled to a mercapto-reactive linker, and recovering the resultant

conjugate; (d') cleaving the remaining disulfide groups linking the heavy chains of the 
product of step (c') with a reducing agent for cleaving disulfide groups, and recovering

Fab' or Fab fragment having at least one free sulfhydryl group; and (e') reacting the
product of step (d') with at least one polysaccharide or polyol group coupled to a

mercapto-reactive linker, to conjugate said polysaccharide or polyol group to said
fragment, and recovering the resultant conjugate.
The method of claim 25, wherein said mercapto-reactive linker comprises a
maleimide group.
The conjugate of any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein the antibody is a single-chain or
multiple-chain antibody.
The conjugate of any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein the antibody is a single-chain
antibody.
The conjugate of any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein the antibody is a multiple-chain
antibody.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
