<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615106</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electric heat treating furnace.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F27B500	F27B516	F27D100	F27D100	F27D700	F27D702	H05B362	H05B366	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F27B	F27B	F27D	F27D	F27D	F27D	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F27B5	F27B5	F27D1	F27D1	F27D7	F27D7	H05B3	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A heat treating furnace (10) has a hot zone enclosure (13) 
with a substantially rectangular cross section. The 

floor (20) of the hot zone enclosure (13) is formed such that it 
is removable independently of the remainder of the hot 

zone enclosure. The heat treating furnace has a 
heating element (24) with a novel support element (26) that is 

readily mounted on and removed from the hot zone 
enclosure and which adjusts to accommodate a wide 

range of heating element thicknesses and insulation 
shield thicknesses. The electrically insulating 

components of the support element are formed to resist 
electrical shorting resulting from metallization and 

to resist cracking from thermally induced stress. The 

heat treating furnace further includes a cooling gas 
injection nozzle (30) formed to reduce turbulence in the 

injected gas stream and to be readily attached to or 
removed from the hot zone enclosure (13). The gas 

injection nozzle is preferably formed of a ceramic 
material and is mounted in an opening in the hot zone 

enclosure by means of a very coarse, light-bulb-like, 
thread (932) formed in the body of the gas nozzle. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IPSEN ABAR IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABAR IPSEN INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLOGG CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMIDT CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLOGG, CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMIDT, CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to heat treating furnaces, 
and in particular to an electric heat treating furnace 
having a unique combination of novel features that 
provide significantly improved operating and 
maintenance characteristics compared to known heat 
treating furnaces. Many of the known heat treating furnaces have a 
hot zone with a circular cross section. A circular 
cross section hot zone, however, unnecessarily limits 
the maximum size workpiece load that the heat treating 
furnace can accommodate. During operation of the 
known heat treating furnaces, workpieces, furnace 
components, or in the case of a brazing furnace, the 
brazing alloy, can drop onto the hot zone floor 
causing damage thereto. Hitherto, the hot zone 
enclosure had to be removed in entirety from the 
furnace pressure vessel in order to repair or replace 
the hot zone floor. Such a laborious process leaves 
much to be desired. There are several known designs for electric 
heating elements and their associated supports used in 
electric heat treating furnaces. A problem with the 
known designs is that they are prone to shorting out 
because the surfaces of the electrically insulated 
components of the heating element supports are 
progressively metallized during heat treating cycles. Many of the known heating element supports 
include a stand-off or support shaft that threads into 
the hot zone enclosure. Such a heating element 
support is subject to distortion and galling from 
thermal cycling in the furnace. This distortion and  
 
galling causes the threaded portion of the stand-off 
to seize, which makes the heating element support very 
difficult to remove. Another drawback of the known heating element 
supports is that they must be specifically designed 
for either graphite or metal heating elements. A 
graphite heating element is significantly thicker than 
a metal heating element. Furthermore, the known 
heating element supports must also be uniquely 
designed to accommodate different types and/or 
thicknesses of heat shielding or insulation that is 
used to line the furnace hot zone enclosure. Still 
further, the known heating element supports provide 
little, if any, adjustability for controlling the 
distance of the heating element from the heat shield. Gas injection nozzles are used in heat treating 
furnaces to distribute a cooling gas over the 
workpiece load during the cooling portion of a heat 
treating cycle. The known designs for gas injection 
nozzles include a tube having flared ends which is 
formed of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A heat treating furnace comprising: 
   a pressure vessel having an interior; 

   a door disposed at one end of said pressure 
vessel for accessing the interior thereof; and 

   an enclosure disposed in said pressure vessel, 
said enclosure defining a hot zone therein, said 

enclosure including a front wall, a back wall, a pair 
of side walls, a top wall, and a floor, said floor 

being mounted in said pressure vessel so as to be 
removable from said pressure vessel independently of 

the walls of said enclosure. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 1 
wherein said walls and said floor are generally planar 

and said enclosure has a substantially rectangular 
cross-section when viewed from the door end of said 

pressure vessel. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 2 
wherein said top wall comprises a central portion that 

is substantially parallel to said floor, a second 
portion that extends downward at an angle from said 

central portion to intersect with one of said side 
walls, and a third portion that extends downward at an 

angle from said central portion to intersect with the 
other of said side walls, whereby said enclosure has a 

polygonal cross-section. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 1 
comprising an exhaust duct for conducting a cooling 

gas from the hot zone out of said pressure vessel. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 4 
wherein said exhaust duct comprises a first duct 

portion that is fixedly mounted in said pressure 
vessel and a second duct portion that is affixed to 

 
the floor and detachable from said first duct portion 

whereby said second duct portion is removable from the 
pressure vessel with the floor. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 5 
wherein said second duct portion of said exhaust duct 

is disposed externally of said hot zone. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 6 
comprising injection means for injecting a quenching 

gas into the hot zone and said floor includes an 
opening for providing a flow path between the hot zone 

and said exhaust duct, whereby an injected quenching 
gas can exit the hot zone. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 7 
wherein said injection means comprises a gas injection 

nozzle mounted on a wall of said enclosure, said gas 
injection nozzle including: 

   a cylindrical wall defining a gas flow channel 
having an inlet and an outlet at respective of said 

cylindrical wall; 
   a first flare formed in said cylindrical wall at 

the inlet end and a second flare formed in said 
cylindrical wall at the outlet end; and 

   attachment means formed on said cylindrical wall 
adjacent said inlet end for attaching the gas 

injection nozzle in an opening in the internal 
enclosure of the heat treating furnace, whereby said 

gas injection nozzle is mounted on said enclosure. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 8 
wherein said injection means comprises a plurality of 

said gas injection nozzles mounted in the side walls 
and the top wall of said enclosure. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 1 
further comprising: 

   an electric heating element disposed in said hot 
zone; and 

   a plurality of support insulators mounted on said 
enclosure for supporting said electric heating element 

on the floor, side walls, and top wall of said 
enclosure; 

   said electric heating element including: 
   a first portion substantially parallel to 

the floor of said enclosure; 
   a second portion substantially parallel to 

one of the side wells of said enclosure; and 
   removable fasteners for connecting said 

first portion to said second portion, whereby 
said first portion can be removed with said 

floor. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 10 
wherein each of said plurality of support insulators 

comprises: 
   mounting means for mounting the support insulator 

on said enclosure; 
   a support shaft having a first end attached to 

said mounting means and a second end extending into 
the hot zone; 

   an electrically insulated connector mounted on 
the second end of said shaft, said insulated connector 

including: 
   a base portion formed for resisting 

metallization and thermally induced stress, said 
base portion including attachment means for 

attaching said insulated connector to the second 
end of said support shaft; and 

   a support portion extending from said base 
portion for engagement with the electric heating 

element; and
 

   a fastener formed for attaching to the support 
portion of said insulated connector for securing the 

electric heating element to said insulated connector. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 1 
wherein said front wall, said back wall, said side 

walls, said top wall, and said floor each comprises: 
   a backing member; and 

   a heat shield affixed to said backing member so 
as to inhibit the radiation of heat from the hot zone 

during operation of the heat treating furnace. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 1 
wherein each of the side walls and the top wall of 

said enclosure comprises: 
   a first frame formed of a plurality of rigid 

structural members; 
   a backing member attached to said first frame; 

and 
   a heat shield affixed to said backing member so 

as to inhibit the radiation of heat from the hot zone 
during operation of the heat treating furnace. 
A heat treating furnace as recited in Claim 13 
wherein the floor of said enclosure comprises: 

   a second frame formed of a plurality of rigid 
structural members; 

   a floor-backing member attached to said second 
frame; and 

   a floor heat shield affixed to said floor-backing 
member so as to inhibit the radiation of heat from the 

hot zone during operation of the heat treating 
furnace. 
A heat treating furnace comprising: 
   a pressure vessel;

 
   a door disposed at one end of said pressure 

vessel for accessing the interior thereof; 
   an enclosure disposed in said pressure vessel, 

said enclosure defining a hot zone therein, said 
enclosure including a front wall, a back wall, a pair 

of side walls, a top wall, and a floor, said floor 
being mounted in said pressure vessel so as to be 

removable from said pressure vessel independently of 
the walls of said enclosure; 

   injection means for injecting a quenching gas 
into the hot zone; 

   an exhaust duct for conducting the quenching gas 
from the hot zone such that the quenching gas can be 

exhausted from the heat treating furnace; 
   an electric heating element disposed in said hot 

zone; and 
   a plurality of support insulators mounted on said 

enclosure for supporting said electric heating element 

on the floor, side walls, and top wall of said 
enclosure; 

   said electric heating element including: 
   a first portion substantially parallel to 

the floor of said enclosure; 
   a second portion substantially parallel to 

one of the side walls of said enclosure; 
   a third portion substantially to the other 

of the side walls of said enclosure; and 
   removable fasteners for connecting said 

first portion to said second and third portions, 
whereby said first portion can be removed with 

the floor of said enclosure. 
A hot zone enclosure for a heat treating furnace 
comprising: 

   a front wall; 
   a back wall;

 
   an upper assembly including a pair of side walls 

and a top wall that are assembled for handling as a 
unit; and 

   a floor that is formed separately from said upper 
assembly and for independent movement relative 

thereto; 
   said enclosure having a substantially rectangular 

cross section. 
A hot zone enclosure as recited in Claim 16 
wherein said top wall comprises a central portion that 

is substantially parallel to said floor, a second 
portion that extends downward at an angle from said 

central portion to intersect with one of said side 
walls, and a third portion that extends downward at an 

angle from said central portion to intersect with the 
other of said side walls, whereby said enclosure has a 

polygonal cross-section. 
A hot zone enclosure as recited in Claim 17 
comprising an exhaust duct that is affixed to said 

floor externally to the hot zone enclosure. 
A hot zone enclosure as recited in Claim 16 
wherein said upper assembly comprises: 

   an inverted U-shaped frame formed from a first 
plurality of interconnected structural members; and 

   a plurality of wall backing members attached to 
said first plurality of interconnected structural 

members so as to form substantially planar surfaces 
for the side walls and the top wall of the hot zone 

enclosure. 
A hot zone enclosure as recited in Claim 19 
further comprising a heat insulating shield attached 

to said plurality of backing members. 
A hot zone enclosure as recited in Claim 19 
wherein said floor comprises: 

   a planar frame formed of a second plurality of 
interconnected structural members; and 

   a floor backing member attached to said planar 
frame so as to form a substantially planar surface for 

the floor. 
A hot zone enclosure as recited in Claim 21 
further comprising a heat insulating shield attached 

to said floor backing member. 
A hot zone enclosure as recited in Claim 22 
wherein said floor further comprises an exhaust duct 

that is affixed to said floor externally to the hot 
zone enclosure and said backing member and said heat 

insulating shield have a plurality of openings formed 
therethrough for providing a path to said exhaust 

duct. 
A support for an electric heating element in an 
electric heat treating furnace of the type having an 

internal enclosure defining a hot zone, said support 
comprising: 

   mounting means for mounting the support on an 
internal enclosure; 

   a support shaft having a first end attached to 
said mounting means and a second end extending into 

the hot zone; 
   an electrically insulated connector mounted on 

the second end of said shaft, said insulated connector 
comprising: 

   a base portion formed for resisting 
thermally induced stress, said base portion 

including attachment means for attaching said 
insulated connector to the second end of said 

support shaft; and
 

   a support portion extending from said base 
portion for engagement with the electric heating 

element; and 
   a fastener formed for attaching to the support 

portion of said insulated connector for securing the 
electric heating element to said insulated connector. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 24 wherein the base portion of the insulated 

support is shaped for inhibiting metallization of the 
base portion during operation of the heat treating 

furnace. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 24 wherein the support portion of said 

electrically insulated connector comprises a shaft 
portion formed to project through an opening in the 

electric heating element for engaging with said 
fastener. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 26 wherein said insulated connector has a bore 

formed axially therethrough. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 24 wherein said fastener is movably attached to 

said support portion of said insulated connector, 
whereby the electric heating element support can be 

adjusted to accommodate a variety of thicknesses of 
electric heating elements. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 24 wherein said support portion comprises: 

   a shaft portion formed for projecting through an 
opening in the electric heating element for engaging 

with said fastener; and
 

   a neck portion formed between said base portion 
and said shaft portion, said neck portion having a 

transverse cross-Section intermediate said base 
portion and said shaft portion for accommodating a 

graphite, electric heating element. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 24 wherein said mounting means comprises: 

   a receptacle mounted on the internal enclosure of 
the vacuum furnace; and 

   attachment means formed for insertion into said 
receptacle for engagement therewith. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 30 further comprising a second fastener movably 

disposed on said shaft, intermediate said mounting 
means and said insulated connector, for retaining a 

heat insulating shield on the internal enclosure. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 30 wherein said receptacle comprises a first 

tubular member having an inside diameter and a 
retaining pin spanning said inside diameter; and said 

attachment means comprises: 
   a second tubular member formed to fit inside said 

receptacle; and 
   a pair of diametrically opposed slots formed in 

said tubular member for engaging with said retaining 
pin whereby said tubular member is retained in said 

receptacle. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 24 wherein the support portion of said insulated 

connector comprises a non-circular shoulder formed 
thereon for engagement with an identically shaped 

opening in the electric heating element, whereby said 
 

insulated connector is prevented from rotating 
relative to the electric heating element. 
An electric heating element support as recited in 
Claim 25 wherein the base portion of said insulated 

connector has a cavity formed therein for inhibiting 
metallization of said base portion. 
A gas injection nozzle for a heat treating 
furnace of the type having an internal enclosure 

defining a hot zone, said nozzle comprising: 
   a cylindrical wall defining a gas flow channel 

between an inlet and an outlet at respective ends 
thereof; 

   a first flare formed in said cylindrical wall at 
the inlet end and a second fl
are formed in said 
cylindrical wall at the outlet end; and 

   attachment means formed in said cylindrical wall 
adjacent said inlet end for attaching the gas 

injection nozzle in an opening in the internal 
enclosure of the heat treating furnace. 
A gas injection nozzle as recited in Claim 35 
wherein the first flare has a short radius of 

curvature relative to the second flare. 
A gas injection nozzle as recited in Claim 35 
further comprising a collar formed around the 

circumference of said cylindrical wall between said 
attachment means and the outlet end. 
A gas injection nozzle as recited in Claim 37 
further comprising a conical wall portion formed 

between said collar and the outlet end. 
A gas injection nozzle as recited in Claim 36 
wherein said attachment means comprises a coarse 

 
thread formed in said cylindrical wall adjacent the 

inlet end. 
A gas injection nozzle as recited in Claim 36 
wherein said cylindrical wall is formed of a ceramic 

material. 
A gas injection nozzle as recited in Claim 40 
wherein said cylindrical wall has a thickness that is 

dimensioned to provide resistance to cracking from 
thermally induced stress. 
A gas injection nozzle for a heat treating 
furnace of the type having an internal enclosure 

defining a hot zone, said nozzle comprising: 
   a cylindrical-wall portion defining a 

substantially cylindrical channel, said cylindrical-wall 
portion having a flare formed in one end thereof, 

said flare defining an inlet to the cylindrical 
channel; 

   a conical-wall portion extending outward from the 
other end of said cylindrical-wall portion and 

defining a flared channel aligned on a common axis 
with the cylindrical channel so as to form a 

continuous gas flow channel, the flared channel 
including an outlet at its largest diameter; 

   a collar formed around the circumference of said 
cylindrical-wall portion adjacent to the conical-wall 

portion; and 
   a coarse thread formed on said cylindrical-wall 

portion adjacent the inlet. 
A gas injection nozzle as recited in Claim 42 
wherein the flare formed in said cylindrical-wall 

portion has a short radius of curvature relative to 
the flared channel. 
A gas injection nozzle as recited in Claim 43 
that is formed of a ceramic material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
