<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631226</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus, system and method for ultrasonic communication
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q900	H04B1100	H04B159	G06F3147	H04B159	G06F3147	H04B1100	H04Q900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04B	H04B	G06F	H04B	G06F	H04B	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q9	H04B11	H04B1	G06F3	H04B1	G06F3	H04B11	H04Q9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for ultrasonically communicating 
information from a source to a destination and for acknowledging 

receipt of that information by the destination. 
The apparatus comprising the system includes at 

least one processor, at least one transceiver, and at 
least one display device, each display device having a 

unique identifier. The processor communicates information 
for broadcast to the transceiver. The processor also performs 

digital signal processing for detecting an acknowledgement 
signal within a narrow bandwidth. The 

transceiver ultrasonically broadcasts an identifier and 
associated data to display devices within the broadcast 

area, and also receives ultrasonic signals. A display 
device includes a transducer, a comparator, a memory, a 

display panel, and logic. In the communication method, a 
processor, a transceiver, and a display device communicate 

by initially associating data with a unique display device 
identifier. The processor communicates the identifier/data 

pair to the transceiver, which in turn ultrasonically 
broadcasts the identifier and associated data to display 

devices within the broadcast range. If the received identifier 
matches the unique identifier of the display device, 

then an acknowledgement signal is generated and the 
data is displayed at the display device. The processor 

determines whether the acknowledgement signal was generated 
within a defined bandwidth by performing digital signal 

processing. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATO ROBERT THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS RICHARD HUNTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATO, ROBERT THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS, RICHARD HUNTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus and method
for ultrasonic communication. More particularly, the
present invention relates to an apparatus and method for
ultrasonically communicating data from a source to a destination,
ultrasonically acknowledging receipt of the
data, and displaying the data at the destination. A particular
application of the invention is to ultrasonically
communicate price information from a computer to a remote
display device, such as an electronic shelf label, ultra-sonically
acknowledge receipt of the information by the
display device, and display the food price information on
the display device. A novel application of digital signal
processing enables the acknowledgement transmission to not
consume much power.Technology is becoming more and more prevalent in retail
consumer transactions. At checkout stations, for example,
automatic detection of price information on bar coded
items is now commonplace. A more recent advance is the
use of electronic shelf edge labels to display food item
and/or price information for shelved items. In this way,
pricing information for the shelved items may be electronically
updated rather than manually updating printed shelf
labels.Electronic shelf edge labels available today typically
require manual entry of data or remote entry via radio,
light, or direct-connect communication. U.S. Patent
5,019,811, assigned to Unigrafic AG, for example, discusses
the use of a radio connection or an infrared connection
between a computer or control device and an electronic
shelf label. U.S. Patent 4,002,886, issued to R. M. 
Sundelin, relates primarily to a direct-connect system for
communicating price information from a computer to an
electronic price display unit.Unfortunately, a radio link is expensive and therefore the
number of radio transceivers per shelf or gondola is typically
limited to one. Individual shelf edge labels are then
physically connected by wires or snap-in tracks to the radio
transceiver, negating the ability to directly communicate with
individual labels. Furthermore, radio links are increasing to
the point that channels are beginning to interfere with each
other. This interference threatens the reliability of existing
and future radio links.Direct communication with individual labels is illustrated by
the light-based ILID system by Technical Computing & Graphics
(TCG) Systems Automation Marketing. The ILID system
communicates with individual labels by flickering florescent
lights in the store. Communication is one-way only,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
ultrasonic communication method between means for
processing data (12), means for transceiving ultrasonic

signals (14), and means for displaying data (16), wherein each
displaying means has a unique identifier, comprising the

step of :

(a) associating data with an identifier at said processing
means;
(b) communicating the identifier and the associated data
to said transceiving means;
(c) ultrasonically broadcasting the identifier and the
associated data at said transceiving means (106);
(d) receiving the broadcast identifier and the associated
data at said displaying means;
(e) ultrasonically generating an acknowledgment signal at
said displaying means if the received identifier matches

the unique identifier of said displaying means;
(f) displaying the received data at said displaying means;
and
(g) determining at said processing means whether the
acknowledgment signal was generated, wherein step (g)

includes

(i) prior to step (d), determining a first indicator of
the amount of sound within an acknowledgment signal

bandwidth (102),
(ii) for a time window after step (c), determining a
second indicator of the amount of sound within the

acknowledgment signal bandwith (112); and 
(iii) determining the acknowledgment signal to have been
generated if the second indicator exceeds the first

indicator by a defined amount.
Ultrasonic communication method according to claim 1,
wherein step (c) includes ultrasonically broadcasting the

data and the identifier within a range of 30.000 hertz to
50.000 hertz.
Ultrasonic communication method according to claim 1 or 2,
further comprising the step of 
verifying the data after
the data has been received at step (d).
Ultrasonic communication method according to claim 3,
wherein the verifying step includes performing a cyclic

redundancy check on the received data.
Ultrasonic communication method according to anyone of
claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein step (g) is performed by

employing digital signal processing.
Ultrasonic communication method according to anyone of
claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein step (g) is performed by

employing analog filters.
Ultrasonic communication method according to anyone of
claim 1 to 6, wherein the acknowledgement signal of step (e)

is generated within a narrow acknowledgement signal
bandwidth.
Ultrasonic communication display apparatus, comprising :

(a) means for associating a unique identifier with the
apparatus ; 
(b) means for determining a first indicator of the amount
of sound within an acknowledgment signal bandwith (102);
(c) means for receiving an ultrasonically broadcast
identifier and ultrasonically broadcast data;
(d) means for determining a second indicator of the amount
of sound within the acknowledgment signal bandwidth for a

time window after an ultrasonically broadcast identifier
and ultrasonically broadcast data (112);
(e) means for determining whether a received broadcast
identifier matches the unique identifier;
(f) means for ultrasonically generating an acknowledgment
signal;
(g) means for displaying received data (16); and
(h) means for determining the acknowledgment signal to
have been generated if the second indicator exceeds the

first indicator by a defined amount.
Ultrasonic communication display apparatus according to
claim 8, wherein said associating means is a memory in

which said identifier is stored.
Ultrasonic communication display apparatus according to
claim 8 or 9, wherein said identifier is a Universal Product Code (UPC).
Ultrasonic communication display apparatus according to
anyone of claim 8, 9 or 10, wherein said receiving means

and said generating means both employ a piezoelectric
transducer. 
Ultrasonic communication display apparatus according to
anyone of claim 8 , 9, 10 or 11, wherein said determining

means includes a comparator for comparing whether a
received broadcast identifier matches the unique

identifier associated with the apparatus.
Ultrasonic communication display apparatus according to
anyone of claim 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12, wherein said

displaying means includes a liquid crystal display panel.
Ultrasonic communication display apparatus according to
anyone of claim 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or 13, further comprising

means for a fixing the apparatus to a shelf edge.
Ultrasonic communication display apparatus according to
anyone of claim 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or 13, further

comprising means for affixing the apparatus to a portable
item.
Ultrasonic communication system (10), comprising :

(a) means for processing data (12), including

(i) means for associating data with an identifier;
(ii) means for detecting an acknowledgment signal,
including


(1) means for determining a first indicator of
the amount of sound within an acknowledgment signal

bandwidth (102);
(2) means for determining a second indicator of
the amount of sound within the acknowledgment signal

bandwidth for a time window after an ultrasonically
broadcast identifier and ultrasonically broadcast data (112);
(3) means for determining the acknowledgment
signal to have been generated if the second indicator 

exceeds the first indicator by a defined amount,
(b) means for transceiving ultrasonic signals, operably
coupled to said processing means for communication

therewith, including means for ultrasonically broadcasting
an identifier and associated data, and means for receiving

ultrasonic signals;
(c) means for displaying data, the displaying means having
a unique identifier, including


(i) means for receiving an ultrasonically broadcast
identifier and ultrasonically broadcast data;
(ii) means for determining whether a received
broadcast identifier matches the unique identifier;
(iii) means for ultrasonically generating an
acknowledgment signal; and
(iv) means for displaying received data.
Ultrasonic communication system according to claim 16,
further comprising means for loading said data displaying

means (16) with said identifier and associated data, comprising

(a) means for optically scanning indicia;
(b) means for transceiving ultrasonic signals;
(c) first coupling means for communicating signals
representative of said indicia from said scanning means to

said transceiving means; and
(d) second coupling means for communicating signals
representative of said indicia from said transceiving 

means to said display device.
Loading apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said
scanning means is an optical scanning wand.
Loading apparatus according to anyone of claim 17 or 18,
wherein said second coupling means is an acoustic coupler

for placement over a receiving means of said display
device.
Loading apparatus according to anyone of claim 17, 18 or
19, further comprising means for displaying scanned

indicia.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
