<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639726</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
One-piece sealing arrangement by means of a lubricated centering guide for pressurized hydraulic shockabsorbers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16F936	F16F949	F16F948	F16F936	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16F9	F16F9	F16F9	F16F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The device for sealing off a pressurised hydraulic shock absorber tube (1) in which there slides a piston (1) provided with an axial rod (8), comprises a plug (17), a seal (10), fastening means (19 to 22) and a cylindrical guide (18) whose central opening (18c) guides the axial movement of the rod (8). The guide has a guiding base part (18a) and an axial peripheral wall (18b) defining a circular housing for supporting and centering the seal and the plug. The base part has several perforations (24) distributed over a circular path at the bottom of an annular groove (23) made in its upper side. The plug (17) has a central opening (17a) whose diameter is greater than the diameter of the rod of the tube in order to define a radial clearance avoiding mechanical contact beween the plug and the rod during the operation of the shock absorber. The plug has a circular housing (17b) around its central opening in order to take part of the seal sandwiched between the plug and the guiding base part. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOFRAMCA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOCIETE FRANCAISE DES AMORTISSEURS DE CARBON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATAILLE ALAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATAILLE, ALAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Pressurized hydraulic shock absorber tube
containing a sliding piston (7) equipped with an axial

rod (8) and a tube-sealing device comprising a seal
(10), a relaxation stop element (11, 18) consisting of

a guide (18) in the form of a cylinder equipped with a
guide base (18a) which has a central opening (18c) for

guiding the axial movement of the rod (8), a plug (17)
with a central opening (17a) of a diameter larger than

the diameter of the piston rod so as to define a radial
clearance to prevent mechanical rod-guiding contact

between the plug and the rod while the shock absorber
is in operation and having a circular housing (17b)

around its central opening to accommodate part of the
seal sandwiched between the plug and the guide base,

and means (19 to 22) for securing the sealing device in
the tube, characterized in that the cylindrical guide

of the relaxation stop element comprises an axial
peripheral wall (18b) defining a circular housing for

supporting and centring the seal and the plug, and in
that the guide base comprises one or more perforations

(24) distributed in a circular path to allow the shock-absorber
fluid to communicate, on the one hand, with a

relaxation volume defined by the seal and the base and,
on the other hand, with the inside of the tube.
Tube according to Claim 1, characterized in
that the guide base (18a) has an annular groove (23) on

its upper side, the perforations (24) opening into the
bottom of the annular groove. 
Tube according to Claim 2, characterized in
that the annular groove (23) of the guide base (18a)

has a substantially trapezoidal or V-shaped cross-section
widening towards its opening.
Tube according to Claim 2 or 3, characterized
in that the inner annular surface (18e) of the guide

base is axially set back from the outer annular surface

(18d) of the base, the said annular surfaces being
radially separated by the annular groove (23).
Tube according to Claim 1, characterized in
that the seal (10) has an annular groove (10d) axially

facing the perforations (24) of the guide base (18a).
Tube according to Claim 1, characterized in
that the guide base (18a) has an inward conical surface

(18g) on its upper side, and in that the seal (10) has
a ring (10c) projecting axially towards the base.
Tube according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that two concentric axial bearing

rings are formed between the guide base (18a) and the
seal (10).
Tube according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the seal (10) is made in one

piece from an elastomer.
Tube according to one of Claims 1 to 7,
characterized in that the seal (10) consists of a

static part (10a) in the form of a washer providing a
seal between the plug (17) and the inner surface of the

axial peripheral wall (18b) of the guide, and of a
dynamic part (10b) which is centred relative to the

static part and provides a seal between the plug and
the piston rod (8).
Tube according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the diameter of the central

opening (18c) of the guide base is greater than the
diameter of the rod by between a few hundredths of a

millimetre and a tenth of a millimetre.
Tube according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the diameter of the central 

opening (17a) of the plug is greater than the diameter
of the rod by a few tenths of a millimetre.
Tube according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the guide base (18a) has a

central bore in which a tubular guide bushing (18f) is
mounted.
Tube according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that it further comprises scraper

means (25) protecting the radial clearance between the
plug and the rod from the external environment.
Tube according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the plug (17) is force-fitted

into the circular housing of the guide (18).
Tube according to one of Claims 1 to 14,
characterized in that the lower part of the guide base

(18a) of the sealing device is shaped in such a way as
to collaborate with a predetermined upper part of the

piston as it slides, the guide base thus shaped and the
said predetermined upper part of the piston together

forming a hydraulic stop.
Tube according to Claim 15, characterized in
that the guide base (18a) includes a lower skirt (18j),

inside which the predetermined upper part of the piston
can at least partially penetrate during its sliding

movement, in that a predefined clearance (54) is
provided between the inside face of the skirt and the

outside lateral face of the predetermined upper part of
the piston, and in that the predetermined upper part of

the piston has at least one through-passage (53), the
upper opening of which can be sealed by a flexible

upper valve (51).
Tube according to Claim 16, characterized in
that the said predetermined upper part of the piston is

an upper bearing washer of the piston.
Tube according to Claim 16, characterized in
that the predetermined upper part of the piston

consists of an additional upper extension arranged on
the upper bearing washer of the piston, this upper

extension having an outside cylindrical lateral face 
parallel to the inside cylindrical lateral face of the

lower cylindrical skirt of the guide base.
Tube according to Claim 18, characterized in
that the upper face of the upper extension is plane and

parallel to the plane lower face of the guide base.
Tube according to Claim 18, characterized in
that the lower face of the guide base comprises a plane

central part and an annular re-entrant recess defining
a cavity with the inside face of the lower cylindrical

skirt, in that the upper face of the upper extension of
the piston includes a plane central part to which there

connects a projecting annular lug capable of at least
partially penetrating the said cavity as the piston

slides.
Tube according to one of Claims 16 to 20,
characterized in that the lower skirt is of one piece

with the guide base or is attached to this guide base.
Tube according to one of Claims 15 to 21,
characterized in that it further includes an auxiliary

elastic stop member arranged between the predetermined
upper part of the piston and the lower face of the

guide base.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
