<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628017</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR MINERALIZING AND FLUORIDATING CALCIFIED TISSUES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K602	A61K6033	A61K819	A61K819	A61K824	A61K3306	A61K3306	A61K3324	A61K3324	A61K3342	A61K3342	A61Q1100	A61Q1100	C01B2500	C01B2516	C01B2526	C01B25455	C01F1100	C01F1122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61Q	A61Q	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01F	C01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K6	A61K6	A61K8	A61K8	A61K8	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61Q11	A61Q11	C01B25	C01B25	C01B25	C01B25	C01F11	C01F11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention involves new compositions and methods of use and delivery of amorphous calcium compounds such as: amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP), amorphous calcium phosphate fluoride (ACPF), amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate (ACCP), amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride (ACCPF), and amorphous calcium fluoride (ACF) for use in remineralizing and fluoridating teeth. These amorphous compounds or solutions which form the amorphous compounds, when applied either onto or into dental tissue prevent and/or repair dental weaknesses such as dental caries, exposed roots and dentin sensitivity. The compounds have the highest solubilities, fastest formation rates and fastest conversion rates (to apatite) among all the calcium phosphates under physiological conditions. Moreover, in the presence of fluoride the amorphous compound converts rapidly to fluoride containing apatite.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN DENTAL ASS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN DENTAL ASSOCIATION HEALTH FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUNG MING S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUNG, MING, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR MINERALIZING AND FLUORIDATING CALCIFIED TISSUESThe invention described herein was made in the course of research partially supported by a grant from the National Institute of Dental Research. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to certain amorphous calcium compounds that are unique in their applications as remineralizers of caries lesions, cavities and root erosions of the tooth. These amorphous compounds when further containing a fluoride compound can also be used for topical fluoridation of the teeth. When used for either fluoridation or mineralization these compounds prevent further tooth decay and actually restore the lesions caused by dental caries.2. Description of the Prior ArtWhen an incipient lesion or cavity develops on the surface of a tooth, the dentist traditionally fills the cavity that forms. This procedure may prevent the decay from spreading further, but does not restore the tooth to its original state. A considerable amount of research, however, has recently been directed toward the remineralization of dental lesions. The object of this remineralization has been the deposit of hydroxyapatite, Caδ(P04)OH, upon the surface of the tooth. Through this remineralization process further tooth decay is prevented and the tooth is restored to its original form.In the area of remineralization of dental tissue there have been at least three approaches. One approach uses a metastable fluoride containing calcium phosphate solution supersaturated with respect to fluorapatite and hydroxyapatite which will form apatite slowly when applied. (The term apatite, as used in the present patent, includes not only pure apatite, but also apatite that includes other elements such as fluoride containing apatite.) A second method uses combinations of sparingly soluble calcium phosphates with crystallized tetracalcium phosphate and at least one different calcium phosphate in slurries or paste form. Such an approach is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,612,053 issued to Brown et al. Yet a third method uses potassium oxalate solutions to obturate the dental tubules.These prior art methods are characterized by several practical problems. When a supersaturated solution using a single calcium phosphate is used, the 

remineralization process is extremely slow. The remineralization process is in fact so slow that an inconvenient amount of time is required for its completion. Another problem with the prior art methods is that as the apatite is deposited
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
I Claim:
I. A new compound comprising amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride. 2. A new compound comprising amorphous calcium fluoride.
3. A method for the synthesis of amorphous calcium compounds comprising:
1. mixing a first solution containing calcium ions and a second solution containing desired anions to create a third solution, wherein said third solution contains alcohol and the creation of said third solution results in a precipitate;
2. removing the precipitate from the third solution;
3. washing the precipitate with alcohol; and
4. drying the precipitate. 4. The method of claim 3 where the alcohol is ethanol.
5. The method of claim 3 wherein the desired anions comprise phosphate ions and the precipitate is amorphous calcium phosphate.
6. The method of claim 3 wherein the desired anions comprise phosphate ions and fluoride ions and the precipitate is amorphous calcium phosphate fluoride.
7. The method of claim 3 wherein the desired anions comprise phosphate ions, fluoride ions and carbonate ions and the precipitate is amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride.
8. The method of claim 3 wherein the desired anions comprise phosphate ions and carbonate ions and the precipitate is amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate.
9. The method of claim 3 wherein the desired anions comprise carbonate ions and the precipitate is an amorphous calcium carbonate compound.
10. The method of claim 3 wherein the desired anions comprise fluoride ions and the precipitate is amorphous calcium fluoride.
I I. The method of claim 3 wherein the first solution is an alcohol solution and is the source of the alcohol for the third solution. 


 12. The method of claim 3 wherein the second solution is an alcohol solution and is the source of the alcohol for the third solution.
13. The method of claim 3 wherein the first and second solutions are alcohol solutions and are both the source of the alcohol for the third solution. 14. The method of claim 3 wherein in step 1 of the process alcohol is mixed with the mixture of the first and second solutions and the first and second solutions contain no alcohol.
15. A method for the treating and remineralization of the teeth through the formation of apatite onto and into the dental tissue comprising contacting a dental restorative with the teeth, said dental restorative comprising in combination: a carrier selected from the group of a gel, chewing gum, a powder, a mouth rinse, a carbonated solution, a synthetic saliva or a toothpaste for suspension of at least one amorphous calcium compound or materials which will form at least one amorphous calcium compound; and amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride or materials that will form amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride suspended within said carrier, whereby when the combination is applied to the teeth, the amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride will precipitate into and on the teeth and form apatite.
16. The method according to claim 15 where bicarbonate is formed upon the deposition of amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride.
17. The method according to claim 15 wherein the apatite contains fluoride thereby fluoridating the teeth. 18. A pressurized carbonated solution containing an acidic solution of a material more soluble in acidic solutions that in basic solutions, whereby when the pressure is released and carbon dioxide is removed, the acidity of the solution decreases and the material precipitates out of solution allowing for delivery of the material to a surface. 19. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 18 wherein the material comprises an amorphous calcium compound and the surface comprises dental tissue. 


 20. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 19 wherein the dental tissue is the dentin surface of the tooth which has been prepared to bond to a restorative material.
21. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 19 wherein the amorphous calcium compound is amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride.
22. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 18 wherein the material comprises chlorhexidine and the surface comprises dental tissue.
23. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 22 further comprising ethanol.
24. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 18 wherein the material includes a gelling agent, whereby gelling occurs as a result of the decrease in acidity of the solution.
25. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 19 where the solution further comprises a gelling agent, whereby gelling occurs as a result of the decrease in the acidity of the solution and the amorphous calcium compound is suspended within the resulting gel.
26. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 18 wherein the material comprises a complex fluoride, whereby when the solution is applied to dental tissue and pressure is released, carbon dioxide escapes from the solution, the acidity of the solution decreases and the complex fluoride is hydrolyzed releasing fluoride onto and into the dental tissue.
27. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 26 wherein the complex fluoride is hexafluorosilicate. 28. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 26 wherein the complex fluoride is monofluorophosphate.
29. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 26 wherein the complex fluoride is hexafluorostannate.
30. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 26 wherein the material further comprises a gelling agent, whereby gelling occurs as a result of the decrease in the acidity of the solution and the fluoride is suspended within the resulting gel. 


 31. A nonaqueous dispersion of a carbonate salt and an acid, or acidic salt thereof, into a nonaqueous medium, whereby when the dispersion comes in contact with an aqueous solution the carbonate salt and the acid are dissolved into the solution, carbon dioxide escapes from the solution decreasing the acidity of the solution and a material of desired qualities is precipitated from the solution onto a surface.
32. The nonaqueous dispersion of claim 31 wherein the carbonate salt is calcium carbonate, the acid is hydrogen phosphate, the nonaqueous medium is selected from the group of a chewing gum, toothpaste or a gel, and the material precipitated from the solution is calcium phosphate.
33. A method for treating dental tissue with the nonaqueous dispersion of claim 32, wherein the medium is put into the mouth where saliva dissolves the calcium carbonate and the hydrogen phosphate and calcium phosphate is deposited onto and into the dental tissue. 34. The nonaqueous dispersion of claim 31 wherein the carbonate salt is calcium carbonate, the acidic salt is monocalcium dihydrogen phosphate, the nonaqueous medium is selected from the group of a chewing gum, toothpaste or a gel, and material precipitated from the solution is calcium phosphate.
35. A method for treating dental tissue with the nonaqueous dispersion of claim 34, wherein the medium is put into the mouth where saliva dissolves the calcium carbonate and the monocalcium dihydrogen phosphate and calcium phosphate is deposited onto and into the dental tissue.
36. The nonaqueous dispersion of claim 31 further comprising a dispersion of amorphous calcium fluoride into the nonaqueous medium. 37. A method for the synthesis of amorphous calcium compounds comprising:
1. mixing a first solution containing calcium ions and a second solution containing phosphate, fluoride and carbonate ions to create a third solution, wherein said third solution contains alcohol and the creation of said third solution results in the precipitation of amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride;
2. removing the amorphous calcium carbonate phosphate fluoride precipitate from the third solution; 


 3. washing the amorphous calcium carbonate phosphat fluoride precipitate with alcohol; and
4. drying the amorphous calcium carbonate phosphat fluoride precipitate. 38. The method of claim 37 where the alcohol is ethanol.
39. A method for the synthesis of amorphous calcium compound comprising:
1. mixing a first solution containing calcium ions and second solution containing phosphate and fluoride ions to create a third solution wherein said third solution contains alcohol and the creation of said thir solution results in the precipitation of amorphous calcium phosphate fluoride
2. removing the amorphous calcium phosphate fluorid precipitate from the third solution;
3. washing the amorphous calcium phosphate fluorid precipitate with alcohol; and
4. drying the amorphous calcium phosphate fluorid precipitate.
40. The method of claim 39 where the alcohol is ethanol.
41. A method for the synthesis of amorphous calcium compound comprising:
1. mixing a first solution containing calcium ions and second solution containing phosphate and carbonate ions to create a thir solution, wherein said third solution contains alcohol and the creation of sai third solution results in the precipitation of amorphous calcium carbonat phosphate;
2. removing the amorphous calcium carbonate phosphat precipitate from the third solution;
3. washing the amorphous calcium carbonate phosphat precipitate with alcohol; and 4. drying the amorphous calcium carbonate phosphat precipitate.
42. The method of claim 41 where the alcohol is ethanol. 



 43. A method for the synthesis of amorphous calcium compounds comprising:
1. mixing a first solution containing calcium ions and a second solution containing phosphate ions to create a third solution, wherein said third solution contains alcohol and the creation of said third solution results in the precipitation of amorphous calcium phosphate;
2. removing the amorphous calcium phosphate precipitate from the third solution;
3. washing the amorphous calcium phosphate precipitate with alcohol; and
4. drying the amorphous calcium phosphate precipitate.
44. The method of claim 43 where the alcohol is ethanol.
45. A method for the synthesis of amorphous calcium compounds comprising: 1. mixing a first solution containing calcium ions and a second solution containing fluoride ions to create a third solution, wherein said third solution contains alcohol and the creation of said third solution results in the precipitation of amorphous calcium fluoride;
2. removing the amorphous calcium fluoride precipitate from the third solution;
3. washing the amorphous calcium fluoride precipitate with alcohol; and
4. drying the amorphous calcium fluoride precipitate. 46 The method of claim 45 where the alcohol is ethanol. 47. A pressurized carbonated solution containing an acidic solution of at least one amorphous calcium compound, whereby when the pressure is released and carbon dioxide is removed, the acidity of the solution decreases and the amorphous calcium compound precipitates out of solution onto and into dental tissue. 48. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 47 further containing chlorhexidine. 


 49. The pressurized carbonated solution of claim 48 furthe containing a gelling agent, whereby gelling occurs as a result of the decrease i acidity of the solution. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
