<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621947</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM FOR PERFORMING AND UNIVERSALLY DETECTING CAPILLARY ISOELECTRIC FOCUSING WITHOUT MOBILIZATION USING CONCENTRATION GRADIENT IMAGING SYSTEMS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2145	G01N27447	G01N27447	G01N2141	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N27	G01N27	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The separations resulting from capillary electrophoresis performed in a microbore capillary tube (35) are detected on-line by focusing a light beam (63) in the form of a line or sheet of light (63) on the capillary passage (36) in which the separations (55a-c) take place so that the width of the sheet of light encompasses the length of the passage in which separations of interest are expected to take place. The separations form concentration gradients (16) in the capillary passage (36) encompassed by the light beam and cause refraction of portions of the light beam and variations in the intensity of the light beam due to such refraction. Alternately, the separated components (55a-d) may absorb light of certain frequencies so if the light beam includes light of the certain frequencies, variation in the intensity of the light beam is caused by such absorbance. The variation in the intensity of light along the width of the light beam after passage through the sample (125) is sensed and is indicative of the concentration gradients (160, 161). By using a reagent (125) which reacts with an analyte not having an isoelectric point to form a product having an isoelectric point (100, 101), such analyte may be detected and measured by isoelectric focusing techniques.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TORRES ANTHONY R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TORRES, ANTHONY R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAWLISZYN JANUSZ B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAWLISZYN, JANUSZ, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Field: The invention is in the field of capillary
electrophoresis, detection methods for capillary
electrophoresis and apparatus based on such methods, and
on Schlieren optics.State of the Art: It has been known for some time
that a refractive index gradient such as produced by a
concentration gradient in a fluid such as a gas, liquid,
or supercritical fluid, will cause deflection of light
passed through the gradient. The optical method of
observing and measuring the deflection of light caused by
refractive index gradient fields is generally referred to
as Schlieren optics. In the past, Schlieren images
resulting from light deflections have been recorded on
photographic plates and the plates then analyzed for light
intensity distribution using densitometers. Recently,
evaluation of the photographic images has been done by
computer. These methods are useful in studying plasmas
where very complicated toroidal and parabolic shapes are
generated.United States Letters Patent No. 4,547,071 discloses
a sensor for measuring density gradients in a
nonhomogeneous fluid sample using Schlieren optics. In
such sensor, a laser light beam is directed through a
sample chamber and is moved along said chamber. A
quadrant light position sensor located on the opposite
side of the chamber detects the deflection of the laser
light beam as it is moved through the sample. The amount
of deflection indicates the density gradient at any point
in the sample. Rather than moving the laser beam along
the sample chamber, the beam can be held constant and the
sample chamber with sample therein moved. However, moving
a laser and detector together in relation to a sample 
chamber and keeping the laser beam focused on the sample
chamber, even a relatively large chamber, is difficult, as
is moving a sample chamber through the laser beam so as to
keep the laser beam properly focused. Trying to do either
with a small capillary sample chamber is very difficult
and impractical.My U.S. Patent Nos. 4,784,494, 4,940,333 and
4,993,832 show detectors that can be used to detect
concentration and thermal gradients in very small samples.
The detectors utilize a light source to generate one or
two probe beams of light that pass through the sample
having the gradient to be detected and the deflection of
the probe beam or beams is measured on a beam position
detector. Various light sources may be used to generate
the probe beam or beams, such as a laser or light emitting
diode (LED). These detectors, however, are designed
generally to be used where the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A capillary electrophoresis system, comprising:

a light transmitting capillary tube (35) having a
capillary passage (36) therethrough in which separation of

components (55a, 55b, 55c) of a sample take place, said
capillary passage (36) having a diameter;
means (39) for introducing a sample to be
separated into the capillary passage;
means (44, 45) for creating a separation of the
sample by electrophoresis within the capillary passage (36)

along a predetermined length of the capillary passage, said
predetermined length of the capillary passage being

substantially greater than the diameter of the capillary
passage;
a light source (60) for generating a light beam
(61);
means (62) for forming the light beam into a sheet
of light (59, 63) having a width (w) at least equal to the

predetermined length of the capillary passage and for
directing the sheet of light (59, 63) through the capillary

tube (35) so that light passes through the predetermined
length of the capillary passage, said predetermined length

being such as to include separations (55a, 55b, 55c) of
interest present in the capillary passage (36);
and detector means (66, 85) located in the path of
the sheet of light (65) after passing through the capillary

tube for detecting the intensity of light having passed
through the capillary passage at various positions along the

predetermined length of the capillary passage and to provide
an output representative of the light intensity at the

various positions along the predetermined length of the
capillary passage, the intensity of the light at various

positions along the predetermined length of the capillary
passage being indicative of sample separation along the

predetermined length of the capillary passage.
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 1, wherein the diameter of the capillary passage is

between 10 and 100 microns. 
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 1, wherein the detector means is a light detecting

array (85).
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 3, wherein the light detecting array (85) is a

photodiode array.
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 1, wherein the detector means includes a detector

having a narrow sensing area compared to the width of the
light beam and means for moving the detector along the

predetermined length of the passage.
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 5, wherein the detector is a photodiode (66).
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 6, wherein a shield (81) is provided between the

photodiode and the capillary passage which moves with the
photodiode, and an opening (82) in the shield (81) which

defines the sensing area of the photodiode (66).
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 1, including a lens (64) positioned between the

capillary passage (36) and the detector to expand the light
beam (65) after passage through the capillary passage (36).
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
claim 1, additionally including a first reservoir (39) and

a second reservoir (40), wherein a light transmitting
material (41) is secured to and extends between the first

reservoir (39) and the second reservoir (40) whereby the
first reservoir (39), second reservoir (40), and light

transmitting material (41) are secured together as a unit
with the capillary passage (36) communicating with and

interconnecting the first and second reservoirs (39, 40) and
the first and 
second reservoirs (39, 40) being at opposite
ends of the passage (36); each of maid reservoirs (39, 40)

being adapted to receive an electrode (44, 45) positioned
therein and at least one of said reservoirs (39) adapted to

cooperate with a means (50, 51) for adding liquid to or
withdrawing liquid from the reservoir (39). 
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 9, additionally including an electrode (44, 45)

positioned in each of the reservoirs (39, 40).
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 10, additionally including means (50, 51) cooperable

with one of the reservoirs (39) for adding liquid to or
withdrawing liquid from the reservoir.
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 11, wherein the means (50, 51) for adding liquid to or

withdrawing liquid from the reservoir (39) is a syringe (50)
and a tube (51, 46) secured to the syringe (50) and

extending into the reservoir (39).
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 9, wherein the capillary passage is 10 centimeters

long.
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 9, wherein the means joining the reservoirs (39, 40)

and forming the capillary passage (36) is a piece of glass
(41) with a capillary tube (35) secured thereto.
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
any of the preceding claim, wherein the means for creating

a separation of the sample by electrophoresis creates a
separation of the sample by isoelectric focusing.
A capillary electrophoresis system according to
Claim 1 or 15, wherein the sheet of light (59, 63) has a height (h)

less than the diameter of the capillary passage.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
