<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615406</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND DEVICES FOR PROVIDING ANIMALS WITH FODDER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K502	A01K500	A01K3900	A01K3901	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K5	A01K5	A01K39	A01K39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In order to provide animals with fodder taken from a fodder silo or from several fodder component silos (13, 14) and conveyed by a main conveyor (7) to the animal feeding places, the fodder is already dosed into amounts adapted to the fodder requirements of the animals in the main conveyor (7) or in conveyors (16, 17) for the individual fodder components arranged upstream of the main conveyor and are conveyed to the individual feeding places without being temporarily stored. The fodder or individual fodder components may be weighed during or after dosing.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STEINER JOHANN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STEINER, JOHANN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEINER JOHANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEINER, JOHANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Process for providing animals with feed, wherein the feed
is removed from at least stationary feed silo or several

stationary feed component silos and is conveyed to the
animals' eating areas by means of a stationary main conveyor,

characterized in that, for feeding purposes, the feed is
metered in the starting portion of the stationary main

conveyor or each feed component is metered in a stationary
component conveyor preceding the stationary main conveyor to a

quantity adapted to the feed requirement of all animals to be
supplied and is conveyed to the individual eating areas

without intermediate storage.
Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the
feed components are each first metered individually in their

component conveyors according to their content in the feed,
are then supplied to the main conveyor and mixed to form the

feed therein.
Process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that
each feed component is metered at the beginning of its own

component conveyor.
Process according to claim 3, characterized in that each
feed component to be treated or processed is supplied in

metered form to a treatment or processing machine preceding
the respective component conveyor.
Process according to claim 3 or 4, characterized in that
each feed component is weighed after the metering operation.
Process according to claim 3 or 4, characterized in that

each feed component is weighed during the metering operation. 
Process according to claim 3 or 4, characterized in that
the already metered feed component is weighed during further

conveyance.
Process according to one of claims 1 to 7, characterized
in that the feed is metered to the quantity which is to be

supplied to the respective feed trough at the beginning of a
stationary feed trough following the stationary main conveyor

and extending along the animals' eating areas.
Process according to one of claim 1 to 7, characterized
in that the feed is metered to the quantity which is to be

supplied to the respective feed trough in the main conveyor.
Process according to claim 9, characterized in that the
feed is metered to the quantity which is to be supplied to the

respective feed trough, at the beginning of the feed trough,
by varying the conveying rate of the main conveyor.
Process according to one of claims 1 to 9, characterized
in that the feed is metered to the quantity which is to be

supplied to the respective feed trough at the beginning of the
main conveyor.
Process according to one of claims 8 to 11, characterized
in that the feed is metered in the respective feed trough by

varying the conveying rate of the feed trough according to the
respective feed requirement of the animals at this feed

trough.
Process according to one of claims 1 to 12, characterized
in that the feed is weighed after metering.
Process according to one of claims 1 to 12, characterized
in that the feed is weighed during metering. 
Process according to one of claims 1 to 12, characterized
in that the already metered feed is weighed during further

conveyance.
Process according to one of claims 1 to 15, characterized
in that the feed or the respective feed component is not

forwarded to a subsequent conveyor until its feed conveying
element has been set into motion.
Process according to one of claims 8 to 16, characterized
in that a greater proportion of the quantity of feed metered

for a feed trough is supplied to a feed trough at the
beginning of feeding than at the end of feeding.
Process according to claim 17, characterized in that the
quantity of feed supplied to the reed trough per unit time is

reduced progressively or stepwise from the beginning of
feeding to the end of feeding.
Process according to one of claims 8 to 18, characterized
in that a greater quantity of read is conveyed on in a feed

trough at the beginning of feeding than at the end of feeding.
Process according to claim 19, characterized in that the
quantity of feed conveyed on in the feed trough is reduced

progressively or stepwise from the beginning of feeding to the
end of feeding.
Process according to one of claims 1 to 20, characterized
in that, after feeding, the feed not consumed by the animals

and lying in the feed trough is conveyed on again at least
once after a break.
Process according to claim 21, characterized in that,
after feeding, the feed conveying element of the feed trough

is allowed to continue running several times again after a 
respective break to distribute the feed lying in the feed

trough.
Animal feeding unit for carrying out the process
according to one or more of claims 1 to 22, wherein at least

one stationary main conveyor (7) issuing from a stationary
feed silo (25) is provided which delivers the feed via

downpipes (12) to feed troughs (3) which extend along the
animals' eating areas and are designed as feed conveyors with

their own conveying elements (5) and own drives (6) and convey
the feed to the eating areas, a common controller (23) being

provided for the main conveyor (7) and the feed troughs (3),
characterized in that the main conveyor (7) is provided with

shutoff devices (11) for the downpipes (12) and is designed,
at least in its starting portion, as a metering device for

metering a quantity adapted to the feed requirement of all
animals to be supplied and in that, for metering the quantity

of feed to be supplied to a respective feed trough (3) per
feeding operation, the drive (8) of the main conveyor (7) and

the drives (10) of the shutoff devices (11) are connected to
the controller (23) which has an input device (24) for the

parameters to be considered during the feeding operation.
Unit according to claim 23, characterized in that a
portion of the main conveyor (48) is provided with a weighing

device (51) connected to the controller (23) for the permanent
weighing of the quantity of feed conveyed by the main conveyor

(48).
Unit according to claim 24, characterized in that the
portion of the main conveyor (48) designed as a metering

device is provided with the weighing device (51).
Unit according to one of claims 23 to 25, characterized
in that the controller (23) is programmable. 
Unit according to one of claims 23 to 26, characterized
in that the main conveyor is designed as a stationary pipe

conveyor (7) with regulatable conveying rate for the feed to
be conveyed, in that feed outlet orifices (9) which open into

the downpipes (12) and can be closed by the shutoff devices
(11) are provided along the pipe conveyor (7) and in that the

controller (23) is connected to the drives (10) of the shutoff
devices (11) for opening and closing the feed outlet orifices

(9) and to the drive (8) of the pipe conveyor (7) for
regulating the conveying rate.
Unit according to claim 27, characterized in that the
pipe conveyor (7) contains at least one metering screw or

metering spiral with a redulatable speed.
Animal feeding unit for carrying out the process
according to one or more of claims 1 to 22, wherein at least

one stationary main conveyer (7) issuing from a stationary
feed silo (25) is provided which delivers the feed via

downpipes (12) to stationary feed troughs (3) which convey the
feed to the eating areas and extend along the animals' eating

areas and are designed as stationary feed conveyors with their
own conveying elements (5) and own drives (6), a common

controller (23) being provided for the stationary main
conveyor (7) and the stationary feed troughs (3),

characterized in that the stationary main conveyor (7) is
provided with shutoff devices (11) for the downpipes (12) and

is designed, at least in its starting portion, as a metering
device for metering a quantity adapted to the feed requirement

of all animals to be supplied in that the stationary feed
troughs (3) are designed as metering devices and in that, for

metering the quantity of feed to be supplied to each eating
area in a respective feed trough (3), the drive (8) of the

main conveyor (7) and the drives (10) of the shutoff devices
(11) and the drives (6) or the feed troughs (3) are connected

to the controller (23). 
Unit according to claim 29, characterized in that the
controller (23) is programmable.
Unit according to claim 29 or 30, characterized in that
the controller (23) has an input device (24) for the

parameters to be considered during the feeding operation.
Unit according to claim 29 or 30, characterized in that
the controller (23) has a PC for inputting the parameters to

be considered during the feeding operation.
Unit according to claim 29, characterized in that the
main conveyor is designed as a stationary pipe conveyor (7)

with a constant conveying rate for the feed to be conveyed, in
that feed outlet orifices (9) which open into the downpipes

(12) and can be closed by the shutoff devices (11) are
provided along the pipe conveyor (7) and in that the

controller (23) is connected to the drives (10) of the shutoff
devices (11) for opening and closing the feed outlet orifices

(9) and to the drives (6) of the feed troughs (3) for
regulating the quantity of feed to be conveyed to the eating

areas in the respective feed trough (3).
Animal feeding unit for carrying out the process
according to one or more of claims 1 to 22, wherein a conveyor

conveying the feed to the eating areas is provided which
comprises at least two stationary component conveyors (16, 17)

issuing from a respective stationary feed component silo (13,
14) and at least one stationary feed conveyor (7) which blends

the feed components with one another and leads to a feed
delivery device (3, 28) distributing the feed to the

individual eating areas, characterized in that each component
conveyor (16, 17) is designed as a metering device for the

continuous metering of the quantity of feed component to be
supplied to the feed conveyor (7) for each respective feeding

operation, in that the feed conveyor (7) is designed as a 
stationary main conveyor which is connected to all feed

delivery devices (3, 28) via a respective feed outlet orifice
(9) which can be closed by a shutoff device (11) and in that,

for metering the respective quantity of feed to be supplied to
a feed delivery device (3, 28) per feeding operation, the

drives (15) of the component conveyors (16, 17) and the drive
(8) of the main conveyor (7) as well as each drive (10) of

each shutoff device (11) are connected to a controller (23).
Unit according to claim 34, characterized in that the
main conveyor (48) has a portion which is provided with a

weighing device (51) connected to the controller (23) for the
permanent weighing of the quantity of feed conveyed by the

main conveyor (48).
Unit according to claim 35, characterized in that a
portion of the main conveyor (48) designed as a metering

device is provided with the weighing device (51).
Unit according to claim 34, characterized in that each
component conveyor (48) has a portion which is provided with a

weighing device (51) connected to the controller (23) for the
permanent weighing of the quantity of feed conveyed by the

component conveyor (48).
Unit according to claim 37, characterized in that a
portion of the component conveyor (48) designed as a metering

device is provided with the weighing device (51).
Unit according to one or claims 34 to 38, characterized
in that the controller (23) is programmable.
Unit according to one of claims 34 to 39, characterized
in that the controller (23) has an input device (24) for the

parameters to be considered during the feeding operation. 
Unit according to one of claims 34 to 40, characterized
in that the controller (23) has a PC for inputting the

parameters to be considered during the feeding operation.
Unit according to one of claims 34 to 41, characterized
in that the component conveyors (16, 17) are designed as

stationary pipe conveyors with an trough conveying rate and in
that the controller (23) comprises a speed regulator for each

component pipe conveyor (16, 17) for metering the quantity of
component to be supplied to the main conveyor (7), the

proportion of feed components to one another being regulatable
by the controller (23).
Unit according to one of claims 34 to 42, characterized
in that, for processing a feed component, the respective

stationary component conveyor (16, 17) is followed by a
processing machine (18, 19) of which the throughput can be

regulated by the controller (23) via the speed regulator for
the component conveyor (16, 17).
Unit according to one of claims 34 to 43, characterized
in that each component conveyor (16, 17) contains at least one

metering screw or metering spiral of regulatable speed.
Unit according to one of claims 34 to 44, characterized
in that the feed delivery devices are designed as feed troughs

(3) provided with their own delivery elements (5) and own
drives (6) which extend along the eating areas and of which

the drives (6) are connected to the controller (23) for
metering the quantity of feed to be supplied to each eating

area in a respective feed trough (3).
Unit according to one of claims 26 to 48, characterized
in that the main conveyor (7) has downpipes (12) which issue

from its feed outlet orifices (9) and open directly and
immediately above the conveying elements (5) of the feed

troughs (3) into the feed troughs (3), feed only being 
delivered from the main conveyor (7) when the feed trough (3)

is running.
Unit according to one of claims 23 to 46, characterized
in that feed level sensors (26) connected to the controller

(23) are provided in the feed troughs (3) and in that the
controller (23) has a timer which, for the respective feed

trough (3), delays the delivery of feed from the main conveyor
(7) while the feed conveying element (5) of the feed trough

(3) is moving until the feed level falls beneath the level
provided by the feed level sensor (26).
Unit according to one of claims 23 to 47, characterized
in that, to improve the supply of the regions of a feed trough

(3) furthest removed from the downpipe (12), the controller
(23) is provided with a timer which increases the supply of

feed to the feed trough (3) at the beginning of feeding and
reduces it at the end of feeding while a uniform quantity of

feed is allocated to the feed trough (3).
Unit according to one of claims 34 to 44, characterized
in that the feed delivery device (28) is designed as a feed

outlet pipe (29) which adjoins the feed outlet orifice (9), is
provided with at least one moving portion (30) and can be

moved automatically over the eating areas.
Unit according to claim 49, characterized in that the
feed outlet pipe (29) has two nesting pipe portions (29a,

29b), one of which is designed as an outlet portion (29b).
Unit according to one of claims 23 to 50, characterized
in that a temperature probe (27) is connected to the

controller (23) for adapting the respectively metered
quantities of feed to the animals' feed requirement which

varies with changes in temperature.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
