<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628006</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MAKING A RECLOSABLE BAG.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C6574	B29C6574	B31B174	B31B190	B31B1900	B31B1990	B31B2300	B31B2300	B65B5110	B65B5110	B65D3316	B65D3316	B65D3328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B31B	B31B	B31B	B31B	B31B	B31B	B65B	B65B	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C65	B29C65	B31B1	B31B1	B31B19	B31B19	B31B23	B31B23	B65B51	B65B51	B65D33	B65D33	B65D33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A storage bag (100) and a method and apparatus for forming such a storage bag. The storage bag contains a reclosure tie (101) formed as an integral marginal portion (between 101 and 104) of the bag beyond an edge of the bag. The marginal portion includes overlying layers (111, 112) of bag material that form an elongated structure along an axis with first and second ends (113, 114). A fused closure (116, 117) is formed in the marginal portion parallel to the axis and over a portion of the marginal portion spaced from one end thereof. This structure defines a tail (120) and open loop (121) that wrap around an opened bag (100) thereby to close the bag in a positive fashion.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMPLE PACKAGING SOLUTIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMPLE PACKAGING SOLUTIONS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWLER DWIGHT P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN ANDREW MCG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWLER, DWIGHT, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN, ANDREW, MCG.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Description Apparatus and Method For Making A Reclosable BagTechnical Field This invention generally relates to packaging and more specifically to a storage bag that is easily reclosed and to the methods and apparatus for making such a storage bag.Background Art There is a long-running effort to make a storage bag that is easily opened and then reclosed. This effort has led to criteria for judging the potential success of such storage bags. Consumers require that such bags must be easily opened, reclosed, and then reopened. The method of reclosure must be positive. From a manufacturer's standpoint, the method and apparatus required for forming the bag and reclosure structure must be easily added to a production line, operate without any appreciable reduction in production rates, add minimal production costs, have the capacity to be used with bags requiring a freshness seal and produce little or no waste material. Generally this prior effort has produced bags that either incorporate a separate reclosable tie or an integral structure"that forms a tie. The following patents are examples of bags with separate reclosure ties:3,311,288 (1967) Lemelson 3,426,959 (1969) Lemelson 3,674,135 (1972) Simon 3,779,139 (1973) WhiteEach Lemelson patent discloses packages with a tear strip of plastic or metallic foil. The tear strip may include a thread, string, wire or weld for added strength. The bag is reclosed by separating the tie from the bag and then wrapping and twisting the tie around the bag.The Simon patent discloses a roll of separable bags. A line of perforations along an edge or top of each bag 

enables a section of the material to be removed for use as a reclosure tie or tear strip. The tear strip may be reinforced by one or more heat seals or by the application of separate strengthening materials such as string, deformable metal or another ply of film.The White patent discloses a bag with a transverse tear strip that can be removed from the end of the bag. This tear strip then can be tied in an overhand knot to reclose the bag. Each of the foregoing reclosure tie structures achieve some of the previously discussed criteria. Most are relatively easy to use in reclosing a bag. Twisted tie wraps are also relatively easy to remove in order to reopen the bag. Those tied with overhand knots may or may not be easy to open depending upon the ease with which the overhand knot releases. However, these approaches have not found great acceptance because they all incorporate special structures or require very
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Clai s
1. In a storage bag formed of overlying layers of a sealable elastic polymeric film with at least one edge portion, the improvement of an integrally
. formed, elongated reclosure means for reclosing the bag comprising:
A. extensions of the overlying layers beyond the one storage bag edge for forming said elongated reclosure means along an axis parallel to the one edge with first and second ends thereof, B. fused closure means for sealing the layers in the extensions together over a portion thereof from the first end to a position spaced from the second end thereby to define a tail portion of said reclosure means, said portions of said layers between said fused closure means and said second end defining a loop free of any structure that is subject to failure by film delamination, and C. separation means formed in said extensions intermediate said fused closure means and the storage bag edge and proximate the storage bag edge for facilitating the detachment of said reclosure tie from the storage bag.
2. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 1 wherein the overlying layers of film incorporate a back seam extending transversely to the axis intermediate said first and second ends, said fused closure means extending from said first end to a position intermediate said second end and the back seam.
3. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 2 wherein said fused closure means comprises a line 


 parallel to the axis along which the overlying film layers in said extensions are fused.
4. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 2 wherein said separation means includes a line of , spaced perforations formed through said overlying layers of film.
5. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 4 additionally comprising second fused closure means extending across the bag at the one edge and being oppositely disposed of said perforation line from said first fused closure means thereby to close the bag at the one edge independently of the removal of said marginal extensions at said perforation line.
6. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 5 wherein said storage bag includes a second edge formed parallel to the one edge and spaced therefrom, said storage bag additionally comprising third fused closure means extending across the storage bag at the second edge thereby to close the storage bag at the second edge.
7. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 1 wherein said fused closure means comprises at least one line parallel to the axis along which the overlying film layers in said extensions are fused. 8. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 7 wherein said separation means includes a line of spaced perforations formed through said overlying layers of film. 9. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 7 additionally comprising second fused closure means extending across the bag at the one edge and being oppositely disposed of said perforation line from said first fused closure means thereby to close the 


 bag at the one edge independently of the removal of said marginal extensions at said perforation line. 10. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 9 wherein said storage bag includes a second edge formed parallel to the one edge and spaced therefrom, said storage bag additionally comprising third fused closure means extending across the storage bag at the second edge thereby to close the storage bag at the second edge. 11. A reclosable storage bag comprising:
A. a sealable elastic polymeric film formed as a continuous structure open at first and second ends thereof,
B. first closure means for closing one of said first and second ends,
C. a marginal extension of said film detachably connected to one of said first and second ends for forming a reclosure means that extends between first and second axial end portions along an axis parallel said first and second ends of said structure, and
D. second closure means for attaching portions of said marginal extension together from said first axial end portion to a position spaced from said second axial end portion such that said marginal extension between said second closure means and said second axial end portion is free of any structure that fails by film delamination. 12. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 11 wherein said film is formed with a back seam between said first and second ends, said second closure means extending from said first axial end portion to a position intermediate said back seam and said second axial end portion. 


13. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 11 wherein said first and second closure means are proximately located at said first end, said first closure means defining a boundary between said marginal extension and the remainder of said storage bag.
14. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 13 wherein said marginal extension comprises overlying layers of said film and a line of spaced perforations formed through said film intermediate said first and second closure means.
15. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 13 wherein said film is formed with a back seam between said first and second ends, said second closure means extending from said first axial end portion to a position intermediate said back seam and said second axial end portion.
16. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 13 wherein said marginal extension comprises overlying layers of said film and said second closure means comprises a seal along a line parallel to the axis along which overlying layers in said marginal extension are fused.
17. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 13 wherein said marginal extension comprises overlying layers of said film and said second closure means comprises a plurality of seals along spaced, parallel lines, said overlying film in said marginal extension being attached by fusing said lines. 18. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 13 additionally comprising third closure means proximate the second end of said film structure. 19. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 11 wherein said first closure means is located at said 



 first end of said film structure and said marginal extension is located at said second end.
20. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 19 wherein said film structure is formed with a back seam between said first and second ends, said second closure means extending from said first axial end portion to a position intermediate said back seam and said second axial end portion.
21. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 19 wherein said marginal extension comprises overlying layers of said film and a line of spaced perforations formed through said film intermediate said second closure means and the juncture of said extension means with said structure. 22. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 19 wherein said marginal extension comprises overlying layers of said film and said second closure means comprises a line parallel to the axis along which overlying film layers in said marginal extension are fused.
23. A reclosable storage bag as recited in claim 19 wherein said marginal extension comprises overlying layers of said film and said second closure means comprises a plurality of spaced, parallel lines along which said overlying film layers in said marginal extension are attached by fusing.
24. A method for forming a storage bag with an integral reclosure tie comprising the steps of:
A. forming a sealable elastic polymeric film into an open ended structure with a margin portion of overlying film extending across one end of the structure having first and second margin ends,
B. forming between the margin ends a detachable connection in the film for facilitating the 


 removal of said marginal portion from the structure, C. closing one of the ends of the open ended structure, D. sealing a portion of the margin portion from the first margin end to a position spaced from the second margin end thereby forming the film proximate the second margin end into a loop free of any structure that is subject to failure by film delamination.
25. A method for forming a storage bag as recited in claim 24 wherein said step of forming a detachable connection comprises the step of forming a line of spaced perforations through the margin portion. 26. A method for forming a storage bag as recited in claim 24 wherein said steps of closing one of the ends of the open ended structure and of sealing occur essentially simultaneously by impulse sealing and said sealing step further includes the step of forming an impulse seal in the film at the margin portion thereby to join the films between the first margin end and the intermediate position spaced from the second margin end.
27. A method for forming a storage bag as recited in claim 25 wherein said impulse sealing step produces first and second seals formed along a parallel lines between the first margin end and the intermediate position spaced from the second margin end.
28. A method for forming a storage bag as recited in claim 24 additionally comprising the step of closing, by impulse sealing, the other end of the structure.
29. A method for forming a storage bag as recited in claim 24 wherein said step of forming the open-ended structure includes the step of wrapping the film in 


 sheet form about a cylinder with overlapping edges and forming the edges into a back seam thereby to produce an open-ended cylindrical structure.
30. A method for forming a storage bag as recited in claim 29 wherein said step of forming a detachable connection comprises the step of forming a line of perforations through the margin portion including the back seam.
31. A method for forming a storage bag as recited in claim 30 wherein said steps of closing one of the ends of the open ended structure and of sealing occur essentially simultaneously by impulse sealing and said sealing step further includes the step of forming an impulse seal between the film layers of the structure thereby to join the layers between the first margin end and the intermediate position between the back seam and the second margin end.
32. A method for forming a storage bag as recited in claim 31 wherein said impulse sealing step produces first and second seals formed along a parallel lines between the first margin end and the intermediate position spaced from the second margin end.
33. A method for forming successive storage bags from an indeterminate length of polyethylene-based film, each storage bag having a removable closure tie, said method comprising the steps of:
.A. forming the film into a wall of an open-ended, hollow structure extending along a first axis, B. clamping a portion of the hollow structure along a second axis that is transverse to the first axis to form a margin portion in coextensive film wall portions, said.margin portion having first and second sections disposed along the 


 second axis and providing a boundary between successive storage bags,
C. perforating the film walls in said margin portion along a perforation line that is parallel to the second axis,
D. severing the film walls in the margin portion along a severance line that is parallel to and spaced from the second axis thereby to form a removable closure tie between the perforation and severance lines and to form an adjacent first sealing area,
E. forming a first seal between the film walls along a line in the first sealing area that is parallel to the second axis and that is coextensive with the first and second sections,
F. forming a second seal between the film walls along a line in the removable closure tie that is parallel to the second axis and that is coextensive with only the first section whereby the film walls in the second section remain unsealed and the unsealed film wall is free of any film structure that fails by delamination.
34. A method for forming storage bags as recited in claim
33 wherein said method additionally comprises the step of unclamping the film upon completion of said perforating, severing and sealing steps thereby to release an individual storage bag.
35. A method for forming storage bags as recited in claim
34 wherein said perforating and severing steps occur substantially simultaneously and wherein said seal forming steps occur substantially simultaneously.
36. A method for forming storage bags as recited in claim 33 wherein said step of forming the film into the structure includes the steps of: 


 i. wrapping the film in sheet form about a cylinder, ii. overlapping edges of the film parallel to the first axis, and iii. sealing the edges into a back seal parallel to the first axis thereby to produce the open-ended, hollow structure that traverses the margin in the first section remotely from the second section. 37. A method as recited in claim 33 wherein said step of forming the second seal includes forming in the removable closure tie two spaced, parallel seals that are parallel to the second axis and are coextensive with only the first section. 38. A method as recited in claim 37 wherein said steps of forming said first and second seals includes the step of impulse heating the film layers.
39. A method as recited in claim 37 wherein said steps of forming said first and second seals includes the step of resistance heating the film layers.
40. A method for forming storage bags as recited in claim 33 wherein the perforation line defines a boundary between the removable closure tie and an adjacent second sealing area and wherein said step of forming the first seal forms a seal in the second sealing area that is coextensive with the first and second sections.
41. A method as recited in claim 40 wherein said steps of forming said first and second seals includes the step of impulse heating the film layers.
42. A method as recited in claim 40 wherein said steps of forming said first and second seals includes the step of resistance heating the film layers. 


43. A method as recited in claim 33 wherein said step of forming the film into the structure includes the step of: i. wrapping the film in sheet form about a cylinder, ii. overlapping edges of the film parallel to the first axis, and iii. sealing the edges into a back seam parallel to the first axis that traverses the margin portion in the first section remotely from the second section and produces the open- ended, hollow structure, wherein said perforating and severing steps occur substantially simultaneously, and wherein said seal forming steps occur substantially simultaneously, and wherein said step of forming the second seal includes forming in the removable closure tie two spaced, parallel seals that are parallel to the second axis and coextensive with only the first section.
44. A method as recited in claim 43 wherein said steps of forming said first and second seals includes the step of impulse heating the film layers. 45. A method as recited in claim 43 wherein said steps of forming said first and second seals includes the step of resistance heating the film layers. 46. A method for forming storage bags as recited in claim 43 wherein the perforation line defines a boundary between the removable closure tie and an adjacent second sealing area and wherein said step of forming the first seal forms a seal in the second adjacent sealing area that is coextensive with the first and second sections. 


47. A method as recited in claim 46 wherein said steps of forming said first and second seals includes the step of impulse heating the film layers.
48. A method as recited in claim 46 wherein said steps of forming said first and second seals includes the step of resistance heating the film layers.
49. Apparatus for forming, from a continuous cylinder lying along a first axis and formed of a sealable, elastic polymeric film, storage bags with contents pouches and integrally formed, reclosure tie means for reclosing each bag, said apparatus comprising: A. clamping means for clamping a portion of the continuous cylinder along a second axis that is transverse to the first axis to form a margin portion in coextensive film wall portions of the continuous cylinder, said margin portion having first and second, sections disposed along the second axis for providing a boundary between successive storage bags, B. perforating means for perforating the film walls in said margin portion along a perforation line that is parallel to the second axis, C. severing means for severing the film walls in the margin portion along a severance line that is parallel to and spaced from the second axis thereby to form a removable closure tie in the margin portion between the perforation and severance lines and to form an adjacent first sealing area, D. first sealing means for forming a first seal between the film walls along a line in the first sealing area that is parallel to the second axis and that is coextensive with the first and second sections, 


 E. second sealing means for forming a second seal between the film walls along a line in the removable closure tie that is parallel to the second axis and that is coextensive with only the first section to form a tail in the first section and to form a loop in the second section that is free of any film structure that fails by delamination.
50. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 49 wherein said clamping means includes first and second counterfacing sealing jaw means mounted for relative movement along a third axis that is transverse to the first and second axes, each of said sealing jaw means including spaced, transversely oriented, counterfacing gripper means parallel to the second axis for clamping the film thereby to form the margin portion therebetween.
51. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 50 wherein one of said sealing jaw means includes means for biasing said gripper means toward the other of said sealing jaw means, said gripper means on said one sealing jaw means being displaced during a clamping action whereby said biasing means establishes a clamping force. 52. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 50 wherein said first and second sealing means includes a plurality of spaced heating filaments disposed parallel to the second axis and wherein one of said sealing jaw means includes means for supporting said filaments and the other of said sealing jaws means includes filament clamping means for placing the film against said filaments, said filament clamping means being biased on said supporting sealing jaw means for limited 


 reciprocation with respect thereto to establish the clamping force against said filaments, said apparatus additionally including means for directing an electrical current pulse through said filaments. 53. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 52 wherein said second sealing means includes one of said filaments having an insulator formed over a portion thereof coextensive with the loop thereby to prevent a heat transfer to the film in the loop. 54. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 53 wherein said first sealing means includes first and second spaced heating filaments that are parallel to the second axis and coextensive with the first and second sections of the margin portion and wherein said sealing jaw means includes means for supporting said first and second uninsulated filaments in alignment with the first sealing area and a second sealing area oppositely disposed with respect to the removable closure tie, said uninsulated filament being pulsed simultaneously with said partially insulated filaments.
55. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 53 wherein said first sealing means includes first and second spaced heating filaments that are parallel to the second axis and coextensive with the first and second sections of the margin portion and wherein said sealing jaw means includes means for supporting said uninsulated filaments adjacent to said gripper means thereby to form transverse seals at the edges of the margin portion adjacent the contents pouches.
56. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 55 wherein said perforation and severing means comprise reciprocally operating perforation and 


 severing b- 
*
de means respectively, one of said sealing jaw means supporting said perforation and severing blade means for reciprocating motion to advance said blade means toward the other sealing jaw means, said other sealing jaw means including recesses for receiving each of said perforation and severing blade means. 57. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 50 wherein each of sealing jaw means is movable along a third axis transverse to the first and second axes and said gripper means on one of said sealing jaw means includes compressible means for clamping the film wall portions against said counterfacing gripper means. 58. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 57 wherein each of said first and second sealing means includes first and second counterfacing sealing finger means that extend parallel to the second axis and each of said first and second sealing jaw means includes a sealing jaw body portion for supporting said first and second counterfacing sealing finger means, respectively, and wherein each of said first and second sealing jaw body portions is movable with and independently of said gripper means. 59. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 58 wherein said first sealing jaw body portion further includes heating means for elevating the temperature of the first sealing jaw body portion and the first sealing finger means attached thereto. 60. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 59 wherein each of said sealing finger means in said first sealing means extends parallel the second axis and is coextensive with the first and second 



 sections thereby to form a seal at the contents pouch that traverses the storage bag. 61. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 60 wherein each of said sealing fingers in said second finger means is coextensive with only the first section and each of said sealing jaw body portions carries an insulating insert means as an extension of the second sealing means that is coextensive with the second section. 62. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 61 wherein said perforation and severing means comprise reciprocally operating perforation and severing blade means respectively, said first sealing jaw means supporting said perforation and severing blade means for reciprocating motion relative to said sealing jaw body portion to advance said blade means toward said second sealing jaw means, said second sealing jaw means including recesses for receiving each of said perforation and severing blade means. 63. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 62 wherein said insulating insert means affixed to said first sealing jaw means includes an array of air passages for directing cooling air toward portions of said severing and perforation blade means.
64. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 63 wherein said insulating insert means additionally includes an air passage for directing cooling air along the second axis toward the first section.
65. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 60 wherein the margin portion additionally includes a second sealing area parallel to the first sealing area and oppositely disposed with respect to 


 the removable closure tie from the first sealing area and wherein said first sealing means comprises first and second sets of counterfacing sealing finger means formed on said first and second sealing jaws for forming seals in the first and second sealing areas respectively that parallel said second axis and that are coextensive with the first and second sections thereby to form a pair of seals at the contents pouches of adjacent storage bags that traverse the storage bag.
66. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 65 wherein said second sealing means comprises third and fourth counterfacing sealing fingers on said first and second sealing jaws for forming spaced, parallel seals in the releasable closure tie that are coextensive with the first section and wherein each of said sealing jaw body portions carries an insulating insert means as an extension of the sealing finger means in the second sealing means over a part of the margin portion that is coextensive with the second section.
67. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 66 wherein said perforation and severing means comprise reciprocally operating perforation and severing blade means respectively, said first sealing jaw means supporting said perforation and severing blade means for reciprocating motion relative to said sealing jaw body portion to advance said blade means toward said second sealing jaw means, said second sealing jaw means including recesses for receiving each of said perforation and severing blade means.
68. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 67 wherein said insulating insert means affixed to said first sealing jaw means includes an array of 


 air passages for directing cooling air toward portions of said severing and perforation blade means. 69. Apparatus for forming storage bags as recited in claim 68 wherein said insulating insert means on said first sealing jaw means additionally includes an air passage for directing cooling air along the second axis toward the first section. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
