<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620697</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Audio/video information system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10L1300	G10L1308	H04R2700	H04R2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10L	G10L	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10L13	G10L13	H04R27	H04R27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An audio message assembler is provided for 
generating natural-sounding spoken messages for communicating 

real time data to a listening audience. The system 
maintains a spoken-word data base having hundreds or 

thousands of digitally-stored words and phrases. The system 
receives digital information in the form of alphanumeric 

character strings, retrieves a preset sentence format 
appropriate to the particular input data received, and 

retrieves fixed or variable digitized words and phrases for 
inclusion in the preset format. For each specific input 

alphanumeric string, the system retrieves a digitized spoken 
word equivalent of the alphanumeric string. The system then 

assembles the retrieved digitized words into complete 
sentences for broadcast to the listening audience. In a 

particular embodiment, the system is implemented within an 
aircraft flight information system for providing flight 

information to the passengers of an aircraft. In this 
application, the system receives flight information such as 

connecting flights and en-route aircraft data, and generates 
audio messages for broadcast to the passengers which recite 

the flight information in natural-sounding sentences. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASINC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASINC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALTER RICHARD J JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDERS MICHAEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALTER, RICHARD J., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDERS, MICHAEL C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
improvements in aircraft passenger information systems and, 
more particularly, pertains to a new audio information 
system for the passengers of an aircraft. Still more 
specifically, the invention provides means for generating 
informational messages which are initially created on a 
ground-based computer system and transmitted up to an 
aircraft in flight to be converted from digital computer 
data to audio words and sentences and broadcast in multiple 
languages via the cabin audio system to the passengers. A wide variety of information systems exist for 
providing audio messages to a listening audience. For 
entirely automatic systems; that is, systems which do not 
require an operator, audio messages have traditionally been 
prerecorded prior to broadcast. Such information systems 
are incapable of handling real time information to produce 
audio messages reciting the real time information. To 
remedy this, various prior art audio information systems 
have been developed which utilize a voice synthesizer device 
to convert real time digital information into spoken words 
or phrases. Unfortunately, the resulting audio messages are 
often metallic- or artificial-sounding.  A particular application for an audio information 
system for automatically providing spoken messages is in the 
aircraft and air transportation arena. General information 
systems relating to aircraft abound in the prior art. Such 
general systems are utilized for a variety of purposes, such 
as tracking and analyzing information relating to air 
traffic control, displaying information on flights to 
provide for advanced planning and scheduling, and monitoring 
ground traffic at an airport. Other than U.S. Patent 
No. 4,975,696 (Salter, Jr. et al.) and copending U.S. 
application Serial No. 07/763,370 (Pitts), such systems are 
typically used for the administering of aircraft traffic. In U.S. Patent No. 4,975,696, an electronics 
package connecting the airborne electronics of a passenger 
aircraft to the passenger visual display system of the 
aircraft was disclosed. The electronics package provides 
passengers with a variety of real-time video displays of 
flight information, such as ground speed, outside air 
temperature, or altitude. Other information displayed by 
the electronics package includes a map of the area over 
which the aircraft flies, as well as destination 
information, such as a chart of the destination terminal 
including aircraft gates, baggage claims areas, and 
conne
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An audio information system for generating 
audio messages for a listening audience, the system having 

a receiver for receiving input data, said system comprising: 
   memory means for storing digitized spoken 

words, with individual digitized words corresponding 
to individual units of the received 

input data; 
   data processor means for generating complete 

audio messages based on said input data, said 
data processor means including retrieval means 

for retrieving, from said memory means, selected 
digitized words which correspond to the units of 

received input data; and 
   message assembly means for assembling the 

retrieved selected words into complete audio 
messages which convey the information contained 

in the input data in natural-sounding sentences. 
The audio information system of Claim 1, 
wherein said input data includes connecting flight information 

data including one or more of flight numbers, 
destination terminals, gate numbers, baggage claim area 

numbers, and arrival and departure times, and wherein said 
memory means stores digitized spoken words corresponding to 

said connecting flight information, such that said complete 
audio messages provide a recitation of the flight 

information in a natural-sounding sentence. 
The audio information system of Claim 1 or claim 2, 
wherein at least some of said digitized spoken words are 

stored in a plurality of inflection forms, each form having 
a different vocal inflection, and wherein said data 

processor further includes: 
   means for determining a proper vocal inflection 

form for said words, said proper inflection 
being determined by the relative placement of 

said words in said audio message; and 
   means for selecting said proper inflection 

form of said selected digitised words for 
inclusion in said complete audio message. 
The audio information system of any preceding claim, 
wherein at least some of said digitized words are stored in 

a plurality of forms, each form being a different language 
version of said word, and wherein said data processor 

further includes means for retrieving and assembling words 
of matching languages. 
The audio information system of Claim 4, 
wherein said data processor assembles a plurality of 

messages conveying the same input data, said messages being 
in different languages. 
The audio information system of Claim 5, 
wherein said system includes means for outputting said 

plurality of messages of different languages in sequential 
order through a single output channel. 
The audio information system of Claim 5, 
wherein said system includes means for outputting said 

plurality of messages of different languages simultaneously 
over a plurality of separate output channels. 
The audio information system of any preceding claim, 
wherein the digitized spoken words are maintained in digital 

form on a mass storage device. 
The audio information system of any preceding claim, 
wherein said system is mounted aboard a passenger aircraft 

and includes means for broadcasting said complete audio 
messages to passengers within said aircraft. 
The audio information system of Claim 9, 
further including a receiver for receiving flight 

information identifying the location of the aircraft, and 
wherein said memory means also stores the names and 

locations of a plurality of points of interest in digital 
form; 

   said data processor means further including 
means for determining a current point of interest 

by: 
   comparing the location of the aircraft 

with the locations of points of interest 
stored by the memory means to identify, out 

of the plurality of points of interest, a 
point of interest in the vicinity of the 

current location of the aircraft; 
   retrieving digitized words identifying 

the name and relative location of the point 
of interest in the vicinity of the aircraft; 

and 
   assembling a complete audio message 

providing the name and relative location of 
the point of interest such that, as points 

of interest are reached during the flight of 
the aircraft, the system automatically 

broadcasts an audio message identifying the 
point of interest to the passengers. 
The audio information system of Claim 9, 
wherein the aircraft follows a flight plan having a 

plurality of phases, and wherein said data processor means 
further includes: 

   means for determining a current phase of the 
flight plan; 

   means for selectively retrieving flight 
information from said input data, said selected 

flight information being selected according to 
the determined current phase of flight, said 

selected flight information being used by said 
message assembly means for generating said audio 

message such that, as each phase of the flight 
plan is reached, the system assembles and 

broadcasts an audio message reciting useful 
flight information tailored to the current phase 

of the flight plan to the passengers. 
The audio information system of Claim 11 
wherein said data processor means also retrieves a sequence 

of video display information corresponding to the determined 
current phase of flight and inputs the retrieved sequence of 

video display information to a video display system for 
display to the passengers, such that, as each phase of the 

flight plan is reached, the system displays a sequence of 
video displays tailored to the current phase of the flight 

plan to the passengers along with the audio messages. 
The audio information system of Claim 11, 
wherein the memory means further includes a table means for 

storing a range of flight information corresponding to each 
phase of the flight plan and wherein the data processor 

determines the current phase of the flight plan by 
determining a phase having a range corresponding to the 

received flight information. 
An audio information system for automatically 
generating audio messages for a listening audience, said 

audio messages having preselected sentence formats, said 
system comprising: 

   receiving means for receiving input data 
including one or more fixed units of data and one 

or more variable units of data; 
   memory means for storing digitized spoken 

words including fixed words corresponding to 
portions of said preselected sentence formats and 

variable words corresponding to said variable 
units of data, with each variable word being a 

digitized spoken equivalent of a corresponding 
unit of data; 

   data processor means for generating complete 
audio messages based on the input data, said data 

processor means including: 
   means for determining a sentence format 

corresponding to the input data; 
   means for retrieving digitized fixed 

words corresponding to the sentence format; 
and 

   means for retrieving digitized variable 

words corresponding to the variable units of 
data within said input data; and 

   message assembly means for assembling said 
retrieved fixed and variable words into complete 

audio messages, such that audio messages are 
generated which convey the input data in natural-sounding 

sentences. 
An audio information system for providing 
terminal and gate information to aircraft passengers in an aircraft 

comprising: 
   a receiver for receiving destination airport 

terminal information regarding one or more of 
connecting flight numbers, departure times, 

departure gates and destinations, and baggage 
claim areas from a ground-based transmitter; 

   memory means for storing a plurality of 
digitized words corresponding to said destination 

terminal information; 
   audio message assembly means for creating 

audio messages incorporating said destination 
airport terminal information by selectively 

retrieving and assembling said digitized words; 
and 

   means for inputting said audio messages to 
said audio system for broadcast to the 

passengers. 
The audio information system of Claim 15, 
wherein said memory means further stores data for a 

plurality of airport charts representative of destination 
airport terminals; with 

   said receiver receiving information regarding 
flight numbers and destination airports from 

a ground-based transmitter; and 
   data processor means utilizing the received 

flight numbers and airport information to 
retrieve the data for the airport chart of the 

destination airport terminal from said memory 
means and inputting the data to a video display 

system for display. 
Ammended claims in accordance with Rule 86(2) EPC.
1. An audio information system for generating audio 
messages for a listening audience, the system comprising: 

   receiver means for receiving input data from on-board 
navigation systems of an aircraft containing passengers and 

from ground-based transmitters; 
   memory means for storing digitized spoken words, with 

individual digitized words corresponding to individual 
units of the received data input; 

   data processor means for generating complete audio 
messages based on said input data, said data processor 

means including retrieval means for retrieving, from said 
memory means, selected digitized words which correspond to 

the units of received input data; and 
   message assembly means for assembling the retrieved 

selected words into complete audio messages which convey 
the information contained in the input data in natural-sounding 

sentences. 
2. The audio information system of claim 1, wherein said 
input data includes connecting flight information data 

including one or more of flight numbers, destination 
terminals, gate numbers, baggage claim area numbers, and 

arrival and departure times, and wherein said memory means 
stores digitized spoken words corresponding to said 

connecting flight information, such that said complete 
audio messages provide a recitation of the flight 

information in a natural-sounding sentence. 
8. The audio information system of any preceding claim, 
wherein the digitized spoken words are maintained in 

digital form on a mass storage device. 
9. The audio information system of any preceding claim, 
wherein said system is mounted aboard the aircraft 

containing passengers and wherein the system further 
includes means for broadcasting said complete audio 

messages to the passengers within said aircraft, the 
broadcasting means receiving the complete audio messages 

from the message assembly means. 
10. The audio information system of claim 9, wherein said 
input data includes flight information identifying the 

location of the aircraft, and wherein said memory means 
also stores the names and locations of a plurality of 

points of interest in digital form; 
   said data processor means further including means for 

determining a current point of interest by: 
   comparing the location of the aircraft with the 

locations of points of interest stored by the memory means 
to identify, out of the plurality of points of interest, a 

point of interest in the vicinity of the current location 
of the aircraft; 

   retrieving digitized words identifying the name and 
relative location of the point of interest in the vicinity 

of the aircraft; and 
   assembling a complete audio message providing the name 

and relative location of the point of interest such that, 
as points of interest are reached during the flight of the 

aircraft, the system automatically broadcasts an audio 
message identifying the point of interest to the 

passengers. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
