<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626856</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS AND THEIR USE FOR TREATING ZINC DEFICIENT DISORDERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3128	A61K3130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A zinc depot for animals may be established through the introduction of a zinc substance exhibiting slow-release characteristics for the physiology of the animal, preferably via a non-digestive route. A fluid or paste-like composition, or a bolus, may be introduced through preferred routes such as into the bloodstream, intramuscularly, or subcutaneously. Preferred zinc substances include zinc organic salts and a specified range of preferred zinc inorganic compounds. Most exhibit a low aqueous solubility, less than or equal to 0.01 g/ml of H2O at 35  DEG C. Other agents may enhance the effectiveness of the zinc substance, preferred agents including calcium, magnesium or selenium containing compounds or minerals, fatty acids, vegetable oils, and/or sulphur or sulphide compounds. The provision of a lasting zinc depot in an animal is useful for addressing zinc responsive disorders, both in a preventative and remedial sense. Examples of zinc-responsive disorders include facial eczema, fading elk's disease, mycotoxin poisoning, poisoning from alkaloid substances, disorders relating to phyto-oestrogen levels, and zinc deficiencies.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COLBY CORP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COLBY CORPORATION LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PICKERING ROBERT JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PICKERING, ROBERT JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS AND THEIR USE FOR TREATING ZINC DEFI¬ CIENT DISORDERSTECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates to compositions and their administration, for addressing zinc responsive disorders. More specifically, the invention seeks to establish a lasting zinc depot in an animal, so as to increase its resistance to zinc responsive disorders such as facial eczema. The establishment of a lasting zinc depot also appears to infer resistance to other disorders. In addition, various aspects of the present invention may also be used as a therapeutic or remedial treatment for an animal inflicted with these disorders.BACKGROUND ART Disorders affecting the well-being of livestock can seriously effect a farmer's profitability. On a national scale, losses in monetary terms can be substantial.For example, facial eczema is a disorder rising through the ingestion of the spores of Pithomyces chartarum, which are found in great numbers on dead plant litter during warm, damp weather conditions. Present in the spores is the toxin sporidesmin which causes liver damage in an animal if ingested. Symptoms of facial eczema include photo- sensitivity and a tendency for animals to mutilate themselves by rubbing against standing objects. However not all animals exhibit these symptoms, and it is generally accepted that when 5% of a flock of lambs exhibit photo-sensitivity during an outbreak, about 50% will exhibit liver damage at slaughter. As appreciated, facial eczema occurs predominantly among grazing animals including sheep, catde, deer, goats and more exotic animals such as alpacas. In New Zealand, it has been recently stated that facial eczema costs New Zealand's farmers between NZ$80- 120 million each year, while the effective cost to the nation when the inability to farm sheep effectively in many areas, is in excess of NZ$500 million. These figures relate only to the sheep industry.Facial eczema, which is not specific to New Zealand, can be addressed. One technique is to adopt farm management practices which reduce proliferation of the fungus. Spore counting to identify hazardous pastures and areas, serve to warn farmers to routinely transfer stock to safer sites to limit their total spore intake. Apart from improved farming practices, it has been discovered that some control of facial eczema may be obtained through the regular administration of zinc to animals. However the effectiveness of this control relies on regular administration and to date there has been no treatment or preparation discovered which is able
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE:
1. A method for addressing zinc responsive disorders in animals by providing a depot of zinc through the administration of a zinc substance exhibiting slow-release characteristics within said animal, by its introduction via a non-digestive route.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 in which said zinc substance is coupled with a pharmacologically acceptable carrier comprising at least one of: i) a plant derived oil; ii) a fatty acid or a solution or dispersion thereof; iii) a non-aqueous fluid;
3. A method as claimed in claim 1 in which said zinc substance is in the forai of a solid bolus implanted via a non-digestive route.
4. A method as claimed in claim 3 in which the bolus includes a pharmacologically acceptable filler or binder, comprising at least one of: i) a calcium containing compound or mineral; ii) a magnesium containing compound or mineral; iii) a selenium containing compound or mineral; iv) a fatty acid; v) sulphur or sulphide compound.
5. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 4 wherein said zinc substance comprises a zinc organic salt (as herein defined) or a preferred inorganic zinc compound (as herein defined).
6. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 4 wherein the aqueous solubility of said zinc substance is less than or equal to 0.01 g/ml of H
2
O at 35°C.
7. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 4 in which includes administration of at least one of the following substances within 12 hours: i) a vitamin; ii) a magnesium containing compound or mineral; iii) a selenium containing compound or mineral; iv) a fatty acid; v) sulphur or sulphide compound.
25 


8. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 4 wherein the method of administration is by introduction into at least one of: i) bloodstream; ii) muscle; iii) subcutaneous tissue; iv) a site near the liver.
9. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 through 4 in which the disorder is a member of the group comprising: facial eczema, fading elks disease, mycotoxin poisoning, poisoning from alkaloid toxins, and disorders relating to phyto-oestrogen levels.
10. A method of treating zinc-responsive disorders comprising the administration of an effective yet non-lethal amount of one or more zinc substances having low aqueous solubility, via a non-digestive route.
11. A method as claimed in claim 10 in which the zinc substance is coupled with at least one of: i) a selenium containing compound or mineral; ii) a magnesium containing compound or mineral; iii) a fatty acid or a solution or dispersion thereof; iv) a plant derived oil; v) sulphur or sulphide compound.
12. A method as claimed in either claim 10 or claim 11 wherein a said zinc substance comprises a zinc organic salt (as herein defined) or a preferred inorganic zinc compound (as herein defined).
13. A method as claimed in either claim 10 or claim 11 wherein the aqueous solubility of a said zinc substance is less than or equal to 0.01 g/ml of H O at 35°C.
14. A method as claimed in either claim 10 or claim 11 which includes an additional zinc substance having a solubility exceeding 0.01 g/ml of H O at 35°C.
15. A method as claimed in either claim 10 or claim 11 wherein the method of administration is by introduction into at least one of: i) bloodstream; ii) muscle; iii) subcutaneous tissue; iv) a site near the liver.
26 


16. A method as claimed in either claim 10 or claim 11 in which the disorder is a member of the group comprising: facial eczema, fading elks disease, mycotoxin poisoning, poisoning from alkaloid toxins, and disorders relating to phyto-oestrogen levels.
17. A composition of fluid or paste-like consistency for use in addressing zinc-responsive disorders in animals other than humans comprising a zinc substance exhibiting slow- release characteristics within said animal, dispersed in a pharmacologically acceptable carrier.
18 A composition as claimed in claim 17 which includes at least one of: i) a selenium containing compound or mineral; ii) a magnesium containing compound or mineral; iii) a fatty acid or a solution or dispersion thereof; iv) a plant derived oil; v) sulphur or sulphide compound; vi) a vitamin.
19. A composition as claimed in either claim 17 or claim 18 wherein said zinc substance comprises a zinc organic salt (as herein defined) or a preferred inorganic zinc compound (as herein defined).
20. A composition as claimed in either claim 17 or claim 18 wherein the aqueous solubility of a said zinc substance is less than or equal to 0.01 g/ml of H O at 35°C.
21. A composition as claimed in either claim 17 or claim 18 wherein the aqueous solubility of a said zinc substance is less than or equal to 0.001 g/ml of H
2
O at 35°C.
22. A composition as claimed in either claim 17 or claim 18 which includes an additional zinc substance having a solubility exceeding 0.01 g/ml of H O at 35°C.
23. A composition as claimed in either claim 17 or claim 18 in which the carrier is fat soluble.
24. A bolus for administration by introduction into at least one of i) the bloodstream, ii) muscle, and iii) subcutaneous tissue, of an animal other than a human, said bolus comprising a zinc substance and at least one of: i) a selenium containing compound or mineral; ii) a magnesium containing compound or mineral; iii) a fatty acid or a solution or dispersion thereof; iv) a plant derived oil; v) sulphur or sulphide compound; vi) a vitamin.
27 


25. A bolus as claimed in claim 24 which includes a zinc substance whose aqueous solubility is less than, or equal to, 0.01 g/ml of H
2
O at 35°C-
26. A bolus as claimed in claim 24 which includes at least one other zinc substance whose aqueous solubility exceeds 0.01 g/ml of H O at 35°C.
27. A composition for addressing zinc-responsive disorders comprising, in percentage by weight and to a total of 100%:
0.01-80% a zinc substance as herein defined;
0-20% a selenium containing compound or mineral;
0-20% a magnesium containing compound or mineral;
0-80% a fatty acid;
0-95% a plant derived oil;
0-20% sulphur or sulphide compound;
0-5% a vitamin;
0-95% non-aqueous carrier.
28. A composition for addressing zinc-responsive disorders comprising, in percentage by weight and to a total of 100% :
10-40% a zinc substance whose aqueous solubility is less than, or equal to, 0.01 g ml ofH
2
O at35°C; 0-5% a selenium containing compound or mineral;
0-8 % a magnesium containing compound or mineral;
60-90% vegetable oil;
0-8% sulphur, sulphide or oxy-sulphur compound.
29. A method for addressing zinc responsive disorders comprising the administration via a non-digestive route of a composition or bolus, substantially as described herein with reference to the contained examples.
30. A composition comprising a zinc substance, for addressing zinc responsive disorders, substantially as described herein with reference to the contained examples.
28 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
