<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640867</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Photographic camera and film cartridge with double exposure prevention.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B100	G03B166	G03B700	G03B700	G03B724	G03B724	G03B1700	G03B1700	G03B1730	G03B1730	G03B1742	G03B1742	G03C300	G03C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03C	G03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B1	G03B1	G03B7	G03B7	G03B7	G03B7	G03B17	G03B17	G03B17	G03B17	G03B17	G03B17	G03C3	G03C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A photographic film cartridge has one or more 
resistive elements formed on the exterior surface of 

the cartridge with associated visual indicator elements 
to indicate exposure status of film in the cartridge. 

The camera is provided with drive circuit means to 
change the resistance values of the resistive elements 

to provide an electrically sensed indication of the 
film exposure status when next the cartridge is placed 

in the camera. Provision can be made for both full 
exposure and mid-roll interrupt indications. At the 

same time, the heat generated by the resistive element 
during its change in resistance value is useful to 

change a characteristic of the associated visual 
indicator to provide a visual indication of the 

exposure status of the film in the cartridge. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSON JR WILBERT FRANK C O EA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSON JR., WILBERT FRANK, C/O EASTMAN KODAK COMP.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of 
photographic film cameras and film cartridges therefor 
with provision for double exposure prevention. Conventional 35mm film cartridges are normally 
sold with a portion of the film leader projecting from 
the exit slot of the cartridge. This allows the camera 
user to grasp and pull the film for loading in the 
camera and at the same time provides a visual 
indication to the camera user that the film in the 
cartridge is unexposed. Upon rewind, the film is 
rewound completely into the cartridge and the absence 
of the protruding leader indicates that the film has 
been exposed and prevents re-use of the film in a 
camera thus inherently providing protection against 
double exposure of the film. Recently, camera and film 
cartridge designs have been proposed in which the film 
is totally enclosed in the cartridge when sold. To 
load the film, the cartridge is inserted and the drive 
motor operates to thrust the film out of the cartridge 
to the film take-up spool. Upon rewind, the film is 
drawn entirely into the cartridge. As a consequence, 
there is no visual indication to distinguish between an 
exposed and an unexposed film roll and, thus, numerous 
camera and cartridge designs have been proposed to 
provide protection against re-use and double exposure 
of the film. It is known, for example, to provide cartridges 
with mechanical features that cooperate with feelers in  
 
the camera that prevent insertion of cartridges into 
the camera when the film has previously been exposed. 
In many cases these mechanical features also provide a 
visual indication of the exposed condition of the film. 
A representative example of an arrangement providing 
both visible indication and mechanical lockout means is 
found in commonly assigned U.S. Patent 5,047,794. U.S. 
Patent 5,115,268 discloses a mechanical slide on the 
film cartridge is movable by a cam arrangement upon 
insertion into the camera to cover the letters UN in 
the word UNEXPOSED printed on the end of the cartridge 
to provide a visible indication of an exposed condition 
of the film in the cartridge. In commonly assigned 
U.S. Patent 5,032,854 and 5,030,978, a radial bar coded 
disc on the end of a film cartridge is sensed by an 
opto-sensor in the camera to position the film spool 
upon conclusion of rewind at a selected one of plural 
visual indicators that indicate the exposure condition 
of film in the camera. Such arrangements however, require special 
cartridge designs that add to the cost and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Film cartridge having a housing with an outer 
surface and having provision thereon for indication of 

the usage condition of film in the cartridge, the 
cartridge comprising: 

   resistance means on the outer surface of the 
cartridge including at least one resistive element 

formed of a material normally having a first resistance 
value, the material being responsive to an applied 

electrical stimulus to change to a second resistance 
value to indicate a predetermined change in usage 

condition of film in the cartridge; and 
   terminals on the outer surface in electrical 

contact with the resistive element and adapted to 
engage a detector circuit and a power supply circuit in 

a photographic film camera, the power supply circuit 
being effective to change the resistive element from 

first to second resistance values in response to a 
change in usage condition of the film and the detector 

circuit being responsive to detected resistance values 
of the resistive element to provide predetermined 

control effects in the camera depending on the detected 
resistance value, 

   whereby the resistive element provides an 
electrically detectable indication of the film usage 

condition for control purposes in the camera. 
The film cartridge of claim 1 further 
including 

   a thermo-responsive visual indicator element 
overlying the resistive element and formed of a 

material adapted to change a visual characteristic 
thereof in response to an increase of heat emitted from 

 
the resistive element during change in resistance of 

the resistive element, 
   whereby the indicator element provides a visual 

indication of a predetermined usage condition of the 
film in the cartridge. 
The cartridge of claim 1 wherein the 
resistance means includes separate first and second 

resistive elements coupled to separate electrical 
terminals adapted to connect to separate pairs of power 

supply and detector circuits in a camera, wherein the 
first element corresponds to a first usage condition in 

which all frames of the film have been exposed and the 
second element corresponds to a second usage condition 

in which the film has been unloaded into the camera but 
rewound without all frames having been exposed. 
The cartridge of claim 3 wherein each 
resistive element has an associated thermo-responsive 

visual indicator overlying the element formed of a 
material adapted to change a visual characteristic 

thereof in response to an increase of heat emitted from 
the associated resistive element during change in 

resistance of the resistive element, 
   whereby separate visual indications are given for 

each of the first and second usage conditions of the 
film in the cartridge. 
The film cartridge of claim 1 wherein the 
resistive element normally has a low resistance value 

and is responsive to an applied electrical stimulus to 
permanently change to a high resistance value. 
The cartridge of claim 1 in which the 
resistive element is a fusible link and the high 

resistance value is an open circuit. 
The cartridge of claim 2 wherein the visual 
indicator is normally opaque and is adapted to change 

to a clear visual characteristic upon application of 
heat from the resistive element. 
The cartridge of claim 2 wherein the visual 
indicator is normally a first color and is adapted to 

change to a second color upon application of heat from 
the resistive element. 
A photographic film camera having a chamber 
for receiving a film cartridge having a resistive 

element on the outer surface of the cartridge, the 
resistive element being formed of a material normally 

having a first resistance value and being responsive to 
an applied electrical stimulus to change to a second 

resistance value indicating a change in usage condition 
of film in the cartridge, the cartridge having 

electrical contacts connecting with the resistive 
element, the camera comprising: 

   electrical contacts in the chamber adapted to 
engage the contacts on the cartridge; 

   detector circuit means for detecting the 
resistance value of the resistive element; 

   control means for controlling the loading of film 
in the camera in dependence on the detected resistance 

value of the resistive element; and 
   means including a power supply circuit for 

providing an electrical stimulus to the resistive 
element to change the resistance value in response to a 

predetermined change in the usage condition of the film 
in the camera. 
The camera of claim 9 wherein the cartridge 
includes first and second separate resistive elements, 

 
and the camera includes first and second pairs of 

detector and power supply circuits adapted to be 
separately coupled with said first and second resistive 

elements on the cartridge, said first pair of power 
supply and detector circuits being associated with o
ne 
of the resistive elements to indicate exposure of all 

image frames on the film in the cartridge and the 
second pair of power supply and detector circuits being 

associated with the other of said resistive elements to 
indicate exposure of less than all of the image frames 

on the film in the cartridge. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
