<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658216</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CHARGING METAL SOLIDS INTO MOLTEN METAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F27D300	C22B700	C22B916	F27D314	F27D314	C22B2100	C22B2100	F27D300	C22B916	C22B700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F27D	C22B	C22B	F27D	F27D	C22B	C22B	F27D	C22B	C22B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F27D3	C22B7	C22B9	F27D3	F27D3	C22B21	C22B21	F27D3	C22B9	C22B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A furnace (1) has a main holding portion (2) and a charging well (4) into which molten metal from the holding portion is circulated by means of an electromagnetic pump (7). Metal enters the well as a tangential flow and a stationary turbulator (10) is located in the path of the flow so as to upwardly and transversely deflect the flow. Resulting turbulence within the well enhances the rate of assimilation of solids into the metal without resulting in excessive oxidation. The method is suitable for melting aluminium swarf.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALDER ALUMINIUM LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALDER ALUMINIUM LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN WARWICK NICHOLSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWITT ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATYAL ANIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN, WARWICK NICHOLSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWITT, ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATYAL, ANIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a furnace and to a 
method of melting metal solids in a furnace, and in 
particular but not exclusively to a method of charging 
aluminium swarf in a furnace. The charging of metal solids into a furnace in a 
manner which is both efficient and environmentally 
acceptable presents particular difficulties when the 
metal solids to be charged are in the form of finely 
divided aluminium scrap such as industrial swarf 
having a relatively large surface area. The surface 
oxide layer on the aluminium solids is resistant to 
incorporation of the solids into a body of molten 
metal and creates surface dross which must be 
separated and removed. It is known to provide a holding portion of a 
furnace in which a body of molten metal is heated 
within an enclosure within which controlled combustion 
inhibits oxidisation of the molten metal. Metal 
solids are introduced in a well annexed to the holding 
portion of the furnace and molten metal is transferred 
between the holding portion and the well in order to 
both maintain the temperature of metal in the well and 
to deliver fresh metal to the holding portion. EP-A-0120684 relates to a method for melting 
light metal scrap by ingestion into a body of the 
corresponding molten metal. FR-A-2672620 relates to a method for melting nonferrous 
metals and alloys. It is also known from US 4884786 to provide for 
mechanical stirring of the molten metal within the 
well in order to assist the rate of assimilation of 
solids into the liquid phase within the well. Such 
stirring however has the disadvantage of enhancing the  
 
rate at which molten metal within the well is oxidised 
by contact with air. The stirring operation is itself 
problematic in that the stirring implements must be 
formed of materials capable of withstanding the 
required operating temperature which materials tend to 
be brittle and therefore require frequent replacement.  
 It is also Known from GB-2072819-A to avoid the 
need for stirring implements by supplying pumped metal 
to the well through a tangential channel to create a 
vortex and to disrupt the vortex by a further flow 
from radial channel entering the well at a lower 
level. A resulting roll-over effect is said to aid 
ingestion. The elevated level at which the tangential 
channel pours metal into the well is however likely to 
result in a pouring effect which will enhance the rate 
of oxidation. The use of alternative melting media 
such as molton salt reduces the rate of oxidation but 
has the disadvantage
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of charging metal solids (13) into 
a body (3) of molten metal in a furnace (1) comprising 

the step of heating a body of molten metal in a 
holding portion (2) of the furnace, transferring metal 

from the holding portion to a well (4) annexed to the 
holding portion such that a flow of metal enters the 

well beneath the surface (15) of metal in the well, 
feeding the metal solids into contact with the surface 

of molten metal in the well and returning molten metal 
from the well into the holding portion, characterised 

by the method including the step of creating 
turbulence in the flow within the well by means of a 

stationary turbulator (10) located in the path of the 
flow and wherein the turbulator deflects the flow by 

means of at least a first deflecting surface (21,41) 
which is upwardly inclined so as to impart to the flow 

at least a component of motion in an upward direction. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
first deflecting surface is also laterally inclined 

whereby the first deflecting surface deflects the flow 
so as to impart to the flow a horizontal component of 

motion. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 
wherein the turbulator further deflects the flow by 

means of a second deflecting surface (42) located 
downstream of the first reflecting surface (41) with 

respect to the flow and which is more steeply inclined 
to the horizontal than the first deflecting surface.  

 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim 
in which the metal is transferred into the well 

through an inlet conduit (5) so as to enter the well 
tangentially relative to an internal cylindrical wall 

(16) of the well. 
A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the 
metal flows into the well from the inlet conduit 

through an inlet aperture (18) located immediately 
adjacent to a floor (17) of the well. 
A method as claimed in claim 5 including 
the step of collecting surface dross at a location 

upstream of the inlet aperture with respect to the 
direction of flow by means of a baffle (31) projecting 

inwardly of the cylindrical internal wall of the well. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein metal is transferred between the holding 

portion and the well by means of an electromagnetic 
pump (7). 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the metal is aluminium. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the solids are in the form of swarf. 
Apparatus for charging metal solids into a 
body (3) of molten metal in a furnace (1) comprising a 

well (4) annexed to a holding portion (2) of the 
furnace, heating means (12) operable to heat molten 

metal in the holding portion, transferral means (7) 
operable to transfer metal between the holding portion 

and the well such that in use a flow of metal enters 
the well beneath the surface (15) of the metal in the  

 
well via an inlet conduit (5), means (14) for feeding 

metal solids (13) into contact with the surface of 
molten metal in the well and returning means (6) for 

returning molten metal from the well to the holding 
portion, characterised in that the well further 

comprises a stationary turbulator (10) located in the path of the 
flow of molten metal in the well and wherein the stationary 

turbulator comprises at least a first (21,41) upwardly 
inclined deflecting surface arranged to impart to the 

flow at least an upward component of motion. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the 
first deflecting surface is laterally inclined so as 

to impart to the flow a horizontal component of 
motion. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11 
wherein the turbulator comprises a second deflecting 

surface (42) located downstream of the first 
deflecting surface (41) with respect to the flow and 

which is more steeply inclined to the horizontal than 
the first surface. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 10 to 
12 wherein the well comprises a cylindrical internal 

surface (16) extending upwardly from a floor (17) and 
wherein the first deflecting surface intersects the 

floor and the cylindrical surface so as to obliquely 
truncate the internal cylindrical volume of the well. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 10 to 
13 wherein the inlet conduit extends non-radially with 

respect to the cylindrical internal surface of the  
 

well so that in use the transfer of metal into the 
well creates a flow which enters tangentially. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein 
the inlet conduit communicates with the well through 

an inlet aperture (18) located immediately adjacent to 
the floor of the well. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein 
the well comprises a baffle (31) projecting inwardly 

of the cylindrical internal surface of the well at a 
location upstream of the inlet aperture with respect 

to the direction of flow, the baffle projecting 
upwardly above the surface of molten metal to define 

an area of the surface in which surface dross is 
collected in use. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 10 to 
16 wherein the turbulator comprises a refractory block 

mounted on an internal surface of the well and 
defining at least one deflecting surface which is 

stationary relative to the internal surface. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 10 to 
17 wherein the transferral means comprises an 

electromagnetic pump (7). 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 10 to 
18 comprising an outlet conduit (6)
 connected to the 
well downstream of the turbulator and communicating 

with the holding portion for returning molten metal. 
A method of charging metal solids (13) into 
a body (3) of molten metal comprising the step of 

circulating the molten metal within a charging well 
(4) to create a vortical flow of molten metal,  

 
deflecting the flow upwardly towards a liquid surface 

(15) of the molten metal by means of a stationery 
deflecting surface (21,41,42) 

which is upwardly inclined so as to impart to the flow 
at least a component of motion in an upward direction and 

which is located in the path of 
the flow and feeding the metal solids (13) into 

contact with the liquid surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
