<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0925156</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DRILLING MACHINE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23B4500	B23B4514	B23B4900	B23B4900	B23Q3500	B23Q3502	B25H100	B25H100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23B	B23B	B23B	B23B	B23Q	B23Q	B25H	B25H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23B45	B23B45	B23B49	B23B49	B23Q35	B23Q35	B25H1	B25H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A paddle fitting tool (10) for drilling a hole through a wing spar (60) inserted into a paddle fitting (70) where the paddle fitting has a top fork (74) with a hole (76) and a bottom fork (72) also having a hole (78) approximately aligned with the hole in the top fork. The paddle fitting tool couples a drill to a nut runner (14) using a saddle. The nut runner is operable to clamp the paddle fitting to securably hold the paddle fitting and wing spar stationary during drilling. The drill is operable to hold a drill bit and to drill a hole in the wing spar. The saddle couples the nut runner to the drill such that the hole drilled through the wing spar is approximately concentric with the hole in the top fork and the hole in the bottom fork of the paddle fitting.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOPER TECHNOLOGIES CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOPER TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN SAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN, SAM, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DRILLING MACHINETECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to aircraft manufacturing systems and methods, more particularly, to a paddle fitting tool for coupling a wing spar to a paddle fitting attached to the fuselage of an aircraft.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe wings of an aircraft are subject to numerous forces during takeoff, flight, and landing. Aircraft use wing spars to evenly distribute those forces. Each wing will have multiple wing spars radiating out from the fuselage (on both the bottom and top side of the wing) toward the tip of the wing. The wing spars carry these forces to ensure that each part of the wing surface carries a proportionate share of the load.Each wing spar has two fuselage ends (one on the top of the wing and one on the bottom of the wing) that can insert into paddle fittings attached to the fuselage. A paddle fitting has a fork-shaped receptacle end for receiving the end of a wing spar. One method of holding the wing spar stationary within the paddle fitting involves drilling a hole through the both forks of the paddle fitting and the wing spar, inserting a fastener through the hole, and tightening the paddle fittmg/wing spar assembly to a specified torque.Due to the exact tolerances required in building aircraft, the drilled hole must be both the appropriate diameter and concentric through both forks of the paddle 

fitting and the wing spar. A hole that is drilled too large or is non-concentric will degrade too rapidly under the operational forces of an aircraft. A manually operated drill cannot drill a hole through this material stack up that will meet these exact tolerance requirements on a consistent basis. These precise tolerances necessitate a device, such as a paddle fitting tool, that clamps to the paddle fitting/wing spar assembly to hold the drill stationary as the drill bit drills the hole through the paddle fitting and the wing spar .To ensure the drilled hole has the appropriate dimensions and concentricity, conventional paddle fitting tools use a guide or fixture coupled to the drill. One example of such a conventional paddle fitting tool is manufactured by Boeing under drawing number ST7220C-1 that describes a Quackenbush 15QDR-RAB-SU-RS drill attached to a fixture having an air pressure cylinder to clamp the paddle fitting tool to the paddle fitting m order to hold the paddle fitting, and consequently the wing spar inserted within the forks of the paddle fitting, stationary.However, these conventional paddle fitting tools
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A paddle fitting tool for drilling a hole through a wmg spar inserted into a paddle fitting, the paddle fitting comprising a top fork having a top fork hole formed withm the top fork and a bottom fork having a bottom fork hole formed with the bottom fork, the paddle fitting tool comprising: a drill operable to receive a drill bit for drilling a hole the wmg spar; a nut runner; and a saddle operable to couple the drill to the nut runner such that the operation of the nut runner will produce a predetermined clamping force on the paddle fitting to securably hold the paddle fitting and the wmg spar when drilling the wmg spar hole, and the saddle further operable to couple the nut runner to the drill such that the drill is positioned to drill a hole through the wmg spar that is approximately concentric with the bottom fork hole and is approximately concentric the top fork hole.
2. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 1, wherein the saddle is operable to couple the drill to the nut runner such that the drill bit aligns vertically with a side centerlme running vertically through both the top fork hole and the bottom fork hole and vertically with a front centerlme running vertically through both the top fork hole and the bottom fork hole.
3. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 1, further comprising a drill bit coupled to the drill, the drill bit operable to form a hole m the wing spar during operation of the drill, the drill bit having a diameter approximately equal to a diameter of the top fork hole. 

4. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 1, further comprising a drill bit coupled to the drill and operable to form a hole in the wing spar, the drill bit having a diameter such that a bolt passed through the wmg spar hole to fasten the wing spar to the paddle fitting has an interference fit with the w g spar.
5. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 1, wherein the drill comprises: a handle having a distal end and a proximate end; a nose coupled to the proximate end of the handle, the nose having a through passage; and a spmdle coupled to the handle at the proximate end, the spmdle operable to receive a drill bit, to rotate, and to feed through the nose through passage, the spmdle vertically aligned with the nose at approximately a right angle to the latitudinal axis of the handle.
6. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 5, wherein the nut runner comprises: a body having a distal end and a proximate end; and gear head coupled to the proximate end of the body, the gear head operable to rotate, thereby clamping the paddle fitting tool to the paddle fitting
7. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 6, wherein the saddle couples the nut runner to the drill such that the nose aligns vertically with the locator p along a side centerlme and along a front centerlme. 

8. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 6, wherein the bottom fork hole is threaded and the locator pm is threaded, and wherein the threaded locator pin is appropriately sized to securably screw into the threaded bottom fork hole of the paddle fitting.
9. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 1, further comprising a handle clamp coupling the body of the nut runner to the handle of the drill to add stability to the paddle fitting tool during operation.
10. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 6, wherein the saddle comprises: a lead screw operable to engage the gear head; an upper clamp operable to couple the drill to the saddle; a clamp plate having a threaded cavity in which lead screw travels during rotation of the nut runner gear head; an alignment clamp couples to the clamp plate; and a locator p coupled to the alignment clamp, the locator pin operable to engage the bottom fork hole to position the paddle fitting tool prior to clamping the paddle fitting tool to the paddle fitting. 

11. A method for drilling a hole through a wing spar inserted m a paddle fitting, the paddle fitting comprising a top fork having a top fork hole formed within the top fork and a bottom fork having a bottom fork hole formed within the bottom fork, the method comprising: coupling a nut runner to a drill using a saddle to form a paddle fitting tool, the coupling performed so as to properly align the drill and the wing spar; inserting the wmg spar into the paddle fitting between the top fork and the bottom fork; engaging a pm locator of the nut runner with the bottom fork hole of the paddle fitting; operating the nut runner to rotate a gear head on the nut runner to clamp the paddle fitting tool to the paddle fitting; coupling a drill bit to the drill; operating the drill to rotate the drill bit of the drill at a speed sufficient to drill a hole in the wing spar; drilling a hole in the wmg spar that is concentric with the top fork hole and the bottom fork hole; passing a bolt through the top fork hole, the hole in the wmg spar, and the bottom fork hole; engaging a nut on a threaded end of the bolt; and tightening the nut to a predetermined torque against the paddle fitting. 


12. The method of Claim 11, wherein coupling the nut runner to the drill further comprises aligning a drill bit coupled to the drill vertically with a side centerlme running through the top fork hole and the bottom fork hole and aligning the drill bit vertically with a front centerlme running through the top fork hole and the bottom fork hole.
13. The method of Claim 11, wherein drilling a hole in the wmg spar further comprises drilling the wmg spar hole using a drill bit having a diameter approximately equal to the diameter of the top fork hole and further having a diameter such that a bolt passed through the wmg spar hole has an interference fit with the wmg spar.
14. The method of Claim 11, wherein coupling the nut runner to the drill with a saddle further comprises coupling the nut runner to the drill such that a nose of the drill aligns vertically with a locator pm of the saddle along a side centerlme and a front centerlme.
15. The method of Claim 11, wherein clamping the paddle fitting tool to the paddle fitting further comprises rotating a lead screw coupled to the gear head to bring a nose of the drill and an alignment clamp of the saddle in contact with the paddle fitting on opposing sides of the paddle fitting to provide a clamping fork on the paddle fitting for holding the paddle fitting stationary during drilling. 

16. A paddle fitting tool for drilling a hole through a wmg spar inserted into a paddle fitting, the paddle fitting further comprising a top fork having a top fork hole formed with the top fork and a bottom fork having a bottom fork hole formed withm the bottom fork, the paddle fitting tool comprising: a drill operable to receive a drill bit for drilling a hole the w g spar, the drill comprising: a handle having a distal end and a proximate end; a nose coupled to the proximate end of the handle, the nose having a through passage; a sp dle coupled to the handle at the proximate end, the spindle operable to rotate and to feed through the nose through passage toward the wmg spar, the spmdle vertically aligned with the nose at approximately a right angle to the latitudinal axis of the handle; a nut runner, comprising: a body having a distal end and a proximate end; gear head coupled to the proximate end of the body, the gear head operable to rotate, thereby clamping the paddle fitting tool to the paddle fitting; and a saddle operable to couple the drill to the nut runner such that the drill is operable to drill a hole through the wmg spar that is approximately concentric with the bottom fork hole and is approximately concentric the top fork hole, the saddle comprising: a lead screw operable to engage the gear head; an upper plate operable to couple the drill to the saddle; a clamp plate coupled to the top clamp, the clamp plate having a threaded cavity m which the lead screw travels during rotation of the gear head; 


 an alignment clamp coupled to the clamp plate; and a locator pm coupled to the alignment clamp, the locator pm operable to engage the bottom fork hole to position the paddle fitting tool prior to clamping the paddle fitting tool to the paddle fitting, the nut runner operable to rotate the gear head, thereby rotating the lead screw such that the alignment clamp contacts the bottom fork of the paddle fitting tool and the nose contacts the top fork to provide a clamping force on the paddle fitting, said rotation of the gear head continuing until the nut runner reaches a predetermined torque setting to bring the clamping force on the paddle fitting to a predetermined level.
17. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 16, wherein the saddle further couples the nut runner to the drill such that the drill bit aligns vertically with a side centerlme running vertically through both the top fork hole and the bottom fork hole and with a front centerlme running vertically through both the top fork hole and the bottom fork hole.
18. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 16, wherein the saddle couples the nut runner to the drill such that the nose aligns vertically with the locator p along a side centerlme and along a front centerlme.
19. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 16, further comprising, a drill bit coupled to the spmdle and operable to form a hole m the wing spar, the drill bit having a diameter approximately equal to a diameter of the top fork hole. 

20. The paddle fitting tool of Claim 16, further comprising a drill bit coupled to the spmdle and operable to form a hole in the wmg spar, the drill bit having a diameter such that a bolt passed through the wmg spar hole to fasten the wmg spar to the paddle fitting has an interference fit with the wmg spar. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
