<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626257</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vinyldoor panel section.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B2730	B32B2730	E06B332	E06B348	E06B370	E06B370	E06B372	E06B378	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	B32B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B27	B32B27	E06B3	E06B3	E06B3	E06B3	E06B3	E06B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A door panel section and a method of making a door panel section having 
a polyvinylchloride front skin, a non-metallic rear skin and a polyurethane rigid 

core. The polyurethane rigid core unitizes the two skins to make the panel section 
with a rigid lightweight structure. The polyurethane mechanically and chemically 

bonds to the skins made of polyvinylchloride to create a strong connection thereto. 
Hardware mounting members are attached to the rear skin permitting adjacent 

panel sections to be pivotally connected to each other. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASS MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASSOCIATED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVANS DANIEL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHANER JOHN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVANS DANIEL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHANER JOHN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to vinyl sectional doors. Particularly, this 
invention relates to sectional doors in which vertically adjacent panel sections are 
hinged together to form a sectional door, such as a garage door. Each panel 
section includes a polyvinylchloride front skin, a non-metallic rear skin and a rigid 
polyurethane foam center which bonds to the front and rear skins providing 
structural unity to the panel section. Historically, garage doors evolved from barn doors. Thus, garage doors 
originally had either two door members which were hinged at the sides of the 
garage entry opening, or a single door member which could be spring or 
counterbalance lifted into the ceiling of the garage. As these designs were 
impractical for many applications, a sectional garage door was the next major 
innovation in the development of the garage doors. A sectional door generally consists of a plurality of vertically superimposed 
panel sections, face hardware, rollers and two parallel tracks. The panel sections  
 
extend the width of the garage entry opening and are typically between 12 to 24 
inches in height. Vertically adjacent panel sections are united and controlled by 
the face hardware which consists primarily of hinges. Each of the two parallel 
tracks is positioned at a side of the garage entry opening. Rollers are attached to 
the sides of the panel sections which slide through the track permitting the 
sectional door to be moved between raised and lowered positions. The original panel sections for sectional doors were manufactured of wood. 
From 1940 through 1965 wood sectional doors dominated the marketplace. There 
are two types of wood panel sections, those of a raised or recessed design and 
those of a flush design. A panel section of a raised or recessed design wood door consists of top 
and bottom rails which are united by vertical members called styles to form a 
unitized frame. Shaped wood pieces fill the areas inside of the rails and styles to 
complete the panel section. A panel section of a flush design wood door consists of a unitized frame 
made of rails and styles similar to the panel design. A flush sheet of wood or 
wood composite material is bonded to the front, or to both the front and back of 
the unitized frame. If wood sheets are mounted to both the front and back of the 
unitized frame, the center or core of the panel sections defined by the space 
therebetween, may optionally be filled for additional strength and/or insulation. 
If filled, either a corrugated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rectangular door panel section having a front skin, a rear skin, opposing 
top and bottom portions, and first and second sides, said door panel section 

comprising: 
   a polyvinylchloride first sheet member having an outer surface, an inner 

surface, a top section and a bottom section, wherein said front skin of said door 
panel section being comprised essentially of said first sheet member; 

   a non-metallic second sheet member having an outer surface, an inner 
surface, a top section and a bottom section, wherein said rear skin of said door 

panel section being comprised essentially of said second sheet member, and 
wherein said inner surface of said first sheet member faces said inner surface of 

said second sheet member; and 
   a rigid foamed core enclosed between said front and rear skins for unitizing 

the panel section, said foamed core extending continuously from the top portion 
of the panel section to the bottom portion of the panel section, said foamed core 

being bonded to the inner surface of said first sheet member and to the inner 
surface of said second sheet member. 
The door panel section of claim 1, further comprising at least one hardware 
mounting member attached to the inner surface of said second sheet member for 

mounting hardware thereto for pivotally connecting the door panel section to an 
adjacent door panel section. 
The door panel section of claim 2, wherein each hardware mounting 
member is affixed only to the inner surface of said second sheet member. 
The door panel section of claim 1, wherein said rigid foamed core is a 
foamed-in-place polyurethane and is chemically bonded to the inner surface of the 

first sheet member. 
The door panel section of claim 4, wherein said rigid foamed core is also 
chemically bonded to the inner surface of the second sheet member. 
The door panel section of claim 4, wherein the thickness of the first sheet 
member is at least .070 inches. 
The door panel section of claim 1, wherein said second sheet member is 
comprised of fiberglass. 
The door panel section of claim 1, wherein said second sheet member is 
comprised of polyvinylchloride. 
The door panel section of claim 1, wherein the polyvinylchloride first sheet 
is comprised of material substantially at the following ratio: 

   polyvinylchloride at 100 parts; 
   processing aids at 0.3 to 1.2 parts; 

   impact modifier at 4.0 to 6 parts;
 

   an organotin stabilizer at 0.8 to 1.5 parts; 
   calcium stearate at 0.9 to 2.0 parts; 

   lubricants in a quantity sufficient to reduce friction during the processing 
of the polyvinylchloride; 

   chalk resistant titanium dioxide 10 to 15 parts; and 
   ultrafine grade calcium carbonate 0.5 to 3 parts. 
The door panel section of claim 9, wherein the lubricants comprise a 
paraffin wax at 0.9 to 1.3 parts per 100 parts of polyvinylchloride. 
The door panel section of claim 1, wherein the right side of the panel 
section includes a right side edge and the left side of the panel section includes a 

left side edge, and wherein the panel section further comprises an adhesive layer 
applied to the right and left side edges of the door panel section to seal the rigid 

foamed core from the environment. 
The door panel section of claim 1, wherein the front skin of the door panel 
section includes a substantially planar recessed portion. 
The door panel section of claim 1, wherein said door panel section includes 
top and bottom walls, said door panel section further comprising upper and lower 

horizontally extending rails adjacent the top and bottom walls of the door panel 
section, respectively. 
The door panel section of claim 13, wherein the upper horizontally 
extending rail and the lower horizontally extending rail are attached to the second 

sheet member, and the top section of the first sheet member extends around the 
upper horizontally extending rail and overlaps the top section of the second sheet 

to form a top wall of the door panel section, and the bottom section of the first 
sheet member extends around the lower horizontally extending rail and overlaps 

the bottom section of the second sheet to form a bottom wall of the door panel 
section. 
The door panel section of claim 1, wherein the top section of the first sheet 
member and the top section of the second sheet member interlock to form a top 

wall of the door panel section and the bottom section of the first sheet member and 
the bottom section of the second sheet member interlock to form a bottom wall of 

the door panel section. 
The door panel section of claim 15, wherein the top section of one of the 
first and second sheet members overlaps the top section of the other one of the 

first and second sheet member to form a double-layered top wall for the door panel 
section over entire length and width of the top wall, and the bottom section of one 

of the first and second sheet members overlaps the bottom section of the other one 
of the first and second sheet member to form a double-layered bottom wall for the 

door panel section over the entire length and width of the bottom wall. 
The door panel section of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of vertical 
members attached to the outer surface of the first sheet member. 
A sectional garage door comprising a plurality of pivotally connected 
rectangular door panel sections; 

   wherein each rectangular door panel section has a front skin, a rear skin, 
opposing top and bottom portions, and first and second sides, and wherein each 

door panel section comprising: 
      a polyvinylchloride first sheet member having an outer surface, an 

inner surface, a top action and a bottom section, wherein said front skin of said 
door panel section being comprised essentially of said first sheet member; 

      a non-metallic second sheet member having an outer surface, an 
inner surface, a top section and a bottom section, wherein said rear skin of said 

door panel section being comprised essentially of said second sheet member, and 
wherein said inner surface of said first sheet member faces said inner surface of 

said second sheet member; and 
      a rigid foamed core enclosed between said front and rear skins for 

unitizing the panel section, said foamed core extending continuously from the top 
portion of the panel section to the bottom portion of the panel section, said foamed 

core being bonded to the inner surface of said first sheet member and to the inner 
surface of said second sheet member. 
A method of forming a door panel section comprising: 
   extruding a first sheet member in sheet form from a vinyl material; 

   shaping the first sheet member to achieve a desired shape; 
   forming a second sheet member having an inner surface from a non-metallic 

material; 
   providing an upper horizontal rail and a lower horizontal rail; 

   providing a plurality of hardware mounting members; 
   attaching each of the plurality of hardware mounting members to both the 

upper and lower horizontal rails so as to form a joined framework; 
   affixing the joined framework t
o the inner surface of the second sheet 
member; 

   placing one of the first and second sheet members around the other one of 
the first and second sheet members to form a cavity between the first and second 

sheet members which is vertically continuous between the upper and lower 
horizontal rails; 

   injecting a filler material into the cavity; 
   permitting the filler material to expand to completely fill the cavity; and 

   permitting the filler material to cure to form a rigid foam core. 
The method of claim 19, further comprising: 
   applying a hot melt adhesive to the sides of the door panel section to seal 

the expanded filler material. 
The method of claim 19, further comprising: 
   forming a plurality of vinyl hollow quadrilaterally shaped members; and 

   attaching the hollow quadrilaterally shaped members to the first sheet 
member. 
A method of forming a door panel section comprising: 
   extruding a first sheet member in sheet form from a vinyl material; 

   shaping the first sheet member to achieve a desired shape which includes 
an inner surface; 

   extruding a second sheet member in sheet form from a vinyl material; 
   shaping the second sheet member to achieve a desired shape which includes 

an inner surface; 
   providing a plurality of hardware mounting members; 

   affixing the hardware mounting members to the inner surface of the second 
sheet member; 

   placing one of the first and second sheet members around the other one of 
the first and second sheet members to form a top wall, a bottom wall, and a cavity 

between the first and second sheet members which is vertically continuous from 
the top wall to the bottom wall; 

   injecting a filler material into the cavity; 
   permitting the filler material to expand to completely fill the cavity; and 

   permitting the filler material to cure to form a rigid foam core. 
The method of claim 22, further comprising: 
   applying a hot melt adhesive to the sides of the door panel section to seal 

the expanded filler material. 
The method of claim 22, wherein said placing step includes overlapping 
segments of the first and second sheet members to form a double layered top wall 

and a double layered bottom wall. 
The method of claim 22, further comprising: 
   forming a plurality of vinyl hollow quadrilaterally shaped members; and 

   attaching the hollow quadrilaterally shaped members to the first sheet 
member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
