<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624966</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Telephone apparatus providing calling party identification
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M157	H04M157	H04M12745	H04M1274	H04W6800	H04W6800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04W68	H04W68	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A telephone apparatus includes a decoder, a 
memory, a comparison circuit and an output device. The 

decoder serves to detect telephone number information of a 
calling side which is transmitted together with bell signals 

through a telephone line to decode the telephone number 
information. The memory is stored with telephone number 

data of call sides in correspondence with plural operation 
keys, respectively. The comparison circuit serves to 

compare the output data of the decoder with the telephone 
number data stored in the memory when a call is received. 

When any coincidence is detected between the output data of 
the decoder and the telephone number data of the memory on 

the basis of the comparison result of the comparison 
circuit, the output device notifies an user that the call 

corresponds to one of the telephone number data stored in 
the memory. The output device includes plural display 

(indication) units which are respectively provided in 
correspondence with the plural operation keys, and a driving 

control circuit for selectively driving the display unit of 
the operation key corresponding to the coincident telephone 

number data on the basis of the comparison result. 
Alternately, the output device may include audio data memory 

in which names of call sides corresponding to the telephone 
number data stored in the m
emory are stored as audio data in 
correspondence with the operation keys, an electro-acoustic 

transducer to which the audio data read out from the audio 
data memory are supplied, and a controller for reading out 

the audio data corresponding to the coincident telephone 
number data from the audio data memory and outputting 

(reproducing) the audio data from the electro-acoustic 
transducer on the basis of the comparison result. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAMOTO HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAMOTO, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a telephone
apparatus. More particularly the present invention relates
to a telephone apparatus having the capability of supplying
a reception (called) side with information regarding a
calling (transmitting) side such as telephone number
information.A telephone service which is called as "Call
Display" inserts the telephone number of a calling
(transmitting) side between bell signals for reception of a
call and transmits the data to a reception (called) side has
widely propagated in the USA and Canada. FIGS. 1A and 1B of
the accompanying drawings are diagrams showing a time chart
and the format of the reception bell signals transmitted to
the reception side.In this Call Display telephone service, modem data
containing information regarding the telephone number of a
calling side is inserted between first and second bell
signals as shown in FIG. 1A. A bell signal is used to ring
the bell of a telephone at the reception side, and it
includes, for example, a 20 Hz signal which is continuous
for two seconds (corresponding to one bell sound). The
modem data having data length corresponding to four seconds
is inserted after 0.5 second elapses subsequent to the first
bell signal. Further, a second bell signal is continuously
generated for two seconds after 0.5 second elapses
subsequent to the modem data. Subsequently, the similar bell
signals, each continuous for two seconds, are transmitted at
intervals of 5 seconds until an user at the reception side
answers the call. The modem data is inserted only between
the first and second bell signals.In this case, as shown in FIG. 1B, the modem data
includes a synchronizing signal composing of a repetition of
"1", "0" which are alternately repeated over 240 bits at the 
head of the modem data, and subsequently a signal having a
train of "1" (mark) each continuing for 25 msec over 150
msec. This signal is used to identify the head of the data.
The modem data finally includes information on month, date,
hour, minute and telephone number. These information on
month, date, hour, minute and telephone number are
respectively set with 144 bits in U. S. A., and with about
250 bits in Canada. For these modem data, biphase marks
codes (mark = "1" = 2200 Hz, space = "0" = 1200 Hz" are
transmitted at 1200 baud. These are defined as a Bell 202
standard.According to this telephone service, by decoding
the modem data located between the first and second bell
signals, the telephone number of a calling side can be
detected before a reception side
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A telephone apparatus comprising:

decode means (160) for detecting information on
the telephone number of a calling side transmitted

through a telephone line and decoding the telephone
number information;
memory means (105) in which telephone number
data of calling sides are stored in correspondence with

plural respective operation keys (5);
electro-acoustic transducing means (32); and
comparison means (103) for reading out the
telephone number data from said memory means (105) and

comparing the read-out telephone number data with the
telephone number data decoded by said decode means (160)

when a call is received through the telephone line and
the telephone number information of the calling side is

detected;

   
characterized by
 further comprising:

recording and reproducing means (30, 31, 32,
33, 34) for recording and reproducing as audio data names

of call sides corresponding to the telephone number data
stored in said memory means (105) in correspondence with

each of said plural operation keys (5); and
control means (110) for controlling said
recording and reproducing means (30, 31, 32, 33, 34) so

that when said comparison means (103) detects any
coincidence between the telephone number data stored in

said memory means (105) and the telephone number data
decoded by said decode means (160), the audio data for

the name of the calling side corresponding to the
coincidence-detected telephone number data is reproduced

and output to said electro-acoustic transducing means
(32).
A telephone apparatus according to claim 1,
said apparatus further comprises a name-writing area (6)

in which names of call sides corresponding to the
telephone number data stored in said memory means (105)

can be written in correspondence with said operation keys
(5), indicating means (7, 22) for indicating each of

name-written portions of the call sides which are written
in said name-writing area (6), and driving means (106)

for driving said indicating means (7, 22) so that when
said comparison means (103) detects any coincidence

between the telephone number data stored in said memory
means (105) and the telephone number data decoded by said

decode means (160), the name of the calling side
corresponding to the coincidence-detected telephone

number data is indicated.
A telephone apparatus according to claim 2,
wherein said indication means (7, 22) is designed to

indicate each of the operation portions of said plural
operation keys (5) so that when said comparison means

(103) detects the same telephone number data, the
operation portion of the operation key (5) corresponding

to the detected telephone number data is indicated.
A telephone apparatus according to claim 2,
wherein said indication means (7, 22) comprises

illumination means (7, 22) for individually illuminating
each of the name-written portions written in said

name-writing area (6) in correspondence with said
respective operation keys (5) from a back side thereof,

and when said comparison means (103) detects the same
telephone number data, the name-written portion

corresponding to the detected telephone number data is
illuminated by said illumination means (7, 22). 
A telephone apparatus according to any one of
claims 1 to 4, said apparatus further comprises bell stop

means ( 35) for stopping bell sound on the basis of the
comparison result.
A telephone apparatus according to any one of
the preceding claims, wherein


said memory means (105) in which telephone
number data of call sides are respectively stored in

correspondence with plural operation keys comprises a
first memory (105); and
said recording and reproducing means (30, 31,
32, 33, 34) comprises a second memory (30) in which audio

data of names of the call sides are respectively stored
in correspondence with said plural operation keys (5).
A telephone apparatus according to any one of
the preceding claims, further comprising:


a further memory (101) for storing the
telephone number data decoded by said decode means (160),
and wherein said comparison means (103)
comprises comparison and coincidence circuit (103) for

reading out the telephone number data from said further
memory (101) and the telephone number data from said

memory means (105) and comparing these data to detect
whether any coincident telephone number data exists

between these data when receiving a search instruction.
A telephone apparatus according to claim 7,
wherein

   said further memory (101) is for successively
storing telephone number data decoded by said decode

means (160) and corresponding time data of a plurality of
received calls,
 
   said apparatus further comprising:

   a reception review circuit (108), for searching
said plurality of received calls, actuated by pushing a

key switch for driving a read-out/write-in control
circuit (102) to successively read out the stored

telephone number data of calling sides, said telephone
number data thus read out being successively transmitted

to an LCD display circuit (21) to display the telephone
number on a display unit (4).
A telephone apparatus according to any one of
the preceding claims, wherein said electro-acoustic

transducing means is a speaker unit (32).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
