<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626876</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS, APPARATUS AND COMPOSITION FOR RECYCLING ENGINE COOLANT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D	B01D1700	B01D1700	B01D1712	B01D2100	B01D2100	C09K	C09K500	C09K500	C09K520	F01P1100	F01P1106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C09K	C09K	C09K	C09K	F01P	F01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D	B01D17	B01D17	B01D17	B01D21	B01D21	C09K	C09K5	C09K5	C09K5	F01P11	F01P11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for physically and chemically treating a used engine coolant from a Domestic, European or Japanese/Asian vehicle containing one or more glycol and/or an alcohol-based antifreeze components. The process includes the steps of oxidation with one or more known oxidizing agents, precipitation with one or more known salt forming agents and filtration through any suitable filtration membrane or other separation means. A chemical additive has been developed for use in carrying out the process of the present invention which initiates and maximizes the amount of oxidation and precipitation occurring within the coolant composition, adds one or more suitable corrosion inhibitors and one or more known buffering agents in a sufficient amount to adjust the pH of the final solution. An apparatus (10) for use in carrying out the process of the present invention is also described herein. This apparatus includes container means (12) to receive used coolant, circulating conduit (15) and filtration means (32) to recycle the coolant.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FPPF CHEMICAL CO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FPPF CHEMICAL CO. INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, ROBERT, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Process, Apparatus and Composition for RecyclingEngine CoolantThis application is a continuation-in-part • of U.S. Serial No. 07/788,863, filed November 7,1991, and U.S. Serial No. 07/484,114, filed February 23, 1990, now abandoned.Field of the InventionThis invention relates to internal combustion engine coolants comprising mixtures of glycols and/or alcohols, commonly known as antifreeze, and more particularly, to a process, apparatus and composition for recycling used engine coolant.Background of the InventionAntifreeze compositions are additives commonly used to lower the freezing point or increase the boiling point of water. Such additives primarily consist of one or more alcohol and/or glycol-based components. The most commonly used antifreeze component consists of ethylene glycol. When added to an internal combustion engine cooling system at 50% volume concentration, ethylene glycol affords the engine coolant freeze protection down to about -34°F and antiboil protection up to about 235°F, depending on the pressure.When antifreeze is added to an aqueous-based engine cooling system the glycol and/or alcohol-based components of the antifreeze after time start to break down chemically into various organic acids. The organic acids produced are usually glycolic, formic and to a lesser extent oxalic and glyoxalic 

acids. The break down is confirmed by the pH of the engine coolant composition decreasing from a pH of around 10.0 downward toward a pH of about 7.0.Coolants circulating through an engine cooling system at a pH below about 8.3 show a very corrosive effect on the metals comprising or located within the system. It is believed that at a pH of about 9 the corrosion effect starts and proceeds at a relatively slow rate until a pH of about 8.7 is reached. When the pH of the coolant is below about 8.3 the corrosion proceeds at a very rapid rate. The less noble metals such as steel, iron and cast iron in a coolant system are the first to go into solution as a result of the corrosion process. Furthermore, low pH causes aluminum pitting which readily weakens the wall thickness of its respective components. Also lead from solder goes into solution. Copper likewise corrodes and goes into solution and zinc, which is used to strenghthen various mixed solders in radiators, leaches out and weakens the solder so that leaks develop. The remaining impurities commonly found in coolants are suspended particulate matter, primarly corrosion products (metal oxides), dirt, silt and hard water salt
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Wha is claimed is:
1. A process for recycling a used engine coolant directly from a Domestic, European or Japanese/Asian vehicle engine cooling system, said process being carried out by an apparatus comprising a container for holding a quantity of said used coolant which is being recycled, said container having an inlet and outlet, means for introducing said coolant from the vehicle into said container, filtering means for removing unwanted impurities and degradation by-products in said coolant, said filtering means having an inlet and outlet, means for introducing a chemical additive for chemically treating said coolant, said treatment including neutralizing or forming salt precipitates with any unwanted organic acids present in said coolant, increasing the pH of said coolant and restoring the corrosion inhibition capabilities of said coolant, means for removing dissolved metals present in said coolant, means for circulating said coolant from the outlet of said container through the filtering means, past the additive introducing means, and back to said container inlet, and means for returning the recycled coolant solution from said container back into the vehicle, said process comprising: connecting said apparatus directly to the vehicle engine cooling system; continually circulating said coolant from the engine cooling system into said apparatus, through said filtering means and back into the engine, thereby flushing the engine cooling system; and 


 introducing a chemical additive into said coolant for chemically treating said coolant, said treatment including neutralizing or forming salt precipitates with any unwanted organic acids present in said coolant, increasing the pH of said coolant, restoring the corrosion inhibition capabilities of said coolant and removing dissolved metals present in said coolant, thereby providing a recycled engine coolant composition having corrosion capabilities equal or superior to that of the original coolant composition.
2. A process for recycling a used engine coolant from a Domestic, European or Japanese/Asian vehicle engine cooling system, after removal from said system, said process being carried out by an apparatus comprising a container for holding a quantity of said used coolant which is being recycled, said container having an inlet and outlet, means for introducing said coolant into said container, filtering means for removing unwanted impurities and degradation by-products in said coolant, said filtering means having an inlet and outlet, means for introducing a chemical additive for chemically treating said coolant, said treatment including neutralizing or forming salt precipitates with any unwanted organic acids present in said coolant, increasing the pH of said coolant and restoring the corrosion inhibition capabilities of said coolant, means for removing dissolved metals present in said coolant, means for circulating said coolant from the outlet of said container through the filtering means, past the additive introducing means, and back to said container inlet, and means for removing the recycled coolant solution from said container, said process comprising: 


 filling said container with said used coolant; continually circulating said coolant from the outlet of said container through the filtering means, past the additive introducing means, and back to said container inlet; introducing a chemical additive into said coolant for chemically treating said coolant, said tr atment including neutralizing or forming salt precipitates with any unwanted organic acids present in said coolant, increasing the pH of said coolant, restoring the corrosion inhibition capabilities of said coolant and removing dissolved metals present in said coolant, thereby providing a recycled engine coolant composition having corrosion capabilities equal or superior to that of the original coolant composition; and removing the recycled coolant from said container.
3. A process for treating a used coolant composition of the type used within an internal combustion engine cooling system to remove unwanted impurities and degradation by-products, said coolant composition containing one or more glycol and/or alcohol-based antifreeze components, said process comprising: filtering said coolant composition through any suitable filtration membrane or other separation means capable of removing any particular precipitates; adding to said coolant composition the chemical additive according to claims 21, 23, 24, 25, 26 or 27; thereby providing a recycled engine coolant composition having corrosion capabilities equal or superior to that of the original coolant composition. 


4. The process of claim 3, wherein said process further comprises the step of: mixing one or more additional antifreeze components selected from the group consisting of glycols and alcohols with said coolant in an amount sufficient to provide freeze protection for said recycled engine coolant composition down to the range of about -10°F to about -34°F.
5. The process of claim 4, wherein said glycol is ethylene glycol.
6. The process of claim 3, wherein said separation means includes at least two chemical inert filters.
7. The process of claim 6, wherein said filters are arranged in series.
8. The process of claim 7, wherein said filters are capable of removing particulate matter of a size greater than one micron.
9. Apparatus for recycling used coolant solution by physically and chemically treating the used coolant solution to remove unwanted impurities and degradation by-products contained therein, said apparatus comprising: main container for holding a quantity of used coolant solution which is being recycled, said main container having an inlet and outlet; filtering means for removing the unwanted impurities and degradation by-products in said used coolant solution, said filtering means having an inlet and outlet; 


 injector means for introducing agents for chemically treating said used coolant solution, said agents being capable of neutralizing or forming salt precipitates with any unwanted organic acids present in the coolant solution, increasing the pH of the coolant solution and restoring the corrosion inhibition capabilities of the coolant solution; aerating means for aerating said coolant solution, said aeration being capable of oxidizing the dissolved metals present in said coolant solution to form metal oxides thereform; circulating means for circulating the coolant solution from the outlet of the main container through the filtering and aerating means, past the injector means, and back to the main container inlet, the circulating means including a pump and conduit means, said conduit means facilitating the mixing of said coolant solution and said chemical additive, said filtering means being capable of filtering out the unwanted impurities and degradation by-products; and means for removing the recycled coolant solution from said main container means.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said injector means is a shot feeder container.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said aerating means is a pump driven aspirator.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said circulating means is a self priming pump.
13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said conduit means is a hollow tubing hose or pipe. 


14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said means for removing the recycled coolant is a suction hose.
15. Apparatus for recycling used coolant solution by physically and chemically treating the used coolant solution to remove unwanted impurities and degradation by-products contained therein, said apparatus comprising: a container for holding a quantity of used coolant solution which is being recycled, said container having an inlet and outlet; means for introducing the recycled coolant solution into said container; filtering means for removing unwanted impurities and degradation by-products in said used coolant solution, said filtering means having an inlet and outlet; means for introducing a chemical additive for chemically treating the used coolant solution, said treatment including neutralizing or forming salt precipitates with any unwanted organic acids present in the coolant solution, increasing the pH of the coolant solution and restoring the corrosion inhibition capabilities of the coolant solution; means for removing dissolved metals present in said coolant solution; means for circulating the coolant solution from the outlet of said container through the filtering means, past the additive introducing means, and back to said container inlet; and means for removing the recycled coolant solution from said main container means. 


16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said means for introducing said additive is a second container connected to said apparatus.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said means for removing dissolved metals is a pump driven aspirator.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said circulating means includes a self priming pump and conduit means, said conduit means facilitating the mixing of said coolant solution and said chemical additive.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said conduit means is tubing hose or pipe.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said means for introducing and removing the recycled coolant is a hose.
21. A chemical additive composition for use in a process for recycling a used coolant solution of the type used within a Domestic vehicle internal combustion engine cooling system, said additive comprising by weight:
(a) from about 0.1 to about 5.0 percent sodium tolytriazole;
(b) from about 0.1 to about 12.0 percent acrylate copolymer;
(c) from about 0.1 to about 3.0 percent polyalkylene glycol;
(d) from about 0.25 to about 15 percent sodium molybdate; 


 (e) from about 0.25 to about 15 percent sodium nitrite;
(f) from about 0.5 to about 5.0 percent sodium tetraborate;
(g) from about 0.5 to about 15 percent potassium hydroxide;
(h) from about 0.1 percent sodium diethyldithio-carbamate;
(i) from about 0.5 to about 15 percent sodium hydroxide; and
(j) balance aqueous solvent.
22. The chemical additive of claim 21, wherein said additive further includes common ions of acid degradation by-products of said coolant in an amount sufficient to suppress the degradation thereof.
23. A chemical additive composition for use in a process for recycling a used coolant solution of the type used within an Asian vehicle internal combustion engine cooling system, said additive comprising by weight:
(a) about 1.0 percent sodium tolytriazole;
(b) about 2.0 percent acrylate copolymer;
(c) about 0.5 percent polyalklyene glycol;
(d) about 1.0 percent sodium molybdate;
(e) about 0.75 percent sodium nitrite;
(f) about 1.0 percent sodium nitrate;
(g) about 0.5 percent sodium diethyldithio- carbamate;
(h) about 1.0 percent sodium hydroxide;
(i) from about 0.1 to about 10 percent anions selected from the group consisting of glycolate, oxylate and formate salts; and
(j) balance solvent; preferably zeolite softened on demineralized water. 


24. A chemical additive composition for use in a process for recycling a used coolant solution of the type used within a Domestic vehicle combustion engine cooling system, said additive comprising by weight:
(a) about 2.5 percent sodium hydroxide;
(b) about 1.0 percent sodium nitrate;
(c) about 5.0 percent sodium diethyldithio- carbamate;
(d) about 0.75 percent sodium nitrite;
(e) about 2.0 percent sodium molybdate;
(f) about 1.5 percent BELCLENE 201;
(g) about 0.5 percent polyalklyene glycol; (h) about 1.5 percent cobratec TT-50-S; and (i) about 89.75 percent soft water.
25. A chemical additive composition for use in a process for recycling a used coolant solution of the type used within a European vehicle engine cooling system, said additive comprising by weight:
(a) about 1.5 percent sodium hydroxide;
(b) about 1.5 percent sodium tetraborate;
(c) about 5.0 percent sodium diethyldithio- carbamate;
(d) about 2.0 percent sodium molybdate;
(e) about 1.0 percent BELCLENE 201;
(f) about 2.0 percent acrylate copolymer;
(g) about 1.5 percent CORBATEC TT-50-S; (h) about 88.0 percent zeolite softened water, (i) about 0.5 percent sodium nitrate (j) about 1.0 percent sodium salt of tricarboxylic acid; and (k) about 0.5 percent polyalkylene glycol. 



26. A chemical additive composition for use in a process for recycling a used coolant solution of the type used within a Japanese and/or Asian vehicle engine cooling system, said additive comprising by weight:
(a) about 1.0 percent sodium hydroxide;
(b) about 1.5 percent sodium tetraborate;
(c) about 2.5 percent sodium nitrite;
(d) about 3.0 percent sodium molybdate;
(e) about 1.5 percent BELCLENE 201;
(f) about 2.0 percent acrylate copolymer;
(g) about 1.5 percent CORBATEC TT-50-S; and (h) about 88.0 percent zeolite softened water.
27. A chemical additive composition for use in a process for recycling a used coolant solution of the type used within a Domestic vehicle combustion engine cooling system, said additive comprising by weight:
(a) About 2.0 percent sodium nitrate;
(b) About 1.5 percent ACCUMER 3000;
(c) About 1.5 percent BELCLENE 201;
(d) About 1.5 percent sodium molybdate decahydrate;
(e) About 0.75 percent sodium nitrite;
(f) About 2.0 percent sodium tolytriazole 50% solution;
(g) About 0.5 percent dimethyl or diethyl dithiocarbamate;
(h) About 1.5 percent sodium hydroxide;
(i) About 0.1 percent dimethyl silicone;
(j) About 0.5 percent polyalkylene glycol;
(k) About 1.0 percent Philadelphia Quartz N solution;
(1) About 0.5 percent Dow Corning Ql-6083; and
(m) About 85.15 percent softened water. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
