<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0258626</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HOLE PUNCHER AND REINFORCER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D734	B26F100	B26D700	B26F100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26F	B26D	B26F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D7	B26F1	B26D7	B26F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hole puncher and reinforcer for locating a 
length of adhesive tape in overlying relation to a 

sheet of paper, for punching a hole in the tape and 
paper, and for shearing and pressing the tape in posi­

tion as a reinforcement for the punched holes. The 
device includes a plurality of spaced apart first disks 

operative to engage the adhesive side of the tape and 
pull it off a supply roll. A similar set of disks ro­

tatable at a peripheral speed faster than that of the 
first disks engages the tape and directs it through a 

tape feed passage defined in part by thin fingers. The 
placement and rotation of the two sets of disks, and 

the presence of the fingers, enables advancement of the 
tape to the punch, shear and pressure mechanism without 

sticking or gumming. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE REINFORCER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARROLL, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a hole puncher and 
reinforcer for positioning adhesive tape over a sheet of 
material to be reinforced, punching a hole in both the tape 
and the sheet, and shearing off the punched tape section. Various machines have been advanced in the prior art 
for punching holes in looseleaf sheets of paper and 
contemporaneously applying reinforcing material around the 
punched holes. In the apparatus of US-A-3898919, annular 
discs are punched out of pressure sensitive  
 
adhesive tape and pressed around looseleaf sheet holes 
which are to be reinforced. The web of punched or 
waste tape passes over a take-up roll which is driven 
to pull fresh tape through the punch mechanism. Tape 
wastage is unavoidable because the waste tape web is an 
integral part of the feed means. In US-A-2,353,232 the puncher and 
reinforcer require use of dry adhesive tape. Disks 
punched from the tape have to be moistened before being 
pressed onto the looseleaf sheet. The inability of the 
machine to handle pressure sensitive tape is a serious 
shortcoming. US-A-2,441,821 teaches an apparatus 
having an apertured spring plate over which a paper 
sheet is positioned. Pressure sensitive tape is fed 
beneath the spring plate, with its adhesive or sticky 
side up. The tape feed mechanism is designed to avoid 
contact with the sticky side of the tape, the tape 
being fed by a pinwheel whose pins pierce through the 
nonadhesive side of the tape to advance it as the pinwheel 
rotates. The paper sheet is pressed downwardly 
by a die plate which adheres the paper sheet to the 
tape, and then shears off the adhered tape section. A 
punch next passes through the aperture in the spring to 
punch holes in both the sheet and the tape. A special 
idler roll is used to orient the sticky side of the 
tape away from the various feed surfaces for attachment 
to the underside of the paper sheet. This idler roll, 
the spring plate, and the pinwheel feed are all needed 
to isolate the feed surfaces from the sticky side of 
the tape, and all add to the complexity and expense of 
the apparatus.  
 US-A-2771009 discloses a feed mechanism 
having grippers which temporarily hold the adhesive tape to 
advance it longitudinally. The grippers must disengage the 
tape to repeat each feeding cycle. Special separator 
members are required to enable such repetitive separation of 
the grippers from the sticky tape as it is advanced. Thus, the punching and reinforcing machines of the 
prior art are either not designed to handle sticky
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hole puncher and reinforcer comprising: frame means 
(10); supply means (18) carried by the frame means for 

rotatably supporting a roll (20) of tape having a sticky 
side coated with pressure sensitive adhesive; tape guide 

means (70, 72) carried by the frame means and defining a 
tape feed passage (46) having an inlet and an outlet and 

adapted to support for longitudinal sliding movement a 
length of the tape, shear (100) and punch (80) means carried 

by the frame means adjacent the outlet and including a punch 
(80) and die (78) operative to punch a hole in a length of 

tape projecting out of the outlet, and also to punch a hole 
in sheet material underlying the tape, the upper surface of 

the die (78) lying below the lower surface of the tape feed 
passage defined by the tape guide means whereby the length 

of tape projected out of the tape feed passage is out of 
engagement with the sheet material, and further including a 

shear (100) operative to shear off the length of tape for 
adherence to the upper side of the sheet; characterised by 

first feed roll means (36) supported by the frame means for 
rotation about a transverse first axis (38) and comprising a 

plurality of adjacent, transversely spaced apart first discs 
having peripheries adapted to engage the sticky side of the 

tape and move it along a first path; second feed roll means 
(42) supported by the frame means for rotation about a 

transverse second axis (44) parallel to and spaced from the first 
axis and comprising a plurality of adjacent, transversely 

spaced apart second discs having peripheries adapted to 
engage the sticky side of the tape as it passes from the 

first discs, thereby to move the tape along a second path; 
and drive means operative for simultaneously rotating the 

first and second discs through partial rotations whereby the 
first discs advance the tape, the drive means and the second 

discs being cooperative to drive the peripheries of the 
second discs at a rate greater than that of the first discs  

 
whereby the tape is stripped away from the first discs for 

movement on the second discs along the second path to the 
tape feed passage and a plurality of stationary transversely spaced 

apart tape guides 
(74) providing respective upper edges for engagement with 

the sticky underside of the tape and lying in a common plane 
defining the lower boundary (72) of the tape feed passage, 

said upper edges of the tape guides (74) extending longitudinally 
in the direction of tape transport through said 

passage (46), from said second discs (42) to a position 
adjacent the punch, said upper edges of said tape guides 

being vertically displaced above the die, each said tape 
guide (74), at its upstream end, being located in a 

respective space between a respective pair of adjacent said 
second discs (42), whereby the upper edges of the tape 

guides provide a reduced surface area for sliding contact 
with the sticky lower side of the tape as the latter is 

displaced through said tape feed passage (46), whereby the 
tape is substantially linearly directed through the tape 

feed passage. 
A hole puncher and reinforcer according to claim 1 
wherein the peripheral portions of the second discs (42) 

project into the transverse spaces between the peripheral 
portions of the first discs (36). 
A hole puncher and reinforcer according to claim 1 
including actuating means (32) operative to operate first 

the drive means (56, 54, 50, 52) for advancing a predetermined 
length of tape out of the outlet, and thereafter 

to operate the shear (100) and punch means (80). 
A hole puncher and reinforcer according to claim 3 
wherein the actuating means comprises a solenoid (103) 

electrically energizable to operate the drive means and the 
shear and punch means, and including switch means (104,106) 

carried by the frame means (14) and operative upon engagement by 
sheet material (30) to couple the solenoid to a source of  

 
electrical power and electrically energise the solenoid. 
A hole puncher and reinforcer according to claim 3 
wherein the drive means comprises a drive element (56) and 

one-way clutch means (58) positively engageable with the 
drive element on movement of the clutch means in one 

direction to rotate the drive element through a predetermined 
partial rotation of effect partial rotations of 

the first (36) and second (42) discs, the clutch means (58) disengaging 
and slipping relative to the drive element (56) on 

movement of the clutch means in the opposite direction 
whereby the drive element is not rotated. 
A hole puncher and reinforcer according to claim 3 
wherein the drive element (56) and the frame means (14) mount 

disabling means (64, 66, 68) interengageable to prevent 
rotation of the drive element whereby operation of the 

actuating means (32) operates the shear and punch means without 
operating the drive means. 
A hole puncher and reinforcer according to claim 3 
wherein the shear and punch means comprises a presser (96) 

carried by the punch (80) for pressing a length of tape into 
adhering relation to the sheet material (30), and the cutting 

edge of the shear (100) is located below the presser for 
shearing off the tape prior to engagement thereof by the 

presser (96), the cutting edge during shearing being movable 
into a space between the die (78) and the outlet. 
A hole puncher and reinforcer according to claim 7, 
and including a deflecting finger (94) carried by the frame 

means for location adjacent the punch thereby to deflect 
freshly fed tap to a position below the punch. 
A hole puncher and reinforcer according to claim 3 
wherein the shear and punch means comprises first bias means 

(90) tending to urge the punch (80a) upwardly; a presser  
 

(96a) vertically slidable on the punch; and second bias 
means (138) tending to urge the presser downwardly relative 

to the punch whereby the presser is adapted to remain 
engaged upon the tape (20) and sheet material (30) during 

withdrawal of the punch (80a) from the tape and sheet 
material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
