<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650897</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Box having a sealing tab over the dispensing opening.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D570	B65D570	B65D574	B65D574	B65D1728	B65D1732	B65D7710	B65D7720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D17	B65D17	B65D77	B65D77	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A box, folded from a blank comprising wall panels and 
glue panels, which has a substantially closed form and is 

provided with a dispensing opening provision (7) which extends 
in two wall panels adjoining each other through an edge of the 

box for forming a dispensing opening at the location of the 
edge, wherein at least one of the panels of the blank 

comprises an integrally formed sealing tab (9) which in a 
sealing position covers the dispensing opening provision (7) 

in such a manner as to prevent formation of the dispensing 
opening. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPRONK JOHANNES FREDERICUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPRONK, JOHANNES FREDERICUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPRONK JOHANNES FREDERICUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPRONK, JOHANNES FREDERICUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a box folded from a blank 
comprising wall panels and glue panels, which box has a 
substantially closed form and comprises a dispensing opening 
provision which extends in two wall panels adjoining each 
other through an edge of the box for forming a dispensing 
opening at the location of the edge. Such a box is described, for instance, in Dutch patent 
application 9201217. Box-like packagings are frequently used for packaging 
sprinkling or pourable materials, such as, for instance, 
sandwich fillings, washing powder, beverages and liquid 
detergents. Once the box has been filled, it is of particular 
importance that it be clear from the outside of the box 
whether it has been opened before, since this tells the user 
whether or not the contents of the packaging may have been 
manipulated, for instance through removal or addition of 
components. In addition, the possibility of such a check is 
particularly important in the case of perishable materials, 
for instance because of chemical, bacteriological and aromatic 
conditions. With the known boxes, after they have been filled, a loose 
seal is fitted over the dispensing opening, in such a manner 
that the dispensing opening provision, and hence the box, 
cannot be opened without breaking the seal by pulling it away 
or tearing it. Such a seal consists, for instance, of a strip  
 
of film which is provided with a layer of glue on one side 
thereof and can be fitted transversely over the dispensing 
opening provision. Such a loose seal enables a user to properly check the box 
but has a disadvantage in that the fitting of the seal is 
time-consuming and may be implemented incorrectly, which leads 
to partial or complete loss of the sealing action. Another 
disadvantage of loose seals is that they are typically made of 
a different material than the box, thereby giving rise to 
waste problems. Moreover, the seal may be left behind in parts 
adjacent to the dispensing opening and thereby adversely 
affect the sprinkling or pouring pattern of the box. Accordingly, the object of the invention is to provide a 
box of the type described in the opening paragraph hereof, 
which does not have the above disadvantages while yet 
retaining the advantages thereof. To that end, the box is 
characterized, according to the invention, in that at least 
one of the panels of the blank comprises an integrally formed 
sealing tab which in a sealing position covers the dispensing 
opening provision in such a manner as to prevent formation of 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A box folded from a blank comprising wall panels and glue 
panels, which box has a substantially closed form and 

comprises a dispensing opening provision (7) which extends in 
two wall panels adjoining each other through an edge of the 

box for forming a dispensing opening at the location of the 
edge, characterized in that at least one of the panels of the 

blank comprises an integrally formed sealing tab (9) which in 
a sealing position covers the dispensing opening provision (7) 

in such a manner as to prevent formation of the dispensing 
opening. 
A box according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
dispensing opening provision (7) comprises a box portion (740, 

840, 940) bounded by a tear or perforation line (708, 808, 
908) which is closed in itself, which box portion (740, 840, 

940) extends in said two wall panels (3, 12) and is adapted to 
be removed a single time for the purpose of forming the 

dispensing opening, while the sealing tab (9), after the 
dispensing opening has been formed, can be brought into a 

closing position wherein the dispensing opening is at least 
substantially closed by the sealing tab (9). 
A box according to claim 2, characterized by a slit (841) 
in which the sealing tab (9) is received in the closing 

position. 
A box according to claim 3, characterized in that the 
slit (841, 941) is formed between two panels or panel portions 

(3; 842, 942) partly adhered onto each other. 
A box according to claim 3, characterized in that the 
slit (841) is formed by an incision (841) in a wall panel 

(12), so that in the closing position at least a part of the 
sealing tab (9) is located in the interior of the box. 
A box according to claim 2, characterized in that the 
sealing tab (9) or the wall panel (3, 12) disposed against the 

sealing tab (9) in the closing position thereof is provided 
with a re-adhesive adhesive, so that the sealing tab (9) in 

the closing position thereof closes the dispensing opening 
again on each subsequent occasion. 
A box according to any one of claims 2-6, characterized 
in that the sealing tab (9) is connected with the panel (15) 

on which it has been integrally formed, partly through a fold 
line (843, 943) and partly through a tear or perforation line 

(10), the tear or perforation line (10) being provided in such 
a manner that is must broken to dislodge the sealing tab (9) 

from the sealing position. 
A box according to any one of claims 2-6, characterized 
in that one of the panels (3), which contains the box portion 

(940) bounded by the tear or perforation line (908), comprises 
a nail hole (946). 
A box according to claim 8, characterized in that the 
nail hole (946) is covered on the interior of the box by a 

cover panel (942) which is integrally connected with a glue 
panel and which is connected, through adhesive, with the side 

of the panel (3) containing the nail hole (946) proximal to 
the interior of the box. 
A box according to claim 9, characterized in that the 
sealing tab (9) is embedded entirely in the panel (15) on 

which it has been integrally formed, the sealing tab being 
readily grippable by virtue of a second nail hole (945) in 

said panel (15). 
A box according to any one of claims 2-10, characterized 
in that it comprises a dispensing distribution panel (944) 

which covers the dispensing opening which is formed through 
removal of the box portion (940) bounded by the perforation 

and tear line (908), the dispensing distribution panel (944) 
comprising a p
erforation (947) at the location of the 
dispensing opening. 
A box according to claims 9 and 11, characterized in that 
the dispensing distribution panel (944) is connected with the 

cover panel (942) through a fold line and is adhered to the 
panel (12) containing the dispensing opening on the side 

proximal to the interior of the box. 
A box according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
dispensing opening provision (7) is adapted for forming a 

closable dispensing opening, and the sealing tab (9), formed 
integrally with one of the panels of the box, is connected to 

that panel through a tear or perforation line (10), so that 
the sealing tab (9), after being dislodged from the sealing 

position, is removable through the tear or perforation 
line (10). 
A box according to any one of claims 1-13, characterized 
in that mouth edges (8, 708, 808) of the dispensing opening 

 
are entirely covered and closed by the sealing tab (9) in the 

sealing position thereof. 
A box according to any one of claims 1-14, characterized 
in that the sealing tab (9) in the sealing position closes the 

dispensing opening in an entirely liquid-tight manner. 
A box according to claim 13, characterized in that the 
tear or perforation line (10) includes an angle with the edge 

in which the dispensing opening is provided. 
A box according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the sealing tab (9), at least in the 

condition wherein it is folded over the dispensing opening 
provision (7), extends substantially transversely across the 

edge in which the dispensing opening is provided. 
A box according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the sealing tab (9) comprises adhesive. 
A box according to claim 18, characterized in that the 
adhesive is provided in such a manner that in the sealing 

position of the sealing tab (9), the dispensing opening 
provision (7) and mouth edges (8, 708, 808) thereof are free 

of adhesive. 
A box according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the sealing tab (9), on one of the free 

longitudinal edges thereof, comprises a pull tab (636, 736) 
preferably connected therewith through a fold line (635, 735). 
A box according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the sealing tab (9), in a position 

wherein it is fitted over the dispensing opening provision 
 

(7), is folded back over at least a part of one of the panels 
(312) adjoining the dispensing opening. 
A blank, suitable in particular for folding a box 
according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in 

that a sealing tab (9) extends from, and is formed integrally 
with, one of the panels of the blank. 
A blank according to claim 22, characterized in that the 
sealing tab (9) is formed on one of the glue panels. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
