<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636226</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOVABLE SUPPORTING ARM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B66F1900	B66F1900	F16M1102	F16M1104	G02B2124	G02B2124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B66F	B66F	F16M	F16M	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B66F19	B66F19	F16M11	F16M11	G02B21	G02B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The movable supporting arm (14) is mounted on a pivot pin (44) at its inner end on a wall or base. The outer end is spring counter-balanced by an adjustable spring and there is a friction brake which controls movement and locks the arm in position. The friction brake and arm can both be mounted with the same hand so that the supporting arm can be moved into position and locked in position.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ACEVEDO RODOLFO J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ACEVEDO, RODOLFO, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MOVABLE SUPPORTING ARMFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention is directed to an ergonomic fully articulating supporting arm with one hand operation for supporting devices at the work place, such as a micro- scope. The movable supporting arm folds away when not in use so as to free the work station for other pur¬ poses.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION When working on small products, microscopies are typically employed. The microscope must be properly and firmly positioned in order to be of convenience. A modern-day work space microscope stand is typically a weighted base. The base is up to 12 inch square in order to provide stability. The typical base weighs about 35 pounds in order to provide this stability. Such a base stands on the work surface and, thus, occupies as much as 1 square foot of work station space. The adjustment of such an arm is accomplished by loosen¬ ing two hand knobs and manually pulling the arm to the desired position, followed by clamping the two hand knobs. This is two-handed operation of the arm, which makes for difficulty when a hand is also needed other¬ wise in the positioning operation. Such arms are often used for the mounting and positioning of a microscope, which may be a binocular zoom microscope which requires manual operation of both the focus and the zoom. To position the microscope correctly, focus and zoom must 

 be adjusted while the microscope is put into position, in order to ascertain that the position is correct.A fully positionable supporting arm, which is mounted on a small post, provides safety because there is no danger of tipping of the structure when it is fully extended. Safety is also enhanced by the proper positioning of the arm, especially when it carries such a device as a microscope, to eliminate neck and back fatigue. The proper positioning of the binocular eyepieces in a microscope reduces eye fatigue and parallax errors and are achieved when the microscope is maintained in the correct position with respect to the work surface and the work piece. It is also convenient to have a support arm which can be moved away with a single motion so that the structures supported on the arm do not interfere with access to the work station surface. In addition, proper design of a movable supporting arm will accommodate a person of any size without having to purchase special equipment, such as benches or chairs of differing height. These are desirable results which can be achieved by a proper movable supporting arm.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In order to aid in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS What is Claimed is:
1. A positionable supporting arm comprising: a pivot post, means for engaging said pivot post for supporting said arm; an arm housing adjacent said pivot post, a pivot pin engaging said pivot post and said arm housing; a mounting post, a pivot pin engaging said arm housing and said mounting post; a connecting rod, a pivot pin interconnect¬ ing said connecting rod and said pivot post, a pivot pin interconnecting said connecting rod and said mounting post, said pivot pins being positioned so that said mounting post always lies substantially parallel to said pivot post; a counter-balance spring engaged between said connecting rod and one of said posts so as to urge said mounting post upward when said pivot posts and said mounting posts are in an upright position; and means interconnecting said connecting rod and said arm housing to clamp said connecting rod to said arm housing to position said mounting post in a selected position.
2. The supporting arm of claim 1 wherein said spring adjustment means includes a spring block movably mounted with respect to said connecting rod.
3. The supporting arm of claim 2 wherein said spring is a compression spring engaged between said spring block and a spring stop on said connecting rod.
4. The supporting arm of claim 2 wherein said spring adjustment means includes means to position said tension block at a selected position with respect to said pivot post. 


 5. The supporting arm of claim 4 wherein said positioning means for said spring block comprises a threaded tcrew engaged between said pivot post and said tension block and said spring is a compression spring.
6. The supporting arm of claim 5 wherein said threaded rod is pivotally mounted with respect to said pivot post and is pivotally mounted with respect to said tension block.
7. The supporting arm of claim 6 wherein said pivotal engagement of said threaded rod comprises first and second cylindrical tension blocks, a clearance opening through said first tension block and a threaded opening through said second tension block, a head on said threaded rod, said threaded rod passing through said clearance hole in said first tension block and said head engaging thereagainst, said threaded rod being threadedly engaged in said second tension block.
8. The supporting arm of claim 7 wherein said first and second tension blocks are respectively posi¬ tioned against substantially cylindrical surfaces on said pivot post and on said spring block.
9. The supporting arm of claim 1 wherein a brake pad is secured to said connecting rod and there is means interengaging said brake pad and said arm housing to clamp said arm housing to said brake pad to lock said mounting post in position. 


 10. The supporting arm of claim 9 wherein said brake pad clamping means comprises a manual handle externally of said arm housing, said manual handle having a threaded shank threadedly engaged with said brake pad so that rotation of said manual handle clamps said arm housing to said brake pad.
11. The supporting arm of claim 10 wherein said spring adjustment means includes a spring block movably mounted with respect to said connecting rod.
12. The supporting arm of claim 11 wherein said spring is a compression spring engaged between said spring block and a spring stop on said connecting rod.
13. The supporting arm of claim 11 wherein said spring adjustment means includes means to position said tension block at a selected position with respect to said pivot post.
14. The supporting arm of claim 13 wherein said positioning means for said spring block comprises a threaded screw engaged between said pivot post and said tension block and said spring is a compression spring.
15. The supporting arm of claim 14 wherein said threaded rod is pivotally mounted with respect to said pivot post and is pivotally mounted with respect to said tension block. 


 16. A s porting arm comr,ιsing: an a.rm housing; a pivot post, a pivct pin pivotally mounting said pivot post to said arm housing; a mounting post, a pivot pin pivotally mounting said mounting post to said arm housing, said arm housing being an inverted U-shaped housing with side walls, said pivot post and said mounting post extending into said arm housing between said side walls, said pivot pins engaging through said side walls, said pivot posts and said mounting posts being bifurcated between said arm housing side walls; a connecting rod, said connecting rod being positioned within said arm housing and lying within said bifurcat*ed pivot post and bifurcated mounting post, a pivot pin pivotally interconnecting said connecting rod to said pivot post and a pivot pin pivotally intercon¬ necting said connecting rod to said mounting post, said pivot pins being so positioned that said posts lie substantially parallel to each other; means interconnecting one of said posts and said connecting rod to urge said mounting post upward when said mounting post and said pivot posts are in an upright position; and means to clamp said connecting rod to said arm housing when said mounting post is in a selected position.
17. The supporting arm of claim 16 wherein said means for urging said mounting post upward comprises a spring block slidably mounted on said connecting rod, a compression spring engaged between said spring block and said connecting rod and an adjustable tension screw engaged between said pivot post and said spring block. 


 18. The supporting arm of claim 17 wherein there is a cylindrical tension block engaged against said spring block and there is a cylindrical tension block engaged against said pivot post and said adjusting screw engages both of said tension blocks to adjust the position of said spring block with respect to said pivot post.
19. The supporting arm of claim 16 wherein there is a brake pad mounted on said connecting rod and there is a brake handle exteriorly of said arm housing, said brake handle engaging said brake pad to clamp said brake pad with respect to said arm housing to lock said mounting post in position with respect to said pivot post.
20. The supporting arm of claim 19 wherein said manually operable brake handle has a washer and a brake pad thereon engaging exteriorly of said arm housing so that said supporting arm can be positioned and locked in position by a single hand engaging said arm housing and said brake handle.
21. The supporting arm of claim 19 wherein said means for urging said mounting post upward comprises a spring block slidably mounted on said connecting rod, a compression spring engaged between said spring block and said connecting rod and an adjustable tension screw engaged between said pivot post and said spring block. 


 22. The supporting arm of claim 21 wherein there is a cylindrical tension block engaged against said spring block and there is a cylindrical tension block engaged against said pivot post and said adjusting screw engages both of said tension blocks to adjust the position of said spring block with respect to said pivot post. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
