<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646476</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING ORIGINAL PLATE AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41C110	B41C110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41C	B41C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41C1	B41C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A heat sensitive lithographic printing original plate comprising a hydrophilic layer containing a lipophilic 
constituent that is transformed to an imaging section by heat and microcapsulated and a hydrophilic binder polymer 

and a substrate wherein the hydrophilic binder polymer is three-dimensionally crosslinked and has a functional group 
that is chemically bonded with the lipophilic constituent in the microcapsule after the capsule is broken, and wherein the 

lipophilic constituent in the microcapsule has a functional group that is chemically bonded to the hydrophilic binder 
polymer after the capsule is broken. A heat sensitive lithographic printing original plate according to the present 

invention is superior in plate wear and storability and can provide printing matters which are free from scumming and 
have a clear image. Furthermore, there is needed no development in a plate producing process and therefore there is 

no need of disposing waste liquid. As a result of this, it can be used as an original plate not only for a simple printing 
such as an in-house printing but also for newspaper rotary press printing and also for form printing. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASAHI CHEMICAL IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASAHI KASEI KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURIHARA MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI GENSHO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURIHARA, MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI, GENSHO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a direct
thermosensitive lithographic printing original plate for offset
printing showing high printing durability and not requiring a
developing process, and to a platemaking process using the
same.Various platemaking processes for lithographic
printing plates as well as plate materials have been proposed,
as seen in the wide use of computers. From the standpoint of
practical use, a lithographic printing original plate is
prepared by transferring block copies from a positive/negative
film. On the other hand, electrophotography and Silver
lithographic plates, which are directly made from block copies
without using a positive/negative film, have also been
developed. Further, so-called "Computer to Plate (CTP)" type
plate material has been proposed. In the use of this plate
material, graphic information made by computer type setting and
DTP (Desktop Publishment) is directly printed onto a plate by
using a laser or a thermal printing-head without visualized
hard media. This plate material has not been applied to 
practical use yet. However, since CTP enables the
rationalization and shortening of the platemaking process as
well as the reduction of material costs, there is a great
demand for practical use of the CTP in a field such as news
printing where CTS (Cold Type System) is employed for all
printings.Photosensitive plates, thermosensitive plates, and
plates made by electrical energy have been known as CTP type
plate material. The photosensitive plate and the plate made by
electrical energy have not been used in practice, since not
only the price of those plates are higher than that of
conventional presensitized plates (PS plates) but also
platemaking machine used for preparing them are large-sized and
expensive. Moreover, they have a problem in that they require
waste treatment of a developing solution.The thermosensitive plate materials are developed for
use in light printing, e.g., for printing in offices. Japanese
Patent Application Laid-Open Nos. 64747/1988 and 113290/1989
disclose printing plate materials whose thermosensitive layer
arranged on a substrate contains a heat-fusible resin and a
thermoplastic resin, and which are changed from hydrophilic to
oleophilic by fusing with thermal imaging. U.S. Patent Nos.
4,034,183 and 4,063,949 disclose printing plate materials
prepared by irradiating a hydrophilic polymer layer coated on a
substrate with laser to change hydrophilic to oleophilic.
However, these printing plate materials have disadvantages in 
that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermosensitive lithographic printing plate precursor comprising a substrate,
a hydrophilic layer containing hydrophilic binder polymer, and a microcapsuled

oleophilic material which forms an image area by heating; the hydrophilic binder

polymer having both a functional group capable of three-dimensional cross-linking
and a functional group which chemically combines with the oleophilic material in the

microcapsule when the microcapsule is decomposed, and the microcapsuled oleophilic
material having a functional group which chemically combines with the hydrophilic

binder polymer when the microcapsule is decomposed.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original plate according to claim 1,
wherein the hydrophilic binder polymer is selected from a polymer comprising carbon-carbon

bonds, which have, as a side chain, one or more types of hydrophilic
functional groups;

a polymer comprising carbon atoms or carbon-carbon
bonds, which are connected by one or more types of hetero atoms selected

from oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorous; or a polymer comprising carbon
atoms or carbon-carbon bonds, which are connected by one or more types of hetero

atoms selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorous and which polymer
has, as a side chain, one or more types of hydrophilic functional groups. 
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic binder

polymer contains a repeating segment having, as a side chain,
any of a hydroxyl group, a carboxyl group or its alkaline metal

salt, a sulphonic group or its amine salt, alkaline metal salt
or its alkaline earth metal salt, an amino group or its

hydrohalogenic acid salt, an amide group and a combination
thereof.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic binder

polymer has a polyoxymethylene group as a segment of its main
chain.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic binder

polymer has a urea or urethane bond in its segment or side
chain.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original 
plate according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic binder

polymer has a difference in reflection density between paper
and non-image areas on a paper of 0.02 or less.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic binder

polymer comprises a hydrophilic homopolymer or a hydrophilic
copolymer synthesized using one or more hydrophilic monomers

having a hydrophilic group selected from a carboxyl group or
its salt, a sulfonic group or its salt, a phosphoric group or

its salt, an amino group or its salt, a hydroxyl group, an
amide group and an ether group such as a (meth)acrylic acid or

its alkali metal salt and amine salt, an itaconic acid or its
alkali metal salt and amine salt, 2-hydroxyethyl(meth)acrylate,

(meth)acrylamide, N-monomethylol(meth)acrylamide,
N-dimethylol(meth)acrylamide, allyl amine or its hydrohalogenic

acid salt, 3-vinylpropionic acid or its alkali metal salt and
amine salt, vinyl sulfonic acid or its alkali metal salt and

amine salt, 2-sulphoethyl(meth)acrylate, polyoxyethylene glycol
mono(meth)acrylate, 2-acrylamide-2-methylpropanesulfonic acid,

or acid phosphoxy polyoxyethylene glycol mono(meth)acrylate.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic binder

polymer comprises polyoxymethylene glycol or polyoxyethylene
glycol.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the oleophilic material 

comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of an
isocyanate compound, a polyfunctional (meth)acryl monomer or a

combination of the monomer with a monofunctional (meth)acrylate
or a (meth)acrylate monomer containing a hydrophilic group, a

polyfunctional allyl compound or a combination of the compound
with a monofunctional (meth)acrylate compound or a

(meth)acrylate compound containing a hydrophilic group,
telechelic polymer, a reactive wax containing a reactive group

such as a carbon-carbon unsaturated bond group, a hydroxyl
group, a carboxy group, an amino group and an epoxy group, a

polyfunctional epoxy compound, a diazo resin, a (meth)acryl
copolymer and urethane acrylate.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the oleophilic material has

a urethane or urea structure.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the oleophilic material

has a cross-linkable structure.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the oleophilic material is

a microcapsule having an average particle diameter of 0.01 to
10 µm.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the weight ratio of the

oleophilic material to the hydrophilic binder polymer is 1/20
to 10/1. 
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the chemical combination is

an addition polymerization of an unsaturated group, a urethane
or urea reaction of an isocyanate group with a reactive

hydrogen, a reaction of a carboxyl group, a hydroxyl group or
an amino group with an epoxy group.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the chemical combination

forms a three-dimensional cross-link.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic layer

contains a reactive substance which chemically combines with
the oleophilic material.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic layer

contains at least one absorber selected from the group
consisting of calcium carbonate, silica, zinc oxide, titanium

oxide, kaolin, calcinated kaolin, hydrated halloysite, alumina
sol, diatom aceous earth, and talc.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic layer

contains a solid lubricant at room temperature.
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original
plate according to claim 1, wherein the oleophilic material

contains a thermosensitive coloring material which is colored
only at thermal imaging areas. 
The thermosensitive lithographic printing original plate according to claim 1,
wherein further an adhesion layer is arranged on the substrate.
A thermosensitive lithographic printing plate precursor according to any one
of claims 1 to 20, in which the hydrophilic binder polymer is three-dimensionally

cross-linked.
A lithographic printing plate produced by imaging a thermosensitive
lithographic printing plate precursor according to any one of claims 1 or 21 by a

thermal recording method to decompose the microcapsules, the printing plate having
an image area where the oleophilic material released from the decomposed

microcapsules has chemically combined with the hydrophilic binder polymer.
A platemaking process comprising a step of imaging a thermosensitive
lithographic printing plate precursor by a thermal recording method, the

thermosensitive lithographic printing plate precursor comprising a substrate and a
hydrophilic layer containing a hydro
philic binder polymer and a microcapsuled
oleophilic material which forms an image area by heating, the hydrophilic binder

polymer being three-dimensionally cross-linked and having a functional group which
chemically combines with the oleophilic material in the microcapsule when the

microcapsule is decomposed, and the microcapsuled oleophilic material having a
functional group which chemically combines with the hydrophilic binder polymer

when the microcapsule is decomposed.
The platemaking process according to claim 23, wherein the whole plate is
heated at a lower temperature than a break point of the microcapsule after imaging.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
