<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624067</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A REFASTENABLE FASTENING, THE ENGAGEMENT FORMED BY IT AND THE METHOD OF MANUFACTURING THE FASTENING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A44B1800	A44B1800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A44B	A44B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A44B18	A44B18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a refastenable mechanical fastening device having a base (2, 10), at least hooklike elements (4) and looplike elements (3) connected to the base (2, 10) from their one end. The fastening device (1) comprises one or more means (3, 11, 12, 13, 14) attached to the base (2, 10), preventing the non-desirable fastening of the hooklike element to looplike element, and being as high as said hooklike elements (4) or preferably higher than said hooklike elements (4).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IKONEN ALPO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IKONEN MARJA LEENA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IKONEN, ALPO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IKONEN, MARJA-LEENA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKONEN ALPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKONEN MARJA-LEENA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKONEN, ALPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKONEN, MARJA-LEENA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A REFASTENABLE FASTENING, THE ENGAGEMENT FORMED BY IT AND THE METHOD OF MANUFACTURING THE FASTENINGThis invention relates to a refastenable mechanical fastening, the engagement formed by it and the method of manufacturing the fastening.Refastenable mechanical fastenings usually consist of two parts that fasten onto one another time after time, one part containing hooklike components and the other containing loop¬ like components. This type fastener is commonly known by the name Velcro. These structures enjoy a wide variety of uses; e.g. in shoes, jogging shoes, sportswear, sports equipment, leg parts of scuba divers' suits, ends of sleeves, fastening of bottle to divers' balance vests, diapers. Various types of fasteners, strip sealers and the methods used to manufacture them are presented in publications such as US patent publica¬ tion 2717437, 3009235 and FI publication 59528. The US patent 3009235 describes, how to enhance the firmness of engagement of the separable fastener by forming loops in different heights. However, it is not decribed any teaching, how the non-desirable fastening could be avoided. In the UK pater 1400080 it is described a separable fastener, in which the base or its background is formed to compress. The rigid hooks compress the base of the flexible loops to reach a fastening.Present-day strips employ a loop structure in one strip and hook structure in the other. A strong engagement is formed when the hooks meet the loops. One disadvantage of strips such as these is that they fasten onto one another even when not intended to do so. This being the case, they need to be opened several times before their fastening onto one another is desi¬ red. A strip with the hook part on one side and the loop part on the other is also known art.Another known art strip is the one which has the loop part in front of the hook part as is employed in some shoes. In this case the hook part and loop part have been sewn onto a stron- 

 ger base material one after the other. The loop part is then turned over on top of the hook part to execute the fastening function. The problem with this solution is adjustability be¬ cause for the engagement to be sufficiently strong it is ne¬ cessary to have the entire loop part come into contact with the entire hook part or vice versa. Often the practice is to use unnecessarily long loop or hook strips which are never used for their entire length. This being so, the use of hook- and-loop strips is wasteful.Especially when used in clothing, the hook parts fasten onto
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A refastenable mechanical fastening device having a base (2, 10), at least hooklike elements (4) and looplike elements (3) connected to the base (2, 10) from their one end, charac¬ terised in that the fastening device (1) comprises one or more means (3,11,12,13,14) attached to the base (2, 10), preventing the non-desirable fastening of the hooklike element to loopli¬ ke element, and being as high as said hooklike elements (4) or preferably higher than said hooklike elements (4).
2. A fastening device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that said means (3,11,12,13,14) is composed of looplike ele¬ ments (3) that are as high as the hooklike elements (4), or preferably higher than the hooklike elements (4) .
3. A fastening device as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that said looplike elements (3) and said hooklike elements (4) are preferably attached to the same strip and onto the same side of the base (2) , the said fastening being preferably re¬ gular by nature.
4. A fastening device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that, while the fastener is composed of a separate hooklike strip (4) and a looplike strip (3), these being pressed again¬ st one another, said means (2„11,12,13,14) spaced apart is inserted only into the hooklike element's strip (4).
5. A fastening device as claimed in any of the above claims 1 - 4, characterised in that said element is a flexible ball (11), a triangular-shaped means (12), a strip (13) or a rin- glike means (14) or some other means possessing a correspon¬ ding property.
6. A fastening device as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that the elements are thin-walled and/or hollow.
7. A method of manufacturing a fastening device possessing at 


 least hooklike elements (4) and looplike elements (3) , the loops (3) are first woven into the base (2), the said loops being then cut during the next stage, whereupon they turn into hooks (4), characterised in that several loops (3) are woven into the fabric, one or more loop element/s being constructed so that it/they is/are as high as the hooks (4) or higher than the hooks (4) .
8. A method of manufacturing a fastening device possessing at least hooklike elements (4) and looplike elements (3), first the loops (3) are woven whereafter the said loops being bent essentially in the direction of the base (2) surface to stay in that position until the hook material has been fastened, whereafter the hook material is woven at desired intervals into the base (2), the hook material being then cut into hooks (4), characterised in that the loop pile is brushed up so that one or more of the loop element/s is formed as high as said hook elements (4) or preferably higher than the hook elements.
9. A method as claimed in claim 7 or 8, characterised in that the base (2) is made of heat-sensitive material whereupon the loops (5) are fastened to the base (2) after the manufacturing of the hooks (4) and elements preventing non-desirable fas¬ tening.
10. A method of manufacturing a fastening device embodying at least hooklike elements (4) and looplike elements (3) connec¬ ted into the base (2), at the cutting stage of the loops to hooks, the blades cutting loops into hooks are moved to and fro in accordance with a pre-defined cycle so that the blade does not cut all of the loops into hooks, but instead leaves some of them to remain as loops, characterised in that, one or more loop/s is/are formed as high as the hooks (4) or prefera¬ bly higher than the hooks.
11. A grip-fastening joint comprising at least two strips con- nectable to each others each strip having a base (2, 10) at least hooklike elements (4) and/or looplike elements (3) con- 


nected from their one end to the base (2, 10), characterised in that one or more means (3,11,12,13,14) preventing the non- desirable fastening between said two strips are attached to the base (2), said means being as high as said hooklike ele¬ ments (4) or preferably higher than said hooklike elements.
12. A joint as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that the looplike elements (3) are as high as the hooklike elements or preferably higher than the hooklike elements (4) . 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 18 May 1993 (18.05.93); original claim 2 cancelled; original claims 1,3,4-8 and
10 amended and r--n---ι-bered;(--laiπ-s 9 and 11 unchanged but renumbered as claims
12 and 13,other claims unchanged (3 pages)]
1. A refastenable mechanical fastening device having a base (2, 10), at least hooklike elements (4) and looplike elements (3) connected to the base (2, 10) from their one end, charac¬ terised in that the fastening device (1) comprises one or more means (3,11,12,14) attached to the base (2, 10), preventing the non-desirable fastening of the hooklike element to loopli¬ ke element, said means (3,11,12,14) are as high as said hooklike elements (4) or preferably higher than the hooklike elements (4) .
2- A fastening device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that said looplike elements (3) and said hooklike elements (4) are preferably attached to the same strip and onto the same side of the base (2), preferably regular by nature.
3. A fastening device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that, while the fastener is composed of a separate hooklike strip (4) and a looplike strip (3), these being pressed again¬ st one another, said means (3,11,12,14) spaced apart is inser¬ ted only into the hooklike element's strip (4) .
4. A fastening device as claimed in any of the above claims 1 - 4, characterised in that said element is a flexible ball
(11), a triangular-shaped means (12), or a ringlike means (14) or some other means possessing a corresponding property.
5. A fastening device as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the elements are thin-walled and/or hollow.
6. A method of manufacturing a fastening device possessing at least hooklike elements (4) and looplike elements (3), the loops (3) are first woven into the base (2), the said loops being then cut during the next stage, whereupon they turn into hooks (4), characterised in that several loops (3) are woven into the fabric, at least one or more loop element/s being 


higher than the hooks (4) .
7. A method of manufacturing a fastening device possessing at least hooklike elements (4) and looplike elements (3), first the loops (3) are woven whereafter the said loops being bent essentially in the direction of the base (2) surface to stay in that position until the hook material has been fastened, whereafter the hook material is woven at desired intervals into the base (2) , the hook material being then cut into hooks (4), characterised in that the loop pile is brushed up so that at least one or more of the loop element/s is formed as high as, or preferably higher than the hook elements (4).
8. A method as claimed in claim 6 or 7, characterised in that the base (2) is made of heat-sensitive material whereupon the loops (5) are fastened to the base (2) after the manufacturing of the hooks (4) and elements preventing non-desirable fas¬ tening.
9. A method of manufacturing a fastening device embodying at least hooklike elements (4) and looplike elements (3) connec¬ ted into the base (2) , at the cutting stage of the loops to hooks, the blades cutting loops into hooks are moved to and fro in accordance with a pre-defined cycle so that the blade does not cut all of the loops into hooks, but instead leaves some of them to remain as loops, characterised in that, one or more loop/s is/are formed as high as, or preferably higher than the hooks (4) .
10. A grip-fastening joint comprising at least two strips con- nectable to each others each strip having a base (2, 10) at least hooklike elements (4) and/or looplike elements (3) con¬ nected from their one end to the base ( 2 , 10), characterised in that one or more loop means (3,11,12,14) preventing the non-desirable fastening between said two strips are attached to the base (2) , at least some of said loop means being as high as, or preferably higher than said hooklike elements (4). 


 11. A joint as claimed in claim 10, characterised in that the looplike- elements (3) are as high as the hooklike elements or preferably higher than the hooklike elements (4) .
12. A refastenable mechanical fastening device having two mem¬ bers each provided at least with a very large number of close¬ ly spaced interengageable hooking elements, certain of said hooking elements having hooks made of flexible resilient mate¬ rial and certain of said hooking elements having loop like elements of flexible resilient material and each of said mem¬ bers having a base of sheet material with said hooking ele¬ ments secured thereto in positions extending from one surface of the base to which they are secured, the said surfaces of said members are pressed toward one another in face-to-face relation a very large number of hooks will engage a very large number of said loop-like elements to secure said members in said face-to-face relation comprising said loop-like elements being as tall as, or taller than the hooklike elements to pre¬ vent the non-desirable connection between the hooklike element and the looplike element.
13. A fastening device as claimed in claim 12, characterised in that said looplike elements and said hooklike elements are preferably attached to the same strip and onto the same side of the base, preferably regular by nature. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
The cited reference, US, A, 4707893 describes a fabric fastener comprising only male members for fastening a working element having a rough surface formed of a porous material. The male members can be either mushroom or needle like members. The need¬ le one can be taller than the mushroom like. A peeling resistan¬ ce is insured by the mushroom like members. The shear resistance is further enhanced by a deeper penetration of the needle like members into the mat. The needle is not for preventing of fas¬ tening but for improving of fastening. The invention differs from this reference in that the invention comprises one or more means including loop like elements attached to the base preven¬ ting the non-desirable fastening of the hooklike element to looplike element, and said means are as high as or higher than the hooklike elements. The cited US patent does not describe looplike elements. All elements are hooklike elements (column 1, lines 34-37) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
