<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613546</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FULL FIN EVAPORATOR CORE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25B3902	F25B3902	F28D102	F28D103	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25B	F25B	F28D	F28D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25B39	F25B39	F28D1	F28D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flat plate type heat exchanger (10) or evaporator (10) is disclosed for use in automobile air conditioning systems. The heat exchanger (10) includes a set of stacked plate pairs (18) having refrigerant fluid passageways (20) extending laterally between the plates (12) of each plate pair (18) while the spaces between the plate pairs (18) define air flow passages having fins (24) located therein. In one aspect, fluid inlet (26) and outlet (28) passages are formed when differently sized tubes in adjacent plate pairs (18) are telescoped together and subsequently brazed together to form a high surface area, fluid tight joint. The resulting fluid tight joint formed between tubes in adjacent plate pairs (18) exhibits greater rupture resistance than that formed with drawn cup assemblies currently in use. These refrigerant fluid inlet and outlet passageways (26, 28) are spaced inwardly from the edges of the evaporator (10) and extend transversely through the stack, the inlet and outlet passages (26, 28) being in communication with the fluid passageways (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LONG MFG LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LONG MANUFACTURING LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURGERS JOHN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURGERS, JOHN, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FULL FIN EVAPORATOR CORETECHNICAL FIELDThe subject invention relates generally to plate type heat exchangers for automobile applications.BACKGROUND ARTCurrent heat exchangers for use in automobiles in applications such as air conditioners are well known, and are generally of the flat plate type. These flat plate type heat exchangers, or evaporators as they are sometimes called, are constructed with alternating and adjacent laterally extending fluid flow and air flow passages. The refrigerant fluid passageways are provided with a plurality of fluid flow obstructions located therein and are formed by bonding together pairs of elongate plates having dimples located therein. The plurality of fluid flow obstructions so formed act to produce a tortuous flow path in the fluid flow passageways in order to produce turbulence and to increase the contact surface area between the walls of the passageway and the refrigerant fluid in order to increase the efficiency of heat transfer from the air to the fluid.DISCLOSURE OF INVENTIONIn one type of evaporator, the refrigerant fluid inlet and outlet ports are located adjacent the ends of the elongate plates, such as in United States Patent Nos. 4,470,455 (Sacca) and 4,600,053 (Patel et al.). These ports are formed from raised portions, sometimes referred to as cups, located adjacent to the end portions of each plate. The raised portions are generally circular and have a lip portion in the bottom of the cup, the edge of which defines an aperture in the bottom of the cup. When the pairs of elongate plates are joined together, the cups in each plate 

 of the pair are in registration and define either a fluid inlet or outlet passageway transversely therethrough. The fluid entering the inlet enters the lateral fluid passageways between the plates via entrances located in these opposed cup segments.The evaporator is assembled by joining together a plurality of these joined pairs of plates. The plate pairs are coupled to each other around the lips at the bottoms of the cups and a solid seal is formed by brazing. In this way, a multi-plate assembly is built up. An air-flow passageway exists between adjacent joined pairs of plates in which a high surface area fin is located for ef icient heat exchange.In another type of evaporator, the inlet and outlet tanks containing the fluid ports are adjacent to each other and located at one end of the evaporator, such as disclosed inUnited States Patent No. 4,696,342 (Yamauchi et al.) andUnited States Patent No. 4,723,601 (Ohara et al.).A
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS
1. A plate type heat exchanger, comprising: a plurality of coupled plate pairs, each plate of said pair having a substantially planar portion, the plates of each pair being sealably coupled together, wherein the planar portions are spaced apart thereby enclosing a longitudinal flow passageway extending therebetween and forming spaces between adjacent plate pairs defining lateral air passageways; the plates each being provided with at least two apertures therethrough, said apertures being spaced from the peripheral edges of the plate, each aperture in one plate being substantially in registration with an aperture in said other plate in said plate pair; the plates being formed with tubes peripherally encircling each aperture and extending transversely from the plates; said plurality of plate pairs being stacked together in spaced apart relationship, wherein each tube extending from a plate pair is connected to a tube extending from an adjacent plate pair to form a sealable coupling, said sealable coupling including an overlapping portion which overlaps a portion of at least one of said tubes, said connected tubes enclosing substantially transverse flow passageways, said transverse flow passageways being spaced apart and in flow communication with the lateral flow passageways; means defining an inlet port in flow communication with one of said transverse passageways, and means defining an outlet port in flow communication with another of said transverse passageways; the transverse passageways having end portions and means for closing said end portions not in flow communication with the inlet and outlet ports; and fins located in said lateral air passageways, said fins being in thermal contact with the plates, and having transverse fluid passageways extending therethrough. 


 2. A plate type heat exchanger according to claim 1 wherein the sealable coupling includes a collar and wherein end portions of the tubes are sealably inserted each into one end of said collar.
3. A plate type heat exchanger according to claim 1 wherein the tubes coupled respectively to each plate are of a first and second diameter, the second diameter being smaller than the first diameter such that the second diameter tube is sealably receivable by the first diameter tube for forming the sealable coupling.
4. A heat exchanger according to claim 1, wherein the stack of plate pairs includes outermost plate pairs, and further comprising retainer plates located adjacent to and spaced from the outermost plate pairs, the space between the retaining plates and the outermost plate pairs definingoutermost air passageways, and fins located in said outermost air passageways and in thermal contact with said retaining plates.
5. A heat exchanger according to claim 1 wherein the plates are each provided with place locating means comprising at least one protrusion, and at least one receptor spaced from said protrusion, wherein a protrusion in one plate of a plate pair is receivable by a receptor in the other plate of said plate pair for providing at least two interlocking connections between said plates in said plate pair.
6. A heat exchanger according to claim 1 wherein said plates have opposed edge portions each provided with rib members extending transversely from the planar portion thereof, said rib members provided with curvilinear end portions adapted to overlap with curvilinear end portions of rib members of an adjacent plate pair.
7. A heat exchanger as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plates are formed with two pairs of apertures and two pairs of tubes. 


 one of said pairs of apertures and tubes being spaced from one end of each plate and the second pair of apertures and tubes being spaced from the opposite end of each plate.
8. A method of making a heat exchanger according to claim 1 wherein the tubes are formed by the steps which comprise: drawing a tube portion from the plate, the tube portion having a closed bottom end portion spaced from the planar portion of the plates; then piercing the bottom portion of said drawn tube to produce an open tube; and ironing said tube in the transverse direction away from the planar portion of the plate in order to straighten the tube.
9. A method according to claim 8 wherein the tubes formed in the plates are of different diameters such that a tube having the smaller diameter is slidingly receivable in a tube in an adjacent plate having the larger diameter.
10. A method according to claim 8 wherein the tubes in the plates are formed having the same diameter, and further providing collars overlapping and sealingly coupling together the end portions of adjacent tubes. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
