<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647967</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of mounting a semiconductor device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2100	H01L2100	H01L2102	H01L21301	H01L21304	H01L2152	H01L2158	H01L2300	H01L2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device 
having a package (27) including a base, and a chip mounted on 

the base, wherein the chip (25,26) has a surface on which an 
element is formed, the method comprising the steps of (a) 

fixing the chip (25,26) having a protective coat (21) formed on the 
surface to the base; and (b) removing the protective coat (21) 

from the chip (25,26) without touching the chip. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJIHIRA MITSUAKI C O YOKOHAMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJIHIRA, MITSUAKI, C/O YOKOHAMA WORKS OF SUMITOMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of 
manufacturing a semiconductor device and, more 
particularly, to a method of manufacturing a 
semiconductor device capable of packaging, at a high 
yield, a chip whose surface need not be protected since 
the chip forms wiring layers constituting an air bridge 
structure. It is an object of the present invention to provide a 
method of manufacturing a semiconductor device having a 
package including a base, and a chip mounted on the base. 
The chip has a surface on which an element is formed. The 
method according to present invention comprises the steps 
of: 
(a1) fixing the chip having a protective coat 
(resist or resist film) formed on the surface to the base; 
and (b1) removing the protective coat from the chip 
without touching the chip. Note that, the step (a1) is performed before (b1). 
Thus, when removing the coat from the chip, the chip can 
be handled by only touching the base or package, which 
protects the chip and surface of the chip.  A method according to present invention comprises 
the steps of: 
(a2) fixing said chip having a protective coat 
formed on said surface to said base; and (b2) handling said chip having said protective coat 
and moving said chip to a removing space without touching 
said chip directly to remove said protective coat from 
said chip in said removing space. Note that, the step (a2) is performed before (b2). 
Thus, when moving the chip to the removing space such as a 
space in a vessel filled with solvent of the coat, the 
chip can be handled by only touching the base or package, 
which protects the chip and surface of the chip. Further, 
the chip can be handled without touching the chip after 
removing the temporary protective coat. A method according to present invention comprises 
the steps of: 
(a3) fixing said chip having a protective coat 
formed on said surface to said base; and (b3) handling said base fixed to said chip having 
said protective coat and moving said chip to a removing 
space to remove said protective coat from said chip in 
said removing space. Note that, the step (a3) is performed before (b3). 
Thus, when moving the chip to the removing space such as a 
space in a vessel filled with solvent, the chip can be  
 
handled by only touching the base, which protects the 
chip and surface of the chip. Further, the chip can be 
handled without touching the chip after removing the 
temporary protective coat. A method according to present invention comprises 
the steps of: 
(a4) handling said chip
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device 
having a package including a base, and a chip mounted on 

said base, wherein said chip has a surface on which an 
element is formed, said method comprising the steps of: 


(a) fixing said chip having a protective coat formed 
on said surface to said base; and 
(b) removing said protective coat from said chip 
without touching said chip. 
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device 
having a package including a base, and a chip mounted on 

said base, wherein said chip has a surface on which an 
element is formed, said method comprising the steps of: 


(a) fixing said chip having a protective coat 
formed on said surface to said base; and 
(b) handling said chip having said protective coat 
and moving said chip to a removing space 

without touching said chip directly to remove 
said protective coat from said chip in said 

removing space. 
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device 
having a package including a base, and a chip mounted on 

said base, wherein said chip has a surface on which an 
element is formed, said method comprising the steps of: 


(a) fixing said chip having a protective coat formed 
on said surface to said base; and 
(b) handling said base fixed to said chip having 
said protective coat and moving said chip to a 

removing space to remove said protective coat 
from said chip in said removing space. 
A method according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the step 
(b) is performed by touching said base and handling said 

base. 
A method according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the step 
(b) is performed by touching said package and handling 

said package. 
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device 
having a package including a base, and a chip mounted on 

said base, wherein said chip has a surface on which an 
element is formed, said method comprising the steps of: 


(a) handling said chip having a protective coat 
formed on said surface and moving said chip to 

said base without touching said surface 
directly; and 
(b) removing said protective coat from said chip on 
said base. 
A method according to claim 6, wherein the step 
(a) is performed by touching said protective coat and 

handling said chip. 
A method according to claim 6, wherein the step 
(a) is performed by touching an exposed surface of said 

 
chip and handling said chip. 
A method according to claim 1, 2 or 6, further 
comprising a method of manufacturing a wiring layer 

constituting an air bridge structure formed on said 
surface, said method of manufacturing said wiring layer 

constituting said air bridge structure having the steps 
of: 


(c) forming first, second, and third wiring layers 
on said substrate; 
(d) coating a resist on an exposed surface of said 
substrate and on said first, second, and third 

wiring layers; 
(e) removing said resist on regions on said first 
and second wiring layers, thereby exposing a 

surface of said first wiring layer and a 
surface of said second wiring layer; 
(f) forming a wiring layer serving as a bridge on an 
exposed surface of said first wiring layer, an 

exposed surface of said second wiring layer, 
and an exposed surface of a remaining portion 

of said resist; and 
(g) removing said resist arranged between said 
wiring layer serving as said bridge and said 

substrate. 
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor 
device having a package including a base and a chip 

 
mounted on said base, wherein said chip is made from a 

substrate by dividing said substrate, wherein said chip 
includes a wiring layer formed on a surface of said chip, 

and wherein said wiring layer constitutes an air bridge 
structure, said method comprising the steps of: 


(a) coating a resist on said surface of said 
substrate for protecting said wiring layers; 
(b) dividing said substrate having said resist to 
form said chip from said substrate, said resist 

being formed on said surface of said chip; 
(c) fixing said chip having said resist formed 
thereon, to said base; and 
(d) removing said resist from said chip fixed to 
said base by using a solvent that dissolves 

said resist, wherein the step (c) is performed 
before the step (d). 
A method according to claim 10, said method 
comprising the step of: 


(e) cleaning said package with water after step (d). 
A method according to claim 10, said method 
comprising the step of: 


(f) drying said chip and said base by heating said 
base at a pressure lower than an atmospheric pressure. 
A method according to claim 10, wherein said 
base includes a bottom plate of said package. 
A method according to claim 10, said method 
 

comprising the step of fixing said base to said package, 
wherein said base includes a plate. 
A method according to claim 10, said method 
comprising the step of fixing said base to said package, 

wherein said base includes a lead frame. 
A method according to claim 10, further 
comprising a method of manufacturing said wiring layer 

constituting said air bridge structure, said method of 
manufacturing said wiring layers constituting said air 

bridge structure having the steps of: 

(i) forming first, second, and third wiring layers 
on said substrate; 
(j) coating a resist on an exposed surface of said 
substrate and on said first, second, and third 

wiring layers; 
(k) removing said resist on regions on said first 
and second wiring layers, thereby exposing a 

surface of said first wiring layer and a 
surface of said second wiring layer; 
(l) forming a wiring layer serving as a bridge on an 
exposed surface of said first wiring layer, an 

exposed surface of said second wiring layer, 
and an exposed surface of a remaining portion 

of said resist; and 
(m) removing said resist arranged between said 
wiring layer serving as said bridge and said 

substrate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
