<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617837</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MASS SPECTROMETRY METHOD USING FILTERED NOISE SIGNAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J4942	H01J4938	H01J4934	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J49	H01J49	H01J49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mass spectrometry method in which a trapping field signal (such as a three-dimensional quadrupole trapping field signal or other multipole trapping field signal) set to store ions of interest is superimposed with a notch-filtered broadband ("filtered noise") signal, and ions are formed or injected in the resulting combined field. The filtered noise signal resonates all ions (except selected ones of the ions) from the combined field, so that only selected ones of the ions remain trapped in the combined field. The combined filtered noise and trapping field signal (the "combined signal") is then changed to excite the trapped ions sequentially, so that the excited ions can be detected sequentially. The invention can be applied to perform an (MS)
<
n
>
 or CI, or combined CI/(MS)
<
n
>
, mass spectrometry operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMADZU CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMADZU CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLEY PAUL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLEY, PAUL, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to mass spectrometry methods in
which ions are selectively trapped within an ion trap, and
the trapped ions are then sequentially detected. More
particularly, the invention is a mass spectrometry method in
which a notch-filtered broadband signal is applied to an ion
trap while ions are selectively trapped within the trap, and
the trapped ions are then sequentially detected.In a class of conventional mass spectrometry
techniques known as "MS/MS" methods, ions (known as "parent
ions") having mass-to-charge ratio within a selected range
are isolated in an ion trap. The trapped parent ions are
then allowed, or induced, to dissociate (for example, by
colliding with background gas molecules within the trap) to
produce ions known as "daughter ions." The daughter ions are
then ejected from the trap and detected.For example, US-A-4,736,101 discloses an MS/MS method
in which ions (having a mass-to-charge ratio within a
predetermined range) are trapped within a three-dimensional
quadrupole trapping field. The trapping field is then
scanned to eject unwanted parent ions (ions other than
parent ions having a desired mass-to-charge ratio)
consecutively from the trap. The trapping field is then
changed again to become capable of storing daughter ions of
interest. The trapped parent ions are then induced to
dissociate to produce daughter ions, and the daughter ions
are ejected consecutively (sequentially by m/z) from the
trap for detection.In order to eject unwanted parent ions from the trap
prior to parent ion dissociation, US-A-4,736,101 teaches
that the trapping field should be scanned by sweeping the
amplitude of the fundamental voltage which defines the
trapping field.US-A-4,736,101 also teaches that a supplemental AC 
field can be applied to the trap during the period in which
the parent ions undergo dissociation, in order to promote
the dissociation process (see column 5, lines 43-62), or to
eject a particular ion from the trap so that the ejected ion
will not be detected during subsequent ejection and
detection of sample ions (see column 4, line 60, through
column 5, line 6).US-A-4,736,101 also suggests (at column 5, lines 7-12)
that a supplemental AC field could be applied to the
trap during an initial ionization period, to eject a
particular ion (especially an ion that would otherwise be
present in large quantities) that would otherwise interfere
with the study of other (less common) ions of interest.US-A-4,686,367 to Louris, et al., discloses another
conventional mass spectrometry
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A mass spectrometry method, including the steps of:

(a) introducing ions in a trapping region defined by
a set of electrodes, while applying a combined signal to

at least a subset of the electrodes thereby establishing
a combined field capable of trapping one or more

selected ones of the ions in the trapping region, and
ejecting ions other than said selected ones of the ions

from the trapping region, wherein the combined signal
comprises a trapping voltage signal and a notched

broadband signal; and
(b) after step (a), changing one or more parameters
of the combined signal to sequentially excite the

selected ones of the ions for detection.
The method of claim 1, wherein

the trapping voltage signal establishes a
three-dimensional quadrupole trapping field in the

trapping region.
The method of claim 1, wherein

the trapping voltage signal establishes a hexapole
trapping field in the trapping region.
The method of claim 1, wherein

the trapping voltage signal establishes an octapole
trapping field in the trapping region.
The method of any of claims 1 to 4 wherein

the electrodes include a ring electrode and a pair of
end electrodes.
The method of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein
step (b) includes the step of:

changing an amplitude and/or frequency of a component of
the trapping voltage signal. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein

the trapping voltage signal has a radio frequency
component, and step (b) includes the step of changing an

amplitude and/or frequency of said radio frequency
component.
The method of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein

the trapping voltage signal has a radio frequency
component and a DC component, and step (b) includes the

step of changing an amplitude of said DC component.
The method of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein

step (b) includes the step of resonating said selected
ones of the ions to a degree sufficient for in-trap

detection by an in-trap detector.
The method of claim 9, wherein

step (b) includes the step of detecting said selected
ones of the ions using an in-situ detector.
The method of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein

step (b) includes the step of exciting said selected
ones of the ions to a degree sufficient for ejection

from the trapping region for detection outside the
trapping region.
The method of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein

the notched broadband signal has a single notch.
The method of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein

the notch has a frequency bandwidth substantially equal
to one kilohertz.
The method of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein

the notch has a frequency bandwidth substantially
greater than fifteen kilohertz. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein

the notch has a frequency bandwidth substantially equal
to 225 kilohertz.
The method of any of claims 1 to 15, wherein

the notched broadband signal has frequency components in
a range from about 10 kilohertz to about 175 kilohertz,

and wherein the notched broadband signal is applied to
the ring electrode to resonate the ions other than said

selected ones of the ions out of the trapping region in
radial directions toward the ring electrode.
The method of any of claims 1 to 15, wherein

the notched broadband signal has frequency components in
a range from about 10 kilohertz to about 500 kilohertz,

and wherein the notched broadband signal is applied to
the end electrodes.
The method of any of claims 1 to 17, wherein

step (b) includes the step of performing a mass
selective instability scan to sequentially excite said

selected ones of the ions for detection.
The method of any of claims 1 to 18, wherein

step (b) includes the step of changing one or more
parameters of the notched broadband signal to

sequentially excite said selected ones of the ions for
detection.
The method of any of claims 1 to 19, wherein

step (a) includes the step of introducing collision gas
into the trap region in such a manner as to improve mass

resolution and/or sensitivity during step (b).
The method of any of claims 1 to 19, wherein

step (a) includes the step of introducing collision gas
into the trap region in such a manner as to improve ion 

storage efficiency.
The method of any of claims 1 to 17, wherein

the combined signal also includes a supplemental AC
voltage signal.
A method of claim 1, wherein

step (b) includes the steps of terminating application
of the notched broadband signal, and changing one or

more parameters of the trapping voltage signal to
sequentially excite the selected ones of the ions for

detection.
The method of claim 23, wherein

the trapping voltage signal establishes a
three-dimensional quadrupole trapping field in the

trapping region during step (b).
The method of claim 23 or 24, wherein

step (b) includes the step of performing a mass
selective instability scan to sequentially excite said

selected ones of the ions for detection.
The method of any of claims 23 to 25, wherein

the trapping voltage signal has a radio frequency
component and a DC component, and step (b) includes the

step of changing an amplitude of said DC component.
The method of any of claims 23 to 26, wherein

the combined field is capable of trapping parent ions
and daughter ions, and wherein step (b) includes the

steps of:

(c) applying a low power supplemental AC voltage
signal to the electrodes to induce dissociation of a

first trapped parent ion, wherein the low power
supplemental AC voltage signal has a first frequency

matching a resonant frequency of the first trapped 
parent ion;
(d) after step (c), applying a high power
supplemental AC voltage signal to the electrodes to

resonate a first daughter ion to a degree sufficient to
enable detection of the first daughter ion, wherein the

high power supplemental AC voltage signal has a second
frequency matching a resonant frequency of the first

daughter ion; and
(e) after step (d), applying a second low power
supplemental AC voltage signal to the electrodes to

induce dissociation of a second trapped parent ion,
wherein the second low power supplemental AC voltage

signal has a third frequency matching a resonant
frequency of the second trapped parent ion; and
(f) after step (e), applying a second high power
supplemental AC voltage signal to the electrodes to

resonate a second daughter ion to a degree sufficient to
enable detection of the second daughter ion, wherein the

second high power supplemental AC voltage signal has a
fourth frequency matching a resonant frequency of the

second daughter ion.
The method of any of claims 23 to 26, wherein
the combined field is capable of trapping parent ions

and daughter ions, and wherein step (b) includes the
steps of:


applying a high power supplemental AC voltage signal
to the electrodes to resonate first ions having a first

mass-to-charge ratio to a degree sufficient to enable
detection of said first ions;
then, applying a low power supplemental AC voltage
signal to the electrodes to induce dissociation of first

parent ions to produce first daughter ions, wherein the
low power supplemental AC voltage signal has a first

frequency matching a resonant frequency of the first
parent ions, and wherein the first daughter ions have

the first mass-to-charge ratio; and 
then, applying a second high power supplemental AC
voltage signal to the electrodes to resonate the first

daughter ions to a degree sufficient to enable detection
of the first daughter ions, wherein the second high

power supplemental AC voltage signal has a second
frequency matching a resonant frequency of the first

daughter ions.
The method of claim 28, wherein

the first parent ion has molecular weight equal to P,
and wherein the first ions and the first daughter ions

have molecular weight equal to P-N, where N is a neutral
loss mass.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
