<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642237</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Signal compression circuit and light transmitter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1002	H04B1004	H04B1018	H04B1002	H04B1014	H04B1014	H04J100	H04B1018	H04B10155	H04B1004	H04B1026	H04B1006	H04B1028	H04B1026	H04B1028	H04J100	H04B1006	H04B10152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04J	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04J	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04J1	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04J1	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is provided a signal compression circuit 
including detection device for detecting that value of 

an input signal has exceeded a predetermined set value, a 
pulse generation device for generating, based on the result 

of the detection, a pulse signal constituted of frequency 
components which have no substantial adverse influence on 

the input signal and having a polarity in a direction of 
reducing the parts of the input signal exceeding the 

predetermined set value , a delay device for delaying the 
input signal so that there is a phase match between the 

generated pulse signal and the portions of the input signal 
exceeding the predetermined set value and an addition device 

for adding the delayed input signal and the pulse signal. 
There is further provided a light transmitter including the 

signal compression circuit and a light source for outputting 
a light signal which has been intensity-modulated by the 

output signal of the signal compression circuit. This 
configuration prevents or reduces clipping caused by the 

characteristics of a circuit or light source connected 
downstream of the signal compression circuit to suppress 

deterioration in distortion performance or digital errors. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UTSUMI KUNIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UTSUMI, KUNIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a
signal amplitude compression circuit used in optical
communication for modulating a light source such as a
semiconductor laser and a light transmitter comprising said
signal amplitude compression circuit.A semiconductor laser has input and output
characteristics such that it does not output light when the
current of a modulating signal input thereto is below a
certain threshold. Therefore, the modulating signal current
of a semiconductor laser which is a frequency division
multiplexed signal or a multiplexed signal of spread
spectrum signals is not converted into an output light
signal where it falls below the threshold of the
semiconductor laser. In other words, the parts of the
modulating current below the threshold of the semiconductor
laser are lost instead of being converted into an output
light signal. This phenomenon is referred to as "clipping". From EP-A-0 498 456 is known that linearization of optical and other
nonlinear transmitters is a difficult aim and that proposed solutions suffer from
practical disadvantages. It is reported there that predistortion was employed in
the past to reduce distortion inherent in nonlinear devices. In this technique, a
modulation signal is combined with a signal equal in magnitude to the distortion
inherent in the nonlinear device but opposite in sign. When the nonlinear
device modulates the combined signal, the device's inherent distortion is
canceled by the combined signal's predistortion and only the linear part of the
source signal is transmitted. This predistortion signal is usually in the form of
additive and subtractive combinations of the input fundamental frequencies as
these intermodulation products constitute the most fertile source of distortion in
analog signal transmission. According to EP-A-0 498 456, the input signal is
split into two or three paths with the primary part of the signal applied directly,
with a time delay to compensate for delays in two secondary paths. One
secondary path generates even order intermodulation products and the other
generates odd order intermodulation products. These are recombined with the
primary signal in proper phase and amplitude for canceling distortion in the
output.From WO 93/05591, a system for signal level control in AM fiber systems is
provided. The system provides level controls at both transmitter and receiver
ends of the fiber transmission system, utilizing compensation and control
techniques at each end to maintain and optimize the performance of the
system. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A signal amplitude compression circuit, 
characterized by
 comprising:

a detection means (1) for detecting that the amplitude of an
input signal (10) has exceeded a predetermined set value;
a pulse generation means (2) for generating, based on the
result of the detecting of the detection means (1), a pulse

signal whose frequency spectrum does not overlap
the frequency spectrum of said input signal (10), said pulse signal having

a polarity opposite to that of portions of the input
signal (10) exceeding said predetermined set value ;
a delay means (3) for delaying said input signal (10) so that
there is a phase match between the generated pulse signal

and the portions of the input signal (10) exceeding the
predetermined set value; and
an addition means (4) for adding the delayed input signal
and said pulse signal.
The signal amplitude compression circuit according to claim 1,
wherein :


the detection means (1) includes a peak detection means (1-2)
for detecting a peak value of said input signal (10) when it is

detected that the amplitude of said input signal (10) has exceeded
the predetermined set value and wherein the pulse signal

generated by said pulse generating means (2) is a pulse signal
having a peak value corresponding to said detected peak 

value.
The signal amplitude compression circuit according to Claim
1, wherein the detection means (1) and said pulse generation

means (2) comprise a comparator (101) for comparing said input signal (10)
and said predetermined set value (12) and for outputting a

rectangular original pulse signal (102) as the result of the
comparison and a low-pass filter (202) for removing high frequency

components from said pulse signal which overlap the frequency spectrum of said input signal.
The signal amplitude compression circuit according to Claim
1, wherein the detection means (1) includes an analog-to-digital

conversion portion (103) for performing analog-to-digital
conversion on said input signal (10) and a determination portion (104)

for detecting that the output of the analog-to-digital
conversion portion (103) has exceeded said predetermined set

value and for detecting the peak value thereof.
A light transmitter comprising said signal amplitude
compression circuit of any one of Claims 1 to 4 and a

signal output means (5) for outputting an intensity-modulated
signal based on a signal obtained by the addition performed

by the addition means (4) of the signal amplitude compression circuit.
The light transmitter according to Claim 5, wherein
the signal output means is a light signal output means (5) for

outputting a intensity-modulated light signal. 
The light transmitter according to Claim 6, wherein

the light signal output means (5) includes an unmodulated light
source portion for outputting unmodulated light and a light

modulation portion for modulating the unmodulated light.
The light transmitter according to Claim 6, wherein
the light signal output means is a semiconductor laser (5).
The light transmitter according to Claim 8, wherein
said predetermined set value of the detection means is the

threshold of said semiconductor laser (5) or a value
corresponding to the threshold and wherein said pulse

generation means (2) generates a pulse signal which causes
modulating current input to said semiconductor laser (5) to

exceed said threshold.
The light transmitter according to Claim 8,
wherein said predetermined set value (12) of the detection means (1)

is the threshold of said semiconductor laser (5) for a value
corresponding to the threshold and wherein said pulse

generation means (2) generates a pulse signal having a polarity
opposite to that of the portion of the modulating current input to

said semiconductor laser (5) which has exceeded said
predetermined set value (12).
The signal amplitude compression circuit of claim 1, wherein 

the predetermined set value (12) is provided for each of the
polarities of said input signal.
The signal amplitude compression circuit of claim 11, wherein 

the detection means includes a peak detection means
for detecting a peak value of said input signal when it is

detected that the value of said input signal has exceeded
the predetermined set value and wherein the pulse signal

generated by said pulse generating means is a pulse signal
having a peak value corresponding to said detected peak

value.
The signal amplitude compression circuit of claim 1, wherein 

the input signal is a frequency division multiplexed
signal or a multiplexed signal of spread spectrum signals.
The signal amplitude compression circuit according to Claim 3,
wherein the pulse signal output by said pulse generation means (2) is a staircase signal (213)

which has been subjected to digital signal processing for
removing frequency components which overlap the frequency spectrum of said

input signal.
The signal amplitude compression circuit according to Claim
3, wherein the pulse generating means (2) includes a storage

portion (203) for storing digital data representing the waveform
of said pulse signal and a digital-to-analog

conversion portion (204) for performing digital-to-analog
conversion on the digital data from the storage portion (203).
The signal amplitude compression circuit according to Claim
3, wherein the pulse generating means (2) includes a pulse

signal data generating portion (206) for generating pulse signal
data and a low-pass digital filter (205) for performing digital

signal processing on the generated pulse signal data to
remove frequency components which overlap the frequency spectrum of said

input signal.
The signal amplitude compression circuit of claim 1, wherein 

the pulse generation means (2) includes a pulse generating
portion for generating a one-shot rectangular original pulse

signal and a filter for removing frequency components from the generated
original pulse signal which overlap

the frequency spectrum of said input signal.
The signal amplitude compression circuit according to Claim
17, wherein the original pulse signal is a staircase signal (213)

which has been subjected to digital signal processing for
removing frequency components which overlap the frequency spectrum of said

input signal.
The signal amplitude compression circuit according to Claim 
17, wherein the pulse generating means (2) includes a storage

portion (203) for storing digital data representing the waveform
of said original pulse signal and a digital-to-analog

conversion portion (204) for performing digital-to-analog
conversion on the digital data from the storage portion (203).
The signal amplitude compression circuit according to Claim
17, wherein the pulse generating means (2) includes a pulse

signal data generating portion (206) for generating pulse signal
data and a low-pass digital filter (205) for performing digital

signal processing on the generated pulse signal data to
remove frequency components which overlap the frequency spectrum of said

input signal.
A light transmitter comprising said signal
compression circuit of any one of Claims 17 to 20 and a

signal output means (5) for outputting an intensity-modulated
signal based on a signal obtained by the addition performed

by the addition means (4) of the signal amplitude compression circuit.
The light transmitter according to Claim 21,
wherein the signal output means is a light signal output

means (5) for outputting a intensity-modulated light signal.
The light transmitter according to Claim 22,
wherein the light signal output means (5) includes an

unmodulated light source portion for outputting unmodulated
light and a light modulation portion for modulating the 

unmodulated light.
The light transmitter according to Claim 22,
wherein the light signal output means is a semiconductor

laser (5).
The light transmitter according to Claim 24,
wherein said predetermined set value of the detection means

is the threshold of said semiconductor laser (5) or a value
corresponding to the threshold and wherein said pulse

generation means (2) generates a pulse signal which causes
modulating current input to said semiconductor laser (5) to

exceed said threshold.
The light transmitter according to Claim 24,
wherein said predetermined set value (12) of the detection means (1)

is the threshold of said semiconductor laser (5) or a value
corresponding to the threshold and wherein said pulse

generation means (2) generates a pulse signal having a polarity opposite
to that of the portion of the modulating current input to

said semiconductor laser (5) which has exceeded said
predetermined value (12).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
