<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616417</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR CONTROL OF AC MOTOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02P2900	C08J302	H02P2704	H02P2706	H02P2300	H02P2300	C08J303	H02K1100	H02P2900	H02K1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02P	C08J	H02P	H02P	H02P	H02P	C08J	H02K	H02P	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02P29	C08J3	H02P27	H02P27	H02P23	H02P23	C08J3	H02K11	H02P29	H02K11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A torque command T
cmd1
 is determined (S1). Unless the torque 
command exceeds a given limit value K₀ during acceleration, the torque 

command T
cmd1
 is output as it is as a torque command (current command) 
T
cmd2
 to the current loop (S2, S3, S9, and S10). If it exceeds the 
limit value K₀, the amplitude I₀ of the actual current is determined (S5). 

A limit value L is determined from the magnitude R (T) of the torque 
command T
cmd2
 determined one cycle before and the limited value K₀ 
(S6). The torque command T
cmd1
 is clamped by the limit value L to output 
it to the current loop as a torque command T
cmd2
. During deceleration, 
the above-mentioned processes from Step S4 to Step S8 are executed. 

During acceleration, the limit value L can be determined by the 
amplitude ratio between the current command and the actual current, 

clamped at this value, and used as the torque command T
cmd
. Therefore, 
the amplitude of the actual current is not reduced, and the output torque 

is increased. In deceleration, if the actual current is increased due to the 
counter-electromotive force, the limit value L is reduced to make the 

command small, so that the actual current does not exceed the limit value. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FANUC LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FANUC LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWASHITA YASUSUKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWASHITA, YASUSUKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a control method 
for an alternating current motor, and more particularly 
to a control method for an alternating current motor with 
a limiter capable of clamping a torque command at a 
predetermined limit value when the torque command exceeds 
the limit value, thereby providing thus limited torque 
command, as an amplitude of a current command, to a 
current loop of each phase of the alternating current 
motor. In motors of alternating current type, such as 
induction motors and synchronous motors, current flowing 
through each exciting winding is alternating current, 
whose frequency is proportional to a rotational speed of 
the motor. Thus, with increasing rotational speed of the 
motor, frequency of the command current to be supplied to 
the exciting winding and frequency of the actual current 
of the exciting winding increase. Frequency increase of 
the actual current brings amplitude reduction of the 
actual current with respect to the command, as well as 
phase delay and power factor reduction. Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing a conventional 
speed loop processing used for the speed control of a 
three-phase AC motor. In Fig. 1, a reference numeral 1 represents a speed 
loop compensatory circuit, in which a speed feedback 
signal vf supplied from a speed detector, attached to the 
motor to detect the actual speed of the motor, is 
subtracted from a speed command Vc to obtain a speed 
deviation. The product of the integrated value of the  
 
speed deviation and integral constant K1, and the product 
of the speed deviation and the proportional constant K2 
are added, and the result is outputted as torque command 
Tcmd1. That is, the PI (proportional-and-integral) 
control is applied to the speed of the motor to obtain 
the torque command Tcmd1. Next, in order not only to 
protect the components, such as transistors for 
controlling the motor but also to protect the motor 
itself, the torque command Tcmd1 is inputted into a 
current limiter 2, in which plus-and-minus upper limit 
values of the torque command Tcmd1 are clamped at 
predetermined limit values so as to generate a torque 
command (an amplitude of the current command in the 
current loop processing) Tcmd2 to be supplied to each 
phase current loop circuit which controls the current 
flowing through each phase winding. In a case where the 
speed loop control is not carried out, the torque command 
will be directly inputted to the current limiter 2. 
Then, the torque command (amplitude of the current 
comma
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A control method for an alternating current motor 
with a current limiter (2) designed for clamping a torque 

command at a limit value (L) when the torque command exceeds 
a preset limit value (K
0
) so that the torque command which has been 
processed by the limiter (2) is provided as an amplitude of a 

current command to the current loop of each phase, said 
control method comprising steps of: 


obtaining an amplitude (I
0
) of actual current by 
measuring the actual current (Ir, Is, It) of each phase; 
correcting a limit value (L) of current based on a ratio 
of said current command (T
0
) of the current loop to said 
amplitude (I
0
) of the actual current in such a manner that the 
actual current (I
0
) is controlled to be identical to the preset limit value (K
0
); and 
clamping said torque command by said corrected limit 
value of current, so as to provide an amplitude of the 

current command to be supplied to the current loop. 
A control method for an alternating current motor 
in accordance with claim 1, wherein said correcting step 

for correcting the limit value of the current limiter (2) is 
executed during the decelerating period of the motor and 

during the accelerating period of the motor in which said 
torque command is larger than the limit value set by the 

limiter (2). 
A control method according to claim 1, wherein 
the 

torque command, having passed through said current limiter (2),  
 

determines an amplitude of a current command for the 
current loop processing of each phase in controlling the 

current flowing through a winding (R,S,T) of each phase of the 
motor, thereby providing sine-wave current commands, as 

torque commands to be supplied to the windings (R,S,T) of 
respective phases, on the bases of: thus determined 

amplitude of the current command; the number of phases; a 
rotational position of the rotor of the motor detected by 

a position detector; and a phase lead amount to be 
compensated by the phase lead control, said control 

method comprising steps of: 

measuring an amplitude (I
0
) of actual current flowing 
through a motor winding in each predetermined period and 

then calculating a ratio of the torque command (T
0
) stored in 
the preceding period, which serves as an input to the 

current loop, to thus measured amplitude (I
0
) of the actual 
current; 
correcting the preset limit value in said current 
limiter (2) based on the calculated rati
o, thereby obtaining 
an actual limit value of the current limiter (2) to be 

applied in the present period; and 
outputting said torque command to the current loop 
after allowing said torque command to pass through the 

current limiter (2) storing the corrected limit value; 
whereby the amplitude of the actual current flowing in 
the winding (R,S,T) of each phase of the motor is substantially 

suppressed so as not to exceed the limit value pre-set in 
the current limiter (2). 
A control method for an alternating current motor 
in accordance with claim 3, wherein said correcting step 

for correcting the limit value of the current limiter (2) is 
executed during the decelerating period of the motor and  

 
during the accelerating period of the motor in which said 

torque command is larger than a specific limit value set 
by the limiter (2). 
A control method for an alternating current motor 
in accordance with claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the torque 

command inputted to the current limiter (2) is a torque 
command obtained through the proportional-and-integral 

control (1) of a deviation between a command speed (Vc) and an 
actual speed (vf) obtained by a speed detector. 
A control method for an alternating current motor 
in accordance with any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the 

actual limit value (L) of the current limiter to be passed 
in the present period is determined by the following 

equation 

L = K
0
·T
0
/I
0
 
   where I
0
 represents the amplitude of the actual 
current flowing through the motor winding in the present 

period; T
0
, the torque command supplied to the current 
loop and stored in the preceding period; and K
0
, the limit 
value pre-set in the current limiter. 
A control method for an alternating current motor 
in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the 

amplitude (I
0
) of the actual current flowing through said 
motor winding is obtained by summing the squares of the 

currents flowing through the windings (R,S,T) of each phase. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
