<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658227</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PAPER STRENGTHENED WITH SOLUBILIZED COLLAGEN, AND METHOD FOR MAKING THE SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K14435	C07K1478	D21H1100	D21H1114	D21H1700	D21H1722	D21H2114	D21H2118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	D21H	D21H	D21H	D21H	D21H	D21H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	D21H11	D21H11	D21H17	D21H17	D21H21	D21H21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for making a collagen strengthened cellulosic sheet by providing a cellulosic pulp slurry; adding solubilized collagen to the pulp slurry, and mixing for a time effective for interaction of the cellulosic pulp slurry and solubilized collagen; forming the interacted cellulosic pulp slurry and solubilized collagen into a sheet; and drying the sheet; also, a method for using solubilized collagen for strengthening paper by mixing the solubilized collagen with a cellulosic pulp slurry; and making a cellulosic pulp product from the mixture and drying.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RANPAK CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RANPAK CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRODY RICHARD S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINK DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEMMER PAUL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES KENNETH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASTERSON DAVID C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
METZ BARBARA A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PICKETT GORDON E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRODY, RICHARD S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINK, DAVID J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEMMER, PAUL M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES, KENNETH E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASTERSON, DAVID C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
METZ, BARBARA A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PICKETT, GORDON E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Paper strengthened with solubilized collagen, and method for making the same.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a process for making solubilized collagen and for making solubilized collagen-strengthened paper that 5 provides advantages over other known processes that make improved papers. The invention also relates to the improved solubilized collagen and improved paper made by the process. The invention has utility in making low cost solubilized collagen and in binders for cellulosic products, especially in the production of recycled 10 cellulosic paper that has improved mechanical properties and low cost.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe processing of animal hides to produce leather is an ancient art, and today it is a very mature industry. Excellent references to15 the chemistry of leather manufacture by McLauglin, G.D., et al , The Chemistry of Leather Manufacture. Reinhold Publishing Corp, N.Y. (1945), and collagen reactivity by Gustavson, K.H., The Chemistry and Reactivity of Collagen. Academic Press Inc., N.Y. (1956), date from the 1940's and 1950's, and are still basic descriptions of the art20 practiced today. The name "collagen" is derived from the Greek word for glue, as is the term "colloid" which means "gluelike" in Greek.Skin is composed of four distinct layers, which are, proceeding from outside-in: (1) a thin outer layer of epithelium termed the "epidermis", which is rich in the protein keratin, not collagen;25 (2) a dense collagen-rich layer, termed the "dermal" or "grain" layer, also called in the older literature the "thermostat' layer; (3) a thicker layer of less-dense, collagen-rich connective tissues, termed the "coriu " layer; and (4) an inner layer of "subcutaneous tissue", known to the tanner as "flesh", by which the skin is30 attached to the underlying tissue.Although hides may merely be "cured" in salt and/or other biocidal solutions to stop microbial degradation, many hides that are intended for use in leather manufacture are "limed", that is, soaked 

in a saturated solution of hydrated lime (calcium hydroxide) and water. The liming process initiates the loosening of the epidermis and the subcutaneous layer, and is the first step in the dehairing process. After liming is complete, the hair, epidermis, and any residual flesh, fat and surface muscles are removed by mechanical scraping, and the dermal layer is mechanically cut, along with enough of the corium layer to give the final leather its required thickness, from the remaining inner corium layer.In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
We claim: 1. A method for making a collagen strengthened cellulosic sheet comprising: a. providing a cellulosic pulp slurry; b. adding solubilized collagen to said pulp slurry, and mixing for a time effective for interaction of said cellulosic pulp slurry and solubilized collagen; c. forming said interacted cellulosic pulp slurry and solubilized collagen into a sheet; and d. drying said sheet.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein said sheet is a paper sheet.
3. A method for using solubilized collagen for strengthening paper comprising: mixing said solubilized collagen with a cellulosic pulp slurry; molding said mixture and drying.
4. A strengthened cellulosic pulp composition comprising: the dried reaction product of a mixture of solubilized collagen and cellulosic pulp.
5. A strengthened paper product comprising: paper prepared from a mixture of solubilized collagen and cellulosic pulp.
6. A method for making a collagen strengthened cellulosic sheet comprising: a. mixing a cellulosic material selected from the group consisting of virgin paper pulp, broke, reclaimed newsprint, reclaimed carton container, or a mixture thereof with a solution comprising water, or water and caustic, and mechanically pulping until a pulp slurry is formed having a consistency of about 3 wt% to about 6 wt% based on dry pulp solids; 


 b. di l uting sai d pul p sl urry to a consi stency of about 1 wt% to about 3 wt% based on dry pul p sol ids and adjusti ng pH to about 3.5 to about 7.0; c. adding between about 0.1 dry wt% to about 2 dry wt% soluble collagen (based on dry weight of cellulosic material) to said diluted pulp slurry, and mixing at a shear rate and a time effective for interaction of said diluted pulp slurry solids and soluble collagen, whereby at least a substantial portion of said soluble collagen is bound to said paper pulp to form a collagen-pulp slurry; d. diluting said collagen-pulp slurry to between about 0.1 dry wt% and 1 dry wt% consistency; e. forming said collagen-pulp slurry into a sheet; and f. drying said sheet.
7. The method of Claim 6, whereby said mixing in Step c is for at least 15 minutes.
8. The method of Claim 6, whereby said pH is adjusted with an acid selected from the group consisting of muriatic acid, HCl, HN0
3
, H
2
S0
4
, and acetic acid.
9. The method of Claim 6, including an additional Step of coating said sheet of Step e with sizing prior to drying.
10. The method of Claim 6 wherein said sizing further comprises: collagen hydrolyzate having a number average molecular weight of 100,000 daltons or less.
11. The method of Claim 6, further comprising calendering said dried sheet.
12. The method of Claim 6, whereby said NaOH solution in Step a has a concentration of about 0.25 wt% to about 1.00 wt% based on dry weight of solids and a pH range 10-14.
13. The method of Claim 6, whereby said solubilized collagen has a number average molecular weight above 300,000 daltons. 


 14. The method of Claim 6, whereby said solubilized collagen has a number average molecular weight above 1,000,000 daltons.
15. The method of Claim 6, whereby said mixing is at a shear rate adapted to promote collagen-pulp interactions without denaturation of the collagen triple helical structure.
16. The method of Claim 6, whereby said collagen-paper slurry has a consistency of about 0.5 dry wt%.
17. The method of Claim 6, whereby an alum/rosin additive is added after pulping in Step a or after dilution in Step b.
18. The method of Claim 6, whereby after forming the sheet in Step e, said formed sheet is wet pressed to a preselected thickness prior to drying.
19. The method of Claim 6, further comprising when only water is selected in Step a, the additional step of: al. refining said pulp/water slurry from Step a, to fibrillate cellulose fibers in said slurry to obtain a degree of freeness that obtains a selected water drainage when forming a sheet in Step e.
20. The method of Claim 19, whereby, when substantially reclaimed newsprint is selected, the degree of freeness is between about 100 CSF and about 150 CSF and when substantially reclaimed carton container is selected the degree of freeness is between about 300 CSF and about 400 CSF.
21. The method of Claim 19, whereby an alum/rosin additive is added after refining in Step al.
22. A method for making a collagen strengthened cellulosic sheet comprising: a. mixing a cellulosic material selected from the group consisting of virgin paper pulp, broke, reclaimed newsprint, reclaimed carton container, or a mixture thereof with a solution comprising water, or water and NaOH, and mechanically pulping until a 


pulp slurry is formed having a consistency of about 3 wt% to about 6 wt% based on dry pulp solids; b. diluting said pulp slurry to a consistency of about 1 wt% to about 3 wt% based on dry pulp solids and adjusting pH to about 3.5 to about 7.0; c. adding an alum/rosin additive to said pulp slurry after Step a or to said diluted pulp slurry after Step b; d. forming said diluted pulp slurry containing alum rosin into a sheet; e. coating one or both sides of said sheet with collagen hydrolyzate having a number average molecular weight of 100,000 daltons or less; and f. drying said sheet.
23. A method for making a collagen strengthened cellulosic sheet comprising: a. mixing a cellulosic material selected from the group consisting of virgin paper pulp, broke, reclaimed newsprint, reclaimed carton container, or a mixture thereof with a solution comprising water, or water and NaOH, and mechanically pulping until a pulp slurry is formed having a consistency of about 3 wt% to about 6 wt% based on dry pulp solids; b. diluting said pulp slurry to a consistency of about 1 wt% to about 3 wt% based on dry pulp solids and adjusting pH to about 3.5 to about 7.0; c. providing an aqueous ground slurry of insoluble collagen; d. adjusting the water or solid content of said wet ground slurry whereby said insoluble collagen is at a concentration that promotes substantially maximum solubilized collagen concentration and molecular weight in a final product; e. adjusting the pH of said slurry from Step d to obtain activity for a proteolytic enzyme added in Step f, f. adding said proteolytic enzyme to said pH adjusted slurry and reacting at a temperature, T, and for a time, t, effective for forming a solution of high molecular weight solubilized collagen from said insoluble collagen particles; g. controlling said reaction to obtain a high degree of solubilization of collagen and a molecular weight of said solubilized collagen where the collagen is capable of binding with cellulosic 


pulp by simultaneously measuring the concentration of solubilized collagen and the molecular weight of said solubilized collagen, whereby said reaction is complete when said molecular weight and said concentration are substantially maximized; h. adding and insoluble collagen with or without additional water to said solution containing high molecular weight solubilized collagen in Step f and mixing; i. separating at least some of the solution containing high molecular weight solubilized collagen from the insoluble collagen and returning the insoluble collagen to Step d, whereby at least a portion of the proteolytic enzyme is recycled, and the separated solution containing high molecular weight soluble collagen is withdrawn; j. adding said separated solution of Step i. comprising between about 0.1 dry wt% to about 2 dry wt% soluble collagen (based on dry weight of cellulosic material) to said diluted pulp slurry, and mixing at a shear rate and a time effective for interaction of said diluted pulp slurry solids and soluble collagen, whereby at least a substantial portion of said soluble collagen is bound to said paper pulp to form a collagen-pulp slurry; k. diluting said collagen-pulp slurry to between about 0.1 dry wt% and 1 dry wt% consistency; 1. forming said collagen-pulp slurry into a sheet; and . drying said sheet.
24. A method for producing a collagen strengthened sheet comprising: a. providing an aqueous ground slurry of insoluble collagen and adjusting the pH of said slurry to obtain activity for a proteolytic enzyme added in Step b; b. adding said proteolytic enzyme to said pH adjusted slurry; c. reacting the slurry and enzyme of Step b or Step e at a temperature, T, and for a time, t, effective for forming a solution increased in high molecular weight solubilized collagen; d. adding insoluble collagen with or without additional water to said solution of Step c and mixing; e. separating at least some of the solution of Step d containing high molecular weight solubilized collagen from the insoluble collagen, whereby at least a portion of the proteolytic enzyme is 


recycled to Step c, and the separated solution containing high molecular weight solubilized collagen is withdrawn as product; f. mixing a cellulosic material selected from the group consisting of virgin paper pulp, broke, reclaimed newsprint, reclaimed carton container, or a mixture thereof with a solution comprising water, or water and caustic, and mechanically pulping until a pulp slurry is formed having a consistency of about 3 to about 6 wt% based on dry pulp solids; g. diluting said pulp slurry to a consistency of about 1 to about 3 wt% based on dry pulp solids and adjusting pH to about 3.5 to about 7.0; h. adding soluble collagen from Step e to said diluted pulp slurry in an amount from between about 0.1 to about 2 dry wt% soluble collagen (based on dry weight of cellulosic material), and mixing at a shear rate and a time effective for interaction of said diluted pulp slurry solids and soluble collagen, whereby at least a substantial portion of said soluble collagen is bound to said paper pulp to form a collagen-pulp slurry; i. diluting said collagen-pulp slurry to between about 0.1 dry wt% and 1 dry wt% consistency; and j. forming said collagen-pulp slurry into a sheet and drying.
25. A method for producing an aqueous solution of high molecular weight solubilized collagen comprising: a. providing an aqueous ground slurry of insoluble collagen; b. adjusting the water or solid content of said wet ground slurry whereby said insoluble collagen is at a concentration that promotes substantially maximum solubilized collagen concentration and molecular weight in a final product; c. adjusting the pH of said slurry from Step b to obtain activity for a proteolytic enzyme added in Step d; d. adding and mixing said proteolytic enzyme with said pH adjusted slurry; e. reacting the slurry of Step d at a temperature, T, and for a time, t, effective for forming a solution comprising high molecular weight solubilized collagen derived from said insoluble collagen particles; 


 f. adding additional water and insoluble collagen to said solution containing high molecular weight solubilized collagen in Step e and mixing; g. separating at least some of the solution of Step f containing high molecular weight solubilized collagen from the insoluble collagen and returning the insoluble collagen to Step e, whereby at least a portion of the proteolytic enzyme is recycled, and the separated solution containing high molecular weight solubilized collagen is withdrawn as product; h. mixing a cellulosic material selected from the group consisting of virgin paper pulp, broke, reclaimed newsprint, reclaimed carton container, or a mixture thereof with a solution comprising water, or water and NaOH, and mechanically pulping until a pulp slurry is formed having a consistency of about 3 to about 6 wt% based on dry pulp solids; i. diluting said pulp slurry to a consistency of about 1 to about 3 wt% based on dry pulp solids and adjusting pH to about 3.5 to about 7.0; j. adding soluble collagen from Step e to said diluted pulp slurry in an amount from between about 0.1 to about 2 dry wt% soluble collagen (based on dry weight of cellulosic material), and mixing at a shear rate and a time effective for interaction of said diluted pulp slurry solids and soluble collagen, whereby at least a substantial portion of said soluble collagen is bound to said paper pulp to form a collagen-pulp slurry; k. diluting said collagen-pulp slurry to between about 0.1 dry wt% and 1 dry wt% consistency; and 1. forming said collagen-pulp slurry into a sheet and drying.
26. A method for making a collagen strengthened cellulosic sheet comprising: a. providing a cellulosic pulp slurry; b. adding solubilized collagen to said pulp slurry whereby said cellulosic pulp and said solubilized collagen have a consistency above about 2 wt%, and mixing for a time effective for interaction of said cellulosic pulp slurry and solubilized collagen and whereby said mixing is at a temperature above about 40°C; 


 c. forming said interacted cellulosic pulp slurry and solubilized collagen into a sheet; and d. drying said sheet.
27. A method for producing an aqueous solution of solubilized collagen comprising: a. providing an aqueous ground slurry of insoluble collagen and adjusting the pH of said slurry to obtain activity for a proteolytic enzyme added in Step b; b. adding said proteolytic enzyme to said pH adjusted slurry; c. reacting said slurry and enzyme of Step b and\or recycled insoluble collagen and enzyme of Step e at a temperature, T, and for a time, t, effective for forming a solution increased in solubilized collagen; d. adding insoluble collagen with or without additional water to said solution of Step c and mixing; e. separating at least some of the solution of Step d containing solubilized collagen from said insoluble collagen, whereby at least a portion of said insoluble collagen and proteolytic enzyme is recycled to Step c, and a separated solution containing solubilized collagen is withdrawn as product.
28. The method of Claim 27, further comprising repeating Step c, Step d and Step e two or more times.
29. The method of Claim 27, comprising a continuous process.
30. The method of Claim 27, further comprising adding additional enzyme to the recycled insoluble collagen from Step e that substantially replaces enzyme removed with the withdrawal of product.
31. The method of Claim 27, further comprising adding additional enzyme to the recycled insoluble collagen from Step e when the rate of reaction on recycling decreases below a predetermined level.
32. The method of Claim 27, comprising stopping said reaction by (1) adjusting said pH to that where said proteolytic enzyme is substantially inactive; and/or 


 (2) reducing the temperature to that where said proteolytic enzyme is substantially inactive.
33. The method of Claim 27, further comprising in Step a, adjusting the liquid or solids content of said wet ground slurry so that said solids are adjusted to a concentration of about 0.1 to about 1.0 wt %.
34. The method of Claim 27, whereby said temperature, T, comprises about 5°C to about 30°C.
35. The method of Claim 27, whereby said temperature, T, comprises about 15°C to about 28°C.
36. The method of Claim 33, whereby said solids concentration is between about 0.3 to 0.35 wt % and said reaction of Step c is at a temperature of about 10 to about 30°C, and for a time of 12 to 72 hours.
37. The method of Claim 36, whereby said temperature is between 15°C and 28°C.
38. The method of Claim 27, further comprising: selecting said proteolytic enzyme from the group consisting of porcine mucosal pepsin, bromelain, chymopapain, chymotrypsin, collagenase, ficin, papain, peptidase, proteinase A, proteinase K, trypsin, microbial proteases and combinations of such enzymes.
39. The method of Claim 27, further comprising: wherein said proteolytic is enzyme a microbial acid proteases.
40. The method of Claim 38, further comprising: adjusting said pH to about 1.5 - 3.0, and said temperature to between about 18°C to about 28°C, when porcine mucosal pepsin is selected.
41. The method of Claim 27, further comprising: whereby at least 80 wt % of said insoluble collagen is converted to soluble collagen and the number average molecular weight is above 300,000 dal tons . 


 42. The method of Claim 27, further comprising: whereby at least 90 wt % of said insoluble collagen is converted to soluble collagen.
43. A method for producing an aqueous solution of solubilized collagen comprising: a. providing an aqueous ground slurry of insoluble collagen; b. adjusting the water or solid content of said wet ground slurry whereby said insoluble collagen is at a concentration that promotes substantially maximum solubilized collagen concentration and molecular weight in a final product; c. adjusting the pH of said slurry from Step b to obtain activity for a proteolytic enzyme added in Step d; d. adding and mixing said proteolytic enzyme with said pH adjusted slurry; e. reacting the slurry of Step d and\or said recycled insoluble collagen of Step g at a temperature, T, and for a time, t, effective for forming a solution comprising solubilized collagen derived from said insoluble collagen particles; f. adding insoluble collagen with or without additional water to said solution containing solubilized collagen in Step e and mixing; g. separating at least some of said solution of Step f containing solubilized collagen from said insoluble collagen and returning said insoluble collagen to Step e, whereby at least a portion of said proteolytic enzyme is recycled, and a separated solution containing solubilized collagen is withdrawn as product.
44. The method of Claim 43, further comprising repeating Step e through Step f two or more times.
45. The method of Claim 43, comprising stopping said reaction by (1) adjusting said pH to that where said proteolytic enzyme is substantially inactive; and/or (2) reducing the temperature to that where said proteolytic enzyme is substantially inactive. 


 46. The method of Claim 43, further comprising adding additional enzyme to said insoluble collagen from Step e that substantially replaces enzyme removed with the withdrawal of product.
47. The method of Claim 43, further comprising adding additional enzyme to said insoluble collagen from Step e when the rate of reaction on recycling decreases below a predetermined level.
48. The method of Claim 43, further comprising in Step b, adjusting said liquid or solids content of said wet ground slurry so that said solids are adjusted to a concentration of about 0.1 to about 1.0 wt %.
49. The method of Claim 43, whereby in Step e said temperature, T, comprises about 5°C to about 30°C.
50. The method of Claim 43, whereby in Step e said temperature, T, comprises about 15°C to about 28°C.
51. The method of Claim 43, whereby, in Step b, said solids concentration is between about 0.3 to 0.35 wt % and in Step e said reaction is at a temperature of about 10 to about 30°C, and for a time of 12 to 72 hours.
52. The method of Claim 51, whereby said temperature is between 15°C and 28°C.
53. The method of Claim 43, further comprising: selecting said proteolytic enzyme from the group consisting of porcine mucosal pepsin, bromelain, chymopapain, chymotrypsin, collagenase, ficin, papain, peptidase, proteinase A, proteinase K, trypsin, microbial proteases, and combinations of such enzymes.
54. The method of Claim 43, further comprising: wherein said proteolytic is enzyme a microbial acid protease.
55. The method of Claim 43, further comprising in Step c 


adjusting said pH to about 1.5 - 3.0 and in Step e said temperature to between about 18°C to about 28°C, when porcine mucosal pepsin is selected.
56. The method of Claim 43, further comprising: whereby at least 80 wt % of said insoluble collagen is converted to soluble collagen and the number average molecular weight is above 300,000 daltons.
57. The method of Claim 43, further comprising: whereby at least 90 wt % of said insoluble collagen is converted to soluble collagen.
58. A method for producing an aqueous solution of solubilized collagen comprising: a. providing an aqueous ground slurry of insoluble collagen; b. adjusting the water or solid content of said wet ground slurry whereby said insoluble collagen is at a concentration that promotes substantially maximum solubilized collagen concentration that is adapted to strengthen paper in a final product; c. adjusting the pH of said slurry from Step b to obtain activity for a proteolytic enzyme added in Step d; d. adding said proteolytic enzyme to said pH adjusted slurry and reacting at a temperature, T, and for a time, t, effective for forming solubilized collagen from said insoluble collagen particles; e. controlling said reaction conditions for obtaining a high concentration of soluble collagen by measuring the concentration of solubilized collagen and the molecular weight of said solubilized collagen, whereby said reaction is complete when said number average molecular weight fraction above 300,000 daltons and said concentration are substantially maximized; and f. withdrawing said aqueous solution of solubilized collagen as product.
59. The method of Claim 58, comprising stopping said reaction by (1) adjusting said pH to that where said proteolytic enzyme is substantially inactive; and/or (2) reducing the temperature to that where said proteolytic enzyme is substantially inactive. 


 60. The method of Claim 58, further comprising said viscosity is at least 75% of maximum.
61. The method of Claim 58, further comprising in Step b, adjusting said liquid or solids content of said wet ground slurry so that said solids are adjusted to a concentration of about 0.1 to about 1.0 wt %.
62. The method of Claim 58, whereby said temperature, T, comprises about 5°C to about 30°C.
63. The method of Claim 58, whereby said temperature, T, comprises about 15°C to about 30°C.
64. The method of Claim 58, whereby, in Step b, said solids concentration is between about 0.3 to 0.35 wt %; and in Step e. controlling said reaction at a temperature of about 15 to about 30°C, and for time of 10 to 48 hours.
65. The method of Claim 58, further comprising: selecting the proteolytic enzyme from the group consisting of porcine mucosal pepsin, bromelain, chymopapain, chymotrypsin, collagenase, ficin, papain, peptidase, proteinase A, proteinase K, trypsin, microbial proteases, and combinations of such enzymes.
66. The method of Claim 58, further comprising: adjusting the pH to between about 1.5 to about 3.0 and the temperature to between about 15°C to about 28°C, when porcine mucosal pepsin is selected.
67. The method of Claim 58, further comprising: whereby at least 80 wt % of said insoluble collagen is converted to soluble collagen and the number average molecular weight is above 300,000 daltons.
68. The method of Claim 58, further comprising: whereby at least 80 wt % of said insoluble collagen is converted to soluble collagen. 


 69. The method of Claim 58, further comprising: whereby at least 90 wt % of said insoluble collagen is converted to soluble collagen. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
