<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658786</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical information transmitting device and method of manufacturing same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B300	G02B300	G02B628	G02B628	G02B632	G02B632	G02B642	G02B642	G02B643	G02B643	H05K102	H05K102	H05K114	H05K114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B3	G02B3	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical information transmitting device for 
transmitting information on a light beam emitted by a light 

source, includes an electronic circuit board, and an optical 
input/output port mounted on the electronic circuit 

board. The optical input/output port has a glass substrate 
attached to the electronic circuit board, a first array of 

optical sensors for absorbing a portion of a light beam applied 
thereto from the light source and photoelectrically 

converting the portion of the light beam, and for transmitting 
the remainder of the light beam therethrough, and a 

second array of spatial light modulators for modulating the 
transmittance with respect to a light beam applied thereto, 

the first and second arrays being disposed on a surface of 
the glass substrate in superposed relationship to each 

other. A motherboard comprises a substrate and a coaxial 
lens array of lenses spaced at equal intervals along an optical 

axis on the substrate, with conjugate focusing planes 
of equal magnification being disposed between adjacent ones 

of the lenses. A method of manufacturing the motherboard 
is also disclosed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON SHEET GLASS CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON SHEET GLASS CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMANAKA KENJIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMANAKA, KENJIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the art of optical 
applications including optical information processing, 
optical computing, optical conversion, and optical 
measurement, and more particularly to board-to-board optical 
interconnections for optically interconnecting electronic 
circuit boards in computers or electronic devices. As electronic computer and semiconductor technology 
is rapidly advancing in recent years, the processing 
speed of central processing units (CPUs) is increasing and 
semiconductor memories are becoming higher in density and 
integration. At the same time, there have been certain 
limitations posed by the nature of electric circuitry itself 
on interchip interconnections, chip-to-chip interconnections, 
and board-to-board interconnections. 
Specifically, the phenomena of electric interference and 
electromagnetic induction present fundamental obstacles to 
efforts to design interconnections for higher density. Optical information transmission, on the other 
hand, has a much greater possibility for higher-density interconnections 
as it is entirely free from the above problems. In view of the advantages of optical information 
transmission, there have been various approaches to the development 
of optical interconnections. For details of one 
known attempt, reference should be made to Conference 
Record of 1990 International Topical Meeting on Optical 
Computing, pages 162, 164, and 408, for example. FIGS. 21 and 22 of the accompanying drawings 
show a conventional board-to-board interconnection proposed 
in the above paper. As shown in FIG. 21, sockets each having an array 
of light-emitting and -detecting elements are mounted 
on a glass substrate (motherboard), and electronic circuit 
boards are connected to the glass substrate through the  
 
sockets. As shown in FIG. 22, light is propagated along a 
zigzag path in the glass substrate, allowing a signal to be 
transmitted from one socket another. The light-emitting 
and -detecting elements are optically coupled to the propagated 
light through a hologram element (HOE). The hologram 
element includes focusing lenses and a mirror or beam 
splitter to prevent the light from being spread due to 
diffraction when it is propagated along the zigzag path in 
the glass substrate. The conventional board-to-board interconnection 
can be manufactured by the planar fabrication process because 
all the optical devices can be mounted on the glass 
substrate. However, it is highly difficult to reduce the 
aberration of the HOE lenses
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical information transmitting device 
for transmitting information on a light beam emitted by a 

light source, comprising: 
   a substrate; 

   a coaxial lens array of lenses spaced at equal 
intervals along an optical axis on said substrate, with 

conjugate focusing planes of equal magnification being disposed 
between adjacent ones of said lenses; and 

   said lenses and said conjugate focusing planes 
being arranged such that a light beam emitted by the light 

source along said optical axis reaches said conjugate focusing 
planes, and when a transmissive optical pattern is 

formed in one of said conjugate focusing planes, images of 
said transmissive optical pattern are formed in the other 

conjugate focusing planes, respectively. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 1, wherein each of said lenses comprises 

a distributed-index rod lens having a rotationally symmetric 
refractive index distribution with the refractive index 

varying radially with respect to said optical axis. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 1 or 2, wherein each of said lenses comprises 

a telecentric optical system in which principal rays 
of light at all image points on each of said conjugate focusing 

planes lie parallel to said optical axis. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 1, 2 or 3 including at least two of said 

coaxial lens array. 
An optical information transmitting device 
comprising: 

   a coaxial lens array of lenses spaced at equal 
intervals along an optical axis, with conjugate focusing 

planes of equal magnification being disposed between adjacent 
ones of said lenses; 

   a mirror or a half-silvered mirror disposed on 
one end of said coaxial lens array; 

   a light source disposed on an opposite end of 
said coaxial lens array; and 

   the arrangement being such that light emitted by 
said light source reaches said conjugate focusing planes, 

is reflected by said mirror or said half-silvered mirror, 
and is then propagated through said coaxial lens array, 

that conjugate focusing planes which are formed until the 
light emitted by said light source reaches said mirror or 

said half-silvered mirror lie in the same planes as conjugate 
focusing planes which are formed until the light reflected 

by said mirror or said half-silvered mirror reaches 
said light source again, and that conjugate images which 

are formed until the light emitted by said light source 
reaches said mirror or said half-silvered mirror are inverted 

with respect to conjugate images which are formed 
until the light reflected by said mirror or said half-silvered 

mirror reaches said light source again. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 5, wherein each of said lenses comprises 

a distributed-index rod lens having a rotationally symmetric 
refractive index distribution with the refractive index 

varying radially with respect to said optical axis. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 5 or 6, wherein each of said lenses 

comprises a telecentric optical system in which principal 
rays of light at all image points on each of said conjugate 

focusing planes lie parallel to said optical axis. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claims 5, 6 or 7 including at least two of said coaxial 

lens array. 
An optical information transmitting device 
for transmitting information on a light beam emitted by a 

light source, comprising: 
   a coaxial lens array of lenses spaced at equal 

intervals along an optical axis, with conjugate focusing 
planes of equal magnification being disposed between adjacent 

ones of said lenses; 
   light sources disposed on respective opposite 

ends of said coaxial lens array; and 
   the arrangement being such that light emitted by 

said light sources reaches said conjugate focusing planes, 
and when a transmissive optical pattern is formed in one of 

said conjugate focusing planes, images of said transmissive 
optical pattern are formed in the other conjugate focusing 

planes, respectively. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 9, wherein each of said lenses comprises 

a distributed-index rod lens having a rotationally 
symmetric refractive index distribution with the refractive 

index varying radially with respect to from said optical 
axis. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 9 or 10, further including a signal 

generator for applying a signal to said light sources to 
cause said light sources to emit intensity-modulated light. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 9, 10 or 11 including at least two of said 

coaxial lens array. 
A method of manufacturing an optical information 
transmitting device including a substrate, and an 

array of rod lenses spaced at equal intervals along an optical 
axis on said substrate, with conjugate focusing 

planes of equal magnification being disposed between adjacent 
ones of said rod lenses, and the conjugate focusing 

planes formed by adjacent ones of said rod lenses being superposed 
on each other, said method comprising the steps 

of: 

(a) placing at least one elongate rod lens blank 
in a positioning straight groove defined in a substrate; 
(b) defining a slot of a predetermined width in 
said substrate transversely across the axis of said rod 

lens blank, thereby cutting off said rod lens blank into 
rod lenses which satisfy predetermined optical conditions, 

and simultaneously providing a gap for receiving therein an 
information source or an information medium. 
A method according to claim 13, wherein said 
substrate comprises two separate substrates, said step (a) 

comprising the steps of sandwiching said rod lens blank between 
said two substrates, and filling an adhesive material 

in said groove around said rod lens blank. 
A method according to claim 13 or 14, further 
comprising the step of coating a transparent thin film 

of resin or glass on ends of the rod lenses that are exposed 
into said slot to smooth said ends of the rod lenses, 

after said slot is defined in said substrate. 
A method according to claims 13, 14 or 15 wherein 
there are at least two of said rod lens blank, said at 

least two rod lens blanks being juxtaposed transversely 
across the axes thereof. 
A method according to any of claims 13 to 16 wherein said 
rod lens blank has a rotationally symmetric refractive index 

 
distribution with the refractive index being maximum at 

the central axis thereof and progressively reduced radially 
outwardly from said central axis. 
A method according to any of claims 13 to 17, further including 
the step of applying an antireflection coating or 

securely attaching a reflecting mirror to at least one of 
opposite ends of said rod lens blank, thereby providing a 

reflecting surface on said one of the opposite ends of said 
rod lens blank. 
A method according to any of claims 13 to 18, further in - 
cluding the step of securely attaching a light source to, 

or fixing a light source near, at least one of opposite 
ends of said rod lens blank. 
A method according to any of claims 13 to 19, wherein said 
step (b) comprises the step of defining slots in said substrate 

transversely across the axis of said rod lens blank 
at equal intervals therealong. 
A method according to any of claims 13 to 20, wherein said 
step (b) comprises the step of defining at least two slots 

in said substrate transversely across the axis of said rod 
lens blank, said slots having equal widths. 
A method according to any of claims 13 to 21, wherein said 
step (b) comprises the step of defining at least two slots 

in said substrate transversely across the axis of said rod 
lens blank, said slots being positioned relatively to each 

other such that when there is an object plane in at least 
one of said slots, there is an image plane in at least one 

of the other slots in optically conjugate relationship to 
said object plane. 
A method according to claim 22 wherein said 
slots have equal widths and are arranged such that conjugate 

 
focusing planes in said slots are positionally equal 

to each other. 
An optical/optoelectronic component having 
at least a pair of parallel flat surfaces on ends thereof, 

said optical/optoelectronic component comprising: 
   a plurality of members having at least one of 

functions including transmission, retroreflection, absorption, 
photoelectric conversion, and emission to be performed 

on at least a portion of light applied substantially 
perpendicularly to said pair of parallel flat surfaces, 

said members having equal thicknesses that are defined by 
the distance between said parallel flat surfaces; and 

   reference mechanisms for providing positional 
references to position said members, said reference mechanisms 

being disposed on said members at corresponding identical 
positions thereon. 
An optical/optoelectronic component according 
to claim 24, wherein said members have substantially 

equal effective areas to perform said functions, respectively, 
said effective areas being located in substantially 

identical positions with respect to said positional references. 
An optical/optoelectronic component according 
to claim 24 or 25, wherein the members which have the 

function to transmit at least the portion of the applied 
light have substantially equal optical path lengths or air-converted 

lengths. 
An optical information transmitting device 
for transmitting information on a light beam emitted by a 

light source, comprising: 
   a substrate; 

   a coaxial lens array of lenses spaced at equal 
intervals along an optical axis on said substrate, with 

 
conjugate focusing planes of equal magnification being disposed 

between adjacent ones of said lenses; 
   optical fiber means for applying light to be 

propagated through said lenses and receiving light propagated 
through said lenses; and 

   said optical fiber means having entrance and 
exit ends, said entrance or exit end lying in a plane which 

is in optical conjugate relationship to said conjugate focusing 
planes. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 27, further including a prism disposed 

in a gap defined between said lenses, and a distributed-index 
rod lens disposed on a side of said prism, said optical 

fiber means and said coaxial lens array being optically 
coupled to each other through said prism and said distributed-in
dex 
rod lens. 
An optical information transmitting device 
according to claim 27, wherein said optical fiber means 

comprises an array of at least two optical fibers, further 
including an array of microlenses disposed in confronting 

relationship to ends of said optical fibers. 
An optical transmission device comprising: 
   at least two, substantially parallel coaxial 

lens arrays, each of said coaxial lens arrays comprising a 
plurality of lenses spaced at equal intervals along an optical 

axis; 
   said coaxial lens arrays being arranged such 

that conjugate focusing planes of equal magnification are 
formed between adjacent ones of said lenses; and 

   optical coupling means for optically coupling 
said coaxial lens arrays to transmit optical pattern information 

provided in one of said conjugate focusing planes in 
one of said coaxial lens arrays to at least one of the conjugate 

focusing planes in the other coaxial lens array. 
An optical transmission device according to 
claim 30, wherein said optical coupling means comprises at 

least two prism beam splitters and at least one lens. 
An optical transmission device according to 
claim 30 or 31, wherein each of said lenses comprises a 

distributed-index rod lens having a rotationally symmetric 
refractive index distribution with the refractive index 

varying radially with respect to said optical axis. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
