<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645226</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Froth process and system for continuous manufacture of polyurethane foam slab-stocks
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4434	B29C4446	B29C3900	B29K7500	B29C4434	C08J900	C08J930	B29C3916	B29C3914	B29K10504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29K	B29C	C08J	C08J	B29C	B29C	B29K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C44	B29C44	B29C39	B29K75	B29C44	C08J9	C08J9	B29C39	B29C39	B29K105	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process and a system for the continuous manufacture 
of polymeric foams. Reactive chemical components and 

additives comprising a low boiling blowing agent are 
mixed under pressure in a mixer (11); the mixture is 

then frothed before chemical reaction takes place by 
feeding the mixture through a pressure equalizing and 

frothing device (13) comprising an elongated 
pressure-drop zone (17) opening into a frothing 

cavity (19) having an output aperture (20) to 
discharge the froth onto a moving substrate (2). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOAMING TECHN CARDIO BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOAMING TECHNOLOGIES CARDIO B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIORENTINI CARLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFITHS ANTHONY CHARLES MURR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIORENTINI, CARLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFITHS, ANTHONY CHARLES MURRAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the production of 
polymeric foams by using the frothing technique, and 
more particularly is directed to a process and a 
system for the continuous production of flexible and 
rigid slab-stocks, normally used for providing 
panelling, soft cushioning, and the like. Polymeric foams in particular polyurethane foams are 
well known. In general their preparation requires the 
mixing of reactive chemical components, such as a 
polyol and an isocyanate, in the presence of normally 
used additives such as a suitable catalyst, a 
surfactant or cell control agent, and water which 
chemically reacts with the isocyanate to produce the 
carbon dioxide for blowing the foam. In the continuous production of flexible foams and 
particularly in the production of flexible foams in 
slab-stocks, as currently practised on conventional  
 
machines, it is common practice to spread or pour a 
thin layer of the mixture in a liquid state onto a 
moving sheet substrate provided on a slightly sloped 
conveyor and then the foam is allowed to rise freely, 
due to reaction between the chemical components, 
until the total expansion of the foam is obtained. 
The foam is then allowed to cure and thereafter is 
cross-sawn into blocks. Conventional process and 
apparatus are described, for example, in U.S.-A-3,325,823 
and US-A-4,492.664. In order to avoid a situation where the liquid mix 
underruning the foam, and to allow the production of 
uniform blocks, use of a small slope, and high speed 
for the conveyor and high chemical output are 
usually required. This results in costly and large 
space consuming machines, as well as in an 
excessively high production rate and very large scale 
plants. In an attempt to partially remedy the problems and 
disadvantages involved by a conventional process, US-A-3,786,122 
suggests an alternative foaming 
procedure, in which liquid reactants are mixed and 
introduced in the liquid state, at the bottom of a  
 
pre-foaming trough. This allows the mixture to expand 
upwardly causing the pre-expanded mixture to flow out 
of the vessel, on a channel-shaped sheet material 
travelling on a conveyor device. Although this 
process eliminates the use of reciprocating mixing 
heads in the production of a continuous slab of a 
polymeric foam, nevertheless some problems arise due 
to "build-up" of the foam in the trough which causes 
a progressive narrowing or reduction of the useful 
volume of the trough and consequently a reduction in 
the residence time in the through.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for continuous production of polyurethane slab-stock 
foam (16) including the steps of: 


forming a mixture of reactive chemical components; 
mixing the reactive chemical components with CO
2
 under 
sufficient pressure conditions to maintain the CO
2
 in a 
liquid state,
 
characterized by, 
distributing the mixture by passing the resulting mixture 
along an elongated pressure equalizing chamber (21) and 

through an elongated pressure drop zone (17) dimensioned to 
maintain back pressure on the upstream mixture to keep the 

CO
2
 in a liquid state and to initiate frothing under 
pressure controlled conditions to avoid turbulent 

evaporation of the CO
2
 upon discharge of the mixture from 
the pressure drop zone; 
and forming the discharged mixture into a progressively 
expanding frothing material by progressively releasing the 

CO
2
 in the frothing material as the frothing material flows 
along a frothing cavity (19) and through an outlet aperture 

(20), thereby discharging the frothing mixture onto a 
substrate (2). 
A process as in claim 1, characterized in that the step of 
discharging the mixture includes placing the frothing 

mixture (16) onto a moving substrate.  
 
A process as in claim 1, characterized in that the discharge 
of the frothing mixture (16) occurs along a substantially 

horizontal path. 
A process as in claim 1, characterized in that the discharge 
of the frothing mixture (16) occurs onto a sloping path 

(25). 
A process as in claim 1, characterized in that the frothing 
mixture is flowing along a frothing cavity (19) having a 

cross-sectional dimension which enlarges proportionally 
along its length. 
A process as in claim 5, characterized in that the outlet 
aperture (20) of the frothing cavity (19) has a cross-sectional 

area greater than a cross-sectional area of the pressure 
drop zone (17). 
A process as in claim 1, characterized by flowing the mixture 
along a frothing cavity (19) in which the frothing 

mixture is proportionally released prior to the initiation 
of chemical expansion of the reactive mixture of chemical 

components. 
A process as in claim 1, characterized by deflecting the 
direction of flow of the mixture flowing from said pressure 

drop zone (17). 
A process as in claim 1, characterized in that said pressure 
drop zone (17) and said frothing cavity (19) are 

transversally extending to the substrate (2). 
A process as in claim 1, characterized in that the pressure 
during mixing ranges from about 5 to about 18 bar.  

 
A process as in claim 10, characterized in that the pressure 
used during mixing is preferably about 15 to 18 bar. 
A system for the continuous production of polymeric slab-stock 
foam (16) on a moving substrate (2) comprising: 


a mixing device (11) for mixing reactive chemical components 
and CO
2
 under sufficient pressure conditions to maintain the 
CO
2
 in a liquid state; 
a feedline (18) for carrying the mixture to a frothing device 

(13),
 
characterized in that 
the frothing device (13) comprises an elongated pressure 
equalizing chamber (21) provided with an elongated pressure 

drop zone (17) dimensioned to maintain back pressure on the 
upstream mixture to keep the CO
2
 in a liquid state and to 
initiate frothing under pressure controlled conditions to 

avoid turbulent evaporation of the CO
2
 upon discharge of the 
mixture from the pressure drop-zone, and 
a frothing cavity (19) for forming the discharged mixture 
into a progressively non-reactive expanding frothing 

material by progressively releasing the CO
2
 in the frothing 
material as the frothing material flows along the frothing 

cavity and having an outlet aperture (20) extending 
transversally across the moving direction of the substrate 

(2). 
A system for the continuous production of low density, flexible 
polyurethane slab-stock foam on a moving substrate 

according to claim 12, characterized in that said frothing 
device (13) comprises a gate bar having a pressure equalizing 

chamber (21) provided with an elongated pressure drop  
 

zone (17) and a frothing cavity (19) extending from said 
gate bar, said frothing cavity (19) being defined by 

wall means having an outlet aperture for distributing 
frothing mixture onto and in a moving direction of the substrate 

(2). 
A system according to claim 12, characterized in that said 
outlet aperture (20) has a cross-sectional area greater than 

the cross-sectional area of said pressure drop zone (17). 
A system as in claim 12, characterized in that said pressure 
drop zone comprises an elongated slot (17) substantially 

extending over the entire width of the substrate (2). 
A system as in claim 12, characterized in that said pressure 
drop zone comprises a series of elongated slots (64, 66, 

68). 
A system as in claim 12, characterized in that said pressure 
drop zone comprises a series of tubular outlet apertures 

(72, 74, 76) axially extending in the direction of the flow. 
A system as in claim 12, characterized in that said pressure 
drop zone comprises at least one elongated slot (17; 64, 66, 

68) axially extending in the direction of the flow. 
A system as in claim 12, characterized in that said frothing 
cavity (19) is defined by interconnected flow diverting wall 

means (44, 46, 48, 50). 
A system as in claim 19, characterized in that said wall 
means diverge in the direction of flow. 
A system as in claim 12, characterized in that said frothing 
cavity includes at least one substantially right angle turn  

 
(42, 44; 48, 50) downstream from said pressure drop zone 

(17). 
A system as in claim 12, characterized in that said pressure 
drop zone (17) and said frothing cavity (19) are transversally 

extending to the substrate (2). 
A system as in claim 12, comprising a device for controlling 
frothing of a polyol, isocyanate and liquid CO
2
 mixture, said 
frothing device being characterized by comprising a housing 

(40) having an elongated pressure equalization chamber (21) 
and an inlet (18) for the mixture leading into said elongated 

pressure equalization chamber (21), at least one 
outlet aperture (17) leading away from said pressure 

equalization chamber (21) and a frothing cavity (52) 
attached to said housing (40) and positioned to receive the 

mixture flowing from said at least one outlet aperture (17), 
said frothing cavity (52) being comprised of a series of 

interconnected and differently oriented wall means (42, 44, 
46, 48, 50) sufficient to deflect the direction of flow of 

the mixture flowing from said at least one outlet aperture 
(17). 
A system as in claim 12, comprising a frothing device (13) 
for use with a mixture of reactive polymeric polyurethane 

chemicals and liquid CO
2
, said device comprising a pressure 
equalizing chamber (21) having a pressurized inlet (18) and 

a pressure drop zone (17) as an outlet, characterized in 
that said frothing device comprises a walled cavity 

extending from said pressure drop zone (17) and positioned 
so as to intercept the flow from said pressure drop zone 

(17) and control the release of gaseous CO
2
 and to 
distribute energy within the frothing material. 
A system as in claim 12, comprising a flexible foam slab-stock 
plant provided with a chemical mixing station (11) for  

 
the pressurized mixing of polyurethane chemicals together 

with CO
2
 maintained in a liquid state to produce 
polyurethane foam material, characterized by comprising a 

discharge assembly (13) connected to said chemical mixing 
station (11) for receiving the mixed polyurethane chemicals 

and for developing the mixture into a homogeneous 
pre-expanding froth material and depositing the froth 

material onto a substrate (21) moving along a fall plate 
(25), and a conveyor assembly (1) positioned relative to 

said fall plate (25) for receiving the froth material 
discharged from said fall plate (25), said conveyor (1) 

being operated at a rate of about 1 to 5 meters per minute 
so that full block height is achieved within a range of 

about 1 to 8 meters from the deposit point. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
