<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643897</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A FACSIMILE DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M1106	H04M1106	H04N100	H04N100	H04N132	H04N132	H04N1327	H04N1327	H04N142	H04N142	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M11	H04M11	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a facsimile device for local facsimile to computer interconnection. A preferred embodiment of the present invention is comprised of the facsimile device (3) which is capable of being connected to a facsimile transceiver (1) and a computer (2). The facsimile device (3) allows the computer (2) to print data on the facsimile transceiver (1) using the facsimile device (3). Similarly, a document scanned on the facsimile transceiver (1) can be communicated to the computer (2) by the facsimile device (3). Under the control of a microprocessor (10), it is also possible to send or receive a facsimile or transfer a file using facsimile protocols from the computer to the telephone network, or vice versa, which may be connected to the device (3) at connector (15). Similarly, the facsimile transceiver (1) can send or receive documents by the telephone network.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXFAX TECH PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXFAX TECHNOLOGIES PTY. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERKINS JOHN LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERKINS, JOHN, LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLEA FACSIMILE DEVICE TECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to a facsimile device for connecting a facsimile transceiver to a computer. The facsimile device may also be connected to a telephone network.DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART According to the prior art it is known to have facsimile modems and data modems for performing facsimile transmission of documents or file transfers using facsimile protocols. Such devices may be either internal or external devices which can be connected to computer provided with the appropriate software. However, such devices may not be easily interconnected with an existing facsimile transceiver at the same local site. Prior art devices provide only for connection to a facsimile device at a remote site over a telephone network. Therefore, any connection between the computer and the local facsimile transceiver is only possible via the telephone network. In such a case, a telephone exchange and telephone lines are required to communicate between the computer and the facsimile transceiver.BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTIONIn order to describe the scope of the current invention it is desirable to briefly outline the operational procedures of facsimile communications and the incorporation of file transfer within these procedures. This may be done with reference to the five Phases in a facsimile transmission:Phase A is the call establishment and line connection of equipment, 

 Phase B is the pre-message signalling and capability selection,Phase C is the facsimile message transfer. Phase D is the post-message signalling, and Phase E is the call disconnection.In particular Phase B is the low speed (300 baud) pre-message signalling in which the capabilities of the respective machines are indicated and selected. In particular the called station first responds with a Digital Information Signal (DIS) in which its capabilities in terms of group type, speed, resolution, and other special capabilities are indicated. At this time file transfer capabilities may also be indicated. The calling machine then responds with a Digital Command Signal (DCS) in which, in line with its own capabilities, the capabilities required for the forthcoming transmission are selected. This is followed by a high speed training sequence related to synchronisation, equalisation and other functions.When the receiving machine indicates its readiness to receive, Phase C is entered during which the transfer of facsimile information takes place. At this time the transmitting machine will progressively scan the input
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
1. A facsimile device for local facsimile/computer interconnection, comprising at the local site: i) a first termination means for direct connection of a facsimile transceiver, ii) a second termination means for direct connection of a computer, iii) first communication means for communicating with the facsimile transceiver via said first termination means, iv) second communication means for communication with the computer via said second termination means, and v) control means for controlling the first communication means and the second communication means, wherein data signals are capable of being communicated from the facsimile transceiver to the computer or from the computer to the facsimile transceiver such that, at the local site, the facsimile transceiver can act as a printer for the computer and where the facsimile transceiver can act as a scanner for the computer.
2. A device according to claim 1, wherein the first communication means comprises: a ring generator means for generating a ring signal to the facsimile transceiver, a first detector means for detecting a dialling function from the facsimile transceiver, a first line interface means for communicating the data signals to and from the facsimile transceiver, and a first modem means for passing the data signals between the first line interface means and the control 


means for communicating the data signals to and from the facsimile transceiver and the computer.
3. A device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the control means comprises a microprocessor connected to the first communication means and the second communication means.
4. A device according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the control means is connected to the ring generator means to control the ring generator means to generate the ring signal to the facsimile transceiver when the computer requires communication with the facsimile transceiver, and to the first detector means for receiving a signal indicating that the first detector means has detected the dialling function from the facsimile transceiver when the facsimile transceiver requires communication with the computer, and to the first modem means for communicating data signals between the control means and the first modem means and data signals between the first modem means and the first line interface means.
5. A device according to claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising a third terminal means for connection with a telephone network, and a third communication means for communication with the telephone network via said third termination means such that data signals to or from the computer or the facsimile transceiver are capable of being communicated through the telephone network.
6. A device according to claim 5, wherein the third communication means is. comprised of: a second detector means for detecting a ring signal from the telephone network. 



 a third detector means for detecting termination of a telephone session with the telephone network, a second line interface means for communicating data to and from the telephone network, a second modem means for data signals to or from the second line interface means.
7. A device according to claim 6, wherein the control means is connected to the second detector means for receiving a signal indicating that the second detector means has detected a ring signal form the telephone network, and to the third detector means for receiving a signal indicating that the telephone session has been terminated, and to the second modem means for communicating data signals between the control means and the second modem means and data signals between the second modem means and the second line interface means.
8. A device according to claim 5, claim 6 or claim 7, further comprising a switch means for communicating data signals directly between the telephone network and the facsimile transceiver.
9. A device according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the control means includes storage means for storing data signals received from the facsimile transceiver, the computer or the telephone network or from which data signals can be transmitted to the facsimile transceiver, the computer or the telephone network.
10. A device according to claim 5, wherein the device is adapted to be a facsimile modem or a data modem for connecting the computer to the telephone network for communication with another facsimile modem or another data 


modem .
11. A device according to claim 11, wherein the connection device is pre-programmed to operate using CCITT standard Binary File Transfer protocol.
12. A method of printing using the device according to claim 1 or 2, comprising the steps of: connecting a facsimile transceiver to the first termination means of the device, connecting a computer to the second termination means of the device, establishing communications between the computer and the facsimile transceiver via the device, sending data signals from the computer to the facsimile transceiver, and printing the data in the data signals on the facsimile transceiver.
13. A method according to claim 12 using the device of claim 2, wherein the step of establishing communication between the computer and the facsimile transceiver comprises the steps of: sending a printing request signal from the computer to the control means via the second communication means, sending a ring request signal from the control means to the ring generator means, generating the ring signal to the facsimile transceiver using the ring generator means, detecting when the facsimile transceiver answers the ring signal using the first detector means, and exchanging communication protocol information between the control means and the facsimile transceiver via 


the first modem means and the first line interface means.
14. A method according to claim 13, wherein the step of sending data from the computer to the facsimile transceiver comprises the steps of: sending signals representing the data signals to be printed from the computer to the control means via the second communication means, sending the data signals to be printed from the control means to the first modem means, sending the data signals to the first line interface means from the first modem means, and sending the data signals from the first line interface means to the facsimile transceiver.
15. A method of scanning a document using the connection device according to claim 1 or 2, comprising the steps of: connecting a facsimile transceiver to the first termination device of the device, connecting a computer to the second termination device of the device, establishing communications between the computer and the facsimile transceiver via the device, scanning a document on the facsimile transceiver, sending data signals representing the scanned document from the facsimile transceiver to the computer.
16. A method according to claim 16 using the device of claim 2, wherein the step of establishing communication between the facsimile transceiver and the computer comprises the steps of: dialling a number using the facsimile transceiver, 


 detecting the dialling function from the facsimile transceiver using the first detector means of the device, answering the dialling function from the facsimile transceiver using the line interface means, and exchanging communication protocol information between the control means and the facsimile transceiver via the first modem means and the first line interface means.
17. A method according to claim 17, wherein the step of sending data signals representing the scanned document from the facsimile transceiver to the computer comprises the steps of: sending data signals from the facsimile transceiver representing the scanned document to the first line interface means, sending the data signals from the first line interface means to the first modem means, sending the data signals from the first modem means to the control means, and sending the data signals from the control means to the computer via the second communication means of the device.
18. A communications network comprising a network system and two connection devices according to claims 5 or 6 connected therefor at remote locations. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
