<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649307</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS OF USING (-) CISAPRIDE FOR THE TREATMENT OF GASTRO-ESOPHAGEAL REFLUX DISEASE AND OTHER DISORDERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K31445	A61K31445	A61K314468	A61K314468	A61P100	A61P100	A61P110	C07D21100	C07D21162	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	A61P	C07D	C07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61P1	A61P1	A61P1	C07D211	C07D211	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods are disclosed utilizing the optically pure (-) isomer of cisapride. This compound is a potent drug for the treatment of gastro-esophageal reflux disease while avoiding the concomitant liability of adverse effects associated with the racemic mixture of cisapride. This compound is also useful in treating or preventing emesis while avoiding the adverse effects associated with racemic cisapride. The optically pure (-) isomer of cisapride is also useful for the treatment of dyspepsia and such other conditions as may be related to the activity of (-) cisapride as a prokinetic agent such as gastroparesis, constipation, post-operative ileus, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction without the concomitant liability of adverse effects associated with the racemic mixture of cisapride. The (-) isomer of cisapride has been found to exhibit higher bioavailability over the racemic cisapride.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEPRACOR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEPRACOR, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAY NANCY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAY, NANCY, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG, JAMES, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Methods of using (-) Cisapride for the Treatment of Gastro-Esophageal Reflux Disease and other Disorders1. TECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to novel compositions of matter containing optically pure (-) cisapride. These compositions possess potent activity in treating gastro-esophageal reflux disease while avoiding adverse effects associated with the administration of the racemic mixture of cisapride including but not limited to diarrhea, abdominal cramping and elevations of blood pressure and heart rate. Additionally, these novel compositions of matter containing optically pure (-) cisapride are useful in treating emesis and such other conditions as may be related to the activity of (-) cisapride as a pro inetic agent, including but not limited to dyspepsia, gastroparesis, constipation, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction, while avoiding the adverse effects associated with the administration of the racemic mixture of cisapride. Also disclosed are methods for treating the above-described conditions in a human while avoiding the adverse effects that are associated with the racemic mixture of cisapride, by administering the (-) isomer of cisapride to a human in need of such treatment.The active compound of these compositions and methods is an optical isomer of racemic cis- cisapride, which is described in European PatentApplication No. 0,076,530 A2 published April 13, 1983 and United States Patent Nos. 4,962,115 and 5,057,525. Chemically, the active compound, of the presently disclosed compositions and methods, is the (-) isomer of cis-4-amino-5-chloro-N-[l-[3-(4-fluorophenoxy) 

 propyl]-3-ιrtethoxy-4-piperidinyl]-2-methoxybenzamide, hereinafter referred to as (-) cisapride. The term "(-) isomer of cisapride" and particularly the term 5 "(-) cisapride" encompass optically pure and substantially optically pure (-) cisapride. Similarly, as used herein, the terms "racemic cisapride" or "racemic mixture of cisapride" refer to the cis diastereomeric racemate.10 Cisapride, which is the subject of the present invention, is available commercially only as the 1:1 racemic mixture of the cis diastereomeric racemate. Cisapride is available only as a mixture of optical isomers, called enantiomers, i.e. , a mixture of cis(+)!5 and cis(-) cisapride.2. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 2.1 Steric Relationship and Drug Action Many organic compounds exist in optically active20 forms, i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound, the prefixes D and L or R
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of treating gastro-esophageal reflux disease in a human while avoiding the concomitant liability of adverse effects associated with racemic cisapride, which comprises administering to a human in need of such treatment, an amount of (-) cisapride, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate said reflux disease but insufficient to cause said adverse effects.
2. A method for treating gastro-esophageal reflux disease in a human while achieving a higher bioavailability than racemic cisapride, which comprises administering to a human in need of treatment from such a disease, an amount of (-) cisapride, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate said reflux disease while having a higher bioavailability than racemic cisapride.
3. The method of claims 1 or 2 wherein (-) cisapride is administered by transdermal delivery, or orally as a tablet, a capsule or a liquid suspension.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the amount of (-) cisapride, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, administered is from about 1 mg to about 200 mg per day. 


 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about iθO mg per day.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about 75 mg per day.
0 7. The method of claim 3 wherein said amount is administered in divided doses from one to four times per day.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein said amount is 
5
 administered in divided doses from one to two times per day.
9. The method of claims 1 or 2 wherein the amount of (-) cisapride or a pharmaceutically o acceptable salt thereof is greater than approximately 90% by weight of the total weight of cisapride.
10. The method of claims 1 or 2 wherein the amount of (-) cisapride or a pharmaceutically 
5
 acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer is administered together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
11. A method of eliciting an antiemetic effect 
0
 in a human while avoiding the concomitant liability of adverse effects associated with racemic cisapride, which comprises administering to a human in need of antiemetic therapy, an amount of (-) cisapride, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, 
5
 substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate nausea and 


vomiting but insufficient to cause said adverse effects.
12. A method of eliciting an antiemetic effect in a human while achieving a higher bioavailability than racemic cisapride which comprises administering to a human in need of antiemetic therapy, an amount of (-) cisapride, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate nausea and vomiting while having a higher bioavailability than racemic cisapride.
13. The method of claims 11 or 12 wherein (-) cisapride is administered by intravenous infusion, transdermal delivery, or orally as a tablet, a capsule, or a liquid suspension.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the amount of (-) cisapride or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof administered is from about 1 mg to about 200 mg per day.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about 100 mg per day.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about 75 mg per day.
17. The method of claim 14 wherein said amount is administered in divided doses from one to four times per day. 


 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said amount is administered in divided doses from one to two times per day.
19. The method of claims 11 or 12 wherein the amount of (-) cisapride or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is greater than approximately 90% by weight of the total weight of cisapride.
20. The method of claims 11 or 12 wherein the amount of said (-) cisapride or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer is administered together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
21. A method of treating a condition caused by gastrointestinal motility dysfunction in a human, while avoiding the concomitant liability of adverse effects associated with racemic cisapride, which comprises administering to a human in need of gastrointestinal motility dysfunction treatment, an amount of (-) cisapride, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate said condition but insufficient to cause said adverse effects.
22. A method of treating a condition caused by gastro-intestinal motility dysfunction in a human, while achieving a higher bioavailability than racemic cisapride, which comprises administering to a human in need of treatment of gastrointestinal motility dysfunction, an amount of (-) cisapride, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said 


amount being sufficient to alleviate said condition while having a higher bioavailability than racemic cisapride.
23. The method according to claims 21 or 22 wherein said condition caused by gastrointestinal motility dysfunction in a human is selected from the group consisting of dyspepsia, gastroparesis, constipation, post-operative ileus, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction.
24. The method of claims 21 or 22 wherein (-) cisapride is administered by intravenous infusion, transdermal delivery, or orally as a tablet, a capsule or a liquid suspension.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein the amount of (-) cisapride or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof administered is from about 1 mg to about 200 mg per day.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about 100 mg per day.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about 75 mg per day.
28. The method of claim 25 wherein said amount is administered in divided doses from one to four times per day. 


 29. The method of claim 28 wherein said amount is administered in divided doses from one' to two times per day.
30. The method of claims 21 or 22 wherein the amount of (-) cisapride or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is greater than approximately 90% by weight of the total weight of cisapride.
31. The method of claims 21 or 22 wherein the amount of said (-) cisapride or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer is administered together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
