<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631246</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for controlling presentations of objects on a user interface of a data processing system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T1180	G06T1180	G06F314	G06F3048	G06F1730	G06F3048	G06F314	G06F1730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T11	G06T11	G06F3	G06F3	G06F17	G06F3	G06F3	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Objects on a data processing system are provided to a multimedia 
presentation device for presentation purposes. Each object is provided 

with one or more attributes. These attributes are registered before the 
presentation. When an object is selected for presentation, the object is 

transformed into a presentable format in accordance with its attributes. 
Such attributes include whether the object is restricted for display, the 

particular presentation device or devices that will present the object, 
the types of transforms to be performed on the object to ready the object 

for presentation, whether the object should be segmented into 
plural segments and if so, then the manner in which the segments are 

presented. After the transformation, the object is provided to the appropriate 
presentation device. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FITZPATRICK G P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALAHSHOUR A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS MARVIN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FITZPATRICK, G. P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALAHSHOUR, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS, MARVIN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods and apparatuses for providing
multimedia presentations using user interfaces of data processing
systems.Multimedia presentations are becoming more prevalent in office
meetings. Meeting rooms equipped with multimedia devices can typically
contain an overhead projector, an electronic transparency device
located on the overhead projector, a computer connected to the electronic
transparency device, microphones, etc.The computer provides a desktop, or a user interface, for a person
presenting information in the meeting room. The information which is
to be presented to the audience is represented on the desktop as one
or more objects. The desktop may contain additional information in the
form of objects that are not meant to be presented to the audience in
a meeting room. For example, the additional information may be of a
confidential nature. Also, the additional information may not be pertinent
to the presentation. With prior art techniques, such additional information
may be inadvertently displayed, interrupting the
presentation.It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and
apparatus for controlling the desktop objects that will be provided to a
presentation device.The method and apparatus of the present invention present an object
in a data processing system. The presentation is with a presentation
device. The object is provided with attributes that are relevant to 
the presentation of the object. Then, it is determined when the object
is to be presented. The object is transformed into a displayable format
in accordance with the attributes and the transformed object is provided
to the presentation device.In one aspect of the present invention, the determination of when
the object is to be presented is made by displaying a representation
of the object and a representation of the presentation device on a user
interface of the data processing system and then determining if the
object representation is associated with the presentation device representation.The present invention provides a mechanism that is cognizant of
an object, and its attributes, which object is provided to a presentation
device. A registration service allows a user to define the attributes of
an object. Such attributes include whether the object is restricted for
display, the particular presentation device or devices that will present
or display the object, the types of transforms to be performed on the
object to ready the object for presentation by the presentation device,
whethe
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of presenting an object in a data processing system, said
presentation being with a presentation device, comprising the steps of:


a) providing said object with attributes that are relevant to the
presentation of said object;
b) determining if and when said object is to be presented; and
c) transforming said object into a displayable format in accordance
with said attributes and providing said transformed object to said

presentation device.
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of determining when said
object is to be presented further comprises the steps of:


a) displaying a representation of said object and a representation
of said presentation device on a user interface of said data processing

system; and
b) determining if said object representation is associated with said
presentation device representation.
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing said object
with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object further

comprises the step of providing said object with a restriction attribute,
said restriction attribute determining whether said object is to

be presented.
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing said object
with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object further

comprises the step of providing said object with a router attribute,
said router attribute determining which presentation device or devices

are to present said object.
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing said object
with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object further

comprises the step of providing said object with an object type
attribute, said object type attribute determining whether said object is

displayable by said presentation device. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing said object
with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object further

comprises the step of providing said object with a segmentation
attribute, said segmentation attribute determining whether said object

is to be segmented into plural segments for presentation.
The method of claim 6 wherein said step of providing said object
with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object further

comprises the step of providing said object with a sequential control
attribute, said sequential control attribute determining if said object

segments are to be presented in an automatically timed sequence or
in a manually controlled sequence.
The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of displaying said
segments by allowing a user to either present an unpresented segment

or present a previously presented segment.
An apparatus for presenting an object in a data processing system,
said presentation being with a presentation device, comprising:


a) means for providing said object with attributes that are relevant
to the presentation of said object;
b) means for determining if and when said object is to be presented; and
c) means for transforming said object into a displayable format in
accordance with said attributes and means for providing said transformed

object to said presentation device.
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said means for determining when
said object is to be presented further comprises:


a) means for displaying a representation of said object and a
representation of said presentation device on a user interface of said

data processing system; and
b) means for determining if said object representation is associated
with said presentation device representation.
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said means for providing said
object with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object

further comprises means for providing said object with a restriction
attribute, said restriction attribute determining whether said object is

to be presented.
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said means for providing said
object with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object

further comprises means for providing said object with a router attribute,
said router attribute determining which presentation device or

devices are to present said object.
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said means for providing said
object with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object

further comprises means for providing said object with an object type
attribute, said object type attribute determining whether said object is

displayable by said presentation device.
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said means for providing said
object with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object

further comprises means for providing said object with a segmentation
attribute, said segmentation attribute determining whether said object

is to be segmented into plural segments for presentation.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said means for providing said
object with attributes that are relevant to the presentation of said object

further comprises means for providing said object with a sequential
control attribute, said sequential control attribute determining if said

object segments are to be presented in an automatically timed sequence
or in a manually controlled sequence.
The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising means for displaying
said segments by allowing a user to either present an unpresented

segment or present a previously presented segment.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
