<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611266</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A pressure-reducing regulator for compressed natural gas.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60K1503	B60K1503	F02M2106	F02M2106	G05D1604	G05D1606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60K	B60K	F02M	F02M	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60K15	B60K15	F02M21	F02M21	G05D16	G05D16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The valving element (44) is positively tied to 
the diaphragm (64), through a diaphragm-carried 

insert (66) which has a flow-accommodating groove (90) 
formed therein to facilitate instant outlet 

pressure following a gas supply shut off. 
Too, the valving element cooperates with 

internal structures to define spaced apart 
seating and sealing areas (46,34,48,55) with boundary 

between high and low pressures of the 
natural gas, and the magnitudes and directions 

of the differential pressures are 
balanced at the seating and sealing areas, 

and maintained in balance regardless of 
how inlet and outlet gas pressures vary. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITT INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTTHELF JEFFREY BRYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTTHELF, JEFFREY BRYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to regulators for safely reducing high pressure natural 
gas to pressure levels which are usable in vehicular engines. There is a need 
for automobile makers to provide an alternative fuels capability in a percentage 
of their vehicles in this decade. Concomitantly, then, there is a need for a 
pressure-reducing regulator which can accommodate the high pressure natural gas, 
which is stored in vehicular storage tanks, and reduce it down to usable pressure 
levels, to facilitate the production of the alternative fuels automobiles. A majority of pressure-reducing regluators for compressed natural gas, as are known 
in the prior art, lack a balanced valve design. Accordingly, the output pressure 
can fluctuate widely, as the using vehicle consumes the fuel. To overcome this 
drawback, typically two of such regulators are employed to provide an acceptable 
regulation. Exemplary of this type of regulator is the Type P NGV Regulator, or 
the Type P NGV Regulator with Enviro-Cap, manufactured and sold by Modern Engineering 
Company, Inc. of Gallman, Mississippi. Other prior art regulators use pistons 
to sense and track the outlet pressure and control the regulator. Such pistons, 
which carries seals, usually O-rings, manifest a response lag arising from the 
frictional drag of the seals. Regulators of this latter type are offered by the 
Tescom Corporation. Patent No. 3,712,333, issued to Albert L. Semon, on January 23, 1973, for a Fluid 
Pressure Compensating Regulator, sets forth a valving element of square cross 
section, which requires that the corners of the same slidably and frictionally 
translate through a housing. Too, it has a diaphragm-carried insert which, when 
the diaphragm bottoms, has no gas flow accommodation provided therein. It is a purpose of this invention to set forth a pressure-reducing regulator 
which, by itself, is usable in vehicular applications, and is of efficient and 
uncomplicated structure, the same having a balanced valving element arrangement 
which has minimal frictional drag.  It is an object of this invention to disclose a pressure-reducing regulator 
for compressed natural gas, comprising a regulator body; said body having (a) an 
inner chamber for receiving high-pressure gas therein, and (b) an outer chamber 
for discharging low-pressure gas therefrom; porting means, formed in said body, 
for admitting gas into said inner chamber, and for discharging gas from said 
outer chamber; and valving means, within said body, for controlling fluid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pressure-reducing regulator for compressed natural gas, comprising: 
   a regulator body; 

   said body having (a) an inner chamber for receiving high-pressure gas 
therein, and (b) an outer chamber for discharging low-pressure gas therefrom; 

   porting means, formed in said body, for admitting gas into said inner 
chamber, and for discharging gas from said outer chamber; and 

   valving means, within said body, for controlling fluid communication 
between said chambers; wherein 

   said inner chamber and said valving means have structural means which 
cooperatively define (a) a seating area, and (b) a sealing area for said valving 

means ; 
   both said areas comprise means for defining boundaries between differential 

pressures of inner chamber high-pressure gas and outer chamber low-pressure gas; 
and 

   said valving means comprises means for (a) equalizing magnitudes of 
forces of such differential pressures, (b) directing such forces in balanced 

opposition, in said areas, and (c) maintaining equalization of such forces and 
oppositely-directed balancing thereof, in said areas, regardless of how pressures 

of such inner chamber high-pressure gas and such outer chamber low-pressure 
gas vary. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 1, wherein: 
   said structural means comprises (a) a valve seat, in said body, having 

an orifice formed therein, (b) a cylindrical recess formed in said body, and 

(c) a headed element for sealing closure of the head thereof onto said seat, having 
a shank for slidable, sealing reception thereof in said recess, and a bore formed 

fully through said element opening onto said recess and into said inner chamber; 
and 

   said orifice and said recess have a common diameter. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 1, wherein: 
   said body further has means for (a) admitting and discharging a heating 

fluid thereinto and therefran, and (b) heat-exchanging such fluid with a portion 
of said body wherein said areas and said inner chamber are positioned. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 2, further including: 
   a diaphragm fixed in said body; and wherein 

   said diaphragm comprises a wall of said outer chamber. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 4, wherein: 
   said element has a stem which protrudes into said outer chamber; and 

   said diaphragm and said stem are fastened together. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 4, further including: 
   an insert carried by said diaphragm for movement with said diaphragm 

into closure onto an opposite wall of said outer chamber, and over said valve 
seat; and 

   said insert has a channel formed therein for maintaining fluid communication 
between said orifice in said valve seat and said outer chamber. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 3, wherein: 
   said heating fluid admitting and discharging means comprises porting 

means formed in said body for conducting heating fluid into said body, and discharging 
such heating fluid from said body, and a bowl removably fastened to 

said body in which to pool such heating fluid. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 6, wherein: 
   said body further includes a hollow bonnet having a radial flange; 

   said body also has a circumferential land about said outer chamber; 
   said flange is fastened to said land; and 

   said diaphragm has an outer periphery which is held between said land 
and said flange. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 8, further including: 
   means confined within said bonnet biasing said diaphragm in a given 

direction. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 9, further including: 
   means in penetration of said bonnet for selectively adjusting a biasing 

force of said biasing means. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 1, wherein: 
   said body further has means for inhibiting an icing of said regulator; 

   said inhibiting means comprising means for enveloping at least said 
inner chamber and said valving means with a heating medium. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 11, wherein: 
   said enveloping means comprises means (a) for pooling a heating medium 

therein, and (b) for admitting and discharging such heating medium thereto and 
therefrom. 
A pressure-reducing regulator for compressed natural gas, comprising: 
   a regulator body; 

   said body having (a) an inner chamber for receiving high-pressure gas 
therein, and (b) an outer chamber for discharging low-pressure gas therefrom; and 

   a diaphragm fixed in said body; wherein 
   said diaphragm comprises a wall of said outer chamber; and 

   porting means for admitting gas into said body; 
   porting means for discharging gas from said body; 

   valving means, movably disposed in said body, for controlling fluid 
flow between said porting means; and 

   means formed in said body for inhibiting unwarranted oscillation of 
said diaphragm. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 13, wherein: 
   said valving means comprises a stem coupled to said diaphragm; 

   said body has a channel formed therein for accommodating said stem 
therein; and 

   said oscillation inhibiting means comprises a passage opening at opposte 
ends thereof onto said channel and onto said gas discharging porting means, in 

shunting bypass of said diaphragm. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 14, further including: 
   means formed in said body for communicating said outer chamber with said 

gas discharging porting means. 
A pressure-reducing regulator, according to claim 15, wherein: 
   said communicating means comprises an aspirator hole. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
