<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627037</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PORTABLE TENT ASSEMBLY FOR USE WITH A RADIO FREQUENCY SHIELDED ENCLOSURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04B192	E04B192	E04H1532	E04H1534	E04H1542	E04H1544	E04H1556	E04H1564	H05K900	H05K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04B	E04B	E04H	E04H	E04H	E04H	E04H	E04H	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04B1	E04B1	E04H15	E04H15	E04H15	E04H15	E04H15	E04H15	H05K9	H05K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This technical disclosure is for a structurally self-contained, RF-shielded enclosure which is rapidly deployable due to its ultra light weight and ease of assembly. Assembled by one person in half an hour, the enclosure becomes an RF-shielded, free standing room within an existing non-secure room or environment. Lightweight metallized fabric (2) is sewn together with rugged tent fabric (1) and ballistics cloth (3). Fiberglass rods (11c, 12a, 13a, 14) are connected to aluminum sleeves and unions (11a, 12b, 13g) to configure the room. A bulkhead aasembly (6) penetrates the side wall and provides filtered power and electronic signal interfaces. Honeycomb air guides (5) and an electric fan (16) facilitate air exchange within the room.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BULWARK ELECTROMAGNETIC MAT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BULWARK ELECTROMAGNETIC MATERIAL APPLICATIONS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALDRIDGE JOSEPH H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAES NED Z
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS TERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMAS ROBERT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALDRIDGE, JOSEPH, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAES, NED, Z.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS, TERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMAS, ROBERT, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PORTABLE TENT ASSEMBLY FOR USE WITH A RADIO FREQUENCY SHIELDED ENCLOSUREField of the Invention This invention relates to a portable tent assembly that may be carried, assembled, and disassembled by one person. More particularly, the invention is directed to a portable tent assembly composed of a frame assembly and an enclosure of flexible material which blocks the passage of radio fre- quenσy (RF) transmission.Background of the InventionThe requirement for low-cost, portable and rapidly deployable shielded enclosures for temporary RF-secure elec¬ tronic operations has long existed. During and immediately after fires, civil disturbances and natural disasters, the deployment or relocation of RF-secure electronic operations in a timely, efficient manner is often a critical part of the restoration to operational normalcy.The objective of this invention relates to the use of shielded rooms or enclosures, shielded specifically against radio frequency interference. The invention addresses the aforementioned requirements for a cost-effective, ultra¬ light, portable and rapidly deployable shielded enclosure for temporary, RF-secure electronic operations. The tempo- rary requirement can exist because of the aforementioned emergency situations or, for a non-emergency, short-term requirement that does not warrant the expense of a perma¬ nent, shielded facility.Although a handful of other devices are known, no other device meets the objectives of providing up to 60 decibels of attenuation across the preferred frequency range; and 

packaging as an ultralight portable, rapidly deployable, enclosure.Summary of the InventionThe portable tent assembly of this invention comprises a free-standing RF-shielded room or flexible enclosure which one person can assemble within thirty minutes as a shielded room within a larger existing room. The enclosure design provides maximum useable floor space with sufficient elec¬ trical power, air exchange, and RF protection for temporary, RF-secure electronic operations.A specific embodiment of the flexible enclosure in¬ cludes three types of fabric. The first fabric or inner cloth is a lightweight, woven or non-woven, metallized fabric consisting of any of the following combinations of metal coatings: copper, nickel, nickel-on-copper, tin-on- copper, or silver-on-copper. The second fabric or outer cloth is a lightweight, woven, # 400 Denier nylon, tent fabric. The third fabric or floor liner is a rugged, poly¬ propylene fiber, ballistics fabric. The inner and outer cloths are folded
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed in the preferred embodiment is: 1. A portable tent assembly comprising: a) a flexible enclosure including a top ceiling portion, a bottom floor portion, and a side wall portion fixedly connected along a top edge to the top ceiling por¬ tion, and along a bottom edge to the bottom floor portion; b) an outer frame assembly including a plurality of rigid rod members, a plurality of rigid rod coupling members, and a plurality of elastically stretchable cord members; c) said flexible enclosure being composed of foldable flexible sheet material and including rod holding means fixedly disposed along intersecting portions of the enclosure for removably locating at least one rod member extending between two rod coupling members; d) said outer frame assembly including top and bottom frame subassemblies, each said frame subassembly defining a closed periphery; e) each said top and bottom frame subassembly including at least one rod member removably extending be¬ tween rod coupling members to form a plurality of frame side sections along said closed periphery, f) each frame side section having outer ends and an end rod coupling member located at each said outer end thereof; g) when assembled, said outer frame assembly including vertically disposed rod members removably connect¬ ed to corresponding end rod coupling members at the outer ends of each frame side section when the top and bottom frame subassemblies are registered with respect to each other; h) said vertically disposed and registered top and bottom frame subassemblies define a plurality of verti- 


cally disposed profiles each having two upper end joints and two lower end joints; i) when said outer frame assembly is assembled, an elastic cord member is removably connected to and stretched between opposing top and bottom end joints of selected vertically disposed profiles; j ) said enclosure side wall portion including an opening for ingress and egress from an enclosed chamber formed within the flexible enclosure when mounted to the assembled outer frame assembly; k) said ingress and egress opening being located within a vertically disposed profile of the outer frame assembly that has no cord members stretched between its opposing top and bottom end joints;
1) the flexible enclosure and outer frame assem¬ bly having a combined weight effective to allow one adult person to carry the tent assembly when disassembled; and m) the flexible enclosure and outer frame assem¬ bly rod members, coupling members, and cord members having a size effective so that only one adult person may erect the tent assembly.
2. An assembly as defined in Claim 1 wherein the enclosed chamber defines an operations work area to contain equipment for effecting electronic opera¬ tions, the foldable flexible sheet material precludes radio frequency transmission therethrough to provide radio frequency shielding for producing radio frequency-secure electronic operations, the side wall portion includes a radio frequency- secure ingress and egress door opening.
3. An assembly as defined in Claim 1 wherein 


 the enclosed chamber defines an operations area and an access area, the foldable flexible sheet material precludes radio frequency transmission therethrough to provide radio frequency shielding for the enclosed chamber, and the operations area and the access area are sepa¬ rated by a wall portion having a radio frequency-secure ingress and egress door opening.
4. An assembly as defined in Claim 1 wherein the foldable flexible sheet material includes a metallized fabric contiguously disposed to an exterior fabric layer, said metallized fabric being effective to provide electrical continuity throughout the flexible enclosure producing a radio frequency shield, said exterior fabric layer being effective to provide physical protection.
5. An assembly as defined in Claim 4 wherein the flexible enclosure includes seams for connect¬ ing two fabric sheet edges together using a French-fold configuration for maintaining electrical continuity.
6. An assembly as defined in Claim 4 wherein a rugged ballistics cloth is contiguously disposed to the interior side of the metallized fabric to form a three-layered composite sheet material along the bottom floor portion.
7. An assembly as defined in Claim 1 wherein the foldable flexible sheet material precludes radio frequency transmission therethrough to provide radio frequency shielding, 


 the side wall portion includes a radio frequency- secure ingress and egress door opening having a door member pivotally movable along one side thereof between a closed and open position, a door frame structure for providing stability along the edge of the door opening, and radio frequency-securing means to prevent radio frequency trans¬ mission along an outer edge of the door member and the adjacent edge of the door opening when the door member is in a closed position within the door opening.
8. An assembly as defined in Claim 7 wherein the radio frequency securing means includes two conductive, spaced pairs of Velcro strips disposed along the edge of the door frame structure and door edges to produce a radio frequency-secure door opening when the door is in a closed position.
9. An assembly as defined in Claim 7 wherein the door frame structure includes pocket means disposed along the edge of the door opening, and rigid stabilizer means removably disposed within the pocket means to stiffen the edge portion of the door opening for receiv¬ ing the door in a closed condition and for providing support for the radio frequency securing means.
10. An assembly as defined in Claim 9 wherein the pocket means includes a plurality of elongated pocket members and the stabilizer means includes a plurality of rigid stabilizer members each having a structural config¬ uration effective to be inserted into an elongated pocket member.
11. An assembly as defined in Claim 7 wherein 


 the flexible enclosure includes an air intake opening, an air exhaust opening, and fixedly mounted elec¬ trical power bulkhead panel.
12. An assembly as defined in Claim 11 wherein the air intake opening and air exhaust opening are each defined within a rigid frame structure mounted to a honeycomb air guide, said air intake opening includes an electric flowing means attached to blow air through the honeycomb air guide into the enclosure whereby the blowing means provides an air assist during the initial assembly of the frame and enclosure, and air exchange during occupancy of the enclo¬ sure.
13. An assembly as defined in Claim 11 wherein the bulkhead panel is mounted to a frame structure fixedly connected to the side wall portion adjacent the bottom floor portion, said bulkhead panel including means for stabiliz¬ ing the panel in an upright position.
14. An assembly as defined in Claim 13 wherein said means for stabilizing the bulkhead panel includes a pivotally mounted foot member for extending outwardly from the panel onto the bottom floor portion.
15. An assembly as defined in Claim 13 wherein the panel includes a radio frequency interference filter, an electrical outlet receptacle, a circuit breaker assembly, a fiber optic guide, and means for electrically connecting the bulkhead panel to a source of externally disposed electrical power. 


 16. A frame assembly for a portable tent, said frame assembly comprising: a) a top frame subassembly and a bottom frame subassembly each defining a closed periphery; b) said top and bottom frame subassemblies in¬ cluding a plurality of rigid rod members, a plurality of rigid rod coupling members, and a plurality of elastically stretchable cord members for connecting the top and bottom subassemblies; c) each said top and bottom frame subassembly including at least one rod member removably extending be¬ tween rod coupling members to form a plurality of frame side sections along said closed periphery, d) each frame side section having outer ends and an end rod coupling member located at each said outer end thereof; e) when assembled, said outer frame assembly including vertically disposed rod members removably connect¬ ed to corresponding end rod coupling members at the outer ends of each frame side section when the top and bottom frame subassemblies are registered with respect to each other; f) said vertically disposed and registered top and bottom frame subassemblies define a plurality of verti¬ cally disposed profiles each having two upper end joints and two lower end joints; and g) when said outer frame assembly is assembled, an elastic cord member is removably connected to and stretched between opposing top and bottom end joints of selected vertically disposed profiles; h) the outer frame assembly rod members, coupling members, and cord members having a size effective so that only one adult person may erect the frame assembly. 


 17. An assembly as defined in Claim 16 wherein the top and bottom frame subassemblies are hori¬ zontally disposed and define substantially identically shaped closed peripheries, each of the frame subassemblies includes seven coupling members having three horizontal rod-receiving openings and one vertical rod-receiving opening, three sleeve coupling members having a horizontal rod-receiving opening at each end thereof, and eleven horizontal rods interconnecting the coupling members to form two rectangular horizontal profiles that share a common frame section.
18. An assembly as defined in Claim 17 wherein each of the fourteen coupling members include a vertical rod member permanently affixed within each vertical rod-receiving opening each thereby forming a first rod subassembly having a vertical rod member with a free end, and each of the six sleeve coupling members includes a rod member permanently affixed within one horizontal rod- receiving opening each thereby forming a horizonal rod subassembly.
19. An assembly as defined in Claim 18 wherein the vertically disposed rod members include two of said permanently affixed vertical rod members for removable connection to a vertical rod subassembly, said vertical rod subassembly includes a rod member having two ends thereof permanently affixed within a vertical rod-receiving opening of two sleeve coupling mem¬ bers each having a second vertical rod-receiving opening for removably connecting the free ends of said vertical rod members of said first rod assembly. 


 20. An assembly as defined in Claim 19 wherein a transport and storage bag includes pre-sized, and pre-marked compartments to receive the rods and coupling members when the frame assembly is disassembled. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
