<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614387</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-DEPLOYING STRUCTURES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1900	A61B1900	A61B1700	A61B1728	A61B1728	A61B1702	A61B1702	A61B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B19	A61B19	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to collapsible
structures which may be self-deployed to form rigid or
semi-rigid shaped medical devices such as retractors or
isolation bags.The invention further relates to collapsible
structures which may be deployed and inflated either
pneumatically or hydraulically to form rigid or semi-rigid
medical devices.A number of methods have been proposed for
forming retractors, among which there may be mentioned
U.S. Patent No. 4,744,363 ("Hasson"), U.S. Patent No.
4,190,042 ("Sinnreich"), and U.S. Patent No. 4,909,789
("Taguchi et al."). The prior art retractors, however,
possess either inadequate strength or are somewhat
traumatic.A number of methods have been proposed for
forming retractors. For example, see the Hasson,
Sinnreich and Taguchi et al. patents. The devices
disclosed in these patents are made by methods of
manufacture which tend to cause trauma to the organs
they are used to move. In addition, the manufacturing
techniques disclosed in these patents allow only a
limited range of capabilities.A major problem associated with minimally
invasive endoscopic surgical procedures is that of
removal of inflamed or diseased tissue or organs. One 
such procedure is the laparoscopic removal of the
gangrenous gallbladder. Withdrawing the infected organ
through the abdominal cavity without first isolating it
risks the spread of infection and peritonitis.
Currently available isolation bags are clumsy and
poorly designed. A number of methods have been
proposed for forming isolation bags, among which there
may be mentioned U.S. Patent No. 5,037,379 ("Clayman")
and U.S. Patent No. 4,557,255 ("Goodman"). The device
disclosed in Clayman includes a net which will not
prevent the transfer of diseased cells, and with the
device disclosed in Goodman there is no way of ensuring
the bag deploys properly or conveniently for accepting
the organ or tissue.U.S. Patent No. 4,447,227 describes, interalia, a
multi-purpose retractor comprising a fluid-responsive
expandable and collapsible cup or bucket and a movable,
fluid-responsive, pusher or elastic entrapment member.
Expansion of the cup or bucket and the pusher facilitates
capture of a foreign object which may be removed from the
body cavity after they are deflated while surrounding it.EP-A-490 714, which has a priority date earlier than
that of the present application but which was published
subsequently, describes a spatula inflatable within a
body cavity by means of an inflating bulb at the opposite
end of a tube supported in a cannula. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A medical device usable within a body cavity
comprising:


a delivery tube (4);
an inflatable and collapsible retractor blade (1,
12, 15, 40, 46), the retractor blade having a first

configuration in a collapsed state and a second
configuration in an expanded state, the retractor blade

including a substantially flat planar section (1a) in the
expanded state, the retractor blade being introducible

into a body cavity by passing the retractor blade through
the delivery tube while the retractor blade is in the

collapsed state, and the retractor blade being expandable
from the first configuration to the second configuration

when the retractor blade is inserted into the cavity
beyond an end of the delivery tube; and
fluid actuating means for expanding the retractor
blade from the first configuration to the second

configuration, the fluid actuating means comprising a
conduit (2) supported by the retractor blade, and

channels (3) within the retractor blade, the retractor
blade being expanded into the second configuration by

supplying pressurized gas or liquid (F) to the conduit
and thence to the channels.
A medical device usable within a body cavity
comprising:


a delivery tube;
an inflatable and collapsible retractor blade, the
retractor blade having a first configuration in a

collapsed state and a second configuration in an expanded
state, the retractor blade comprising a woven or sewn

fabric having a fluid-impervious coating and including a
substantially flat planar section in the expanded state,

the retractor blade being introducible into a body cavity
by passing the retractor blade through the delivery tube

while the retractor blade is in the collapsed state, and
the retractor blade being expandable from the first

configuration to the second configuration when the
retractor blade is inserted into the cavity beyond an end

of the delivery tube; and
fluid actuating means for expanding the retractor
blade from the first configuration to the second

configuration, the fluid actuating means comprising a
conduit supported by the retractor blade, the retractor

blade being expanded into the second configuration by
supplying pressurized gas or liquid to the conduit.
The device of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein
the retractor blade includes an atraumatic surface

thereon. 
The device of any one of Claims 1 to 3,
wherein the retractor blade comprises a polymeric

material selected from the group consisting of PVC,
vinyl chloride copolymers, chlorinated polyethylene,

ethylene-ethyl acrylate copolymers, butadiene-styrene
block copolymers, polyethylene terephthalate, ionomers,

polyisoprene, silicones, polyethylene, ethylene
copolymers, especially ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers,

fluoropolymers, polyvinylidene fluoride, vinylidene
fluoride copolymers, polypropylene, propylene copolymers,

nylons, especially nylon 6.6, polyurethanes and blends
and mixtures of two or more such polymers or of one or more

such polymers with another suitable polymer or polymers.
The device of any one of Claims 1 to 4,
wherein the fluid actuating means comprises first and

second conduits supported by the retractor blade, the
second conduit being discrete from and not in

communication with the first conduit whereby the first
conduit and the second conduit can each be supplied with

pressurized fluid at different pressures.
The device of any one of Claims 1 to 5,
wherein the retractor blade includes reinforcing means

selected from the group consisting of ribs (10) and
pre-shaped wire members (11). 
The device of any one of Claims 1 to 6,
wherein the retractor blade is fan-shaped.
The device of any one of Claims 1 to 7,
further comprising an inner tube (5, 48) attached to the

retractor blade (1, 12, 15, 40, 46), the retractor blade
having a distal end and a proximal end, the delivery tube

(4) having a distal end (41) and a proximal end, the
retractor blade being slidable within the delivery tube

and being expandable to the second configuration at a
position outwardly of the distal end of the delivery

tube, the distal end of the inner tube being attached to
the proximal end of the retractor blade and the inner

tube having a passageway (5a) communicating with the
conduit (2) of the retractor blade for inflation thereof.
The device of Claim 8, further comprising a
manually operable handle (6) on a proximal end of the

inner tube (5, 48), and a sliding carrier (8, 45)
attached to the distal end of the inner tube and

providing a seal between an inner periphery of the
delivery tube (4) and an outer periphery of the inner

tube.
The device of Claim 8 or Claim 9, including
means (42) to release the inflatable and collapsible

retractor blade in its second configuration beyond the 
distal end of the delivery tube.
The device of any one of Claim 8 to 10,
including means (47) to articulate the inflatable and

collapsible retractor blade beyond the distal end of the
delivery tube.
The device of any one of Claims to 1 to 11,
including means to interdigitate the inflatable a
nd
collapsible retractor blade with another inflatable and

collapsible retractor blade within a body cavity.
A medical device usable within a body cavity
comprising: a delivery tube (35); an inflatable and

collapsible member comprising an isolation bag (18), the
member having a first configuration in a collapsed state

and a second configuration in an expanded state, the
member being introducible into a body cavity by passing

the member through the delivery tube while the member is
in the collapsed state, and the member being expandable

from the first configuration to the second configuration
when the member is inserted into the cavity beyond an end

of the delivery tube; and fluid actuating means for
expanding the member from the first configuration to the

second configuration, the fluid actuating means
comprising a conduit (25) supported by the member, the

member being expanded into the second configuration by 
supplying pressurized gas or liquid to the conduit.
The device of Claim 13, further comprising a
neck channel (34) surrounding an openable end of the

isolation bag and a wire loop (33) extending through the
neck channel to close the openable end of the isolation

bag.
The device of Claim 14, wherein the wire
loop is of springy material and expands the openable end

of the isolation bag to an open condition.
The device of Claim 15, further comprising
an inner tube (36) having a distal end thereof attached

to the isolation bag and a passageway in the inner tube
communicating with the conduit (25) for inflation

thereof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
