<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630807</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Supersonic aircraft and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B64D1500	B64C2300	B64C2100	B64C3000	B64C2306	B64C3000	B64D1504	B64C2106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B64D	B64C	B64C	B64C	B64C	B64C	B64D	B64C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B64D15	B64C23	B64C21	B64C30	B64C23	B64C30	B64D15	B64C21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A supersonic aircraft (110) having highly swept subsonic leading edge 
portions (128) of the wings (114) provided with boundary layer control 

suction slots (136). When the airplane is operating at high angles of 
attach under circumstances whew noise is objectionable, air is drawn in 

through the suction strips to alleviate separated air flow and 
subtantially eliminate (or at least alleviate) vortices that would 

otherwise develop over the upper wing surface. This improves the L/D 
ratio and permits the engines (118) to be at a lower power setting, thus 

alleviating noise. There are shown a double delta planform 
configuration, and an arrow plan form configuration. Also, the boundary 

layer control suction can be used in conjuction with laminar flow 
control suction. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOEING CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOEING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIKH PRADIP G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIKH, PRADIP G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a supersonic 
aircraft and method of operating the same, and more 
particularly to such an apparatus and method 
incorporating suction boundary layer control (and in some 
instances laminar flow control) in the wings of the 
aircraft. There are number of challenges in the design of 
supersonic aircraft that will meet performance 
requirements and yet be environmentally acceptable 
relative to community noise generation. For achievement 
of improved supersonic cruise efficiency, a preferred 
supersonic aircraft configuration employs highly swept 
(subsonic) leading edge wings. However, this design 
creates particular problems relative to high lift 
conditions typical of climb-out and approach where high 
angles of attack are required. More particularly, these 
highly swept wings develop two leading edge vortices 
which, while increasing lift, also result in an increase 
in drag, resulting in a poor lift to drag (L/D) ratio. 
Higher (L/D) ratio is obtained when there is fully 
attached flow over the wings. In the Concorde supersonic transport, the wing 
has a highly swept leading edge, but no leading edge 
devices are used. During takeoff and climb, the  
 
configuration operates at a high angle of attack, and the 
two strong vortices that are generated off of the leading 
edges create sufficient lift for takeoff and climb. 
However, because of the high drag, the engines are 
operated at a relatively high power setting, thus 
creating noise well above the maximum level permitted in 
the vicinity of most all airports. Consequently, there 
are very few airports at which the Concorde can operate. 
Significant research effort has been directed at 
improving the L/D ratio of supersonic aircraft during 
takeoff and climb. One prior art approach to obtain good high lift 
(L/D) performance is to employ leading edge devices such 
as flaps or slats, in order to maintain nearly attached 
flow. However, this approach is mechanically complex and 
may still lead to hinge line separation. Further, this 
requires additional hardware, and also the systems to 
operate the same, thus creating a penalty in both weight 
and cost. Additionally the space requirement for the 
accommodation of leading edge devices reduces the 
available fuel volume in the leading edge region of the 
wings. A concept which has been proposed to generate 
increased left at liftoff and approach (desirably in 
combination with leading edge slats or other leading edge 
devices) is to utilize vortex generators in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A supersonic aircraft comprising: 

a. an airfoil having an upper surface and a 
highly swept subsonic leading edge portion 

which is arranged to develop at high angles 
of attack separated flow that develops into 

a vortex that travels over the upper 
surface of the airfoil; 
b. said leading edge portion having an outer 
surface and having at said outer surface a 

boundary layer control suction strip means 
extending along said leading edge portion; 
c. suction means to draw in outside air 
through said suction strip means; and 
d. said suction means being arranged and said 
suction strip means being positioned, 

configured and arranged in a manner that 
operation of said suction means to draw in 

said outside air through said suction strip 
means alleviates separated air flow so as 

to alleviate developing of said vortex. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 1, wherein 
the outer surface of the leading edge portion is 

substantially fixed. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 2, wherein 
said suction strip means is adjacent to a leading edge 

highlight area of said airfoil. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 1, said 
suction strip means is adjacent to a leading edge 

highlight area of said airfoil.  
 
The aircraft as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said airfoil also has a second less swept supersonic 

leading edge portion. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 5, wherein 
said aircraft has a planform double delta configuration 

where said highly swept subsonic leading edge portion is 
at a more forward inboard location, and said less swept 

supersonic leading edge portion is at a rear more 
outboard location. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 6, wherein 
said less swept supersonic leading edge portion has 

mechanically operable leading edge high lift device means 
to at least partially alleviate separated flow at high 

angles of attack. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said highly swept leading edge portion extends 

substantially along an entire leading edge of said 
airfoil. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 1, wherein 
there is laminar flow control suction strip means located 

on a surface area of said airfoil, and said suction means 
is arranged to draw in outside air also through said 

laminar flow control suction strip means. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 9, wherein 
said laminar flow control suction strip means is located 

adjacent to and rearwardly of said boundary layer control 
suction strip means. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 10, wherein 
said suction means is arranged to operate in a boundary 

layer control mode to draw in sufficient outside air 
through said boundary layer control suction strip means  

 
to alleviate said separated flow, and also to operate in 

a laminar flow control mode and draw in outside air 
through both of said boundary layer control suction strip 

means and through said laminar flow control suction strip 
means at a flow rate to effect laminar flow control by 

both said boundary layer control suction strip means and 
said laminar flow control suction strip means. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 1, further 

comprising, transpiration anti-icing strip means 
positioned adjacent to said boundary layer control 

suction strip means in a manner that anti-icing air blown 
outwardly through said transpiration anti-icing strip 

means blows over at least said boundary layer control 
suction strip means for anti-icing thereof. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 12, wherein 
said suction means includes means to draw in outside air 

through said transpiration anti-icing strip means, and 
there is also anti-icing means to deliver anti-icing air 

to said transpiration anti-icing strip means. 
The aircraft as recited claim 13, wherein 
there is a second laminar flow control suction strip 

means located rearwardly of said transpiration anti-icing 
strip means, and said suction means further comprises 

means to draw outside air through said second laminar 
flow control suction strip means. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said boundary layer control suction strip means has a 

width dimension at at least one region of said highly 
swept subsonic leading edge portion taken along a line 

parallel free stream flow relative to said aircraft, and  
 

said width dimension is no greater than about five 
percent of a chord length of said airfoil. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 15, wherein 
said width dimension is between about one percent to five 

percent of said chord length. 
The aircraft as recited in claim 16, wherein 
said width dimension is between about one percent to two 

percent of said chord length. 
The supersonic aircraft as recited in claim 
1, further comprising: 


a. a fuselage; 
b. a second airfoil having a second upper 
surface and a second highly swept subsonic 

leading edge portion which is arranged to 
develop at high angles of attack separated 

flow that develops into a second vortex 
that travels over the upper surface of the 

second airfoil; 
c. said second leading edge portion having a 
second outer surface and having at said 

second outer surface a second boundary 
layer control suction strip means extending 

along said second leading edge portion; 
d. said suction means being arranged to draw 
in outside air through both said first 

named and said second suction strip means; 
e. said first named and said second airfoils 
being positioned on opposite side of said 

fuselage; and 
f. said suction means being arranged and said 
first named and second suction strip means  

 
being positioned, configured and arranged 

in a manner that Operation of said suction 
means to draw to said outside air though 

said first named and said second suction 
strip means alleviates separated air flow 

so as to alleviate developing of said first 
and second vortices. 
A method of operating a supersonic aircraft, 
said method comprising: 


a. providing said aircraft with an airfoil 
having an upper surface and a highly swept 

subsonic leading edge portion which is 
arranged to develop at high angles or 

attack separated flow that develops into a 
vortex that travels over the upper surface 

of the airfoil; 
b. proving at an outer surface of said leading 
edge portion a boundary layer control 

suction strip means extending along said 
leading edge portion; 
c. operating suction means during a high angle 
of attack mode of operation to draw in 

outside air through said suction strip 
means to alleviate separated air flow so as 

to alleviate developing of said vortex. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
