<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635157</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED SURFACE-ENHANCED RAMAN OPTICAL DATA STORAGE SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M500	B41M500	G11B700	G11B700	G11B7004	G11B70045	G11B70055	G11B70065	G11B1100	G11B1100	G11B1110	G11B11105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M5	B41M5	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B11	G11B11	G11B11	G11B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved Surface-Enhanced Raman Optical Data Storage System (SERODS) is disclosed. In the improved system, entities capable of existing in multiple reversible states are present on the storage device. Such entities result in changed Surface-Enhanced Raman Scattering (12) (SERS) when localized state changes are effected in less than all of the entities. Therefore, by changing the state of entities in localized regions of a storage device, the SERS emissions in such regions will be changed. When a write-on device is controlled by a data signal, such localized regions of changed SERS emissions will correspond to the data written on the device. The data may be read by illuminating the surface of the storage device with electromagnetic radiation (36) of an appropriate frequency and detecting (40) the corresponding SERS emissions. Data may be deleted by reversing the state changes of entities in regions where the data was initially written. In application, entities may be individual molecules which allows for the writing of data at the molecular level. A read/write/delete head (32) utilizing nearfield quantum techniques can provide for a write/read/delete device (32) capable of effecting state changes in individual molecules, thus providing for the effective storage of data at the molecular level.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTIN MARIETTA ENERGY SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTIN MARIETTA ENERGY SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VO-DINH TUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VO-DINH, TUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED SURFACE-ENHANCED RAMAN OPTICAL DATA STORAGE SYSTEMThe U.S. Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE-AC05-840R215400 with Martin Marietta Energy Systems, Inc., awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy and funded through OTA Maturation Funds. Field of Invention.The present invention relates to optical data storage and, in particular, an improved optical data storage system based on the phenomenon of Surface-Enhanced Raman Scattering (SERS) . Background of the Invention.For the last three (3) decades, magnetic data storage has remained the cornerstone for machine-readable data storage. In the 1970's, research efforts were devoted to investigate new generations of data storage devices based on nonmagnetic principles, such as optical data storage systems. Whereas magnetic data storage disks provide excellent access time and erasability, optical data storage systems can provide a unique combination of superior performance features that make them most appropriate for large memory applications. Optical data storage disks promise to offer low cost-per-bite, improved accessing characteristics and higher storage efficiency. Several optical data storage techniques have been developed which have increased the possible data storage density of a storage device by several orders of magnitude. However, the majority of these types of optical storage systems are non-erasable or Write Once Read Many (WORM) systems. While such WORM systems are useful for library or archive applications, the fact that they are not erasable limits their usefulness.One such WORM system was disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,999,810, entitled Surface-Enhanced Raman Optical Data Storage System by the present inventor which is incorporated by reference herein. While the Surface-Enhanced Raman Scattering (SERS) phenomenon provides for high density optical data storage, it suffers from the same limitations as do other WORM systems. 

 The SERS phenomenon is based upon the interaction between a SERS-active support layer and a SERS-active optical layer. Research has taught that emission of radiation based on the SERS effect is highly dependent upon the interaction between the optical layer and the support layer or medium and that minute changes in either layer result in markedly changed SERS emissions. In fact, provided the equipment has sufficient resolution, changes in SERS emissions can result from changes in either the optical layer or support layer at the molecular level. It is this fact that provides a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
Claim 1. An apparatus for the storage of data comprising:
SERS-active storage means having a multiple state microenvironment which will emit a SERS signal of predetermined characteristics depending upon the state of the microenvironment when excited, each of said multiple states capable of independent reversible selection on a localized area of said medium and on substantially the entire medium; and write means for selectively changing the state of said microenvironment in localized areas of said medium from a first state to a second state in a manner corresponding to the data to be stored, said localized areas having different SERS emission characteristics in said first state than areas in said second state.
Claim 2. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said SERS-active storage means further comprises: a surface; entities distributed on said surface and being capable of existing in at least a first orientation representing one of said multiple states, the orientation of said entities affecting SERS emission of said storage means; separate_localized regions of said entities defined on said surface such that entities in each of said separate localized regions are capable of selectively existing in the first orientation independently of the entities in other of said localized regions.
Claim 3. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said write means further comprises: means for imposing a force on the entities of selected ones of said localized regions for causing the entities of the selected localized region to become oriented into the first orientation.
Claim 4. The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising: delete means for selectively reversing the state change induced in a localized portion of said microenvironment by said write means.
Claim 5. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said first
21 


orientation is an adsorption state of said entities.
Claim 6. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said first orientation is a directional state of said entities.
Claim 7. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said first orientation is a molecular state of said entities.
Claim 8. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said storage means is provided as an electrode in an electrolytic cell and said write means is an electric or magnetic head.
Claim 9. The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprised of a plurality of said storage means distributed in a . three- dimensional array for the storage of data in three-dimensions.
Claim 10. The apparatus of Claim 9 wherein said write means is adapted to utilize holographic techniques to store the data in said three-dimensional array of storage means.
Claim 11. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the write. eans is a.near field microhead comprised of: incident electromagnetic radiation field generating means for providing light to be used to selectively disturb the microenvironment of the storage device and to provide a radiation field in the region near the surface of the storage device; light propagation means having a distal end of predetermined size to direct the incident radiation toward, the surface of the storage device, said distal end being of a size corresponding to the size of the portion of the microenvironment to be disturbed; and microhead control means for controlling said light propagation means such that said distal end is maintained within the near field region of the surface of said storage device.
Claim 12. The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein the microhead control means comprises an atomic force feedback control system.
Claim 13. The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein the microhead control means comprises a scanning-tunneling feedback control system.
Claim 14. The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein the microhead control means comprises an ion-conductance feedback control system.
Claim 15. The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising read
22 


means for reading data written onto a SERS-active storage device comprising: excitation means for providing and direct electromagnetic excitation radiation of an appropriate frequency and intensity to induce SERS emissions by said storage means; and detector means for receiving and analyzing SERS emissions from said storage device and generating a signal corresponding to the received emission which represents the data stored on the storage device; and direction means for directing said excitation radiation to the portion of said storage device to be read and directing SERS emissions from said storage device to said detection means.
Claim 16. The apparatus of Claim 15 wherein said direction means comprises: electromagnetic radiation field generation means for providing excitation radiation to the surface of said storage device to induce SERS emissions and for providing an incident radiation near field adjacent the surface of the storage device; light propagation means having a distal end of predetermined size to direct said excitation radiation to the portion of said storage device to be read, said distal end being of a size corresponding to the size of the portion of said storage device containing one bit of data; and microhead control means for controlling said light propagation means such that said distal end is maintained within the near field region adjacent said storage device.
Claim 17. The apparatus of Claim 15 wherein said write means also comprises a delete means for reversing state changes induced by said write means.
Claim 18. A near-field microhead for reading, writing and deleting data stored on the surface of an optical data storage device comprised of: incident electromagnetic radiation field generating means for providing light to be used to selectively illuminate the surface of the storage device and to provide a radiation field in a region near the surface of the storage device; light propagation means having a distal end of predetermined
23 


size to direct the incident radiation toward the surface of the storage device, said distal end being of a size corresponding to the size of the portion of the storage device to be illuminated; and microhead control means for controlling said light propagation means such that said distal end is maintained within the near-field region of the surface of said storage device; and electromagnetic radiation intensity control means for controlling the intensity of the radiation propagated to the surface of the storage device by said distal end such that the intensity of said radiation is selected and varied to read, write or delete data on the portion of the storage device illuminated.
Claim 19. The apparatus of Claim 18 wherein the microhead control means comprises an atomic force feedback control system.
Claim 20. The apparatus of Claim 18 wherein the microhead control means comprises a scanning-tunneling feedback control system.
Claim 21. The apparatu .of Claim 18 wherein the microhead control means comprises an ion-conductance feedback control system.
24 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
