<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634606</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Superheated vapor generator and control system and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F22B128	B08B302	F22B100	F22B3500	B08B302	F22B3500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F22B	B08B	F22B	F22B	B08B	F22B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F22B1	B08B3	F22B1	F22B35	B08B3	F22B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A superheated vapor generator and control system comprises a vapor 
generator having an interior vapor generating chamber (126) with 

peripheral surfaces having a plurality of ridges (127) and grooves 
(127'), preferably of substantially randomly varying heights and depths 

and preferably having a plurality of grooves (128') and ridges (128) 
intersecting the first-mentioned grooves (127') and ridges (127), the 

second-mentioned ridges (128) and grooves (128') preferably varying 
substantially randomly in height and depth. A hand-held control member 

includes parts for controlling generation of superheated vapor and for 
directing such vapor to desired objects. 
A method for fabricating a superheated vapor generator includes 
machining inner portions of sections of heat conductive material to form 

grooves and ridges and then welding (122) the parts together to form a 
closed interior vapor generation chamber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRIEDHEIM MAX
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRIEDHEIM, MAX
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDHEIM MAX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDHEIM, MAX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to a system for rapid generation of
superheated vapor such as superheated steam and for controlling
and directing superheated vapor and further relates to a method
for fabricating means for generating superheated vapor.Prior art patents include U.S. Patent No. 4,414,037, owned
by the inventor and applicant herein, and prior art references
cited in connection with the aforesaid U.S. Patent No. 4,414,037
including U.S. Patent Nos. 2,505,656; 2,753,212; 2,861,838;
2,983,450; 3,039.454; 3,218,741; 3,718,805; and 3,721,802.The aforesaid patents in the main refer to apparatus for
generating steam from liquid drawn from a reservoir.U.S. Patent No. 4,414,037 (the '037 Patent) to the inventor
herein discloses apparatus for generating superheated steam or
other vapor from water drawn from a self-contained reservoir and
includes means in the form of a nozzle for directing superheated
steam to desired objects. The apparatus disclosed and claimed in
the aforesaid patent is directed to a system for accomplishing,
among other things, cleaning and sterilization, the mixture drawn
from the reservoir being a cleaning solution or a disinfectant.
The device of the '037 patent employs a nozzle positioned
adjacent the cover of the device for directing the spray of
superheated vapor, under the control of a foot switch whereby the
intake and output of steam is regulated. The steam chamber
comprises walls having point-like irregularities etched into the 
surface thereof by etching solution, as a result of which the
production of vapor from input fluid is expedited as opposed to
steam generation from a smooth-walled chamber. The chamber could
be fabricated only of aluminum, due to the chemical process
employed in etching the irregularities into the chamber walls.
In addition, the device of the '037 patent delivers a uniformly
relatively dry mixture of superheated vapor, which was
advantageous in a number of applications.The device of the '037 patent has been highly successful in
numerous applications, including cleaning and sterilization of
numerous objects such as large and small machinery and medical
equipment. However, it has been found that improved results and
more general applicability could be achieved through a
superheated vapor generator and control system which would
produce superheated vapor such as steam even more rapidly than
the existing device and would in addition afford the capability
of greater convenience and mobility, and more precise control in
terms of regulating and directing the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A superheated vapor generating and control system

comprising :

(1) at least one vapor generator member, said vapor generator
member defining an internal vaporizing chamber, said vaporizing chamber

having a peripheral surface at least a portion of which includes a plurality
of ridges and grooves, the height and depth of said ridges and groves

varying substantially randomly;
(2) at least one heating element member in thermal contact with
said vaporizing chamber and connectable to a source of power for heating

said heating element thereby to heat said vaporizing chamber; and
(3) means for supplying liquid for vaporizing to said vaporizing
chamber.
The system as set forth in Claim 1 wherein the height and
depth of said ridges and grooves is substantially in the range of .030-.050

inch (about 0.76 - 1.27mm).
The system as set forth in Claim 1 wherein at least one ridge
and groove intersect with said first-mentioned ridges and grooves.
The system as set forth in Claim 3 wherein said second-mentioned
at least one intersecting ridge and groove constitute a plurality,

varying substantially randomly in height and depth.
The system as set forth in Claim 4 wherein said heights and
depths of said second-mentioned ridges and grooves vary substantially in

the range of.025 - .030 inch (about 0.64 - 0.76mm). 
The system as set forth in Claim 1 wherein said ridges and
grooves form substantially concentric circular configurations and further

including a second plurality of ridges and grooves intersecting said first-mentioned
ridges and grooves substantially at right angles.
The system as set forth in any one of the preceding claims
further including a vapor control member for controlling the generation of

superheated vapor by said vapor generator member and for directing said
superheated vapor to desired objectives.
A system according to Claim 7 wherein the vapor control
member is connectable to said output means of said vapor generator

member and wherein said means for supplying liquid includes check valve
means comprising at least one spring member disposed between at least

one valve ball member and at least one valve cap member, whereby when
said valve cap member is thicker thereby increasing spring tension,

moisture content of said superheated vapor is increased and when said
valve cap is thinner thereby reducing spring tension, the liquid content of

vapor generated by said vapor generator member is smaller.
The system as set forth in Claim 8 wherein said liquid supply means
includes at least one pump which is electrically powered and wherein said

means for controlling said vapor generator on said vapor control member
comprises an electrical switch for controlling the on-off condition of said

pump.
The system as set forth in either one of Claims 8 and 9
wherein said vapor control member comprises a hand-holdable and

manipulable member comprising a handle and a nozzle, and wherein said
means for controlling vapor generation comprises an on-off switch in said 

handle.
The system as set forth in Claim 10 wherein said vapor
control member comprises a substantially flexible conduit connected

between said handle and said output means of said vapor generator
member, whereby mobility of the vapor control member and vapor

directed thereby is facilitated.
The system as set forth in Claim 8 wherein said liquid supply means
includes check valve means adjustable to vary the liquid content of

superheated vapor generated by said vapor generator member.
The system as set forth in Claim 8 wherein said liquid
comprises water and said superheated vapor comprises superheated steam.
The system as set forth in Claim 8 wherein said liquid
comprises a cleaning solution.
The system as set forth in Claim 8 wherein a lubricant is
placed on a surface of said vapor generator member to receive superheated

vapor for distribution of said lubricant thereon.
The system as set forth in Claim 8 wherein said heating
member is responsive to a thermostat to maintain the temperature of said

vapor generator member at a predetermined level.
The system as set forth in Claim 16 wherein said vapor
generator member is set to operate within a range of 500째F (about 260째C) 

plus or minus ten percent (10%).
The system as set forth in Claim 16 further including a
second thermostat member for regulating the temperature of said vapor

generator member when the temperature thereof exceeds the limits set by
said first-mentioned thermostat member.
The system as set forth in Claim 18 wherein the said second
thermostat member regulates temperature of said vapor generator member

substantially within a range of 550째F (about 288째C) plus or minus ten
percent (10%).
The system as set forth in Claim 18 further including a
thermofuse member for interrupting power supply to said heating member

when the range of operating temperatures of said second thermostat
member is exceeded, whereby to halt operation of the vapor generator

member.
The system as set forth in Claim 8 wherein said liquid supply means
includes at least one conduit member between said pump and said vapor

generator member, said conduit including a thermally conductive sleeve
at a section thereof where said conduit enters said vapor generator

member, to minimize the erosive effect of the temperature differential
between the interior of said vapor generator member and the said conduit

member outside said vapor generator member.
The system as set forth in Claim 8 wherein said vapor
generator member is composed of aluminum.
The system as set forth in Claim 8 wherein said vapor 
generator member is composed of thermally conductive material.
The system as set forth in Claim 19 further including first
indicator means to indicate drawing of power to heat said vapor generator

member to its pre-set operating temperature range.
The system as set forth in Claim 16 wherein said heating
element comprises a removable heating member in the form of a cartridge

and therein said vapor generator member defines at least one slot for
receipt of said cartridge.
A vapor generator for generating superheated vapor
comprising:


A vapor generating chamber defined within a body of thermally
conductive material, the periphery of said vapor generator chamber

comprising a plurality of ridges and grooves, the height and depth of said
ridges and grooves varying substantially randomly.
The generator as set forth in Claim 26 wherein said vapor
generator comprises at least two sections welded together to form said

vapor generator chamber.
The generator as set forth in Claim 26 further including a
plurality of grooves and ridges intersecting at least some of said first

mentioned grooves and ridges.
The generator as set forth in Claim 28 wherein said
intersect
ions of said second-mentioned grooves and ridges with said first-mentioned
grooves and ridges are substantially perpendicular. 
The generator as set forth in Claim 26 wherein said grooves
and ridges comprise substantially concentric circles.
The generator as set forth in Claim 30 further including a
plurality of grooves and ridges substantially intersecting at least some of

said first-mentioned grooves and ridges.
The generator as set forth in Claim 31 wherein the said
intersections of said first-mentioned grooves and said second-mentioned

grooves and ridges are essentially perpendicular.
The generator as set forth in Claim 26 wherein said vapor
generator chamber is substantially spherical in configuration.
A method for fabricating a vapor generator comprising the
steps of;


(1) providing at least two (2) sections of a thermally conductive
material configured to be fittable together to form a closed interior

volume;
(2) machining the interior of said sections to provide a plurality of
ridges and grooves on the inner surface of said parts; said grooves and

ridges being machined to provide a random variation of height and depth;
(3) Welding said parts together to form a closed volume.
The method as set forth in Claim 34 further including the
step of machining said parts to provide a plurality of ridges and grooves

intersecting at least some of said first-mentioned ridges and grooves.
The method as set forth in Claim 34 wherein said variation
of depth and height is substantially in the range of.030-.050 inch (about 

0.76 - 1.27 mm).
The method as set forth in Claim 35 wherein said
intersecting ridges and grooves have a random variation of depth and

height.
The method as set forth in Claim 37 wherein said grooves
and ridges varying in the range of substantially .025-.-035 inch (about 0.64-0.89mm).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
