<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638326</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Break-away safety shield for needle cannula
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M5178	A61M531	A61M5178	A61B1734	A61M532	A61M5158	A61M514	A61M532	A61B1734	A61M531	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61B	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61B	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61B17	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61B17	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A safety shield assembly (10) is provided for safely enclosing a 
needle cannula (12). The 

safety shield assembly includes an inner shield (22) that is slidably 
movable along the needle 

cannula (12). The inner shield (22) includes a locking structure (36,38) 
which locks the inner shield (22) with 

respect to the distal end (16) of the needle cannula (12). The safety 
shield assembly (10) also 

includes an outer shield (24) that is in releasable engagement with 
the inner shield (22). The 

outer shield (24) will separate from the inner shield (22) in response 
to excessive force (F
b
) exerted 
thereon, and hence avoids failure of the structure locking the inner 

shield (22) to the needle cannula (12). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The subject invention relates to safety shields that
are axially movable along a needle cannula from a proximal position where the tip of
the needle cannula is exposed to a distal position where the tip of the needle cannula is
protectively enclosed.The prior art hypodermic syringe includes
an elongate barrel having an open proximal end, a distal end and a fluid receiving
chamber therebetween. The distal end of the prior art syringe barrel defines a tip
having a fluid passage extending therethrough and communicating with the chamber.
A plunger may be slidably disposed in the open proximal end of the syringe barrel for
urging fluid through the passage in the tip.A needle cannula can be mounted to the distal end of the prior art syringe
barrel. The needle cannula has a proximal end, a sharp distal end and a lumen
extending therebetween. The proximal end of the needle cannula is secured to a
mounting hub that can be engaged on the distal end of the syringe barrel such that the
passage through the distal end of the syringe barrel communicates with the lumen
through the needle cannula.The prior art needle cannula is prepackaged in a needle shield to prevent
accidental needle sticks prior to the first intended use of the needle cannula. The
shield can be removed after the needle cannula has been mounted to the syringe barrel
and immediately prior to use. A health care worker then uses the unshielded needle
cannula and hypodermic syringe to either inject medication into a patient or to
withdraw bodily fluid for subsequent diagnostic evaluation.Needle sticks that occur before the hypodermic syringe is used create less risk
of infection because the needle is sterile. However, needle sticks occurring after the
hypodermic syringe has been used pose a greater risk of infection or disease
transmission. As a result, the prior art includes shields for protectively enclosing at
least the tip of the used needle cannula.Some prior art shields define a separate cap that can be telescoped in a
proximal direction over the used needle cannula. However, separate caps often are
lost or misplaced in the hectic environment of a medical facility. Additionally, the 
movement of the used needle cannula and the separate cap toward one another creates
the potential for an accidental needle stick.The prior art also includes needle shields that cannot be misplaced and that are
intended to avoid the movement of one hand toward the other during a shielding
operation. Needle shields of this type typically are releasably retained near the
p
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A safety shield assembly (10) comprising:

a needle cannula (12) having a proximal end (14), a distal end (16) and a lumen
therethrough;
an inner shield (22) slidably movable along said needle cannula (12) from a
proximal position where said distal end of said needle cannula (12) is exposed, to a

distal position at least partially on said needle cannula (12) where said distal end of said
needle cannula (12) is shielded;
locking means (28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38) for helping to prevent said inner shield
(22) from moving distally with respect to said needle cannula when said inner shield

(22) is in said distal position on said needle cannula; and
an outer shield (24) surrounding said inner shield (22) to render said inner shield
(22) substantially inaccessible;

   characterised in that the safety shield assembly further comprises engagement
means (26,44) for engaging said outer and inner shields when said inner shield is in said

proximal position and while said inner shield is slid to said distal position, and for allowing
disengagement of said outer shield (24) from said inner shield (22) when said inner shield is

in said distal position in response to a distally directed force of a selected magnitude
exerted thereon, said distally directed force being greater than the force required to slide

the inner shield (22) along the needle cannula (12), but less than the force to move said
inner shield (22) distally off the needle cannula (12).
The safety shield assembly of Claim 1, wherein said inner and outer shields each
include opposed proximal and distal ends, said outer shield including deflectable

locking means adjacent said proximal end for releasably engaging said proximal end of
said inner shield. 
The safety shield assembly of Claim 1, wherein said inner shield includes
opposed proximal and distal ends and an engagement deformation therebetween, said

outer shield including an engagement deformation releasably engageable with said
engagement deformation of said inner shield.
The safety shield assembly of Claim 3, wherein said engagement deformation of
said inner shield comprises a recessed annular deformation therein, and wherein said

engagement deformation of said outer shield is a projection releasably engageable with
said recessed annular deformation of the inner shield.
The safety shield assembly of Claim 1, wherein the inner shield includes
opposed proximal and distal ends and opposed inner and outer surfaces, said inner

shield including an engagement deformation on portions of said inner surface adjacent
said distal end, said outer shield including opposed proximal and distal ends, said outer

shield further comprising engagement means projecting proximally from said distal end
for engagement with said engagement deformation of said inner shield.
The safety assembly of Claim 1 wherein said means for selectively disengaging
said outer shield from inner shield includes a frangible link connecting said outer shield

to said inner shield.
The safety shield assembly of Claim 6 wherein said frangible link comprises an
adhesive backed sheet connected by said adhesive to said inner shield and said outer

shield.
The safety shield assembly of Claim 1 wherein said locking means is disposed
in said inner shield for locking said inner shield to said cannula.
The safety shield assembly of Claim 11 wherein said locking means includes a
deformation on said cannula. 
The safety shield assembly of Claim 1 wherein said locking means includes a
flexible link between structure adjacent to said proximal end of said needle cannula and

said inner shield.
The safety shield assembly of Claim 1, wherein locking means includes sensing
means for sensing said distal end of said needle cannula and for locking said inner

shield to said needle cannula upon said sensing of said end of said needle cannula by
said sensing means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
