<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633996</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLOSED-LOOP DRYING PROCESS AND SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L340	A23L340	D21F500	D21F520	F26B2102	F26B2104	F26B2106	F26B2108	F26B2114	F26B2114	F26B2300	F26B2300	F28D1502	F28D1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A23L	D21F	D21F	F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	F28D	F28D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L3	A23L3	D21F5	D21F5	F26B21	F26B21	F26B21	F26B21	F26B21	F26B21	F26B23	F26B23	F28D15	F28D15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dryer is designed as a closed system in which heated air used to dry the materials is continuously recycled within the drying compartment of the dryer without being discharged to the atmosphere, thus increasing the efficiency of the system while preventing the discharge of contaminated vapors to the atmosphere and also conserving energy which would otherwise be required to heat or air-condition the air drawn into the dryer from the building in which the dryer is located. A regenerative heat exchanger (140) and an atmospheric cooler/condenser (144) are provided in the dryer and condense and remove moisture from the saturated air and transfer the heat of condensation back into the air before the air is reheated and recycled back to the materials to be dried. The driving compartment may comprise an enclosed tunnel (131) through which a rack of superposed trays (170) are conveyed or may comprise some other conveying mechanism.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DINH KHANH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DINH KHANH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DINH KHANH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DINH KHANH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CLOSED-LOOP DRYING PROCESS AND SYSTEMBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to a system and process for drying materials and more particularly relates to a drying system which uses a heated drying medium such as air to dry materials.In a wide variety of industries, large amounts of materials must be dried before use or before undergoing further treatment such as incineration. These industries include, but are not limited to, the lumber industry, many food processing industries, the paper production industry, the waste treatment industry, and the fertilizer production industry. In such industries, the materials are typically dried by forcing relatively hot air over the materials to evaporate the moisture from the materials. With reference to Fig. 1 ambient air is drawn into an inlet 10 of a conventional system via a blower 12, which then forces the air over a heater 14 which heats the air to a temperature of, e.g., 170°F. The heated air then travels over a plurality of superposed drying trays 16 which convey the material to be dried through the system in a direction which is usually opposite to the direction of flow of the air. After evaporating the moisture from the material, the heated and saturated air is discarded directly to the atmosphere via an outlet 18 of the system.While this system adequately dries the materials, it is extremely inefficient since all of the energy used to heat the air is lost when the saturated air is discharged from the outlet of the dryer. In fact, in a typical industrial system in which ambient air at 70°F is heated to 170°F for drying, 1,000,000 BTU/hr must be consumed to dry the materials to the required moisture levels. In addition, the heated air also serves as a source of heat pollution when it is discharged into the atmosphere.In order to increase the efficiencies of dryers, other types of dryers have been proposed which use a heat-exchanger which recoups some of the heat which would 

otherwise be lost when the air is discharged. Referring to Fig. 2, these systems typically employ a dryer having a regenerative heat exchanger 20 thermally connecting the inlet of the dryer to the outlet. Heat exchanger 20 removes some of the heat from the saturated air before the air is discharged from the dryer from an outlet 22, and transfers the extracted heat to air entering the dryer from an inlet 24. During this process, some of the moisture condenses out of the saturated air and is removed from the system via a drain 26. Meanwhile, the air which has been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. A dryer comprising:
(A) an enclosed housing having a drying compartment located therein for receiving materials to be dried in contact with a drying medium;
(B) a heating element located in said housing which heats said drying medium;
(C) means for dehu idifying said drying medium which includes a regenerative heat exchanger which is self-regenerative and which is located in said housing between said drying compartment and said heating element; and
(D) means for recirculating said drying medium in a closed-loop manner from said heating element, through said drying compartment and said means for dehumidifying, and then back to said heating element.
2. The dryer of claim 1, wherein said regenerative heat exchanger has a first portion which cools and dehumidifies said drying medium and a second portion which reheats said drying medium, and wherein said means for dehumidifying further comprises a cooler/condenser located between said first and second portions of said regenerative heat exchanger which further cools and dehumidifies said drying medium.
3. A dryer comprising:
(A) an enclosed housing having a drying compartment located therein for receiving materials to be dried in contact with a drying medium;
(B) a heating element located in said housing;
(C) means for dehumidifying said drying medium, said means for dehumidifying including a regenerative heat exchanger located in said housing between said drying compartment and said heating element; and
(D) means for recirculating said drying medium in a closed-loop manner from said heating element, through said drying compartment and said means for dehumidifying, and then back to said heating element; 


 wherein said regenerative heat exchanger has a first portion which cools and dehumidifies said drying medium and a second portion which reheats said drying medium, and wherein said means for dehumidifying further comprises a cooler/condenser located between said first and second portions of said regenerative heat exchanger and which further cools and dehumidifies said drying medium; wherein said first portion of said regenerative heat exchanger comprises an evaporator portion of a first heat pipe heat exchanger, said second portion of said regenerative heat exchanger comprises a condenser portion of said first heat pipe heat exchanger, and said cooler/condenser comprises an evaporator portion of a second heat pipe heat exchanger.
4. The dryer of claim 3, wherein said second heat pipe heat exchanger further comprises a condenser portion located outside of said housing.
5. The dryer of claim 4, further comprising a device which is located outside of said housing and which draws a cooling medium through said condenser portion of said second heat pipe heat exchanger.
6. The dryer of claim 2, wherein said drying compartment comprises a closed tunnel, and further comprising a tray which is positionable within said tunnel and which receives said materials to be dried.
7. The dryer of claim 2, wherein said drying compartment comprises a closed tunnel, and further comprising a plurality of superposed trays which are located in said drying compartment and which receive said materials to be dried.
8. The dryer of claim 2, wherein said drying compartment comprises a rotatable drum which receives said materials to be dried.
9. The dryer of claim 8, wherein said housing is divided into first and second compartments which are interconnected by an inlet and an outlet. 


 10. The dryer of claim 9, wherein said rotatable drum is located in said first compartment, and wherein said regenerative heat exchanger and said cooler/condenser are located in said second compartment.
11. The dryer of claim 2, wherein said means for recirculating comprises a blower.
12. The dryer of claim 1, wherein said drying medium comprises air.
13. The dryer of claim 1, wherein said drying medium comprises gasses other than air.
14. The dryer of claim 13, wherein said drying medium comprises carbon dioxide.
15. The dryer of claim 1, wherein said means for dehumidifying comprises an evaporator of a vapor compression heat pump.
16. The dryer of claim 1, wherein said heating element comprises a condenser of said vapor compression heat pump.
17. The dryer of claim 1, wherein a negative pressure is created in said housing to avoid leakage of pollutants out of said housing.
18. A method of drying materials, said method comprising the steps of:
(A) inserting said materials in a drying compartment of an enclosed housing;
(B) heating a drying medium via a heating device; then
(C) conveying said drying medium through said drying compartment in contact with said materials; then
(D) dehumidifying said drying medium; then
(E) conveying said drying medium back to said heating element without venting said drying medium out of said housing; and then
(F) repeating said steps (B) through (E) .
19. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of conveying said drying medium through said regenerative heat exchanger comprises the steps of conveying said drying medium through a first portion of said 


regenerative heat exchanger in which said drying medium is cooled by removing heat therefrom and is dehumidified, and then conveying said drying medium through a second portion of said regenerative heat exchanger in which said drying medium is reheated utilizing said removed heat, and wherein said step of dehumidifying said drying medium further comprises the step of conveying said drying medium through a cooler/condenser which is located between said first and second portions of said regenerative heat exchanger and in which said drying medium is further cooled and dehumidified.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein said steps of conveying said drying medium through said regenerative heat exchanger and said cooler/condenser each comprise the step of conveying said drying medium through a heat pipe heat exchanger in order to accomplish said reheating and said dehumidifying.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein said step of inserting said materials in said drying compartment comprises the steps of placing said materials on a tray which is located in a tunnel forming said drying compartment.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of conveying said tray through said tunnel in a direction which is opposite to the direction in which said drying medium flows through said tunnel.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein said step of inserting said materials in said drying compartment comprises the step of placing said materials in a rotatable drum.
24. A dryer as recited in claim 1, wherein said regenerative heat exchanger does not include a refrigeration system.
25. A method as recited in claim 18, wherein said drying medium is conveyed through a regenerative heat exchanger which does not include a refrigeration system. 


 26. A dryer as recited in claim 1, wherein said regenerative heat exchanger is a heat exchanger without moving parts.
27. A dryer as recited in claim 1, wherein said regenerative heat exchanger operatives without requiring any external power.
28. A dryer comprising:
(A) an enclosed housing having a drying compartment located therein for receiving materials to be dried in contact with a drying medium;
(B) a heating element located in said housing which heats said drying medium;
(C) a heat pipe heat exchanger having an evaporator which dehumidifies and removes heat from said drying medium and a condenser which heats said drying medium utilizing said removed heat;
(D) means for recirculating said drying medium in a closed-loop manner so that it passes through said heating element, said drying compartment, and said heat pipe heat exchanger. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
