<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655007</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR SIMULTANEOUS INJECTION OF A LIQUID AND TRANSPONDER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61D700	A61D700	A61M5178	A61M5178	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61D	A61D	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61D7	A61D7	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for simultaneously injecting medication or vaccination fluid into animal tissue and permanently placing an electronic transponder (26) therein. An ejector (16) is formed by a hub (12) adapted to be secured to the syringe (2) and from which a hollow needle (22) projects. Inside the needle (22) is an elongated rod (40) which extends into the syringe (2) so that actuation of the syringe plunger (8) to flow liquid through the needle (22) forces the rod (40) towards the sharp end of the needle (22). The transponder (26) is disposed proximate the sharp end of the needle (22) so that the rod (40) mechanically forces the transponder (26) with the liquid into the tissue. A sleeve (42) which engages the rod (40) is disposed inside an enlarged chamber (38) defined by the hub (12) and can move a limited extent only over the length of the rod (40) so that the transponder (26) can be forced into the tissue while the rod (40) is prevented from falling out of the needle (22) in either direction.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DATAPET INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DATAPET, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEOH PHILLIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEOH, PHILLIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 'Apparatus for Simultaneous injection of a liquid and transponder"BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION For a long time it has been necessary to positively identify animals. Historically, this was done by branding them. More recently, animal identification has made use of the versatility attained from electronic identification. For example, U.S. patent 4,787,384 discloses an apparatus for implanting a marker in an animal. The apparatus employs a sharpened needle into which the marker is placed. The needle is secured to a holder with a reciprocable rod which can be forced into the rear end of the needle, after its sharp end has been inserted into the tissue of an animal, to thereby eject the marker from the needle into the tissue. Once ejected, the needle is retracted, the incision in the animal skin is permitted to heal, and the marker is permanently located beneath the animal's skin.Typically, the markers are electronic markers such as disclosed, for example, in U.S. patents 4,730,188 and 5,041,826. Briefly, the markers disclosed in these patents are passive integrated transponders disposed or embedded in a glass, plastic or the like, closed tube. Once implanted, the transponder can be excited by inductive coupling from an interrogator held or positioned on the exterior of the animal in the general vicinity of the transponder in its tissue. The transponder responds to the interrogator via the inductive coupling with a signal constituting a stream of data unique to the transponder in question. Typically, the signal is in the form of two different frequencies, a shift from one frequency to the second during a bit cell representing a data "one", and a shift from the second frequency to the first frequency representing a data "zero". The responsive signal is then detected and processed for utilization in a data storage and/or display device. 

 The information carried by the transponder can vary widely and as required. Typically, it will include information such as identification numbers, owner's name, address, telephone and license numbers, age and/or name of the animal, etc.The disclosures of U.S. patents 4,730,188 and 5,041,826 are herewith incorporated by reference.Prior art transponder insertion devices, such as the one described in the above-referenced '384 patent, satisfactorily position the transponder in the animal's tissue beneath its skin. However, the puncturing of the skin and the insertion and withdrawal of the needle leaves a wound. This involves discomfort for the animal and can lead to subsequent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An ejector for use with and adapted to be attached to a discharge end of a syringe for injecting a liquid into living tissue and simultaneously placing an object into the tissue, the ejector comprising a tubular hub adapted to be attached to a liquid discharge end of the syringe having proximal and distal ends; an elongated, hollow needle secured to the hub, projecting from the distal end and having a sharp end adapted to make an incision in the tissue, the needle terminating short of the proximal end of the hub, the hub defining a chamber between the proximal end of the needle and the proximal end of the hub which has a larger cross-section than the needle; an elongated rod reciprocably disposed in the needle, having a diameter less than the inside diameter of the needle and a sufficient length so that it extends into the syringe when the hub is attached to the syringe; and retaining means disposed in the chamber and operably coupled with the rod for preventing the rod from axially moving under the influence of gravity out of either end of the needle, the retaining means comprising a sleeve frictionally engaging the rod and, upon the application of an axial force thereto, movable along the rod; whereby the object can be placed into the needle so that the object is forced by the rod through the incision into the tissue when a plunger of the syringe is moved towards the hub for injecting the liquid and thereby engages and moves the plunger relative to the needle towards the sharp end thereof.
2. An ejector according to claim 1 wherein the retaining means comprises a sleeve engaging the rod.
3. An ejector according to claim 2 wherein the sleeve frictionally engages the rod and, upon the application of an axial force thereto, is movable along the rod.
4. An ejector according to claim 1 wherein the sleeve is constructed of an elastomeric material. 


 5. An ejector according to claim 1 including stop means limiting the extent to which the sleeve is longitudinally movable relative to the rod.
6. An ejector according to claim 5 wherein the stop means comprises first and second, longitudinally spaced apart, radially oriented projections on the rod which engage and thereby limit the movement of the sleeve along the rod.
7. An ejector according to claim 6 wherein the projections comprise upwelled material of the rod.
8. An ejector according to claim 1 including means disposed in the chamber for substantially centering a portion of the rod disposed in the chamber and for permitting the passage of liquid through the chamber and past the centering means.
9. An ejector according to claim 8 wherein the centering means comprises an annular member.
^ 10. An ejector according to claim 9 wherein the annular member engages an interior wall of the chamber, has an inner diameter for maintaining the rod portion inside the chamber substantially centered relative to the needle, and includes means permitting axial liquid flow past the annular ring.
11. An ejector according to claim 10 wherein the flow permitting means comprises radial indentations on a periphery of the annular member.
12. An ejector according to claim 10 wherein the flow permitting means comprises clearance between the rod and an inside of the annular member.
13. An ejector according to claim 1 in combination with the object, wherein the object comprises an elongated 


member having a diameter less than an inside diameter of the needle.
14. An ejector according to claim 13 wherein one end of the object includes a porous cap for promoting fibrous ingrowth into the cap after the object has been placed in the tissue to prevent migratio'n of the object in the tissue.
15. Apparatus for simultaneously injecting a liquid and placing an electronic transponder into living tissue, the apparatus comprising: a syringe having a hollow housing for holding the liquid, a liquid discharge end, and a plunger reciprocably disposed in the housing; a tubular hub secured to the discharge end of the housing and defining a relatively large cross-section chamber extending from the discharge end of the housing towards a distal end of the hub; a hollow needle projecting from the distal end of the hub and having a sharp, free end for insertion into the animal tissue; an elongated rod disposed inside the needle having a distal end proximate the sharp needle end, extending through the chamber, and having a proximal end disposed inside the housing so that the proximal end can be engaged by the plunger when it is moved relative to the housing towards the discharge end thereof and so that, during such movement, the plunger forcibly moves the rod towards the sharp end of the needle; and stop means operatively coupled with the rod for preventing movement of the rod under the influence of gravity out of the needle, the stop means including a sleeve disposed inside the chamber, in frictional engagement with the plunger and movable along a portion of the rod; whereby the transponder can be placed inside the needle proximate the sharp end thereof and movement of the plunger relative to the housing towards the discharge end 


simultaneously ejects liquid and the transponder from the sharp needle end into the animal tissue.
16. A method for simultaneously injecting a liquid and placing an electronic transponder into live tissue comprising the steps of providing a hollow, sharp-ended needle attached to an end of a veterinary syringe including a plunger reciprocably disposed inside a syringe housing, placing the electronic transponder into the needle, with the sharp needle end making an incision in the animal tissue, moving the plunger relative to the housing to inject a liquid through the needle into the tissue, and mechanically coupling the plunger with the electronic transponder so that movement of the plunger to inject the liquid simultaneously mechanically forces the electronic transponder out of the needle and into the tissue. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
