<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614396</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LEACHATE TREATMENT SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D100	B01D114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D1	B01D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the representative leachate treatment system disclosed in the specification, leachate (17) is supplied to a submerged combustion gas evaporator (10) having a downwardly-directed central burner supplying combustion gases through a downcomer to a combustion gas distributor in an evaporation zone. A conical baffle beneath the gas distributor separates the evaporation zone from a quiescent settling zone in a conical bottom of the distributor from which leachate concentrate and sludge are removed. The leachate (17) supplied to the evaporator (10) is preheated (16) by exhaust gases (30) from the evaporator (10) and combustion air (24) supplied to the burner is preheated (25) by leachate concentrate and sludge (18) removed from the evaporator (10). Landfill gases (11) may be used to fuel the burner and the sludge (18) may be further concentrated (20) and liquid from the concentrator (20) returned to the evaporator (21).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DUESEL BERNARD F JR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DUESEL BERNARD F JR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUESEL BERNARD F JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUESEL BERNARD F JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionLeachate Treatment SystemTechnical FieldThis invention relates to systems for treating leachate, from landfills, for example, to reduce contami¬ nation of water supplies.Background ArtAs described, for example, in the patents to Larson, No. 3,586,624, and Brauer, No. 3,705,851, the liquid leachate from accumulated waste materials such as land¬ fills may contain undesired constituents that could con¬ taminate underground water supplies as well as surface streams and wells. Many attempts have been made to treat leachate or dispose of it in a way that avoids such con- ta ination of water supplies. The Larson patent, for example, proposes a series of treatment lagoons to re¬ ceive leachate and subject it to chemical treatment to precipitate suspended solids, as well as stabilizing la¬ goons and oxidation ponds. Such treatment lagoons, how- ever, occupy a large area and must be isolated from the subsoil to prevent contamination of water supplies. Af¬ ter treatment in the lagoons, the treated leachate is usually returned to the landfill.The LaVigne Patent No. 4,995,969 treats leachate from landfills and the like by applying it to fields con¬ taining leachate-tolerant plants, which also requires a large area, and further necessitates control of the pH of the leachate within the tolerance range of the plants.Attempts have also been made to treat leachate with microorganisms in a digester, as described in the GhoshPatent No. 4,323,367, for example. More complex treat¬ ment systems such as disclosed in the Boyd et al. Patent No. 5,024,770 in which a clean refuse-derived fuel, pro- 

duced by pulverizing solid waste containing leachate, is supplied to a furnace which generates heat for drying the solid waste-leachate mixture in a hot air drum.Other leachate evaporation systems have been pro- posed which use, for example, plate-type evaporators and centrifugal solid separation units. Such systems have substantial surface areas which can become contaminated and clogged by vaporized leachate residues and require periodic cleaning or replacement. Moreover, they require a number of pumps or rotating centrifuge devices having drive motors which involve further energy expenditure.Other processes have been used to concentrate waste liquid materials. The Young et al. Patent No. 4,016,028, for example, discloses a combination of heating process- es, including low-pressure and high-pressure steam heat exchangers and submerged combustion, for concentrating sodium disilicate. Similarly, the Lowe et al. Patent No.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A leachate treatment system comprising a leachate source, submerged combustion gas evaporator means receiving leachate from the leachate source, fuel supply means for supplying fuel to generate hot com¬ bustion gases for the evaporator means, air supply means for supplying combustion air to generate hot combustion gases for the evaporator means, distribu¬ tor means for distributing hot combustion gases into a body of leachate in an evaporation zone within the evaporator means, means defining a quiescent zone spaced from the evaporation zone within the evapora¬ tor means, leachate concentrate and sludge removal means for removing sludge and concentrated leachate from the quiescent zone of the evaporator means, and exhaust gas removal means for removing exhaust com¬ bustion gases from a region above the evaporation zone in the evaporator means.
2. A leachate treatment system according to Claim 1 wherein the leachate source is a landfill and in¬ cluding fuel supply means for supplying landfill gases as fuel to the submerged combustion gas evapo¬ rator means.
3. A leachate treatment system according to Claim 1 in- eluding first heat exchange means for conducting leachate to be supplied to the evaporator means in heat-exchange relation with exhaust gases from the evaporator means to preheat the leachate being sup¬ plied thereto.
4. A leachate treatment system according to Claim 1 in¬ cluding second heat exchange means for conducting combustion air supplied to the evaporator means in 


 heat-exchange relation with concentrated leachate or sludge removed from the evaporator means.
5. A leachate treatment system according to Claim 1 in¬ cluding sludge concentration means receiving sludge and concentrated leachate from the submerged combus¬ tion gas evaporator means for further concentration and means for recycling liquid from the sludge con¬ centrator means to the evaporator means.
6. A leachate treatment system according to Claim 1 in- eluding exhaust gas treatment means for purifying exhaust gases from the evaporator means.
7. A leachate treatment system according to Claim 1 in¬ cluding burner means mounted in the evaporator means for receiving fuel from the fuel supply means and air from the air supply means to generate hot com¬ bustion gases for the evaporator means.
8. A leachate treatment system according to Claim 1 in¬ cluding hot gas generating means spaced from the evaporator means for receiving fuel from the fuel supply means and air from the air supply means to supply hot combustion gases to the evaporator .means.
9. A submerged combustion gas evaporator for use in leachate treatment systems comprising housing means for receiving leachate to be treated and having a downwardly-converging bottom portion, leachate con¬ centrate and sludge removal means connected to the downwardly-converging bottom portion of the housing means, baffle means disposed within the housing for substantially isolating the downwardly-converging bottom portion thereof to form a quiescent zone, submerged combustion burner means disposed within the housing above the quiescent zone, distributor 


 means connected to the submerged combustion gas burner means for distributing hot gases therefrom into a body of leachate disposed within the housing means, and exhaust means communicating with a region of the housing means above the evaporation zone for conducting exhaust gases out of the housing.
10. An evaporator according to Claim 9 wherein the baf¬ fle means comprises an upwardly-converging conical baffle providing a narrow peripheral spacing from the housing means to allow solids to settle from the evaporation zone to the quiescent zone.
11. An evaporator according to Claim 9 wherein the dis¬ tributor means comprises a plurality of sparge pipes disposed above the baffle means to distribute com- bustion gases into a body of leachate in the evapo¬ ration zone.
12. An evaporator according to Claim 11 wherein the burner means is centrally disposed in and directed downwardly within the housing means and including combustion gas outlet means connecting the burner means with the sparge pipes of the distributor means.
13. An evaporator according to Claim 12 including shield means for preventing leachate from coming into di- rect contact with the burner means.
14. An evaporator according to Claim 9 including further baffle means disposed between the evaporation zone and the region above the evaporation zone with which the exhaust means communicates. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
