<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656396</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hydrolytically stable polyester compositions
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08L6700	C08L6900	C08G5900	C08L6702	C08K300	C08G6391	C08L6900	C08L6300	C08L6700	C08G6300	C08L6300	C08G5920	C08K332	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08L	C08L	C08G	C08L	C08K	C08G	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08G	C08L	C08G	C08K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08L67	C08L69	C08G59	C08L67	C08K3	C08G63	C08L69	C08L63	C08L67	C08G63	C08L63	C08G59	C08K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The polyester-polycarbonate blend composition 
shows improved hydrolytic stability. The polyesterpolycarbonate 

comprises polyester having epoxy 
functionality, polycarbonate, and a catalyst quencher 

selected from the group of certain quenchers, e.g., 
metal acid phosphates, metal acid pyrophosphates and 

metal polyphosphates. Preferred polyesters having 
epoxy functionality comprise a polyester which is 

reacted with a difunctional epoxy compound. The 
invention provides hydrolytic stability which is 

improved over polyester-polycarbonate compositions 
which employ other catalyst quenchers for reducing 

transesterification. The invention also shows 
hydrolytic stability which is superior to blends in 

which polyester and polyfunctional epoxy compounds are 
merely blended with the polycarbonate and catalyst 

quencher. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLUCCI ROBERT RUSSELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLUCCI, ROBERT RUSSELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to compositions
comprising blends of polycarbonate and polyester. More
particularly, the present invention relates to blends
of polycarbonate and polyester to which catalyst
quenchers are added to control ester-carbonate
interchange. The polyester in this invention has epoxy
functionality which improves the hydrolytic properties
of these catalyst quencher-containing compositions.Compositions comprising blends of polyester and
polycarbonate have been widely used by industry. For
instance, these compositions are widely used in the
transportation industry, particularly the automotive
industry. These compositions also have been used in
the electrical, construction, appliance and houseware
industries.Blends comprising polyester and polycarbonate,
however, tend to undergo ester-carbonate interchange,
wherein ester linkages in both the polycarbonate and
the polyester are believed to be broken and replaced by
alkylene carbonate and arylene carboxylate bonds. The
result is degradation of the physical properties of the
polymers due to hybridization of the molecular linkages 
therein. Without being held to any particular theory,
it is believed that metal catalyst residues from the
polymerization reaction forming the polyester promote
the ester-carbonate interchange in these compositions.
This interchange leads to variability in the articles
finally fabricated from the blends.To deactivate the metal catalyst residues,
"catalyst quenchers" have been added to polyester
compositions. For example, phosphite quenchers
comprise one class of quenchers which has been
suggested for deactivating metal catalyst residues in
polyester compositions. See J. Devaux, P. Godard, J.
P. Mercier, Polymer and Engineering Science, Vol. 22,
p. 229 (1982). Phosphorous acid also has been used to
quench such metal catalysts.U.S. Patent 4,532,290 to Jaquiss et al. discloses
adding monosodium phosphate and/or monopotassium
phosphate quenchers to polyester/polycarbonate blends.
European application EP-A-0604080, disclose quenching
catalysts by using metal acid pyrophosphates or polyacid
pyrophosphates having the general formula
Mz xHyPnO3n+1
wherein M is a metal, "x" is a number ranging from 1 to
12, and "y" is a number ranging from 1 to 12, "n" is a
number in the range of 2 to 10, "z" is a number in the
range of 1 to 5, and the sum of xz+y is equal to n+2.It has been discovered that some catalyst
quenchers, e.g., the phosphorus acid or alkyl
phosphites, reduce the hydrolytic stability of the 
polyester/polycarbonat
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A polyester-polycarbonate composition comprising

(a) polyester having epoxy functionality,
(b) polycarbonate, and
(c) a catalyst quencher selected from the group
consisting of Group IB metal phosphate salts, Group IIB

metal phosphate salts, and salts of the formula

M
z
 
x
H
y
P
n
O
3n+1

wherein M is a metal, x is a number ranging from 1 to
12, and y is a number ranging from 1 to 12, n is a

number in the range of 1 to 10, z is a number in the
range of 1 to 5, and the sum of xz+y is equal to n+2.
A composition according to claim 1 wherein the
polyester has epoxy functionality in an amount in the

range of about 20meq/kg to about 200meq/kg.
A composition according to claim 1 wherein the
polyester having epoxy functionality is a reaction

product of polyester having carboxylic acid end groups
and a polyfunctional epoxy compound.
A composition according to claim 1 wherein the
polyester having epoxy functionality is a reaction

product of a polyester having carboxylic acid end groups
and a difunctional epoxy compound.
A composition according to claim 3 further
comprising a catalyst suitable for promoting the

reaction of the polyester and polyfunctional epoxy
compound. 
A composition according to claim 3 wherein said
polyester is a polyalkylene terephthalate.
A composition according to claim 3 wherein said
polyester is selected from the group consisting of a

poly(1,4-butylene terephthalate), poly(ethylene
terephthalate), and blends thereof.
A composition according to claim 3 wherein said
polyester comprises poly(1,4-butylene terephthalate).
A composition according to claim 3 wherein said
polyester has an intrinsic viscosity of from

0.4 to 2.0 deciliters per gram when measured in a 60:40
mixture of phenol and trichloroethane at 25°C.
A composition according to claim 3 wherein the
polyfunctional epoxy compound is added in an amount

ranging from 0.5 to 5.0 percent by weight
of the polyester.
A composition according to claim 3 wherein the
polyfunctional epoxy compound is added in an amount

ranging from 1.5 to 3.0 percent by weight
of the polyester.
A composition according to claim 3 wherein the
polyfunctional epoxy compound is a cycloaliphatic

diepoxide.
A composition according to claim 12 wherein the
diepoxide is selected from the group consisting of

bis(3,4-epoxycyclohexylmethyl)adipate; vinylcyclohexene 
diepoxide; 3,4-epoxycyclohexyl-3,4-epoxycyclohexylcarboxylate;

and mixtures thereof.
A composition according to claim 12 wherein the
polyfunctional epoxy compound is 3,4-epoxycyclohexylmethyl-3,4-epoxycyclohexane

carboxylate.
A composition according to claim 1 wherein said
catalyst quencher is selected from the group consisting

of metal acid phosphates, metal acid pyrophosphates,
and metal polyphosphates.
A composition according to claim 1 wherein said
catalyst is selected from the group consisting of

sodium dihydrogen phosphate, sodium acid pyrophosphate,
zinc phosphate, zinc acid phosphate, and mixtures

thereof.
A composition according to claim 1 wherein the
carbonate is derived from bisphenol-A.
A composition according to claim 1 further
comprising a high impact rubbery modifier.
A composition according to claim 18 wherein the
high impact modifier is an acrylonitrile-butadienestyrene

copolymer or a methacrylate-butadiene-styrene
copolymer.
A composition according to claim 1 further
comprising filler.
A composition according to claim 20 wherein the
filler is glass fiber. 
A method of improving the hydrolytic resistance of
a blend comprising polyester, polycarbonate and a

catalyst quencher, wherein the method comprises
reacting the polyester with a polyfunctional epoxy

compound to produce a polyester reaction product having
epoxy functionality and blending the reaction product

with polycarbonate and a catalyst quencher selected
from the group consisting of Group IB metal phosphate

salts, Group IIB metal phosphate salts, and salts of
the formula


M
z
 
x
H
y
P
n
O
3n+1

wherein M is a metal, x is a number ranging from 1 to
12, and y is a number ranging from 1 to 12, n is a

number in the range of 1 to 10, z is a number in the
range of 1 to 5, and the sum of xz+y is equal to n+2.
A method according to claim 22 wherein the
polyfunctional epoxy compound is a difunctional epoxy

compound.
A method according to claim 22 wherein the
polyfunctional epoxy compound is a difunctional

cycloaliphatic epoxide.
A method according to claim 22 wherein the
difunctional cycloaliphatic epoxide is selected from

the group consisting of bis(3,4-epoxycyclohexylmethyl)adipate;
vinylcyclohexene

diepoxide; 3,4-epoxycyclohexyl-3,4-epoxycyclohexylcarboxylate;
and mixtures thereof. 
A method according to claim 22 wherein the
polyfunctional epoxy compound is added in an amount

raging from 0.5 to 5% by weight of the
polyester.
A method according to claim 22 wherein the
polyfunctional epoxy compound is added in an amount

ranging from 1.5 to 3.0% by weight of the
polyester.
A method according to claim 22 further comprising
reacting the polyester and the polyfunctional epoxy

compound in the presence of a catalyst effective in
promoting the reaction of the polyester and the epoxy

compound.
A method according to claim 28 wherein the
catalyst is a carboxylic acid salt.
A method according to claim 22 wherein the
catalyst quencher is selected from the group consisting

of sodium dihydrogen phosphate, sodium acid
pyrophosphate, zinc phosphate, zinc acid phosphate, and

mixtures thereof.
A method according to claim 22, further comprising
adding a high impact rubbery modifier to the blend.
A method according to claim 31 wherein the impact
modifier is a high rubber graft acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene

copolymer or a methacrylate-butadiene-styrene
copolymer. 
A method according to claim 14 further comprising
adding a filler.
A method according to claim 33 wherein the filler
is glass fiber.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
