<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652157</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Box-like packaging with dispensing opening and blank for making same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D502	B65D508	B65D574	B65D574	B65D7710	B65D7720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D5	B65D77	B65D77	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A box-like packaging comprises at least three adjoining 
sidewalls (1-3) which are successively connected through fold lines (8,9) 

which form the edges of the packaging. At least one sidewall 
is connected through a fold line at a lower edge thereof with 

a bottom panel which closes the packaging at the underside. 
The packaging comprises a relatively large dispensing opening (6) 

which can be passed from a closed position into an opening 
position through folding, the dispensing opening comprising a 

spout-shaped dispensing surface (17). The bottom panel and a top 
panel of the box are substantially flat and extend parallel to 

each other. The packaging comprises sealing means integrally 
connected with the packaging manufactured from one material 

portion. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEBER CASPERS M G
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEBER CASPERS MARTIN GERHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBER-CASPERS MARTIN GERHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBER-CASPERS MARTIN GERHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a box-like packaging according 
to the preamble of claim 1. Such a packaging is disclosed in US-A-3,421,680. The 
known packaging has the drawback that it is not reclosable 
such that it is guaranteed that the dispensing opening remains 
in the reclosed position. Accordingly, in the reclosed 
position the dispensing opening will not completely close off 
the packaging from the surroundings, which detracts 
substantially from the storage life of the contents of the 
packaging. Another drawback of the known packaging is that the 
sprinkle or pour opening in the open position must be tilted 
through more than 90° for sprinkling or pouring out the 
contents of the packaging. Because of this large tilting 
movement, there is a substantial chance of the contents of the 
packaging being spilt. In order to reduce the risk of 
spillage, the known packaging will not be filled completely, 
with the result that the packaging includes a wasted space 
which is filled with air. Such wasted space filled with air 
has an adverse effect on the storage life of a perishable 
product contained in the package. Another packaging with a sprinkle or pour opening, which 
does not have the drawback that it must be tilted through more 
than 90° to be emptied and which at the same time closes 
properly in the reclosed position and remains closed, is known 
from practice in the design of a milk carton. In this known 
milk carton, the dispensing opening is in a stable position,  
 
both in the opened and in the reclosed condition, the 
dispensing opening parts having to be moved through a dead 
center to pass from one stable position to the other stable 
position. To provide such a dead center, it is necessary for 
the packaging not to be flat at the location of the dispensing 
opening. A disadvantage of the known milk cartons is that the 
top thereof is not flat, so that the known packagings provided 
with a relatively large dispensing opening are not stackable. 
The milk carton provided with a non-flat top moreover has the 
disadvantage that in filled condition it includes an empty 
space, i.e. a space filled with air, which occupies about 10% 
of the volume of the packaging. Other milk cartons known from 
practice which do have a substantially flat top and bottom can 
only be opened with the aid of a tool such as scissors or a 
knife and therefore do not feature a dispensing opening which 
can be passed from a closed to an opened position through 
folding. Moreover, these packagings which can be opened
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A box-like packaging comprising at least three adjoining 
sidewalls (1-3) successively connected through fold lines 

(8, 9) which form the edges of the packaging, wherein at least 
one sidewall, at a lower edge thereof, is connected through a 

fold line with a bottom panel (24; 25) which closes the 
packaging at the underside, wherein the packaging comprises a 

relatively large dispensing opening which can be passed from a 
closed position to an opening position through folding, said 

dispensing opening comprising a spout-shaped dispensing 
surface (17), the bottom panel (24; 25) and a top panel (22) 

of the box being substantially flat and extending parallel to 
each other, the packaging comprising sealing means (23) which 

are integrally connected with the packaging manufactured from 
one material portion, characterized by means (23, 55) which 

positively keep the dispensing opening, once it has been 
opened, in a reclosed position. 
A packaging according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the three adjoining sidewalls (1-3) are connected with a 

dispensing opening panel (6) of one-piece design through a 
fold line (5) coinciding with an upper edge (5); wherein the 

fold lines forming the edges (8, 9) and interconnecting said 
three adjoining sidewalls (1-3) intersect the upper edge (5) 

of the adjoining sidewalls (1-3) in a point of intersection 
(11, 12) and continue as dispensing opening panel fold lines 

(13, 14) into the dispensing opening panel (6), whereby the 
dispensing opening panel (6) is divided into three dispensing 

 
opening panel sections (6a, 6b, 6c); wherein a dispensing 

surface fold line (15, 16) is provided, running from each 
point of intersection (11, 12) at an angle with the dispensing 

opening panel fold lines (13, 14) and forming the dispensing 
surface (17), and which extends in the dispensing opening 

panel section (6b), adjacent to the central sidewall (2) of 
the adjoining sidewalls (1-3), in the direction of the edge 

(20) thereof remote from the upper edge (5) of the sidewall; 
wherein a second fold line (18, 19), referred to as dispensing 

opening fold line (18, 19), extends from each point of 
intersection (11, 12) at an angle with the dispensing opening 

panel fold lines (13, 14) in the direction of an opening edge 
(20) bounding the dispensing opening, one of the sidewalls 

(1-3) being connected directly or indirectly with the top 
panel (22), extending perpendicularly to the sidewalls (1-3), 

which comprises sealing means (23; 37) integrally connected 
with the packaging. 
A box-like packaging according to claim 2, characterized 
in that the opening edges (20) bounding the dispensing opening 

are formed by the edge (20) of the dispensing opening panel 
(6) remote from the upper edge (5) of the sidewall, so that 

the dispensing opening fold lines (18, 19) are located in the 
dispensing opening panel sections (6a, 6c) bounding the 

central dispensing opening panel section (6b), the means which 
positively keep the dispensing opening in a reclosed position 

being designed as top panel material portions (55) under which 
a part of the dispensing surface (17) can be snapped for 

bringing the dispensing opening into the reclosed position. 
A box-like packaging according to claim 2, characterized 
in that the opening edges (20) bounding the dispensing opening 

are formed by a cut (20) provided in the central sidewall (2) 
of the three adjoining sidewalls (1-3) and the dispensing 

opening panel section (6b) adjacent thereto, and extending 
parallel to the edges (8, 9), which cut (20) extends from the 

middle of the free edge (39) of the central dispensing opening 
panel section (6b) to a point (40) located on the central 

sidewall (2), which point (40) is equidistantly spaced from 
the edges (8, 9) bounding the central sidewall (2), the means 

which positively keep the dispensing opening in a reclosed 
position being designed as a closing tab (23) connected with 

the top panel and comprising adhesive which can be used 
several times. 
A box-like packaging according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the box, in addition 

to the three adjoining sidewalls (1-3), comprises a fourth 
sidewall (4) which, at the upper edge thereof, is connected 

with the top panel (22) through a fold line (21), the 
sidewalls (1-4) extending perpendicularly to each other. 
A box-like packaging according to claim 2, characterized 
in that third fold lines (29-32), referred to as bulge fold 

lines (29-32), extend from the points of intersection (11, 12) 
in the direction of the opening edge (20) and in the area 

which is bounded by the dispensing surface fold lines (15, 16) 
and the dispensing opening fold lines (18, 19). 
A box-like packaging according to claims 2, 3 and 5, 
characterized in that the top panel (22) is a substantially 

 
rectangular material portion, which is provided with a 

substantially triangular recess (36) in which the dispensing 
surface (17) is receivable, the recess (36) being partly 

filled by a removable sealing flap (23) which is connected 
with the top 

panel (22) through a perforation line (33). 
A box-like packaging according to at least claim 2, 
characterized in that the dispensing opening panel (6), at the 

edge (20) thereof remote from the upper edge (5) of the 
sidewalls (1-3), is connected with a sealing panel (37), at 

least at the location of the central dispensing opening panel 
section (6b), through at least one perforation or tear line 

(20). 
A box-like packaging according to claim 8, characterized 
in that the packaging comprises a fourth sidewall (4) which, 

at the upper edge thereof, is connected with a top panel (22) 
which covers substantially half the top side of the packaging, 

the top panel (22) and the sealing panel (37) being connected 
with each other through adhesive in the unopened condition of 

the box. 
A box-like packaging according to claim 8 or 9, 
characterized in that the perforation or tear line (20) is of 

slightly curved or bent design, such that the central 
dispensing opening panel section (6b) is slightly wider at 

least in the middle. 
A box-like packaging according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that all connections 

between the walls (1-4) are substantially liquid-tight and are 
 

preferably formed by fold lines (7-10), the number of wall 
portions (1-4) connected with each other through adhesive 

being kept to a minimum. 
A box-like packaging according to claim 11, characterized 
in that each sidewall (1-4), through a lower edge thereof, is 

connected with a bottom panel (24-27), the bottom panels 
(24-27) being interconnected through fold lines (41-43) which, 

in the blank, extend in the prolongation of the edge fold 
lines (7-9), the bottom panels (24-27) being provided with 

slanting fold lines (44) to enable the bottom panels (24-27) 
to be folded towards each other for the purpose of folding the 

box. 
A box according to any one of claims 1-12, characterized 

in that the sidewalls (1, 2, 3a, 3b, 4) are all connected 
through fold lines (7-10) at the edges (7-10), while the 

adhesive edge (28) for forming the blank into a box extends 
substantially parallel to the edges (7-10) and is located in a 

sidewall (3). 
A box-like packaging according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the box incorporates a 

chute partition (45) which extends at least over a part of the 
vertical section of the box for forming a compartment. 
A box-like packaging according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the chute partition 

(45) is integrated into the blank of the box and is connected 
with one of the sidewalls (3) through a connection panel (47). 
A box-like packaging according to any one of claims 1-15, 
characterized in that at least one of the fold lines is of 

slightly curved or bent design. 
A box-like packaging according to at least claims 3 and 
16, characterized in that the upper edge (5) which is 

connected with the dispensing opening panel section (6b) 
containing the dispensing surface (17) is of slightly curved 

design. 
A box-like packaging according to any one of claims 1-16, 
characterized in that at least one of the fold lines is of 

double or multiple design. 
A box-like packaging according to at least claim 3, 
characterized in that the second sidewall (2), bounding the 

dispensing surface (17), comprises a number of fold lines 
(53), provided in such a manner as to allow the sidewall (2) 

to bulge. 
A box-like packaging according to at least claim 3, 
characterized in that a marker point is provided on the top 

panel (22). 
A box-like packaging according to at least claim 5, 
characterized in that the dispensing opening panel sections 

(6a, 6c) connected with the outer sidewalls (1, 3) of the 
three adjoining sidewalls (1-3) have a height which 

corresponds with half the width of the central sidewall (2) of 
the three adjoining sidewalls (1-3). 
A box-like packaging according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized by an inner pocket 

incorporated in the packaging, which is connected with the 
 

dispensing opening in such a manner that the inner pocket is 
torn open when the dispensing opening is being opened. 
A blank for manufacturing a box-like packaging according 
to any one of the preceding claims. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
