<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651627</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FACIAL SHIELD, PARTICULARLY FOR PROTECTION FROM THE SUN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F902	A61F902	G02C300	G02C302	G02C700	G02C716	G02C900	G02C900	G02C902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	G02C	G02C	G02C	G02C	G02C	G02C	G02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F9	A61F9	G02C3	G02C3	G02C7	G02C7	G02C9	G02C9	G02C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Facial protective wear including a facial shield member (84) having a substantially transparent portion for allowing visible light to pass to the wearer's eyes and a support (22) coupled to the facial shield for supporting the facial shield on the wearer's head. The facial shield member further has a nose protective portion (82) extending over and protecting substantially the wearer's entire nose from in front of and from above and preferably has side portions protecting the wearer's eyes in a direction from the sides of the wearer's head. The facial shield member transparent portion preferably substantially prevents ultraviolet solar radiation from reaching the wearer's eyes and facial features, such as the nose and cheeks, and also from reaching the eyes in a direction from the sides of the head. The facial protective wear also can be used to protect the wearer from the wind and from injury due to flying objects.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHLEGER LINDA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WITTMAN MARY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHLEGER, LINDA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WITTMAN, MARY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHLEGER LINDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITTMAN MARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHLEGER, LINDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITTMAN, MARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FACIAL SHIELD, PARTICULARLY FOR PROTECTION FROM THE SUNBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a facial shield, and particularly, a facial shield for protection from damaging radiation from the sun. The invention also has applications as a facial shield for protection from the wind and also from flying objects, i.e., as an industrial facial shield, but is particularly applicable as a facial shield for protection from solar rays. The present invention thus provides the function available from what is commonly known as sunglasses, but also fulfills additional facial protective functions such as protecting the very sensitive and easily sunburned areas of the face, such as the nose and cheeks. The present invention is useful particularly in situations where there is substantial risk of overexposure to the sun's rays, and thus is useful in preventing sunburns and skin cancers caused by such overexposure. Various forms of sunglasses and protective eyewear have been developed in the past. Applicant is aware of the following patents relating to sunglasses and protective eyewear:4,271,538; 4,976,530; 4,835,796; 4,507,809; 4,649,577; 4,991,952; 4,843,655; 4,527,291; Des. 314,391; Des. 294,952; Des. 314,001; Des. 321,703; Des. 322,616; 3,155,982; 3,233,249; 3,233,250; 3,384,903; 4,674,851; 4,730,915; 4,741,611; 4,824,233; 4,859,048; 4,867,550;* 4,877,320; 4,951,322; 4,101,980. None of these patents, however, provide a facial shield for protecting not only the eyes of the 

wear, but the other facial features which are at risk of receiving damaging radiation from the sun or at risk of being injured by flying objects or the wind.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a facial shield.It is yet still a further object of the invention to provide a facial shield which protects a wearer from solar rays and/or which attenuates the intensity of solar radiation.It is a further object of the invention to provide a functional and acceptable cosmetic device for the protection of the central facial area against ultraviolet light (30% of all skin cancers occur on the nose and 8% around the eyes) .Ultraviolet light (UV) is a known cause of skin cancer as well as premature aging of the skin (i.e. wrinkles, dark spots, rough spots, broken blood vessels) . The UVB spectrum (290-320 nanometers) causes the most change with a lesser contribution from the UVA range (320-400 nanometers) .There appears to be a relationship between UV light and eye cataract formation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Facial protective wear comprising: a facial shield member having a substantially transparent portion for allowing visible light to pass to the wearer's eyes; means coupled to the facial shield member for supporting the facial shield on the wearer's head; the facial shield member further comprising: a nose protective portion extending over and protecting substantially the wearer's entire nose from in front of and from above; and side portions protecting the wearer's eyes in a direction from the sides of the wearer's head.
2. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the nose protective portion is formed so as to conform to the wearer's nose.
3. The facial protective wear recited in claim 2, wherein the nose protective portion is integrally formed in the facial shield member.
4. The facial protective wear recited in claim 2, wherein the nose protective portion is removably coupled for disposition over the wearer's nose.
5. The facial protective wear recited in claim 2, wherein the means for supporting comprises: a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled; and 


 temple bars pivotally attached to opposite ends of the bridge bar for providing support on the wearer's ears.
6. The facial protective wear recited in claim 5, wherein the temple bars include facial protective portions forming continuations of the facial shield member around the side of the wearer's head and for protecting the wearer's eyes from the side.
7. The facial protective wear recited in claim 5, wherein the temple bars snap lock into pivot members provided at ends of the bridge bar.
8. The facial protective wear recited in claim 5, wherein the facial shield member is pivotally mounted to the bridge bar to allow adjustment to the wearer's face.
9. The facial protective wear recited in claim 8, wherein the facial shield member is provided with releasable fastening means for coupling the facial shield member in any of a selected plurality of positions to the bridge bar.
10. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the facial shield member includes portions wrapping around the side of the wearer's head.
11. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the facial shield member comprises a continuously curved member which does not conform to the 


wearer's nose but covers substantially the wearer's entire nose from in front of and above the wearer's nose.
12. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the supporting means comprises means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose.
13. The facial protective wear recited in claim 12, wherein the means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose comprises a member integrally formed with the facial shield member.
14. The facial protective wear recited in claim 12, wherein the means for supporting comprises a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled, and the means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose comprises a member coupled to the bridge bar.
15. The facial protective wear recited in claim 14, wherein the means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose is removably coupled to the bridge bar.
16. The facial protective wear recited in claim 14, wherein the means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on -the wearer's nose is integrally coupled to the bridge bar. 


 17. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the means for supporting comprises clip means coupled to the facial shield member for fastening the facial shield member to a hat worn by the wearer.
18. The facial protective wear recited in claim 17, wherein the clip means comprises means integrally molded to the facial shield member.
19. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the means for supporting comprises clip means coupled to the facial shield member for fastening the facial shield member to a wearer's eyewear.
20. The facial protective wear recited in claim 19, wherein the facial shield member includes wing members protecting a portion of the side of the wearer's head, and the clip means is attached to said wing members.
21. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the facial shield member is pivotally coupled to the means for supporting so that the facial shield member can be flipped out of the way of the wearer's face.
22. The facial protective wear recited in claim 21, wherein the means for supporting comprises a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled, and said facial shield member is pivotally coupled at respective ends of the bridge bar to the bridge bar. 


 23. The facial protective wear recited in claim 20, wherein the means for supporting comprises a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled, the wing members being adjustably laterally disposed with respect to the bridge bar for accommodating different wearers.
24. The facial protective wear recited in claim 6, wherein the facial shield member has wrap around side portions which are disposed adjacent to and continue into said facial protective portions of the temple bars.
25. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the side portions are formed integrally with the facial shield member.
26. The facial protective wear recited in claim 5, wherein the side portions are attached to the respective temple bars.
27. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the transparent portion prevents transmission of a substantial portion of ultraviolet solar radiation.
28. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the transparent portion attenuates the intensity of solar radiation.
29. The facial protective wear recited in claim 1, wherein the shield member extends downwardly to cover the wearer's cheek areas. 


 30. Facial protective wear comprising: a facial shield member having a substantially transparent portion for allowing visible light to pass to the wearer's eyes; means coupled to the facial shield for supporting the facial shield on the wearer's head; and the facial shield member further comprising a nose protective portion extending over and protecting substantially the wearer's entire nose from in front of and from above.
31. Facial protective wear as recited in claim 30, wherein the facial shield member further comprises side portions protecting the wearer's eyes in a direction from the sides of the wearer's head.
32. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the nose protective portion is formed so as to conform to the wearer's nose.
33. The facial protective wear recited in claim 32, wherein the nose protective portion is integrally formed in the facial shield member.
34. The facial protective wear recited in claim 32, wherein the nose protective portion is removably coupled for disposition over the wearer's nose.
35. The facial protective wear recited in claim 32, wherein the means for supporting comprises: 
■
 a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled; and 


 temple bars pivotally attached to opposite ends of the bridge bar for providing support on the wearer's ears.
36. The facial protective wear recited in claim 35, wherein the temple bars include facial protective portions forming continuations of the facial shield member around the side of the wearer's head and for protecting the wearer's eyes from the side.
37. The facial protective wear recited in claim 35, wherein the temple bars snap lock into pivot members provided at ends of the bridge bar.
38. The facial protective wear recited in claim 35, wherein the facial shield member is pivotally mounted to the bridge bar to allow adjustment to the wearer's face.
39. The facial protective wear recited in claim 38, wherein the facial shield member is provided with releasable fastening means for coupling the facial shield member in any of a selected plurality of positions to the bridge bar.
40. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the facial shield member includes portions wrapping around the side of the wearer's head.
41. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the facial shield member comprises a continuously curved member which does not conform to the 


wearer's nose but covers substantially the wearer's entire nose from in front of and above the wearer's nose.
42. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the supporting means comprises means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose.
43. The facial protective wear recited in claim 42, wherein the means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose comprises a member integrally formed with the facial shield member.
44. The facial protective wear recited in claim 42, wherein the means for supporting comprises a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled, and the means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose comprises a member coupled to the bridge bar.
45. The facial protective wear recited in claim 44, wherein the means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose is removably coupled to the bridge bar.
46. The facial protective wear recited in claim 44, wherein the means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose is integrally coupled to the bridge bar. 


 47. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the means for supporting comprises clip means coupled to the facial shield member for fastening the facial shield member to a hat worn by the wearer.
48. The facial protective wear recited in claim 47, wherein the clip means comprises means integrally molded to the facial shield member.
49. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the means for supporting comprises clip means coupled to the facial shield member for fastening the facial shield member to a wearer's eyewear.
50. The facial protective wear recited in claim 49, wherein the facial shield member includes wing members protecting a portion of the side of the wearer's head, and the clip means is attached to said wing members.
51. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the facial shield member is pivotally coupled to the means for supporting so that the facial shield member can be flipped out of the way of the wearer's face.
52. The facial protective wear recited in claim 51, wherein the means for supporting comprises a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled, and said facial shield member is pivotally coupled at respective ends of the bridge bar to the bridge bar. 


 53. The facial protective wear recited in claim 50, wherein the means for supporting comprises a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled, the wing members being adjustably laterally disposed with respect to the bridge bar for accommodating different wearers.
54. The facial protective wear recited in claim 36, wherein the facial shield member has wrap around side portions which are disposed adjacent to and continue into said facial protective portions of the temple bars.
55. The facial protective wear recited in claim 35, wherein the side portions are attached to the respective temple bars.
56. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the transparent portion prevents transmission of a substantial portion of ultraviolet solar radiation.
57. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the transparent portion attenuates the intensity of solar radiation.
58. The facial protective wear recited in claim 30, wherein the shield member extends downwardly to cover the wearer's cheek areas. 


 59. Facial protective wear comprising: a facial shield member having a substantially transparent portion for allowing visible light to pass to the wearer's eyes; means coupled to the facial shield member for supporting the facial shield on the wearer's head; and further comprising: means for removably receiving a nose protective portion extending over and protecting substantially the wearer's entire nose from in front of and from above.
60. The facial protective wear recited in claim 59, wherein the facial shield member further comprises side portions protecting the wearer's eyes in a direction from the sides of the wearer's head.
61. The facial protective wear recited in claim 59, further comprising a nose protective portion for removably coupling for disposition over the wearer's nose.
62. The facial protective wear recited in claim 61, wherein the means for supporting comprises a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled, said bridge bar having a slot therein for removably receiving a tab provided on said removable nose protective portion.
63. Facial protective wear comprising: a facial shield member having a substantially transparent portion for allowing visible light to pass to the wearer's eyes; 


 means coupled to the facial shield member for supporting the facial shield member on the wearer's head, said means for supporting comprising: a bridge bar disposed above the facial shield member and to which the facial shield member is coupled; temple bars pivotally attached to opposite ends of the bridge bar for providing support on the wearer's ears; and a lower frame contoured to the lower edge of the transparent portion of the facial shield member; and further comprising: a nose protective portion extending over and protecting substantially the wearer's entire nose from in front of and from above, said nose protective portion being attached to said lower frame.
64. The facial protective wear recited in claim 63, wherein the nose protective portion is formed so as to conform to the wearer's nose.
65. The facial protective wear recited in claim 64, wherein the nose protective portion is removably coupled to the lower frame for disposition over the wearer's nose.
66. The facial protective wear recited in claim 63, wherein the facial shield member is removably mounted to the bridge bar.
67. The facial protective wear recited in claim 63, wherein the facial shield member includes side portions wrapping around the side of the wearer's head. 


 68. The facial protective wear recited in claim 63, wherein the supporting means comprises means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose.
69. The facial protective wear recited in claim 68, wherein the means formed to conform to a portion of the wearer's nose for providing support on the wearer's nose comprises a member attached to the lower frame.
70. The facial protective wear recited in claim 66, wherein the facial shield member snaps into grooves provided in the bridge bar.
71. The facial protective wear recited in claim 70, further comprising projections along the lower edge of the facial shield member received in apertures in the lower frame for securing the facial shield member.
72. The facial protective wear recited in claim 67, wherein the side portions are formed integrally with the facial shield member.
73. The facial protective wear recited in claim 67, wherein the transparent portion prevents transmission of a substantial portion of ultraviolet solar radiation.
74. The facial protective wear recited in • claim 63, wherein the transparent portion attenuates the intensity of solar radiation. 


 75. The facial protective wear recited in claim 63, wherein the shield member extends downwardly to cover the wearer's cheek areas.
76. The facial protective wear recited in claim 65, wherein the nose protective portion has snap projections receivable in apertures in the lower frame portion. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
