<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656476</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Liquid ring vacuum pump and method of assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04C1100	F04C1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04C	F04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04C11	F04C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for assembling a pump assembly (201) which 
comprises: placing a drive end assembly (101,103,211,106,108) 

about a shaft (210) having 
centrally disposed shoulder (220) the diameter of which is greater 

than the mean diameter of the shaft, the shoulder having a 
first side wall (206) and a second side wall (207) wherein the drive end 

assembly is adjacent to the first side wall (206) of the shoulder; 
placing a center housing (105) about the shoulder and adjacent to 

the drive end assembly; affixing the drive end assembly to 
the center housing by at least one tie rod (116); placing a non-drive 

end assembly (102,104,111,107,109) about the shaft wherein the 
non-drive end 

assembly is adjacent to the second side wall (207) of the shoulder; 
and affixing the non-drive end assembly to the center housing 

by at least one tie rod (117), whereby the drive end assembly is 
assembled and/or disassembled about the shaft independent of 

the non-drive end assembly. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN SIGNAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL SIGNAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORNEMANN ALFRED H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORNEMANN, ALFRED H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
liquid ring vacuum pumps which include multiple 
impellers disposed about a central shaft and a method 
of assembling the same. This unique pump is designed 
such that each impeller assembly may be assembled or 
disassembled independent of the other impeller. Conventional liquid ring vacuum pumps 
comprise multiple impellers and an adjustable spacer 
bushing disposed between the impellers. The removable 
impellers and spacer are secured about the shaft by 
means of a locknut which is disposed at one end of the 
shaft and a shaft shoulder which is disposed at the 
opposite end of the shaft. One conventional method for assembling a 
liquid ring vacuum pump as shown in Fig. 1, comprises 
the attaching of a first stage endcasing 1 to a bearing 
housing 11 which includes a ball bearing 17. Endcasing 
1 and bearing housing 11 are thereafter mounted on an 
assembly stand 100 for vertical assembly of pump 110. 
Side plate 3 is then attached to endcasing 1 (screws 
are not shown). Center shaft 12 having a shaft 
shoulder 120 disposed at one end thereof is inserted 
vertically into bearing 17. After inserting key 19 into shaft 12, a 
first stage impeller 7 is fitted about shaft 12 such  
 
that shaft shoulder 120 is disposed between impeller 7 
and side plate 3. It should be noted that key 19 and 
impeller 7 can alternatively be mounted about shaft 12 
prior to insertion of shaft 12 into bearing 17. 
Thereafter, first stage impeller housing 9 is affixed 
to side plate 3, while suction plate 5 and discharge 
plate 4 are joined to form a center housing. Plates 4 
and 5 are then affixed to first stage impeller housing 
9. Alternatively, plates 4 and 5 can be formed as a 
one piece center housing which is also affixed to 
impeller housing 9. An impeller spacer bushing 30 is 
disposed on shaft with clearance to the inside 
diameters of suction plate 5 and discharge plate 4. After installing key 20 on shaft 12, a second 
stage impeller 8 is mounted about shaft 12. Second 
stage impeller housing 10 is connected to plates 4 and 
5 such that it encases second stage impeller 8. 
Thereafter, an impeller locknut 31 is placed about 
shaft 12 and tightened via threads disposed on the 
surface of shaft 12. The tightening of locknut 31 
secures impellers 7 and 8 and spacer 30 as a single 
unit against shaft shoulder 120. Separately, side 
plate 6 is fastened to second stage endcasing 2 which 
is then fastened to non-drive end bearing housing 122 
with radial alignment of feet disposed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pump assembly characterized by: 
   a shaft having centrally disposed shoulder means 

the diameter of which is greater than the mean diameter of 
said shaft, said shoulder means having a first side wall and 

a second side wall; 
   a drive end assembly which comprises a first 

endcasing, a first bearing housing, a first impeller housing 
and first impeller means, said drive end assembly being 

disposed about said shaft such that said first impeller means 
is adjacent to said first side wall of said shoulder means; 

   first locking means for securing said first 
impeller means against said shoulder means; 

   a center housing disposed about said shoulder means 
of said shaft and ad
jacent to said drive end assembly; 
   at least one first securing means disposed between 

said drive end assembly and said center housing for affixing 
said drive end assembly to said center housing; 

   a non-drive end assembly which comprises a second 
endcasing, a second bearing housing, a second impeller 

housing and second impeller means, said non-drive end 
assembly being disposed about said shaft such that said 

second impeller means is adjacent to said second side wall of 
said shoulder means; 

   second locking means for securing said second 
impeller means against said shoulder means; and 

   at least one second securing means disposed between 
said non-drive end assembly and said center housing for 

affixing said non-drive end assembly to said center 
housing. 
The assembly according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said first securing means comprises a tie rod which is 

threadably connected to said center housing and mechanically 
connected to said first endcasing of said drive end assembly. 
The assembly according to claim 1 or 2, 
 

characterized in that said second securing means comprises a 
tie rod which is threadably connected to said center housing 

and mechanically connected to said second endcasing of said 
drive end assembly. 
The assembly according to any one of claims 1-3, 
characterized in that said first and second impeller means 

are impellers having a plurality of blades and a rib means 
which is capable of connecting all of said blades together. 
A method for assembling a pump assembly 
characterized by: 

   placing a drive end assembly about a shaft having 
centrally disposed shoulder means the diameter of which is 

greater than the mean diameter of said shaft, said shoulder 
means having a first side wall and a second side wall wherein 

said drive end assembly is adjacent to said first side wall 
of said shoulder means; 

   placing a center housing about said shoulder means 
and adjacent to said drive end assembly; 

   affixing said drive end assembly to said center 
housing by at least one first securing means; 

   placing a non-drive end assembly about said shaft 
wherein said non-drive end assembly is adjacent to said 

second side wall of said shoulder means; and 
   affixing said non-drive end assembly to said center 

housing by at least one second securing means, whereby said 
drive end assembly is assembled and/or disassembly about said 

shaft independent of said non-drive end assembly. 
The method according to claim 5, characterized in 
that said drive end assembly comprises a first endcasing, a 

first bearing housing, a first impeller housing and first 
impeller means, said drive end assembly is disposed about 

said shaft such that said first impeller means is adjacent to 
said first side wall of said shoulder means. 
The method according to claim 5, characterized by a 
step of securing said first impeller means against said 

shoulder means by first locking means. 
The method according to any one of claims 5-7, 
 

characterized in that said non-drive end assembly comprises a 
second endcasing, a second bearing housing, a second impeller 

housing and second impeller means, said non-drive end 
assembly is disposed about said shaft such that said second 

impeller means is adjacent to said second side wall of said 
shoulder means. 
The method according to claim 8, characterized by 
the step of securing said second impeller means against said 

shoulder means by second locking means. 
The method according to any one of claims 6-9, 
characterized in that said first securing means is a tie rod 

which is threadably connected to said center housing and 
mechanically connected to said first endcasing of said drive 

end assembly. 
The method according to claim 10, characterized in 
that said second securing means is a tie rod which is 

threadably connected to said center housing and mechanically 
connected to said second endcasing of said non-drive end 

assembly. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
