<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652446</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for a magnetic image detector.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3312	G01R3312	G01R3316	G01R3316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In order to measure the permeability of a 
magnetic material, a permanent magnet (22) is positioned at a 

distance from the surface (21) of a magnetic material (24). A 
magnetic field sensor (25) is placed proximate the magnetic 

material (24) on the magnetic axis of the permanent magnet (22). 
The axis of sensitivity of the magnetic field sensor (25) is 

perpendicular to the field of the permanent magnet (22) and in 
a plane perpendicular to the surface of the magnetic 

material (24). A reference sensor (26) for compensating for 
temperature and stray field effects can be positioned 

perpendicular to the magnetic axis of the permanent 
magnet (22) with an axis of sensitivity parallel to the axis 

of sensitivity of the magnetic field sensor (25). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEFFERS FREDERICK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEFFERS, FREDERICK J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the 
detection of magnetic materials and, more particularly, 
to the detection of magnetic materials in which a field 
is applied to the magnetic materials and the magnetic 
field arising from the induced magnetization is 
measured to determine the magnetization of the magnetic 
material. Many applications exist in which measurement 
of the magnetization of a magnetic material is desired. 
For example, a copier toner reservoir may include, in 
addition to the toner particles, high coercivity 
(2,000 Oe) BaFe carrier beads. The nominal toner 
concentration is one part toner and four parts carrier 
beads by volume. The ratio of the magnetic carrier 
beads to the toner particles must be maintained within 
prescribed limits for proper operation of the copier 
device. The magnetization of the magnetic material is 
measured and toner is added as appropriate. Referring to Fig. 1A and Fig. 1B, a prior art 
magnetic material measuring device is shown. The 
device includes a ferrite core 11, a sensor coil 12, an 
oscillator coil 13, and a reference coil 14. An 
alternating current (e.g., 260 kHz) is applied to the 
oscillator coil 13. The ferrite core 11 is nominally 
centered in the structure. A magnetic field resulting 
from the current in the oscillator coil 13 is channeled 
by the ferrite core 11. The sensor coil 12 and the 
reference coil 14 are wired in opposition. In the 
absence of any magnetic body to be sensed, the net 
signal in coils 13 and 14 will be zero. The ferrite  
 
core 11 can be moved to cancel any imbalance in the 
combined signal from sensor coil 12 and reference coil 
14. When a ferromagnetic body is positioned near one 
end of the magnetic field measuring device, a 
magnetization field will be induced in the 
ferromagnetic body. This magnetization will couple 
more strongly to the sensor coil 12 then to the 
reference coil 14 because of the relative distance 
between the ferromagnetic body and each of the coils 12 
and 14. The magnitude of the resulting signal is used 
to determine the magnetization or the permeability of 
material 15. In the application involving the copier 
toner, the magnetic particle concentration in the toner 
can be determined by the magnitude of the imbalance 
signal. The problem with the measurement of the 
magnetic particle concentration using the foregoing 
technique is that the applied field is very small and 
the coercivity of the ferromagnetic material is very 
large. Consequently, only a small magnetization is 
induced in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for measuring the permeability 
of a magnetic material, said apparatus comprising: 

   a permanent magnet being located proximate a 
surface of said magnetic material, said permanent magnet 

having its magnetic moment oriented to have an angle  
with respect to a plane parallel to the said surface of 

said magnetic material; and 
   a magnetic field sensor positioned proximate 

said surface of said magnetic material, said magnetic 
field sensor having an axis of sensitivity perpendicular 

to the field of said permanent magnet. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said 
magnetic field sensor is positioned on a magnetic axis of 

said permanent magnet. 
The apparatus of claim 2 further 
comprising: 

   a second magnetic field sensor, said second 
magnetic field sensor being positioned proximate said 

surface of said magnetic material, said second magnetic 
field sensor having an axis of sensitivity perpendicular 

to said field of said permanent magnet, said second 
magnetic field sensor having an axis of sensitivity 

parallel to said axis of sensitivity of said first 
magnetic field sensor. 
The method of measuring the magnetic 
permeability of a magnetic material, the method 

comprising the steps of: 
   positioning a permanent magnet in the vicinity 

of said magnetic material, a magnetic axis of said 
permanent magnet being parallel to the magnetic moment of 

said permanent magnet and having an angle  with respect a 
surface of said magnetic material; and

 
   positioning a magnetic field sensor along said 

axis of said permanent magnet proximate said surface of 
said magnetic material, said magnetic field sensor having 

an axis of sensitivity perpendicular to said axis of said 
permanent magnet. 
The method of claim 4 further including a 
step of positioning a second magnetic field sensor 

perpendicular to said axis of said permanent magnet, an 
axis of sensitivity of said second magnetic field sensor 

being parallel to said axis of sensitivity of said 
magnetic field sensor. 
Apparatus for measuring a magnetization 
field induced in a magnetic material, said apparatus 

comprising: 
   a permanent magnet positioned in a vicinity of 

a surface of said magnetic material, said permanent 
magnet having its magnetic axis oriented with an angle  

with respect to said surface of said magnetic material; 
and 

   a magnetic field sensor positioned proximate 
said surface of said magnetic material, said magnetic 

field sensor having its axis of sensitivity oriented to 
be perpendicular to the magnetic field from said 

permanent magnet, said magnetic field sensor positioned 
on said magnetic axis of said magnetic moment. 
The apparatus of claim 6 further 
comprising a second magnetic field sensor, said second 

magnetic field sensor being positioned proximate said 
surface of said magnetic material, an axis of said second 

magnetic field sensor being oriented perpendicular to 
said magnetic field from said permanent magnet. 
Apparatus for measuring a velocity of a 
moving conducting material, said apparatus comprising:

 
   a permanent magnet having a magnetic moment 

oriented at an angle of  with respect to said moving 
conducting material; and 

   a magnetic field sensor positioned proximate 
said conducting magnetic material and having an axis of 

sensitivity perpendicular to said field of said permanent 
magnet, said magnetic field sensor detecting a magnetic 

field generated by eddy currents induced in said 
conducting material by said field from said permanent 

magnet. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said 
magnetic field sensor is positioned on the magnetic axis 

of said permanent magnetic, said apparatus further 
comprising a second magnetic field sensor, said second 

magnetic field sensor positioned proximate said 
conducting material and having an axis of sensitivity 

oriented perpendicular to said field of said permanent 
magnet. 
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said 
second magnetic sensor is positioned perpendicular to 

said magnetic axis, said axis of sensitivity of said 
second magnetic sensor being parallel to said axis of 

sensitivity of said first magnetic field sensor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
