<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611477</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OFFSET MAGNETORESISTIVE MEMORY STRUCTURES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C1102	G11C1115	H01F1000	H01F1032	H01L4308	H01L4308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	H01F	H01F	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C11	G11C11	H01F10	H01F10	H01L43	H01L43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NONVOLATILE ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NONVOLATILE ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAUGHTON JAMES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POHM ARTHUR V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAUGHTON JAMES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POHM ARTHUR V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OFFSETMAGNETORESISTTVE MEMORYSTRUCTURESThis invention was made with Government support under Contract NAS7-1077 awarded by the National Aeronautical and Space Administration. The Government has certain rights in the invention.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to ferromagnetic thin-film memories and, more particularly, to ferromagnetic thin-film memory cells in which information states of memory cells therein are determined through magnetoresistive properties of the thin-film cells.Digital memories are used extensively in digital systems of many kinds including computers and computer system components, and digital signal processing system. Such memories can be advantageously based on the storage of digital bits as alternative states of magnetization in magnetic materials in each memory cell, particularly thin-film magnetic materials, resulting in memories which use less electrical power and do not lose information upon removals of such electrical power.These memories may be ferromagnetic thin-film materials in the memory cells through which access to the information stored therein can be provided by either inductive sensing to determine the magnetization state, or by magnetoresistive sensing to make such a determination, with sufficiently small memory cell sizes favoring magnetoresistive sensing because significantly more output signal is available. Such ferromagnetic thin-film memories may be provided on a surface of a monolithic integrated circuit to provide convenient 

 electrical interconnections between the memory cells and the memory operating circuitry.Ferromagnetic thin-film memory cells can be made very small and packed very closely together to achieve a significant density of information being stored, particularly when provided on a surface in a monolithic integrated circuit. The magnetic environment there can become quite complex with fields in any one memory cell affecting the film portions in neighboring memory cells. Also, small ferromagnetic film portions in a memory cell can lead to substantial demagnetization fields which can cause instabilities in the magnetization state desired in such a cell as will be further described below. Thesemagnetic effects between neighbors in an array of closely packed ferromagnetic thin film memory cells can be ameliorated to a considerable extent by providing a memory cell based on an intermediate separating material having two major surfaces on each of which an anisotropic ferromagnetic memory thin-film is provided. Such an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
memory film portions 17 and 16. That orientation, again, is having the magnetizations in each film portion be in the opposite directions to one another and along the easy axis therein. Thus, effectively three 0.4 μm bit structures 12 will result in an output signal equal to that provided by a single bit structure having the dimensions of 1.2 μm by 0.4 μm.
In this arrangement, those bit structures 12 in a memory cell are interconnected in series with one another by high resistivity interconnection layer 18' • ' .
Shorting bars 18
v
 provide the primary interconnection between each memory cell.
Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made _n form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. 

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A ferromagneticthin-film based digital memory using magnetoresistive sensing, said memory comprising: a first storage line structure having a first storage line pair of end terminals adapted to conduct electrical current in at least one direction, said storage line structure end terminals having electrically connected in series therebetween a plurality of bit structures with each said bit structure electrically connected at a bit juncture to at least one other said bit structure such that adjacent said bit structures are offset from one another in a direction substantially perpendicular to that path followed by said first storage line structure in extending between said first storage line structure end terminals, each said bit structure having a structure comprising: an intermediate layer of a kind of separating material, said intermediate layer having two major surfaces on opposite sides thereof such that said major surfaces are separated by a separating layer thickness, and with said adjacent bit structures, being offset from one another, as aforesaid, by an offset distance exceeding said separating layer thickness, and 


 emory film on each of said intermediate layer major surfaces with said memory film being of a magnetoresistive, anisotropic, ferromagnetic material, and a plurality of word line structures each having a pair of word line end terminals adapted to conduct electrical current in at least one direction with each of said pairs of word line end terminals having an electrical conductor electrically connected therebetween which is located across an electrical insulating layer from said memory film on one of said major surfaces of said intermediate layer of a selected one of said bit structures.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said memory film on each of said major surfaces of said intermediate layer is formed of first and second separate memory films each of which is on an opposite one of said intermediate layer major surfaces.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein an easy axis of magnetization of said memory film in said bit structures is substantially perpendicular to that direction of extent of each said bit structure in extending to any said bit juncture electrically connected thereto.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said offset extends a distance that is at least twice said separating layer thickness.
5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein selected ones of said bit structures have ferromagnetic closure bodies 


 located across an electrical insulating layer from said memory film on one of said major surfaces of said intermediate layer thereof with a corresponding said word line located therebetween.
6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said bit junctures in said first storage line structure are formed of a substantially conductive material, and wherein at least some of said bit junctures each extend over, and in electrical contact with, one of two said bit structures electrically connected thereto in said first storage line structure to join with another said bit juncture electrically connected to that said bit structure.
7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said bit junctures in said first storage line structure are formed of a substantially resistive material which also extends over, and is in electrical contact with, said bit structures in said first storage line structure.
8. A method for forming a magnetoresistive thin-filmmemory on a substrate, said method comprising: forming a first storage line structure base on said substrate having a plurality of elevated portions each separated from one another by a depressed portion; forming a first plurality of composite magnetic structures each on a corresponding one of said elevated and depressed portions in said first storage line structure base, said first plurality of composite magnetic structures each being formed by two magnetoresistive, anisotropic, ferromagnetic thin-film memory layer 


 portions separated by an intermediate layer sufficient to prevent an exchange interaction from coupling thereacross; and interconnecting, electrically, selected ones of said first plurality of composite metal structures. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said forming of said elevated portions and said depressed portions in forming first structure line base includes forming ferromagnetic closure bodies each in a corresponding one of said elevated portions. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
