<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632887</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLUOROMETER DETECTION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2164	G01N2164	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved fluorescence detection system is provided which utilizes a relatively high powered, relatively high repetition rate light source (10) with high speed detection electronics to increase system sensitivity and accuracy. In the preferred embodiments, a laser diode (90) is the light source (10). In one embodiment, the position of a time window is varied to compile a decay profile of a fluorophore. In another embodiment, the time of detection of a photon is used to compile the decay profile. In one aspect of this invention, a histogram of the fluorescence decay is generated by determining a preliminary histogram of the shape and multiplying it by the ratio of the total number of events divided by the number of events comprising the preliminary histogram. In another aspect of this invention, the time of detection after excitation of the photon is started from a random time, such as after a preceding event is detected and the data stored.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HYPERION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HYPERION, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAU DAVID ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUDHOLME ROBERT MARLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAU, DAVID, ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUDHOLME, ROBERT, MARLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to detection of fluorescence
from a solution or a surface. More particularly, this
invention is adapted for measurement of transient state
immunoassays.Fluorescence is the process of monitoring fluorescent
radiation from an object for analysis, characterization or
imaging. Typically, an excitation pulse of radiation is
directed onto or into a sample, followed by fluorescence
of the sample, and the detection of the fluorescent radiation.
The detected fluorescence is used for sample analysis,
characterization or imaging. In the case of an
immunoassay, analysis of a sample is typically done by
marking a desired species with a fluorescable tag, exciting
the sample and monitoring for fluorescence from the
tag.Theoretically, fluorometry is capable of being the
most sensitive of all analytic tools. It is possible to
detect single photon events, and possible to re-excite a
fluorophore and confirm the analysis. However, the problem
which has plagued fluorescence has been in discriminating
the fluorescent signal of interest from the background
radiation in the system. Often times, the signal
from "background" radiation may be 10,000 times larger
than the intensity of the fluorescent signal of interest.
Detection of the unwanted background radiation reduces the
image quality and accuracy of the detection.The problem caused by background radiation is particularly
acute in biological systems. For example, in the
analysis of blood plasma, the presence of a naturally
occurring fluorescable material, such as biliverdin, 
causes substantial background radiation. Other sources of
undesirable background radiation include ambient radiation,
radiation from fast fluorescing materials (generally
considered to be those with decay half lives on the order
of 1 to 1.5 nanoseconds) and various scattering mechanisms,
such as Raman scattering bands.Earlier attempts to overcome the problem of background
radiation have met with limited success. A first
technique involves discriminating against background
radiation on the basis of wavelength. Generally, a filter
is used to reject detected radiation at all but a narrowly
defined wavelength band. This technique has been less
than successful principally because the background radiation
may also be at the same wavelength as the desired
fluorescence signal, and accordingly, still be passed
through the filter and detected.A second technique attempting to discriminate the
desired fluorescent signal from the background is the so
called time gating approach. Here, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fluorometer for exciting a sample including a fluorophore and for
detecting fluorescent emissions from the sample comprising:


a laser diode (90) for exciting the sample,
a detector (46, 126) positioned to receive fluorescent emission, and
timing means (166, 158) for determining the time of receipt of the fluorescent
emission, and storing means (168, 140, 142) for storing said time of receipt, 
characterised by
 the timing
means (166, 158) and storing means (168, 140, 142) not timing or storing other

fluorescence events detected while performing this timing and storage and 
characterised in
that
 said timing means includes a ramp generator (158) or a delay generator or both;
and 
in that
 said fluorometer further comprises:

a counter (60, 170) for counting the total number of detected events including
the said other fluorescence events not timed and stored,
means (128) for constructing a preliminary histogram of the number of
fluorescence events against time of detection of the fluorescence event,
means (140) for counting the total number of events comprising the preliminary
histogram, and
means (140) for multiplying the preliminary histogram by the ratio of the count of the
total number of detected events to the count of the total number of events in the

preliminary histogram.
The fluorometer of claim 1 wherein the timing means (166, 158) for
determining the time of receipt of the fluorescent emission further includes a means

(166, 168) to sample the ramp.
A method for generating a histogram of the intensity of fluorescence from
a sample as a function of time for a transient state fluorescence determination

comprising the steps of:

detecting events of fluorescence (164) following an excitation pulse;
determining the time of detection of the fluorescence events; 
storing the time of detection of the fluorescence event but not storing the time
of detection of other fluorescence events detected while performing this storage;
counting the total number of detected events (170) including said other
fluorescence events detected while performing the storage;
determining a preliminary histogram of the number of stored fluorescence events
against time of detection of the stored fluorescence event;
counting the number of stored fluorescence events in the preliminary histogram;
and
multiplying the preliminary histogram by the ratio of the count of the total
number of detected events to the count of the number of events in the preliminary

histogram.
A method according to claim 3 further including the step of measuring
the dark current and subtracting the dark current contribution from the preliminary

histogram prior to the counting and multiplication steps.
A method according to claim 3, for generating a histogram of a transient
state further comprising the step of:


upon completion of said storage, resuming monitoring for storing the time of
detection of a fluorescence event at a time after completion of said storing step not

related to the time of the excitation pulse.
A method according to claim 4 wherein the monitoring for determining
and storing the time of detection of a fluorescence event is resumed immediately 

after completion of the storing step.
A method according to claim 3, 4 or 5 wherein the
time of detection of the fluorescence event is determined

by sampling a ramp voltage.
A method according to claim 7, wherein after the
ramp voltage is sampled, the voltage is converted to a

digital representation.
A method according to claim 5 wherein the time
after completion of the storing step is a random time.
A fluorometer according to claim 1 further
including means (68, 70) for ignoring the decay

fluorescence and background occurring during and
immediately after the excitation by the laser diode (90).
A fluorometer according to claim 10 wherein time
gating is used to exclude the decay fluorescence and

background immediately after the excitation.
A fluorometer according to claim 1 wherein the
counter (60) is operatively connected to the detector (46)

to receive the output of the detector (46).
A fluorometer according to claim 12 further
including a time gate generator (54, 56).
A fluorometer according to claim 13 wherein the
time gate generator (54, 56) gates the output of the

detector (46).
A fluorometer according to claim 13 which further
includes a gate (58) which receives as input the output of 

the detector (46) and is controlled by the output of the
time gate generator (54, 56).
A fluorometer according to claim 13 wherein the
time gate generator (54, 56) includes a counter.
A fluorometer according to claim 16 wherein the
time gate generator includes a window open counter (54) and

a window closed counter (56).
A fluorometer according to claim 17 wherein the
detector (46) is a photo multiplier tube.
A fluorometer according to claim 12 wherein the
detector (46) is red sensitive.
A fluorometer according to claim 12 wherein the
detector (46) is infrared sensitive.
A fluorometer according to claim 12 wherein the
laser diode (40) is rotatable relative to the sample.
A fluorometer according to claim 12 wherein the
laser diode (40) radiates in the red to infrared range.
A fluorometer according to claim 12 wherein the
laser diode (40) radiates with a variable wavelength.
A fluorometer according to claim 23, further
including a temperature variation device.
A fluorometer according to claim 23 wherein the
laser diode (40) is a tunable laser diode.
A fluorometer according to claim 25 wherein the 
laser diode (40) is a quantum well laser diode.
A fluorometer according to claim 12 further
including optics.
A fluorometer according to claim 12 further
including a display (36).
A fluorometer according to claim 1, wherein the
fluorescent emission is from a dye including a caged

dicarboxyl silicon phthalocyanine digoxigenin dye.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
