<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621267</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spiropiperidine derivatives and their use as fungicides.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01N4334	A01N4342	A01N4348	A01N4354	A01N4390	A01N4390	C07D22100	C07D22120	C07D49100	C07D49110	C07D491113	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01N43	A01N43	A01N43	A01N43	A01N43	A01N43	C07D221	C07D221	C07D491	C07D491	C07D491	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides spiropiperidine derivatives of the 
general formula 


or an acid-addition salt thereof, in which R¹ represents a hydrogen 
atom or an optionally substituted alkyl, aryl or aralkyl group; R² 

represents a hydrogen atom or an optionally substituted alkyl, 
alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl or heterocyclyl group; 

and either both groups X represent -CH₂- or both groups X represent 
-O-; processes for their preparation; compositions containing such 

compounds and their use as fungicides. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHELL INT RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHELL INTERNATIONALE RESEARCH MAATSCHAPPIJ B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARTER PAUL ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARTER, PAUL ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to certain spiropiperidine derivatives, 
a process for their preparation, compositions containing such 
compounds and their use as fungicides. According to the present invention there is provided a 
compound of the general formula 
or an acid-addition salt thereof, in which R¹ represents a hydrogen 
atom or an optionally substituted alkyl, aryl or aralkyl group; R² 
represents a hydrogen atom or an optionally substituted alkyl, 
alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl or heterocyclyl group; 
and either both groups X represent -CH₂- or both groups X represent 
-O-. When the compounds of this invention contain an alkyl, alkenyl 
or alkynyl substituent group, this may be linear or branched and 
may contain up to 12 carbon atoms. A cycloalkyl group may contain 
3 to 8, preferably 3 to 6, carbon atoms. An aryl group may be any 
aromatic hydrocarbon group, especially a phenyl or naphthyl group. 
An aralkyl group may be any alkyl group as defined above, 
preferably a C₁₋₆ alkyl and especially a C₁₋₄ alkyl group, 
substituted by an aryl group as defined above, especially a phenyl 
or naphthyl group. A heterocyclyl group may be any saturated or 
unsaturated ring system containing at least one heteroatom, 3- to 
6-membered rings being preferred and 5- and 6-membered rings being 
especially preferred. Nitrogen-, oxygen- and sulphur-containing 
heterocyclic rings, such as pyridinyl, pyrimidinyl, 
tetrahydropyrimidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, furyl, pyranyl, morpholinyl 
and thienyl, are particularly preferred. When any of the foregoing substituents are designated as being  
 
optionally substituted, the substituent groups which are optionally 
present may be any one or more of those customarily employed in the 
development of pesticidal compounds and/or the modification of such 
compounds to influence their structure/activity, persistence, 
penetration or other property. Specific examples of such 
substituents include, for example, halogen atoms, nitro, cyano, 
hydroxyl, cycloalkyl, alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, amino, 
alkylamino, dialkylamino, formyl, alkoxycarbonyl, carboxyl, 
alkanoyl, alkylthio, alkylsulphinyl, alkylsulphonyl, carbamoyl, 
alkylamido, phenyl, phenoxy and halophenoxy groups. Typically, 0-3 
substituents may be present. When any of the foregoing 
substituents represents or contains an alkyl substituent group, 
this may be linear or branched and may contain up to 12, preferably 
up to 6, and especially up to 4, carbon atoms. An aralkyl group 
may be substituted in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A compound of the general formula 
 

or an acid-addition salt thereof, in which R¹ represents a hydrogen 
atom or an optionally substituted alkyl, aryl or aralkyl group; R² 

represents a hydrogen atom or an optionally substituted alkyl, 
alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl or heterocyclyl group; 

and either both groups X represent -CH₂- or both groups X represent 
-O-. 
A compound according to claim 1 in which R¹ represents a 
hydrogen atom or a C₁₋₁₂ alkyl or phenyl group, each group being 

optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from 
halogen atoms, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, C₃₋₆ cycloalkyl, C₁₋₄ alkyl, 

C₁₋₄ haloalkyl, C₁₋₄ alkoxy, C₁₋₄ haloalkoxy, amino, C₁₋₄ 
alkylamino, di-C₁₋₄ alkylamino, formyl, C₁₋₄ alkoxycarbonyl, 

carboxyl, phenyl and phenoxy groups. 
A compound according to claim 1 or claim 2 in which R² 
represents a hydrogen atom, a C₁₋₁₂ alkyl, phenyl-C₁₋₄ alkyl or 

naphthyl-C₁₋₄ alkyl group or a 3- to 6-membered heterocyclic ring, 
each group or ring being optionally substituted by one or more 

substituents selected from halogen atoms, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, 
C₃₋₆ cycloalkyl, C₁₋₄ alkyl, C₁₋₄ haloalkyl, C₁₋₄ alkoxy, C₁₋₄ 

haloalkoxy, amino, C₁₋₄ alkylamino, di-C₁₋₄ alkylamino, formyl, 
C₁₋₄ alkoxycarbonyl, carboxyl, phenyl and phenoxy groups. 
A compound according to any one of the preceding claims in 
which R¹ represents a hydrogen atom or a butyl or phenyl group; and 

R² represents a hydrogen atom, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, decyl, 
benzyl, fluorobenzyl, chlorobenzyl, bromobenzyl, dichlorobenzyl, 

 
methylbenzyl, butylbenzyl, trifluoromethylbenzyl, methoxybenzyl, 

ethoxycarbonylbenzyl, phenylbenzyl, phenethyl, chlorophenethyl, 
phenylpropyl, dimethylpyrimidyl or dimethyltetrahydropyrimidyl 

group. 
A compound according to claim 1 as named in any one of 
Examples 1 to 55. 
A process for the preparation of a compound of formula I as 
defined in any one of the preceding claims, or an acid-addition 

salt thereof, which comprises 

(a) reacting a compound of the general formula 
 

in which R¹ is as defined in any one of the preceding claims, with 
a reducing agent to form a compound of formula I in which R² 

represents a hydrogen atom and both groups X represent -CH₂-; or 
(b) reacting a compound of the general formula 
 

in which R¹ is as defined in any one of the preceding claims, with 
a compound of the general formula 

 
or an acid-addition salt thereof, in which R² is as defined in any 

one of the preceding claims and R³ and R⁴ both represent a hydroxyl 
group or together represent a group =O, with the proviso that, when 

 
R² represents a hydrogen atom, R³ and R⁴ both represent a hydroxyl 

group, in the presence of a solvent to form a compound of formula I 
in which both groups X represent -O-; 
(c) if desired, reacting the compound formed in step (a) above or 
the compound formed in step (b) above in which R² represents a 

hydrogen atom with a compound of the general formulaR2'L   (V)
 

in which R2' represents an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, 
alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl or heterocyclyl group and L 

represents a leaving group to form a compound of formula I in which 
R² represents an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, 

cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl or heterocyclyl group; and 
(d) if desired, reacting the compound of formula I obtained in 
step (a), step (b) or step (c) above with a suitable acid to form 

an acid-addition salt thereof. 
A process according to claim 6 substantially as hereinbefore 
described and with reference to any one of Examples 1 to 4. 
A compound of formula I whenever prepared by a process 
according to claim 6 or claim 7. 
A fungicidal composition which comprises a carrier and, as 
active ingredient, a compound of formula I or an acid-addition salt 

thereof as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5 or 8. 
A composition according to claim 9 which comprises at least 
two carriers, at least one of which is a surface-active agent. 
A method of combating fungus at a locus which comprises 
treating the locus with a compound of formula I, or an 

acid-addition salt thereof, as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5 
or 8 or with a compositon as defined in claim 9 or claim 10. 
A method according to claim 11 in which the locus comprises 
plants subject to or subjected to fungal attack, seeds of such 

plants or the medium in which the plants are growing or are to be 
grown. 
The use as a fungicide of a compound of formula I, or an 
acid-addition salt thereof as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5 

or 8 or a composition as defined in claim 9 or claim 10. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
