<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615776</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Oil separators.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1702	B01D1702	B01D17025	B01D17028	E03F514	E03F516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	E03F	E03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D17	B01D17	B01D17	B01D17	E03F5	E03F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An oil separator has a tank (15) with a liquid 
inlet (17) and a liquid outlet (19). A plurality of 

essentially parallel, spaced apart baffles (10) are 
mounted in the tank (15) with each baffle (10) at an acute angle 

to both the horizontal and vertical directions. The 
baffles (10) are arranged with the bulk flow direction 

A lying in the general planes of the baffles (10). A 
trough-shaped baffle (11) extends over the baffles 

(10), whereby separated oil will settle within the 
baffle (11), for removal therefrom, the separated oil 

being restricted from becoming entrained in the bulk 
flow to the outlet (19). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARMFIBRE LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARMFIBRE LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SILVESTER RICHARD SYDNEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SILVESTER, RICHARD SYDNEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to oil separators, for 
separating oil from a flow of water contaminated with 
oil. The invention is particularly - but not 
exclusively - concerned with an oil separator intended 
primarily for use in association with surface-water 
drains, which separators are often referred to as 
"interceptors". In this specification, the term "oil" is used to 
refer to a wide variety of water-immiscible substances 
of a specific gravity of less than unity. Such 
substances are normally of an oleaginous nature, and 
may be liquid, semi-liquid or even solid at room 
temperature, and may be of mineral, vegetable, or 
animal origin. However, in the particular case of an 
interceptor, the oil to be separated from the surface 
water being passed therethrough will usually be a 
liquid mineral oil. In many areas, it is now a requirement that if 
there is a likelihood of waste water (including surface 
water resulting from precipitation) being contaminated 
with oil, then the waste water must be passed through 
an oil separator designed to separate from the waste 
water flow the majority of the oil contaminating that 
flow, before the water is discharged to a public drain, 
sewer, or water-course. For example, many local 
authorities insist that the surface water collected 
from the vicinity of a petrol filling station is passed 
through such an oil separator, the output flow from the 
separator being fed into the public surface water 
drainage system. Also, the foul water from a catering 
establishment may have to be passed through an oil 
separator - but of a much smaller size than in the case 
of a surface water drain for a petrol filling station - 
before the foul water is discharged into a public 
sewer.  There have been many proposals for oil separators, 
especially for use in connection with surface water 
drains. One common design employs a series of plates 
positioned within a tank to confront the bulk flow 
through the tank, whereby the contaminated liquid flow 
impinges on the plate surfaces. This tends to assist 
the separation of the oil from the bulk flow, so that 
the oil may float to the water surface within the tank, 
from where it may be discharged into an oil reservoir, 
the output water flow being drawn from beneath the 
surface of the liquid within the tank. The present invention aims at providing an oil 
separator to assist the separation of oil from a flow 
of water contaminated with oil, which separator is of a 
relatively compact design, and which reduces the 
likelihood of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An oil separator comprising a tank (15) having a 
liquid inlet (17) and a liquid outlet (19) spaced from 

the liquid inlet whereby liquid flowing from the inlet 
(17) to the outlet (19) flows through the tank (15), 

and a plurality of substantially parallel baffles 
(Figure 1; 10) mounted in the tank and being inclined 

to the horizontal and vertical directions, 
characterised in that there is a further baffle (11) 

mounted in the tank above said parallel baffles (10) to 
extend thereover for at least the greater part of the 

length of the tank (15) from the liquid inlet (17) to 
the liquid outlet (19), said further baffle (11) having 

a channel-shaped cross-section and being arranged to 
permit the upward flow of liquid adjacent the side 

walls of the tank (15) to collect in the further baffle 
(11), and the liquid outlet (19) being configured 

(22,23) to ensure that for certain flow conditions the 
liquid level in the tank (15) is above the further 

baffle (11), whereby oil entrained in a flow of 
contaminated liquid from the liquid inlet (17) to the 

liquid outlet (19) will tend to migrate upwardly on the 
undersides of said parallel baffles (10) as the liquid 

flows therebetween, the oil then flowing upwardly to 
collect above the further baffle (11). 
An oil separator as claimed in Claim 1, wherein 
the space above said further baffle (11) in the region 

of the liquid outlet (19) from the tank (15) is closed 
off at the forward end of that space, having regard to 

the normal flow direction (arrow A) through the tank. 
An oil separator as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 
2, wherein said substantially parallel baffles (10) are 

mounted such that the direction of fluid flow from the 
liquid inlet (17) to the liquid outlet (19) lies in or 

is parallel to the general plane of each said baffle 
 

(10), said general plane being inclined to both the 
horizontal and vertical directions. 
An oil separator as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 
2, wherein said substantially parallel baffles (10) are 

mounted generally transverse to the direction of fluid 
flow from the liquid inlet (17) to the liquid outlet 

(19), with the general plane of each said baffle (10) 
being inclined to both the horizontal and vertical 

directions. 
An oil separator as claimed in any of the 
preceding Claims, wherein said further baffle (11) has 

a generally V-shaped transverse cross-sectional shape, 
the included angle between the walls defining the V-shaped 

further baffle (11) preferably lying in the 
range of from 5° to 10°. 
An oil separator as claimed in any of Claims 1 
to 4, wherein said further baffle has a curved 

transverse cross-sectional profile. 
An oil separator as claimed in any of the 
preceding Claims, wherein a distribution baffle 

arrangement (21) is provided within the tank (15) 
adjacent the liquid inlet (17) to distribute the inlet 

flow across the width of the tank in the direction 
transverse to the principal flow direction from the 

liquid inlet to the liquid outlet. 
An oil separator as claimed in any of the 
preceding Claims, wherein there is provided an outlet 

baffle arrangement (22,23) within the tank (15) 
adjacent the liquid outlet (19), which baffle 

arrangement allows liquid only from below the liquid 
surface in the tank to flow to the liquid outlet (19), 

said outlet baffle arrangement preferably including an 
outlet wier (23) over which liquid from below the 

liquid surface in the tank (15) is constrained to flow 
to maintain a minimum liquid level within the tank. 
An oil separator as claimed in Claim 3 or any 
 

Claim appendent thereto, wherein at least some of the 
substantially parallel baffles (10), though generally 

planar, are of a corrugated (and preferably sinusoidal 
or triangular) form, (Figure 5) with the corrugations 

extending transverse to the general direction of liquid 
flow from the liquid inlet to the liquid outlet. 
An oil separator as claimed in Claim 9, wherein 
the corrugations of adjacent corrugated baffles (10) 

partially interfit whereby there is a non-linear flow 
path between adjacent baffles in the direction 

transverse to the length of the corrugations, there 
preferably being a phase shift between the corrugations 

of one baffle and those of the next adjacent baffle, 
whereby the flow area between the baffles alternately 

increases and decreases (Figure 5). 
An oil separator as claimed in Claim 9 or Claim 
10, wherein the direction of the length of each 

corrugation on each baffle is inclined to the bulk 
liquid flow direction from the liquid inlet (17) to the 

liquid outlet (19). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
