<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653047</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEASUREMENT DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22B500	A22B500	A22C1700	A22C1700	G01B702	G01B706	G01N3302	G01N3312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22B	A22B	A22C	A22C	G01B	G01B	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22B5	A22B5	A22C17	A22C17	G01B7	G01B7	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method of determining the thickness of a layer of fat on one side of a joint of meat, the joint of meat is positioned on an electrically conductive surface with the layer of fat uppermost, and an electrically conductive needle is lowered into and through the fat layer until it penetrates into the lean meat therebelow. The needle, the joint and the electrically conductive surface form part of an electrical circuit, the electrical resistance of which drops significantly as the end of the needle passes from the fat layer into the lean meat since the latter has a much lower resistivity than the fat layer. Thus, by noting the position of the probe when it first contacts the joint (thus creating an electrical circuit) and the position of the probe when the significant drop in resistance occurs, the thickness of the layer of fat can be determined. A matrix of such probes may be provided so that the thickness of the fat layer at different parts of the joint can be determined in one invasive operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AEW INT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AEW INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITEHOUSE JOHN ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITEHOUSE, JOHN ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Title: Measurement deviceField of inventionThis invention concerns measurement devices in particular a device for measuring the depth of fat on meat products such as steaks, chops, cutlets and the like.Background to the inventionIn many applications where meat and like products are cut into steaks, chops, cutlets etc it is necessary that those portions are cut at a constant weight despite natural irregularity of cross-sectional areas of the strip from which they are cut. Todays marketplace also requires that the amount of external fat present on a portion is closely controlled and in general this is required to be of a considerably smaller depth than would normally occur naturally.Computer controlled automatic equipment exists to perform the first of these tasks namely the cutting of the portions of constant weight from strips of variable cross- section. However once a portion has been cut to the required weight it is not possible to trim the external fat to the desired thickness since this would ultimately result in an underweight portion.Pre-trimming the external fat is very difficult because the thickness of the fat layer is not known nor is the thickness of the fat layer constant in any direction. 

The option of deliberately cutting portions which are overweight so that the fat can subsequently be trimmed and result in an on-weight portion is not viable since it is difficult to estimate how much overweight allowance should be made and poor yields result.It is an object of the present invention to provide a solution to this problem by assessing the depth and topography of the fat layer of the strip of meat or similar product prior to the strip being portioned.It is another object of the invention to utilise data collected from such an assessment to operate a cutting head to reduce the external fat layer to a required thickness.Summary of the inventionAccording to one aspect of the present invention a method of determining the thickness of a layer of fat on one side of a joint of meat comprises the steps of:1. Positioning the joint of meat on a conductive surf ce with the lean side in contact with the said surface and the layer of fat uppermost,2. Lowering a conductive probe into and through the fat layer until the probe penetrates into the lean meat below the fat layer,3. Measuring the electrical resistance of the circuit comprising the conductive surface, joint of meat and probe which resistance varies as the probe touches and 

penetrates the fat and finally comes into contact with the lean meat
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims :
1. A method for determining the thickness of a layer of fat on one side of a joint of meat, the method comprising the steps of:
a) positioning the joint of meat on a conductive surface with the lean side in contact with said surface and the layer of fat uppermost;
b) lowering a conductive probe into and through the fat layer until the probe penetrates into the lean meat below the fat layer;
c) measuring the electrical resistance of the circuit comprising the conductive surface, the joint of meat and the probe, which resistance varies as the probe touches and penetrates the fat and finally comes into contact with the lean meat therebelow;
d) determining and noting the distance through which the conductive probe travels between point of entry into the fat layer and point of entry into the lean layer denoted by changes of resistance.
2. A method according to claim 1 in which said distance is determined by directly measuring the distance travelled by the probe.
3. A method according to claim 1 in which the distance is determined by moving the probe in a controlled manner at a controlled speed, noting the time delay between the two significant changes of resistance respectively 


corresponding to the time of contact between the probe and the layer of fat and the time of contact between the probe and the lean meat therebelow, and converting the delay, using data on the speed of the probe, into a measure of depth.
4. A method according to claim 3 in which the probe is lowered into the meat at a constant speed.
5. A method according to any of the preceding claims in which the probe is retracted by means of a servo system on making contact with the lean tissue, so as to reduce damage to the meat below the fatty layer.
6. A method according to claim 5 in which the servo system is triggered by the significant change in resistance noted as the probe enters the lean material.
7. A method according to claim 5 in which the servo system is triggered by means of sensors responsive to mechanical resistance to movement of the probe.
8. A method according to any of the preceding claims in which the fat layer is penetrated at different positions over the area of the joint by at least one probe, and the different values for the different points over the surface are stored.
9. A method according to claim 8 in which the series of different thickness values is obtained by scanning the joint with a single probe, which is retracted from the joint before relative movement between the joint and the probe occurs to reposition the probe and joint. 


10. A method according to claim 8 in which the joint is penetrated by a plurality of separately addressable probes which are arranged in a linear array and in which the joint is scanned by relative movement between the joints and probes in a direction perpendicular to the linear array.
11. A method according to claim 8 in which the joint is penetrated by a purality of probes arranged in a matrix array so that large areas of the joint of meat can be inspected substantially simultaneously.
12. A method according to claim 11 in which the area over which the array of probes is distributed is greater than the largest area of the joint.
13. A method according to claim 12 in which the number of probes which make contact with the joint, and the height at which each such probe contacts the fat or lean layers of the joint are used to compute the volume of the joint respectively with and without the fat layers.
14. A method according to any of the preceding claims in which the area of the underside of the joint is also determined, wherein the conductive surface on which the meat joint is positioned comprises a plate divided into a large number of separate electrically insulated regions which for the purpose of the depth measurement are electrically connected together to form a single electrical surface, and wherein the method includes the steps of interrogating each region separately once the probes have been driven into the joint so as to determine whether a conductive path through the joint and to the region being interrogated has been established so as to 



determine which of the regions are in contact with the joint and which of the regions are not, and calculating the area of the underside of the joint from the number of regions in contact therewith and from the known area of each such region.
15. A method according to any of the preceding claims in which the thickness of the fat layer is stored and subsequently read out and converted to control signals for a cutter device adapted to trim the joint.
16. Apparatus for performing a method according Claim 1, the apparatus comprising a support plate on which a joint of meat can be located, at least one probe moveable in a direction towards the joint of meat to first penetrate a fat layer and thereafter lean meat in the joint, electrical circuit means of which the plate and the probe form a part and which is completed when the probe enters the joint, resistance measuring means associated with the circuit means to indicate the electrical resistance between the probe and the plate and electrical transducer means for indicating the distance travelled by the probe between initial contact with the fat layer and initial contact with the lean meat below the fat layer to thereby enable a depth of fat measurement to be obtained.
17. Apparatus according to claim 16 in which the apparatus includes a plurality of probes for enabling a large number of points across the width of the joint to be sampled simultaneously, means for addressing each of the probes separately to enable individual depth measurements to be obtained and thereby fat layer thickness measurements to be derived for each of the points sampled by the array of probes. 


18. Apparatus according to claim 17 in which the probes are arranged in a linear array.
19. Apparatus according to claim 17 in which the probes are arranged in a matrix array.
20. Apparatus according to either of claims 18 or 19 in which the plate is spiked thereby to hold the joint in position.
21. Apparatus according to claim 20 in which a plurality of spikes project from the support plate, the spikes being arranged in an array in which the distribution of spikes corresponds to that of the probes, but in which the spikes are out of phase with the probes so that the spikes protrude upwardly between the downwardly protruding ends of the probes, when the latter are lowered.
22. Apparatus according to claim 21 in which the plate includes a plurality of apertures in registry with the probes, the arrangement being such that after the probes have penetrated the meat, the lower ends of the probes can enter the apertures, thereby to prevent damage to the probes.
23. Apparatus according to any of claims 16 to 22 in which there is provided storage means for storing information on the thickness of the fat layer of a joint, and a cutter device operative, in response to control signals derived from information stored by the storage means, to trim the joint.
24. Apparatus according to claim 23 in which the cutter 


device comprises a plurality of cutters mounted in a frame positioned vertically above a conveyor onto which the joint of meat is located, the height of each of the cutters above the conveyor being adjustable and controlled by a servo drive wherein the stored signals are used to position the height of the cutters as the joint approaches the cutting station so as to trim the fat to a required and desired depth.
25. Apparatus according to claim 23 or claim 24, further comprising means for automatically sanitising the needles and cutters, after a joint has been trimmed.
26. A control system for use with apparatus according to any of claims 23 to 26, and comprising a computer for interpreting information derived from the probes and building a three dimensional digital image of the joint off the fat layer or both and means for outputing data derived therefrom to provide vertical displacement control data for the cutting device. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
