<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635826</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
High-speed data dubbing method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B27034	G06F306	G11B2711	G06F306	G11B1904	G11B2010	G11B27031	G11B2010	G11B2711	G11B1904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G06F	G11B	G06F	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B27	G06F3	G11B27	G06F3	G11B19	G11B20	G11B27	G11B20	G11B27	G11B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a high-speed dubbing method, calculations are 
executed to find waiting time by which the amount of 

remaining audio data stored in a memory is minimized upon 
completion of a data transferring process to the next 

recordable area, and by stopping the recording operation 
for the waiting time, the amount of the remaining audio 

data in the memory is always kept minimum, immediately 
before the accessing process and the track jumping process 

with respect to the next recordable area. Therefore, even 
if any disturbance occurs during the dubbing operation 

with respect to a plurality of intermittent recordable 
areas, it is possible to eliminate the overflow of the 

audio data, and to improve the reliability of the dubbing 
operation. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINODA HIDENORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINODA, HIDENORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a high-speed data
dubbing method for dubbing data transmitted from an
external apparatus, such as a compact disk apparatus or
other apparatuses, onto a recording medium such as a mini
disk or other recording medium at high speeds.There have been proposed methods wherein data dubbing
is made at relatively low speeds between a recording
system and a reproduction system both of which use
recording media for recording compressed data (for
example, see Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publications No.
332960/1992 (Tokukaihei 4-332960) and No. 258834/1992 
(Tokukaihei 4-258834)). In accordance with these methods,
a recording medium whereon compressed data is recorded is
reproduced by a system on the reproduction side, and the
reproduced data is recorded on another recording medium by
another system on the recording side. However, these
dubbing methods do not suggest anything about how to make
a dubbing at high speeds.In order to dub data at high speeds, there has been
known a method wherein data is temporarily stored in a
buffer memory by using a reproduction bit rate on the
reproduction side that is N (natural number) times as
great as a normal bit rate, and the stored data is read on
demand and written in a recording medium on the recording
side.With this method, it is possible to make data dubbing
virtually N times as fast as the normal speed. The
following description will discuss the conventional
high-speed dubbing method by exemplifying a case wherein a
compact disk (hereinafter, referred to as CD) reproduction
apparatus is used on the reproduction side and a mini disk
(hereinafter, referred to as MD) recording apparatus is
used on the recording side.The MD recording apparatus compresses inputted
digital data into almost one-fifth the size of the data
amount. For this reason, suppose that the recording bit 
rate of the MD recording apparatus is equal to the
reproduction bit rate of the CD, it is possible to
increase the reproduction bit rate of the CD by almost
five times. In other words, data reproduced in the CD
reproduction apparatus by using a reproduction bit rate
that is almost five times as great as the normal bit rate
is stored in a buffer memory, and after accessing and
track jumping with respect to a desired recordable area in
the MD, the data is read from the buffer memory on demand,
and written in the MD. Thus, data dubbing is made from
the CD on the reproduction side to the MD on the recording
side at high speeds.However, in the above-mentioned conventional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A high-speed data dubbing method, comprising the
steps of:


storing data externally transmitted in a memory (6) at
a transmission speed that is higher than that of a normal

reproduction bit rate of a medium (21) to be dubbed, but
lower than the transfer speed from the memory to the recording medium (1);
recognizing respective recording start positions of recordable areas in
accordance with positional information of the recording

medium (1) onto which the data will be dubbed, this medium having a plurality
of intermittent recordable areas;

'
recognizing the amounts of data to be recorded in the
recordable areas including the respective recording

start positions;
calculating a waiting time by which the amount of
remaining data stored in the memory (6) is minimized upon

completion of the data transferring process from the
memory (6) to the recordable area and prior to transferring

data to one of the next recordable areas, based on the
data transfer speed from the memory (6) to the recording medium

(1) onto which data is dubbed and on the amount of data to
be recorded in said recordable area;
interrupting the dubbing operation by stopping the

data transferring process for the waiting time.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the step for calculating the waiting time 

is carried out prior to shifting from the data
transferring process onto a first recordable area to the

data transferring process onto a second recordable area.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the steps of: dividing the

amount of data and calculating a plurality of periods of
waiting time, when the amount of data to be recorded to

one of the recordable areas exceeds a maximum allowable
amount of data storage of the memory (6).
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of transferring the

data to the recordable area after the waiting time has
elapsed.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of storing in the

memory (6) the positional information of the recordable areas
on the recording medium (1) prior to carrying out the

respective steps.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 4, wherein the positional information is read out

from the recording medium (1).
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the step of recognizing the recording

start positions further includes the step of recognizing
the leading position of each recordable area. 
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the step of recognizing the recording

start positions further includes the step of recognizing
the rear position of each recordable area.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the step of recognizing the amount of

data further includes the steps of: recognizing the
leading position and the rear position of the recordable

area; and calculating the amount of data to be recorded in
the recordable area in accordance with the positional

information indicating the leading position and the rear
position.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of calculating time

that is required for an accessing process to the recording
start position, prior to the step of interrupting the

dubbing operation.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of carrying out the

accessing process to the next recording start position
while interrupting the dubbing operation.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of calculating

periods of time that are respectively required for the
accessing process to the recording start position and a 

track jumping process prior to the step of interrupting
the dubbing operation.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of carrying out the

accessing process to the next recording start position and
the track jumping process while interrupting the dubbing

operation.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of calculating the

difference between a recording bit rate of the data to the
recording medium (1) and a transmission bit rate of the data

to the memory (6), prior to the step of calculating the
waiting time.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of updating the

positional information of the recordable areas stored in
the memory (6), after completion of the data transferring

process to the recordable area.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of conducting a data

compression on the data.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of conducting

operations such as modulation and addition of
error-correcting codes on the data. 
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, further comprising the step of: converting the

analog data into digital data if the data to be dubbed is
analog data.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the data is also being stored in the

memory (6) while the data transferring process is being
carried out with respect to the recordable area.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the data is also being stored in the

memory (6) while the data transferring process is standing by.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the data is also being stored in the

memory while the accessing process is being carried out
with respect to the recordable area.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the data is also being stored in the

memory while the accessing process and the track jumping
process are being carried out with respect to the

recordable area.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the data is selected from digital data

and analog data.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the recording medium is magneto-optically 

recorded.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the data is transmitted from a compact

disk apparatus.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the data is transmitted from the compact

disk apparatus at a speed higher than a normal
reproduction bit rate of the compact disk.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, wherein the recording medium (1) is a mini disk.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 1, the dubbing method is carried out by the use of a

mini disk apparatus.
The high-speed data dubbing method as defined in
claim 28, wherein the, mini disk apparatus has a data

transferring operation means whose power supply is shut
off while the data transferring process is standing by.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
