<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619436</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Prevailing torque fastener.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21K100	B21K170	F16B3900	F16B39284	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21K	B21K	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21K1	B21K1	F16B39	F16B39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The prevailing torque fastener has a portion 
of the internal thread deformed from a circular cross-section 

to an approximately elliptical cross-section by 
a pair of die impressions (17, 18) on diametrically 

opposed sides of the exterior of the body. Each die 
impression (17, 18) is skewed from a plane normal to the 

axis of the fastener at an angle (B) corresponding to 
the lead of the thread. Each die impression (17, 18) is 

made with a jaw (23) having a central circular arc (31) 
with a radius greater than the radius of the undeformed 

fastener. The opening between the jaws (23) has a 
perimeter equal to the circumference of the undeformed 

fastener. Each edge (19) of the die impression (17, 18) 
is at a predetermined elevation relative to the thread 

profile, preferably aligned with the crest of the 
thread. The location of the die impression (17, 18) is 

controlled by threading the fastener against a stop (24) 
and crimping the fastener between jaws (23) spaced a 

known distance from the stop (24). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RATH JACK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RATH, JACK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATH JACK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATH, JACK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention provides an improved internally 
threaded self-locking or prevailing torque fastener, in 
particular, a prevailing torque fastener with a deformed 
thread wherein the outside surface crimp or die impression 
follows the helix of the fastener internal thread. The 
external die impression has an edge adjacent a 
predetermined portion of the thread profile, preferably 
opposite the crest of the thread. The external die 
impressions are made by dies including a circular arc with 
a radius larger than the radius of the fastener. One type of self-locking fastener is known as a 
prevailing torque fastener. In a prevailing torque 
fastener, the thread, typically the internal thread to be 
threaded onto a male thread is deformed for increasing the 
friction between the members of the fastener. The 
deformed thread engages the undeformed thread and the 
deformed portion is forced back towards the original 
undeformed geometry. Existing internally threaded prevailing torque 
fasteners have different forms of outside diameter 
deformations which deform the internal thread. There are 
quasi-elliptical deformations or two-, three- or four-point  
 
die impressions on the outside surface. The 
internal threads of the fastener respond to the outside 
deformations to the extent that the threads themselves 
become severely distorted. Prior prevailing torque fasteners of this variety 
have a problem due to surface damage of the mating parts 
when repeatedly engaged and disengaged. Specifications 
for prevailing torque fasteners call for a certain 
friction level or breakaway torque after repeated cycles 
of assembling and disassembling the mating members. 
Surface damage due to the high friction between the parts 
can change the desired torque levels. Furthermore, many fasteners have corrosion resistant 
or lubricous coatings on the threads. The surface damage 
caused by the deformed threads on the prevailing torque 
fasteners can erode through these surface coatings and 
leave the fasteners subject to damage by corrosion, or 
further degrade the performance of the fastener in meeting 
the required torque standards. It is, therefore, desirable to provide a prevailing 
torque fastener where the deformed thread more uniformly 
and reliably engages the undeformed thread, thereby 
providing a more readily controlled torque and minimizing 
wear on the engaged threads. Thus, there is provided in practice of this invention 
according to a presently preferred embodiment, an 
internally threaded prevailing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A prevailing torque fastener comprising: 
   a hollow body with a generally circular bore; 

   an internal thread in the bore; and 
   a portion of the thread deformed from a circular 

cross section to an approximately elliptical cross section 
by pair of die impressions on diametrically opposite sides 

of the exterior of the body; 
   each die impression having a circular arc with a 

radius approximately equal to the radius of the exterior 
of the undeformed body, the distance from the center of 

the circular arc to the axis of the body being less than 
the radius of the undeformed body, and each portion of the 

exterior of the body between the die impressions 
comprising a portion having a radius less than the radius 

of the undeformed body. 
A fastener as recited in claim 1 wherein the 
angular extent of each circular arc from the axis of the 

body is in the range of from 65 to 100 degrees. 
A fastener as recited in claim 1 wherein each die 
impression is skewed from a plane normal to the axis of 

the body at an angle corresponding to the lead of the 
thread in the bore. 
A fastener as recited in claim 1 wherein each 
circular arc has the same location relative to the profile 

of the thread in the bore as the other circular arc. 
A fastener as recited in claim 4 wherein an edge 
of each die impression is directly opposite a crest of the 

thread in the bore adjacent to the die impression. 
A prevailing torque fastener comprising: 
   a hollow body with a generally circular bore; 

   an internal thread in the bore; and
 

   a portion of the thread deformed from a circular 
cross section to an approximately elliptical cross section 

by pair of die impressions on diametrically opposite sides 
of the exterior of the body, a portion of the thread 

spanning the minor axis of the approximately elliptical 
cross section having a circular arc with a radius 

approximately equal to the cross section of undeformed 
thread, the arc subtending an angle in the range of from 

65 to 100 degrees. 
A fastener as recited in claim 6 wherein each 
circular arc is skewed from a plane normal to the axis of 

the body at an angle corresponding to the lead of the 
thread in the bore. 
A fastener as recited in claim 7 wherein each 
circular arc has the same location relative to the profile 

of the thread in the bore as the other circular arc. 
A fastener as recited in claim 8 wherein an edge 
of each die impression is directly opposite a crest of the 

thread in the bore adjacent to the die impression. 
A fastener as recited in claim 6 wherein each 
circular arc has the same radius of curvature as an 

undeformed male fastener threaded into the prevailing 
torque fastener. 
A prevailing torque fastener comprising: 
   a hollow body with a generally circular bore; 

   an internal thread in the bore; 
   an external die impression on each of two 

diametrically opposite sides of the body sufficient for 
deforming a portion of the thread from a circular cross 

section to an elliptical cross section, each die 
impression being skewed from a plane normal to the axis of 

the body at an angle corresponding to the lead of the 
 

thread in the bore, an edge of the die impression being 
directly opposite a crest of the thread in the bore 

adjacent to the die impression. 
A plurality of prevailing torque fasteners 
wherein each fastener comprises: 

   a hollow body with a generally circular bore; 
   an internal thread in the bore; and 

   an external die impression on each of two diametrically 
opposite sides of the body sufficient for deforming 

a portion of the thread from a circular cross section to 
an approximately elliptical cross section, each die 

impression being skewed from a plane normal to the axis of 
the body at an angle corresponding to the lead of the 

thread in the bore; and wherein 
   all of the fasteners have an edge of a die impression 

directly opposite the same predetermined portion of the 
thread profile in the bore adjacent to the respective die 

impression. 
A method for making a prevailing torque fastener 
comprising the steps of: 

   forming a cylindrical hole in a fastener body; 
   forming a female thread in the hole; 

   threading the fastener body onto a male thread until 
an end of the body engages a stop which determines the 

angular position of the thread in a crimping apparatus; 
and 

   crimping a portion of an exterior surface of the body 
with a pair of dies for forming a generally elliptical 

cross section in a portion of the thread, each crimping 
die comprising an arcuate jaw having upper and lower edges 

skewed from a plane normal to the axis of the hole at an 
angle equal to the lead of the thread, the edges of each 

crimping die each having a fixed elevation relative to the 
stop. 
A method as recited in claim 11 wherein the 
crimping step comprises crimping the body with a crimping 

die having a circular arc with a radius greater than the 
radius of the exterior of the undeformed body, and wherein 

the crimping dies are closed so that the distance between 
the centers of the circular arcs is less than the diameter 

of the undeformed body. 
A method as recited in claim 11 wherein an edge 
of each die impression is directly opposite a crest of the 

thread in the bore adjacent to the die impression. 
A method for making a prevailing torque fastener 
comprising the steps of: 

   forming a cylindrical hole in a fastener body; 
   forming a female thread in the hole; 

   crimping a portion of an exterior surface of the body 
with a pair of dies by closing the dies against each other 

for forming a generally elliptical cross section in a 
portion of the thread, each crimping die comprising an 

arcuate jaw having a central circular arc with a radius 
greater than the radius of the undeformed body, the total 

perimeter of each arcuate jaw being equal to one half of 
the circumference of the undeformed body. 
A method as recited in claim 16 wherein each 
arcuate jaw has upper and lower edges skewed from a plane 

normal to the axis of the hole at an angle equal to the 
lead of the thread. 
A method as recited in claim 16 wherein each 

arcuate jaw has an edge directly opposite a crest of the 
thread in the bore adjacent to the jaw. 
A method for making a prevailing torque fastener 
comprising the steps of: 

   forming a cylindrical hole in a fastener body;
 

   forming a female thread in the hole; 
   crimping a portion of an exterior surface of the body 

with a pair of crimping dies for forming die impressions 
in diametrically opposite sides of the external surface of 

the body and a generally elliptical cross section in a 
portion of the thread, each die impression having upper 

and lower edges skewed from a plane normal to the axis of 
the hole at an angle equal to the lead of the thread, each 

die impression comprising a circular arc extending 
circumferentially around the body through an angle in the 

range of from 65 to 100 degrees. 
A method as recited in claim 19 comprising the 
step of orienting the thread in the hole at a 

predetermined elevation relative to the crimping dies. 
A method as recited in claim 20 wherein the 
thread is oriented with a crest of the thread directly 

opposite an edge of each crimping die. 
A method as recited in claim 20 wherein the step 
of orienting comprises threading the fastener body onto a 

male thread until an end of the body engages a stop. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
