<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628127</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DOWNHOLE TOOL FOR CONTROLLING THE DRILLING COURSE OF A BOREHOLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B4400	E21B1710	E21B4400	E21B704	E21B706	E21B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B44	E21B17	E21B44	E21B7	E21B7	E21B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A downhole tool (114) is adapted to be connected to a drill string by provision of a connection atop the tool. The tool comprises a mandrel (2) for connection with the drill string, the mandrel being rotatable within a body (5). A plurality of blades (27) are individually extendible radially from the body to engage the wall of a well bore, the radial position of the blades being adjustable between a first retracted position and a second extended position to position the centre line of the mandrel at a desired position relative to the longitudinal axis of the well bore. Means are provided for holding each of the blades at the retracted position, at the extended position or at any intermediate position between the retracted and extended positions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEDGE 101 LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEDGE 101 LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBSTER DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBSTER, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a downhole tool which 
can act as a variable stabiliser or a control for 
directional drilling. It is well known to provide apparatus for 
deflecting a portion of a drill string to impart a curve to 
the drill string in order to control the direction of 
drilling, or to control the deviation of the borehole from 
the initial centreline of the bore. It may be that it is 
desired to restrain deviation of the borehole from the 
initial centreline, or to increase the directional 
deviation. However, such known devices are often 
unreliable and uneconomic. Prior publications GB-A-2172324; GB-A-2172325; 
GB-A-2177738 and US-A-3298449 disclose stabilisers 
comprising: a housing which is adapted to engage with a 
well bore by means of a wall contact assembly, such that 
the housing is coaxial with the well bore, a mandrel 
rotatable within the housing: and hydraulic actuator means 
for positioning the centreline of the mandrel relative to 
the longitudinal axis of the housing and of the well bore. 
These prior art stabilisers have controllable positioning 
devices which are movable between a position in which the 
stabiliser is centred in the borehole and a position in 
which the stabiliser is offset from the centreline of the 
borehole. Each positioning device is movable between a  
 
first retracted position and a second extended position, but 
cannot be held at any intermediate position between the fully 
retracted and fully extended positions. Thus, such known 
stabilisers only provide relatively crude control for 
directional drilling and other related activities. More sophisticated stabiliser devices are disclosed 
in EP-A-324870 and WO-A-9214027. In both of these devices means 
are provided for moving the blades to desired intermediate 
positions whereby a combination of blade movement under 
suitable control can be used to position the stabiliser axis at 
the required position within the borehole. However, the 
devices of EP-A-324870 and WO-A-9214027 suffer from the 
disadvantage that if the blades are moved to the required 
position to effect a particular direction of drilling and are 
then locked at that position the tool cannot adequately cope 
with variations in the borehole diameter which occur before the 
next re-setting of the position of the blades. In particular, 
it will be appreciated that as drilling continues the entire 
tool must slide along the casing or well bore. If the blades 
are locked at a particular extension and the tool encounters a 
reduction in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A downhole tool adapted to be connected to a drill 
string by provision of a connection atop the tool, the tool 

comprising: a mandrel (2) for connection with the drill string; 
a body (5), the mandrel being rotatable within the body; a 

plurality of blades (27) individually extendible radially from 
the body to engage the wall of a well bore (108), the radial 

position of the blades being adjustable between a first 
retracted position and a second extended position, to position 

the centreline of the mandrel (2) at a desired position 
relative to the longitudinal axis of the well bore (108); a 

positioning system for positioning each of the blades (27) at 
the retracted position, at the extended position and at any 

intermediate position between the retracted and extended 
positions; locking means for locking at least two of the blades 

at any position between the retracted position and the extender 
position; and a control unit (24) for controlling the 

positioning system and the locking means characterised in that 
the locking means is operable to lock the position of two of 

the blades (27) without locking the position of a third of the 

blades (27) and in that control unit is operable to maintain 
the blades (27) in engagement with the wall of the well bore 

(108) and the centreline of the mandrel (2) at a desired 
position relative to the centreline of the well bore as the 

drill string advances during a drilling operation regardless of 
variations in the well bore diameter by operating the 

positioning system to move two of the blades (27) to the 
required offset position and then operating the locking system 

to lock these blades in that position, and operating the 
positioning system to maintain a third blade (27) in floating 

contact with the well bore (108).  
 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the two blades (27) which are moved to the required 

offset are on the gravitational low side of the hole and 
the third blade (27) is the uppermost blade.  

 
A tool according to claim 1 characterised in that 
said control unit (24) is programmable when the tool is 

down the well bore, by means of coded signals sent from the 
surface. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the control unit (24) incorporates a gravity sensor to 

establish the orientation of a part of the body of the 
tool. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said control unit (24) incorporates a timer. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said control unit (24) incorporates a device for 

counting the revolutions of the drill string, the device 
preferably being a device for counting magnetic pulses from 

a marker on the mandrel or some device being driven by the 
mandrel of said tool, or an infra-red or similar light 

based sensor sensing a marker on the mandrel or some device 
being driven by the mandrel of said tool, or an ultrasonic 

or similar sound emitting device sensing a marker on the 
mandrel or some device being driven by the mandrel of said 

tool, or a pressure sensor sensing changes of pressure 
caused by the action of the mandrel or some device being 

driven by the mandrel as it rotates within said tool, or a 
device for electronically sensing the rotations of the 

mandrel or some device being driven by the mandrel as it 
rotates within said mandrel of said tool. 
A tool according to claim 6, characterised in 
that said counting device is used to sense non-rotation of 

said tool mandrel.  
 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said control unit (24) incorporates a device to 

receive, store and manipulate data. 
A tool according to claim 5, characterised in 
that said timer and said device for counting the 

revolutions from a means to read an encoded message sent to 
said tool via timed rotations of the drill string. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that said control unit is electronic. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the blades (27) are extendible by a hydraulic, 

mechanical, electric, or a combination of these, actuating 
means, to provide the movement of each blade. 
A tool according to claim 11, characterised in 
that said actuating means are operably connected with a low 

pressure chamber (16) and a high pressure chamber (20) 
within the body via valve means (23), wherein a biassed 

piston (19) separates said low pressure chamber (16) from 
said high pressure chamber (20), and wherein a floating 

piston (15) separates said low pressure (16) chamber from 
drilling fluid in the well bore. 
A tool according to claim 12, characterised in 
that the control unit (24) is operable to control said 

valve means (23) to operate said actuating means. 
A tool according to claim 13, characterised in 
that said control unit (24) incorporates a sensor for 

detecting the extension of the individual blades, the 
sensor being an electronic, mechanical, magnetic, infra-red 

or similar, or ultrasonic device, or a combination of 
these.  

 
A tool according to claim 4, characterised in 
that said sensor comprises an annular disc coaxial with the 

mandrel (2) a number of horizontal or slightly inclined 
slots (52) being formed in the disc and a movable member 

(51) being positioned to move between a first and a second 
position in each slot, each movable member being adapted to 

form a link in a hydraulic, mechanical or electrical 
solenoid in one of its said first and second positions, 

said hydraulic solenoid being operable to control said 
valve means. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the blade extensions are used to log the volume of the 

hole as said tool travels in and out of said borehole. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the blades of said tool can be controllably retracted. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the desired position of the centreline of the mandrel 

(2) can be at any point with a circle of predetermined 
diameter centred on the axis of the well bore. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the power to drive said tool is derived from the 

rotation of the drill string driving said mandrel. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the power to drive said tool is derived from the 

pressure flow of the drilling fluid.  
 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the position of the blades is controlled to effect 

deviation of a borehole being bored by a drill string in 
which the tool is incorporated, the deviation being 

controlled by the tool such that the resultant borehole has 
a predetermined shape, for example a catenery curve. 
A tool according to claim 1, characterised in 
that at least one logging sensor e.g. a neutron logging 

sensor carried by the body or one of the blades of the 
tool. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
