<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626607</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A liquid crystal display device, a method for producing the same, and a system using such a liquid crystal device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F11334	G02F11337	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A liquid crystal display device which includes 
two substrates opposed to each other; electrodes 

respectively provided on surfaces of the two substrates, 
the surfaces opposing to each other: heat-resistant 

polymer films each having a generally smooth 
surface and respectively provided on the electrodes; a 

liquid crystal layer interposed between the heat-resistant 
polymer films and including a plurality of 

microscopic regions; and two polarizing plates interposing 
the two substrates. Each of the plurality of 

the microscopic regions in the vicinity of the heat-resistant 
polymer films has liquid crystal molecules 

aligned uniformly, and the liquid crystal molecules in 
different microscopic regions are arranged in different 

directions with respect to one another. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMADA SHINJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMADA, SHINJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a liquid
crystal display (hereinafter, referred to as an "LCD")
device for use in a display system and an optical data
processing apparatus, a method for producing the same,
and a display apparatus using such an LCD device.One of the known LCD cells is a nematic LCD
cell which is produced without performing alignment
treatment of surfaces of substrates (see Nose et al,
Akita University, Department of Electronics, Memory
Effects of an Opaque State in a Nematic Liquid Crystal
Cell without Rubbing, Lecture Notes on the 18th
Conference on Liquid Crystals, pp. 42-43).Such a type of nematic LCD cell is produced
in the following manner. Two substrates each having an
electrode thereon are covered with such an alignment
film as to realize homogeneous alignment of liquid
crystal molecules relative to the substrates. After
injecting the liquid crystal molecules between the
substrates, the resultant liquid crystal cell is heated
until the liquid crystal goes into an isotropic phase.
Then, the liquid crystal is cooled down while applying
an electric field or a magnetic field which has a level
higher than a threshold level for causing Freedericksz
transition until the liquid crystal goes into a nematic
phase. The LCD device produced in the above-described
manner does not require a polarizing plate.
Accordingly, such an LCD device has a high transmittance
with respect to visible light, and therefore a
light scattering state and a light transmitting state
can be switched by a relatively small difference in the
potential of the electric field. For example, an image
obtained by such an LCD device has a contrast of 4.Another known nematic LCD device also has an
alignment film without being subjected to alignment
treatment. To the liquid crystal molecules, a chiral
dopant is added to twist the liquid crystal molecules
at 90° after being injected between two substrates.
Such an LCD device includes polarizing plates (see
Stanley Electric Co., Ltd. and Tokyo university of
Agriculture and Technology, SID '93 DRAFT, pp. 622).A nematic LCD device without an alignment
film includes a Schiff base liquid crystal and has a
microscopic region formed therein utilizing the alignment
characteristic of the Schiff base liquid crystal
(see Japanese Patent Publication No. 45-12839).The above-described LCD devices have the
following problems.The LCD device having the liquid crystal
molecules in the state of homogeneous alignment between
two substrates displays images utilizing the difference
in light
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A liquid crystal display device, comprising:

two substrates (1,2) opposed to each other;
first and second electrodes (3,4) provided on surfaces of a respective one of
the substrates (1,2), the surfaces facing each other;
first and second heat-resistant polymer films (5,6), each having an unrubbed generally
smooth surface, provided on a respective one of the electrodes (3,4);
a liquid crystal layer (9) interposed between the heat-resistant polymer films
(5,6) and comprising a plurality of separate microscopic regions; and
two polarizing plates (11,12), the two substrates being interposed between the
polarising plates,

wherein, in each of the microscopic regions in the vicinity of the polymer
films (5,6), the liquid crystal molecules are aligned substantially parallel to one

another and are aligned substantially parallel to the interfaces between the liquid
crystal layer (9) and the polymer films (5,6); and wherein the liquid crystal molecules

of a microscopic region are aligned in a random direction with respect to the alignment directions of the liquid crystal
molecules of each of the other microscopic regions.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 1, wherein the polarizing
plates have polarising axes that are perpendicular to each other.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 1, wherein the microscopic
regions each have an average diameter of 1 µm to 200 µm.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 1, wherein the liquid crystal layer is arranged to have a retardation
between an ordinary ray and an extraordinary ray of 0.29 µm to 0.75µm when light is

incident on the liquid crystal layer in the normal direction.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 1, wherein the liquid crystal
layer includes a chiral dopant. 
A liquid crystal display device according to claim
1, wherein the heat-resistant po
lymer films each include
one of polyimide, polyamic acid and partially

imidized polyamic acid which exclude a long-chain alkyl
group in a molecule.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim
1, wherein at least one of the two substrates includes

an array of nonlinear devices.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim
1, wherein a light reflecting layer is provided on one

of the two substrates.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim
1, further comprising a wall in the liquid crystal

layer, the wall defining first and second parts of the liquid
crystal layer, each part containing a plurality of microscopic

regions.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim
9, wherein the wall includes at least one of a photo-curable

resin and a photo-polymerizable polymer.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim
1, further comprising a thin film transistor provided

on one of the substrates. 
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 1, further comprising a metal-insulator-metal
device provided on one of the substrates.
A projection type liquid crystal display system, comprising;

a liquid crystal display device according to any one of claims 1 to 12; and
projection means cooperative with the liquid crystal display device to project
an image.
A method for producing a liquid crystal display device, comprising the steps of

forming first and second electrodes (3,4) on respective ones of first and
second substrates (1,2);
forming first and second heat-resistant polymer films (5,6) on respective
ones of the first and second electrodes (3,4) without treating the heat-resistant

polymer films for alignment thereby providing the polymer films (5,6) with smooth
surfaces;
assembling the substrates (1,2) together while keeping a space between the
heat-resistant polymer films (5,6);
injecting a liquid crystal material (9) which shows a nematic phase at a
certain temperature into the space; and
applying an electric or magnetic field having a level which is greater than a threshold level for
causing Freedericksz transition to the liquid crystal material (9) while causing a phase

transition of the liquid crystal material from an isotropic phase to the nematic phase.
A method according to claim 14, wherein the field is a DC electric field. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein the field
is an AC electric field.
A method according to claim 14, wherein the field
is a magnetic field.
A method according to claim 15, wherein the DC
electric field is generated by applying a voltage

between the electrodes.
A method according to claim 16, wherein the AC
electric field is generated by applying a voltage

between the electrodes.
A method according to claim 14, wherein the liquid
crystal material is injected at a rate of no greater

than 0.005 cm
3
 per minute.
A method according to claim 14, wherein the step of
injecting the liquid crystal material and the step of

applying the field are performed simultaneously.
A method according to claim 14, wherein the liquid
crystal material is injected at a temperature which is

at least 50
°
C higher than a temperature for causing
phase transition of the liquid crystal material from

the isotropic phase to the nematic phase.
A method according to claim 14, wherein the liquid
crystal material includes at least one of a photo-curable

resin and a photo-polymerizable polymer. 
A method according to claim 19, further comprising
a step of, after the liquid crystal material is injected

before the field is applied, radiating light to the
liquid crystal material through a mask having a specified

pattern to form a wall in the liquid crystal
material,

the wall defining first and second parts of the liquid
crystal layer, each part containing a plurality of microscopic regions.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
