<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617766</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED BEARING ASSEMBLY AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C1922	F16C1946	F16C3358	F16C3358	F16C3360	F16C3364	F16C4300	F16C4304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C19	F16C19	F16C33	F16C33	F16C33	F16C33	F16C43	F16C43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MC GILL MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MC GILL MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLINSKI PAUL O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLINSKI PAUL O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED BEARING ASSEMBLY AND METHOD OF MANUFACTUREThe present invention relates generally to bearing assemblies of the type which have an inner race, an outer relatively rotatable race, and endplates secured to one of the races for retaining the other race from axial movement, and more particularly, to an improved bearing assembly of such type and to a method for securing endplates to the bearing race.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION It has long been the practice to secure endplates to the inner race of a bearing assembly by peening or flaring lips on opposite sides of the inner race into locking relation about the peripheries of the respective endplates. Such metalworking, however, can cause distortion and dimensional size change of the inner race in excess of industry standards. Other methods of securing the endplates to the bearing race have suffered from similar drawbacks. These methods include staking or deforming the inner race at circumferentially spaced locations to secure the endplate, axially deforming a brass band into interposed relation between the endplate and inner race to cause radial expansion and secure retention of the endplate and inner race, and forcing the endplate onto the bearing race with an interference fit. The forces exerted on the inner bearing race in each method can cause distortion of the inner bearing race in excess of acceptable limits.OBJECTS AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to provide a bearing assembly in which endplates are 

 reliably secured to one of the bearing races without distortion or appreciable size change of the race.Another object is to provide an improved method of manufacturing such bearing assembly. A related object is to provide a method of reliably securing endplates to one of the bearing races without exerting significant forces on the bearing race.Other objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent upon reading the following detailed description and upon reference to the drawings, in which:BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFIGURE 1 is a break away perspective of an illustrative bearing assembly embodying the present invention;FIG. 2 is a perspective of one of the endplates used in the illustrated bearing assembly;FIG. 3 is an enlarged fragmentary section of the endplate shown in FIG. 2;FIG. 4 is a fragmentary section depicting the method of manufacture of the illustrated bearing assembly; andFIG. 5 is an enlarged fragmentary section of the completed bearing assembly.While the invention is susceptible
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A bearing assembly comprising an inner race, an outer race concentrically surrounding said inner race for relative rotational movement, abutment means at opposite ends of one of said races for limiting relative lateral movement between said races, said abutment means including at least one annular endplate mounted on an end of said one race, means securing said endplate to said one race, and said endplate securing means being solidified metal which is applied to said endplate and said one bearing race in molten form and which upon solidification secures the endplate in fixed relation to said one bearing race.
2. The bearing assembly of claim 1 in which said metal is zinc.
3. The bearing assembly of claim 1 including a plurality of roller elements interposed between said bearing races.
4. The bearing assembly of claim 1 in which said one race is formed with an annular seating surface adjacent an axial end thereof, said annular endplate being formed with an annular seating surface for mounting on said bearing race seating surface, and said metal being disposed between said bearing race and endplate seating surfaces.
5. The bearing assembly of claim 4 in which said bearing race seating surface is formed on said inner bearing race. 


 6. The bearing assembly of claim 5 in which said inner bearing race seating surface is conically shaped, tapering inwardly from an outer end of the race at an acute angle to the axis of rotation of said bearing races, and said endplate seating surface is tapered similarly to the inner bearing race seating surface.
7. The bearing assembly of claim 4 in which said one bearing race is formed with an annular notch at the end thereof, said notch defining said bearing race seating surface and a side wall disposed inwardly from an axial end of said one race, and said seating surfaces and side wall defining a laterally opening cavity within which said metal is disposed. 8. The bearing assembly of claim 5 in which said annular endplate has a plurality of discrete inwardly opening notches about an inner diameter thereof within which solidified metal is contained.
9. The bearing assembly of claim 8 in which said endplate notches have a chevron configuration for providing positive retention between said solidified metal and endplate.
10. The bearing assembly of claim 8 in which said end plate has an inboard side disposed adjacent said races, and said notches are formed in said inboard side of said end plate and are not visible externally said bearing assembly.
11. A bearing assembly comprising an inner race, an outer race concentrically surrounding said inner race for relative rotational movement, a pair of annular endplates, 


 means securing said endplates to opposite ends of one of said races for limiting relative lateral movement between the races, and said endplate securing means being solidified metal which is applied to said endplates and said one bearing race in molten form and which upon solidification secures the endplates in fixed relation to said one bearing race.
12. The bearing assembly of claim 11 in which said metal secures said endplates to said inner race.
13. The bearing assembly of claim 11 in which said one race is formed with endplate seating surfaces on opposite ends thereof, and said endplates each define a seating surface for mounting on a respective one of said inner bearing race seating surfaces, and said metal is disposed between the endplate seating surface and the respective bearing race seating surface.
14. The bearing assembly of claim 13 in which said bearing race seating surfaces are formed in said inner bearing race and each is conically shaped, tapering radially inwardly from an outer end of said race, and said endplate seating surfaces each are tapered similarly to the inner bearing race seating surfaces on which it is mounted.
15. The bearing assembly of claim 13 in which said one race is formed with an annular notch at each end thereof, said bearing race notches each defining said endplate seating surface and a side wall disposed inwardly from axial end of said one race, and said seating surfaces and side walls defining laterally 


 opening cavities at opposite ends of said one race within which said metal is disposed.
16. A method of making a bearing assembly having an inner race, an outer race concentrically 5 surrounding the inner race for relative rotational movement, and at least one endplate disposed at an end of one of the races for limiting relative lateral movement between the races, comprising the steps of loosely assembling said endplate on said one bearing race, applying molten metal between respective surfaces of said endplate and one race, and allowing said molten metal to solidify to secure the endplate in fixed relation to said one race.
17. The method of claim 16 including applying molten zinc to said endplates and one bearing race.
18. The method of claim 16 including forming said endplate and one race with respective seating surfaces, concentrically supporting said endplate and one bearing race in coaxial relation to each other with a spacial separation between said seating surfaces, and injecting molten metal into the space between said seating surfaces.
19. The method of claim 18 including forming a notch in an end of said race for defining said bearing race seating surface and a side wall disposed inwardly from an axial end of said one race, concentrically supporting said one bearing race and annular endplate in coaxial relation with said seating surfaces and • notch sidewall defining a laterally opening annular cavity, and injecting molten metal into said annular cavity. 


 20. The method of claim 19 including forming said notch in said inner bearing race.
21. A method of making a bearing assembly having an inner race, an outer race concentrically surrounding the inner race for relative rotational movement, and a pair of annular endplates disposed at opposite ends of one of the races for limiting relative lateral movement between the races comprising the steps of loosely assembling said endplates on said one bearing race, applying molten metal between respective surfaces of said endplates and inner race, and allowing said molten metal to solidify to secure the endplates in fixed relation to said one bearing race. 22. The method of claim 21 including forming notches in opposite axial ends of said inner bearing race, each notch defining a seating surface and a side wall disposed inwardly from an axial end of said inner bearing race, forming each said annular endplate with a central opening which defines a seating surface, concentrically supporting said inner bearing race and said annular endplates in coaxial relation to each other with said seating surfaces and notch side walls defining laterally opening annular cavities adjacent each end of said inner bearing race, and injecting molten metal into said annular cavities. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 25 March 1993 (25.03.93); original claims 1-15 and 18 cancelled; claims 16,17,19-22 amended and renumbered as claims 1-6 (2 pages)]
1. A method of making a bearing assembly having an inner race, an outer race concentrically surrounding the inner race for relative rotational movement, and at least one endplate disposed at an end of one of the races, comprising the steps of forming said at least one endplate and one race with respective seating surfaces, concentrically supporting said at least one endplate and one bearing race in coaxial relation to each other with a spacial separation between said seating surfaces, injecting molten metal into the space between said seating surfaces, and allowing said molten metal to solidify to secure said at lease one endplate in fixed relation to said one race.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said injecting step- includes injecting molten zinc to the space between said seating surfaces.
3. The method of iim 1 wherein said forming step includes forming a notch in an and of said one race for defining said bearing race seating surface and a side wall disposed inwardly from an axial end of said one race, said supporting step including concentrically supporting said one bearing race and at least one endplate in coaxial relation with said seating surfaces and notch sidewall defining a laterally opening annular cavity.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein said forming step includes forming said notch in said inner bearing race.
5. A method of making a bearing assembly having an inner race, an outer race concentrically surrounding the inner race for relative rotational movement, and a pair of annular endplates disposed at opposite ends of one of the races for limiting relative lateral movement between the races comprising the steps of loosely assembling said endplates on said one bearing race, applying molten metal between respective surfaces of said endplates and one bearing race, and allowing said molten metal to solidify to secure the endplates in fixed relation to said one bearing race. 


 6. The method of claim 5 including forming notches in opposite axial ends of said inner bearing race which each define a seating surface and a side wall disposed inwardly from an axial end of said inner bearing race, forming each said annular endplate with a central opening which defines a seating surface, said assembling step including concentrically supporting said inner bearing race and said annular endplates in coaxial relation to each other with said seating surfaces and notch side walls defining laterally opening annular cavities adjacent each end of said inner bearing race, and said applying step including injecting molten metal into said annular cavities. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
