<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619517</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03C109	G03C7392	G03C7392	G03C1035	G03C109	G03C730	G03C1015	G03C134	G03C134	G03C107	G03C726	G03C1005	G03C1035	G03C726	G03C107	G03C1005	G03C1015	G03C730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03C1	G03C7	G03C7	G03C1	G03C1	G03C7	G03C1	G03C1	G03C1	G03C1	G03C7	G03C1	G03C1	G03C7	G03C1	G03C1	G03C1	G03C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material comprising a reflective support having 

thereon photographic structural layers comprising one or 
more photo-sensitive silver halide emulsion layers, pH of a 

coating of the silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material ranges from 4.0 to 6.5. The photo-sensitive 

silver halide emulsion layer contains a mercapto 
heterocyclic compound and silver halide grains, each 

comprising silver chlorobromide or silver chloride and 
containing substantially no silver iodide. The silver 

halide grains are formed in the presence of a specific grain 
growth restraining agent. The silver halide grain contains 

a metal complex of Ir. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAOTO OHSHIMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAOTO, OHSHIMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a silver halide 
color photographic photo-sensitive material. More 
particularly, the present invention relates to a silver 
halide color photographic photo-sensitive material which is 
highly sensitive to light, is excellent in storability and 
is improved in pressure induced desensitization. Color photography is a process of producing dye 
images achieved by using a photo-sensitive material 
comprising a support having thereon photographic structural 
layers comprising a silver halide emulsion and dye forming 
couplers. The photo-sensitive material is subjected to 
development processing with an aromatic primary amine color 
developing agent, resulting in production of an oxidation 
product of the developing agent. The dye images are formed 
by reaction of this oxidation product with the dye forming 
couplers. Simplified and rapid color development processing is 
a strong requirement of the color photographic field and 
various improvements have been achieved. Advanced faster 
systems have been developed one after another in a cycle of 
a few years.  
 To increase a processing speed requires a further 
approach to shortening time for each of color development, 
bleach-fixing, washing with water and drying processes. A 
method of increasing the processing speed is disclosed in, 
for example, International Patent Publication No. WO 
87/04534. This publication discloses a method of rapid 
processing by using a color photographic photo-sensitive 
material comprising high silver chloride emulsion. From the 
viewpoint of the rapid processing, it would be preferable to 
use the high silver chloride emulsion. Such efforts yield a technique of printing images of 
a color negative on a silver halide color photographic 
printing paper for high silver chloride printing, which has 
become a common method for simple and easy production of 
high-quality images. The higher contents of the silver chloride in the 
silver halide emulsion to be used result in a far advance in 
a development speed. The silver chloride emulsion is, 
however, found to have a disadvantage of lower photo-sensitivity. 
With this respect, various techniques and 
methods are disclosed to improve the photo-sensitivity of 
such the high silver chloride silver halide emulsion, and 
thereby to overcome the above mentioned problem. Under normal conditions for forming grains, silver 
chloride emulsion grains suitable for rapid processing are  
 
cubic in shape mainly having {100} faces. However, various 
attempts have
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material comprising a reflective support having thereon 

photographic structural layers comprising one or more photo-sensitive 
surface latent image type silver halide emulsion layers characterized in 

that 

pH of a coating of the silver halide color 
photographic photo-sensitive material ranges from 4.0 to 

6.5, and that 
at least one of the silver halide emulsion layers 
contains at least one mercapto heterocyclic compound and 

silver halide grains, said silver halide grains comprising 
silver chlorobromide or silver chloride and containing 

less than 1.0 mol% silver iodide, said silver halide grains 
having a silver chloride content of 80 mol% or higher, said 

silver halide grains being formed in the presence of at 
least one compound selected from the group consisting of 

compounds represented by the following general formula (I), 
(II), (III) and (IV), and the silver halide grains 

containing at least one compound selected from the group 
consisting of metal complexes of Fe, Ru, Re, Os and Ir,  

 

 
wherein A
1
, A
2
, A
3
 and A
4
 are same as or different from each 
other and each represents a group of nonmetallic atoms 

necessary for completing a nitrogen-containing heterocyclic 
ring; B represents a divalent bonding group; m represents 0 

or 1; R
1
 and R
2
 each represents an alkyl group; X represents 
an anion; and n represents 0 or 1, in which n represents 0 

when the compound (I) or (II) is an inner salt, 

 
wherein R
3
 and R
4
 are same as or different from each other 
and each represents a hydrogen atom, an aryl group or an  

 
aralkyl group; R
5
 represents an amine, a sulfonic acid group 
or a carboxyl group; and o represents a positive integer of 

from 1 to 5, 

X-L
1
-(S-L
2
)p-X·qZ
 
wherein X represents an amino group which may be substituted 

by an alkyl group, a quaternary alkyl ammonium group or 
carboxyl group; L
1
 and L
2
 each represents a divalent organic 
group formed of a single or a combination of an alkylene 

group, an alkenylene group, -SO
2
-, -SO-, -O-, -CO- or -N(R)-(R 
represents a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group 

or -L
3
-(S-L
4
)p-X, in which L
3
 and L
4
 each represents an 
alkylene group, an alkenylene group, -SO
2
-, -SO-, -O-, or 
-CO-); p rep
resents an integer of from 1 to 5, provided that 
if p is 2 or more then the definitions of the different L
2
 
groups are independent of each other; q represents an integer 

of from 0 to 3; and Z represents an anion, where q is equal in 
number to the quaternary alkyl ammonium group. 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in Claim 1 characterized in that 50% or 

more, based on an outer surface area, of said silver halide 
grains is constituted by (111) planes. 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that  

 
80% or more of total number of said silver halide grains are 

octahedral silver halide grains. 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in any one of Claims 1 through 3 

characterized in that the metal complex is Ir complex. 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in any one of Claims 1 through 4 

characterized in that the metal complex has at least two 
cyan ligands. 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in any one of Claims 1 through 5 

characterized in that the metal complex is contained in the 
silver halide grains at an amount ranging from 10
-9
 mol to 
10
-2
 mol per one mol of silver halide. 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in any one of Claims 1 through 6 

characterized in that the silver halide grains are formed in 
the presence of the compound represented by the general 

formula (I) or (III).  
 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in any one of Claims 1 through 7 

characterized in that the silver halide grains are formed in 
the presence of at least one compound selected from the 

group consisting of the compounds represented by the general 
formulae (I), (II), (III) and (IV) at an amount ranging from 

10
-6
 mol to 10
-1
 mol per one mol of silver halide. 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in any one of Claims 1 through 8 

characterized in that the mercapto heterocyclic compound is 
represented by the following general formula (V): 


 
wherein Q represents atomic groups necessary for forming a 

five- or six-membered heterocyclic ring or five- or six-membered 
heterocyclic ring to which a benzene ring is 

condensed, and M represents a cation. 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in Claim 9 characterized in that the  

 
mercapto heterocyclic compound represented by the general 

formula (V) is used at an amount ranging from 1 × 10
-5
 mol to 
5 × 10
-2
 mol per one mol of silver halide. 
A silver halide color photographic photo-sensitive 
material as claimed in any one of Claims 1 through 10 

characterized in that the silver chloride contents in the 
silver halide grain are 99 mol% or higher. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
