<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636377</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Use of a composite surgical material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L1700	A61L3112	A61L2748	A61L3100	A61L1700	A61L2750	A61K600	A61L3112	A61L3100	A61L2700	A61K600	A61L2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61K	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61K	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L17	A61L31	A61L27	A61L31	A61L17	A61L27	A61K6	A61L31	A61L31	A61L27	A61K6	A61L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A composite surgical material comprising a collagen 
matrix reinforced by a layer of a synthetic bioabsorbable 

material such as polylactide/polyglycolide or oxidised 
regenerated cellulose, and wherein oil droplets are 

dispersed in the collagen matrix. The oil droplets comprise 
1% to 75% of the weight of the composite and result in 

improved leak-proofing of the composite. The composite, in 
the form of a sheet or a tube, is especially useful as a 

temporary, fully bioabsorbable prosthesis, for membranes or 
blood vessels where a highly leak-proof prosthesis is 

required. The invention also provides a method of making a 
composite surgical materi
al comprising the steps of: 
providing a layer of a synthetic bioabsorbable material; 

providing a dispersion of collagen in an oil-in-water 
emulsion; coating at least one face of the layer of 

synthetic bioabsorbable material with the said dispersion; 
and drying the composite material thus obtained. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the use of bioabsorbable composite
surgical materials.The use of bioabsorbable materials (also called
resorbable materials or absorbable materials) in surgery is
by now quite well known. The materials undergo gradual
degradation when they are introduced into the human or
animal body. This degradation results from hydrolysis which
takes place on contact with living tissue in the presence of
proteolytic enzymes contained therein. The hydrolysis
fragments from the hydrolysis of the bioabsorbable materials
are non-toxic and readily absorbed by the human or animal
body.For example, bioabsorbable surgical sutures made from
copolymers of lactic and glycolic acids are in widespread
use. Such sutures do not need to be removed from the wound
site after wound healing is complete. Instead, the sutures
undergo slow hydrolysis and absorption by the body.Other bioabsorbable surgical materials have been used
as temporary prostheses in repair surgery. For example,
sheets of bioabsorbable material may be used as prostheses
for regions of the pericardium or the peritoneal membrane.
Healing of the damaged membrane takes place from the edges
of the prosthesis, and the prosthesis is gradually absorbed
as healing progresses.Likewise, tubes of bioabsorbable surgical material have
been used as arterial grafts. Once again, healing of the
damaged artery is accompanied by gradual resorption of the
graft.EP-A-0194192 describes a bioabsorbable composite 
material that is especially suitable for use as a surgical
prosthesis. The material comprises a sheet of reconstituted
collagen reinforced with a mesh of a synthetic bioabsorbable
polymer such as polylactic/polyglycolic acid or oxidised
regenerated cellulose. The composite material is
sufficiently strong to be used as an arterial graft or the
like, and in particular is strong enough to hold sutures.
The reconstituted collagen sheet fills all of the
interstices in the mesh and renders the composite material
leak-proof. The leak-proofing effect is especially
important when the material is to be used to repair blood
vessels. Furthermore, it has been found that the reinforced
collagen films are absorbed more slowly in vivo than non-reinforced
collagen films.A defect of the reinforced collagen films described in
EP-A-0194192 is that the film does not remain leak-proof in
use for a sufficiently long time to be usable for some
surgical applications. This is to say, the rate of
bioabsorption of the collagen is sufficiently rapid that in
some cases the film
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Use of a composite material comprising a collagen matrix reinforced by a layer of a
synthetic bioabsorbable material and having oil droplets dispersed in the collagen matrix

for the preparation of a bioabsorbable membrane graft in the form of a sheet for use in
surgery.
Use of a composite material comprising a collagen matrix reinforced by a layer of a
synthetic bioabsorbable material and having oil droplets dispersed in the collagen matrix

for the preparation of a bioabsorbable graft in the form of a tube for use in surgery.
Use of a composite material according to claim 1, 2, wherein the oil droplets
comprise from 1% to 75% by weight of the composite surgical material.
Use of a composite material according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the oil droplets
comprise from 5% to 50% by weight of the surgical material.
Use of a composite material according to any preceding claim, wherein the oil
droplets comprise from 10% to 40% by weight of the composite surgical material.
Use of a composite material according to any preceding claim, wherein the synthetic
bioabsorbable material comprises a polymer or copolymer of lactic acid and/or glycolic

acid.
Use of a composite material according to any preceding claim, wherein the synthetic
bioabsorbable material comprises oxidised regenerated cellulose.
Use of a composite material according to any preceding claim, wherein the layer of
synthetic bioabsorbable material is a knitted, woven or non-woven mesh or web.
Use of a composite material according to any preceding claim, wherein said
material further comprises an antibiotic, an antiseptic or an anti-inflammatory.
Use of a composite material according to any preceding claim, wherein said
material further comprises a growth factor, a cytokine or a glycosaminoglycan. 
Use of a composite surgical material according to any preceding
claim which is in the form of a sheet or a tube.
Use of a composite surgical material according to any
preceding claim for the preparation of a surgical graft or

prosthesis.
A process to prepare a composite surgical material
comprising the steps of:


providing a layer of a synthetic bioabsorbable material;
providing a dispersion of collagen in an oil-in-water
emulsion;
coating at least one face of the layer of synthetic
bioabsorbable material with the said dispersion; and
drying the composite material thus obtained.
A process according to claim 13 wherein the step of
providing a dispersion of collagen in an oil-in-water

emulsion comprises mixing the collagen and the oil with
water followed by emulsifying the oil.
A process according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the
collagen comprises insoluble fibrous collagen.
A process according to claim 13, 14 or 15, wherein the
weight ratio of collagen to oil in the said emulsion is from

10:1 to 1:10.
A process according to claim 16, wherein the weight
ratio of collagen to oil in the said emulsion is from 2:1 to

1:5.
A process according to claim 17, wherein the weight
ratio of collagen to oil in the said emulsion is from 1:1 to

1:3.
A process according to any of claims 13 to 18, wherein 
the synthetic bioabsorbable material comprises a polymer or

copolymer of lactic acid and/or glycolic acid.
A process according to any of claims 13 to 19, wherein
the synthetic bioabsorbable material comprises oxidised

regenerated cellulose.
A process according to any of claims 13 to 20, wherein
the layer of synthetic bioabsorbable is a knitted, woven or

non-woven mesh or web.
A process according to any of claims 13 to 21, further
comprising the step of dispersing an antibiotic, an

antiseptic or an anti-inflammatory compound in the said oil-in-water
emulsion.
A process according to any of claims 13 to 22, further
comprising the step of dispersing a growth factor, a

cytokine and/or a glycosamino glycan in the said oil-in-water
emulsion.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
