<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623357</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for kidney dialysis.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M116	A61M116	A61M136	A61M136	A61M3900	A61M3910	G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3048	G06F3048	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M39	A61M39	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A number of improvements relating to methods and 
apparatuses for kidney dialysis are disclosed. These 

include checking of dialysate bypass status using flow 
measurement; using a flow sensor to confirm the absence of 

ultrafiltration during bypass; automatic testing of 
ultrafiltration function by removal of a discrete volume 

from a portion of the dialysate flow path coupled with a 
pressure test of that part of the flow path; using a touch 

screen user interface; bar graph profile programming of 
ultrafiltration, sodium, and bicarbonate parameters; using 

a RAM card to upload treatment instructions to, and to 
download treatment data from, the machine; automatic 

setting of proportioning mode (acetate or bicarbonate) 
based on connections of concentrate lines; predicting 

dialysate conductivity values based on brand and 
formulation of concentrates; minimizing no-flow dead time 

between dialysate pulses; initiating operation in a timed 
mode from a machine power-off condition; preserving 

machine mode during machine power-fail condition; 
calibration scheduling and reminding; automatic level 

adjusting; and blood leak flow rate detecting. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALTHIN MEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALTHIN CD MEDICAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGARD MICHAEL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON HARLEY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY THOMAS D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONG JEAN MCEVOY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON BRUCE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGARD, MICHAEL E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, HARLEY D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY, THOMAS D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONG, JEAN MCEVOY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON, BRUCE A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to improvements in 
kidney dialysis machines. Kidney dialysis machines are well known in the 
art and are illustrated, for example, in U.S. Patents 
3,598,727, 4,172,033, 4,267,040, and 4,769,134. While machines according to the prior art provide 
a number of advantageous features, they nonetheless have 
certain limitations. The present invention seeks to 
overcome certain drawbacks of the prior art and to provide 
new features not heretofore available. A discussion of the features and advantages of 
the present invention is deferred to the following 
detailed description, which proceeds with reference to the 
accompanying drawings. FIG. 1 is a schematic hydraulic diagram of a 
preferred embodiment of a kidney dialysis machine 
according to the present invention. FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram showing flow path 
locations and components of a pre-dialyzer flow sensor and 
a post-dialyzer flow sensor according to the present 
invention. FIGS. 3A and 3B are isometric and schematic 
diagrams, respectively, of a concentrate-line proximity 
sensor comprising a portion of the automatic proportioning 
mode setting feature of the present invention. FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram showing the 
interconnection of input and output pressure equalizers 
into the hydraulic flow path of the present invention. FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram of the automated 
drip-chamber level adjusters of the present invention.  FIG. 6 is a schematic diagram of a preferred 
embodiment of a means for increasing dialysate flow 
velocity through the dialyzer without increasing the 
dialysate flow rate. FIG. 7 shows a block diagram of a computer system 
used in the preferred embodiment. FIG. 8 shows a touch screen display used in the 
preferred embodiment. FIG. 9 shows the touch screen of FIG. 8 with a 
calculator window for data entry. FIG. 10 shows a profile entry screen used in the 
preferred embodiment. FIG. 11 shows a programming screen used in the 
preferred embodiment. A hydraulic circuit 10 representing a preferred 
embodiment of an improved hemodialysis machine according 
to the present invention is illustrated in FIG. 1. The 
hydraulic circuit 10 is comprised of the following 
principal components: an incoming water pressure 
regulator 12, a water on/off valve 14, a heat exchanger 
16, a heater 18, a safety thermostat 20, an "A" 
concentrate pump 22, a supply valve 24, an air gap chamber 
26, an "A" rinse fitting 28, a "B" rinse fitting 30, a 
deaeration sprayer 32, an air removal pump 34, a vented 
air
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a method of operating a hemodialysis machine, 
an improvement in a man/machine interfacing process used 

in changing and setting a treatment parameter, the 
improvement comprising: 


(a) providing a touch screen interface with an 
indicium thereon corresponding to a treatment parameter; 
(b) touching the indicium; 
(c) in response to said touching, invoking a data-entry 
display on a region of the touch screen; 
(d) entering a parametric value corresponding to 
the treatment parameter by touching one or more buttons 

of the data-entry display; 
(e) touching a first region of the data-entry 
display to signal entry of the parametric value; 
(f) displaying on the touch screen a button 
soliciting verification of the newly entered parametric 

value; 
(g) touching the button soliciting verification; 
and 
(h) in response to steps (b)-(g), causing the 
parametric value corresponding to the treatment parameter 

to be changed, wherein erroneous changes of said 
parametric values are minimized. 
The method of claim 1 which further includes 
removing the button soliciting verification from the 

screen if said button is not touched within a 
predetermined period. 
The method of claim 1 which further includes: 
   establishing upper and lower limits corresponding to 

a range of permissible parametric values of the treatment 
parameter; and 

   displaying said limits on the screen when the data-entry 
display is invoked to change the parametric value, 

 
said limits being displayed at the location on the screen 

where the indicium corresponding to said treatment 
parameter was displayed prior to the touching of said 

indicium. 
The method of claim 1 wherein step (f) further 
comprises prompting verification of the newly entered 

parametric value. 
The method of claim 4 wherein said prompting 
comprises highlighting said button. 
The method of claim 2 wherein the predetermined 
period is less than fifteen seconds. 
The method of claim 1 wherein, in steps (c), 
(d), and (e), the data-entry display is a keypad 

displayed on the touch screen. 
A method of programming a time-varying parameter 
in a process-control system, the method comprising the 

steps: 

(a) providing a touch screen interface; 
(b) displaying on the touch screen first and second 
axes, the first axis corresponding to the time-varying 

parameter, the second axis corresponding to time; 
(c) touching the touch screen at a plurality of 
points to define points on a parameter-versus-time curve; 
(d) presenting on the touch screen a series of bars 
corresponding to said curve; 
(e) selecting one of said bars for alteration; 
(f) displaying on the screen a numeric parameter 
corresponding to the selected bar; 
(g) touching the screen at first or second 
locations to increase or decrease, respectively, the 

displayed numeric parameter and thereby alter the value 
of the numeric parameter to which the selected bar 

corresponds; 
(h) touching the screen at a third location to 
signify completion of steps (b)-(g); and 
(i) storing data corresponding to the bars in a 
memory to which the process-control system can refer in 

changing the time-varying parameter with time. 
The method of claim 8 which further includes: 
   presenting on the screen a first series of bars 

corresponding to historical values of the time-varying 
parameter, said first series of bars being displayed with 

a first visually perceptible character; 
   displaying on the screen a second series of bars 

corresponding to upcoming programmed values of the time-varying 
parameter, said second series of bars being 

displayed with a second visually perceptible character 
different from the first visually perceptible character; 

and 
   permitting only bars of the second series to be 

selected for alteration. 
The method of claim 9 in which the process 
control system is a dialysis machine. 
The method of claim 10 in which the time-varying 
parameter is ultrafiltration, and in which the 

method further includes displaying on the screen a 
numeric parameter corresponding to an area under the 

parameter-versus-time curve, said area representing a 
total amount of ultrafiltrate to be removed from a 

patient. 
In a method of operating a hemodialysis 
machine, an improvement in a user/machine interfacing 

process, the improvement comprising: 

(a) providing a touch screen operably coupled to 
the machine, the touch screen adapted to display an 

indicium soliciting a user of the machine to touch a 
 

region on the screen so as to select a machine-operation 
parameter; 
(b) touching the region to select the machine 
operation parameter; 
(c) in response to said touching, invoking on the 
screen a data-entry display associated with the machine-operation 

parameter, the data-entry display including a 
display of a permissibly settable range of the machine-operation 

parameter, so as to allow the user to select 
and enter a parametric value associated with the machine-operation 

parameter within said range; and 
(d) touching the data-entry display to select and 
enter the parametric value so as to cause the machine to 

operate in conformance with the selected machine-operation 
parameter and the entered parametric value. 
The method of claim 12 wherein the data-entry 
display of step (c) comprises a keypad display comprising 

multiple buttons each corresponding to a discrete 
numerical digit, the buttons adapted to enable the user 

to select a numerical value of the machine-operation 
parameter 
The method of claim 12 further comprising the 
step, after step (d), of invoking on the screen a display 

of the value of the machine-operation parameter selected 
by the user in step (d). 
The method of claim 14 wherein the step of 
invoking on the screen a display of the value of the 

machine- operation parameter comprises invoking a digital 
display of said parameter. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the step of 
invoking on the screen a display of the value of the 

machine- operation parameter comprises invoking a 
graphical display of said parameter. 
The method of claim 16 wherein the step of 
invoking on the screen a display of the value of the 

machine- operational parameter comprises invoking a 
bargraph display of said parameter. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the step of 
invoking on the screen a display of the value of the 

machine- operation parameter comprises invoking an analog 
display of said parameter. 
In a method of operating a hemodialysis machine 
capable of operating in any of plural operating modes, an 

improvement in a user/machine interfacing process, the 
improvement comprising: 


(a) providing a touch screen operably coupled to 
the machine, the touch screen adapted to display a mode-select 

indicium soliciting a user of the machine to touch 
a first region on the screen corresponding to an 

operating mode; 
(b) touching the first region to select the 
corresponding operating mode; 
(c) prompting the user to confirm the operating 
mode selected in step (b) so as to prevent unintentional 

changing of machine operating modes; 
(d) confirming selection of the operating mode so 
as to cause the machine to operate in said operating 

mode. 
The method of claim 19 further comprising the 
step, after step (d), of invoking on the screen a display 

comprising an operating indicium, corresponding to said 
operating mode, that solicits the user to touch a second 

region on the screen so as to select a machine-operation 
parameter corresponding to said operating mode. 
The method of claim 20 further comprising the 
step of touching the second region to select the machine 

operation parameter. 
The method of claim 21 further comprising the 
step, in response to touching the second region, of 

invoking on the screen a data-entry display associated 
with the machine- operation parameter, the data-entry 

display soliciting the user to select and enter a 
parametric value associated with the parameter. 
The method of claim 22 further comprising the 
step, after invoking the data-entry display, of touching 

the data-entry display to select and enter the parametric 
value so as to cause the machine to operate in 

conformance with the selected machine-operation parameter 
and the entered parametric value associated with the 

parameter. 
The method of claim 19 wherein step (c) 
comprises invoking on the screen a mode-verify indicium. 
The method of claim 24 wherein step (d) 
comprises touching the mode-verify indicium to confirm 

selection of the corresponding operating mode. 
A hemodialysis machine comprising: 

(a) means for controlling a dialysate parameter 
selected from a group consisting of dialysate temperature 

and dialysate concentration, and means for delivering the 
dialysate to a dialysate compartment of a hemodialyzer; 

and 
(b) a user/machine interface operably coupled to 
said dialysate-delivery means, the user/machine interface 

comprising a touch screen adapted to display an indicium 
corresponding to a parameter pertinent to operation of 

the hemodialysis machine for performing hemodialysis and 
to permit the user, by touching the indicium, to cause a 

change in the parameter. 
The hemodialysis machine according to claim 26 
further comprising means for delivering blood at a 

prescribed flow rate from a patient, through a blood 
 

compartment of a hemodialyzer, and back to the patient, 
wherein the touch screen further provides a visual 

display of a parameter associated with said means for 
delivering blood. 
The hemodialysis machine according to claim 
27wherein the parameter associated with said means for 

delivering blood is selected from a group consisting of 
blood flow rate, arterial blood pressure, and venous 

blood pressure. 
The hemodialysis machine according to claim 26 
further comprising means for delivering an anticoagulant 

to a patient, wherein the touch screen further provides 
an indicium soliciting input from the user corresponding 

to a rate of anticoagulant delivery. 
The hemodialysis machine according to claim 26 
wherein the touch screen further provides an indicium 

soliciting, from the user, a programmed setting of an 
alarm limit about the machine-operating parameter. 
The hemodialysis machine according to claim 26 
wherein the touch screen further provides an indicium 

soliciting, from the user, programmed settings of a time-varying 
machine- operating parameter. 
In a method of operating a hemodialysis 
machine, an improvement in a man/machine interfacing 

process used in changing and setting a treatment 
parameter, the improvement comprising: 


(a) providing a touch screen interface with a 
parameter-select indicium thereon; 
(b) touching the parameter-select indicium; 
(c) in response to said touching, invoking on the 
touch screen a value-select indicium and a value-enter 

indicium; 
(d) touching the value-select indicium to select a 
parametric value corresponding to the treatment 

parameter; 
(e) touching the value-enter indicium to enter the 
parametric value; and 
(f) in response to steps (b)-(e), comparing the 
entered parametric value against preset limits 

corresponding to a permissible operational range for said 
parametric value and, if the entered parametric value is 

within said limits, causing the treatment parameter to 
operate in accordance with the entered parametric value. 
In a method of operating a hemodialysis 
machine, an improvement in a man/machine interfacing 

process used in changing and setting a treatment 
parameter, the improvement comprising: 


(a) providing a touch screen interface with a 
parameter-select indicium thereon; 
(b) touching the parameter-select indicium; 
(c) in response to said touching, invoking on the 
touch screen a value-select indicium and a value-enter 

indicium; 
(d) touching the value-select indicium to select a 
parametric value corresponding to the
 treatment 
parameter; 
(e) touching the value-enter indicium to enter the 
parametric value; and 
(f) in response to steps (b)-(e), invoking an alarm 
limit to be set at a preset increment relative to the 

entered parametric value so as to enable an alarm signal 
to be triggered whenever, during subsequent operation of 

the hemodialysis machine, the parametric value passes 
outside the alarm limit. 
In a method of operating a hemodialysis 
machine, an improvement in a user/machine interfacing 

process, the improvement comprising: 

(a) providing a touch screen operably coupled to 
the machine, the touch screen adapted to display an 

indicium soliciting a user of the machine to touch a 
region on the screen so as to cause the screen to display 

a machine-operation parameter; 
(b) touching the region on the screen; 
(c) in response to said touching, invoking on the 
screen an analog display associated with the machine-operation 

parameter, the analog display including a 
display of a previously set value of the machine-operation 

parameter and allowing the user to select and 
enter a desired value associated with the machine-operation 

parameter; and 
(d) touching the data-entry display to select and 
enter the desired value of the machine-operation 

parameter so as to cause the machine to operate in 
conformance with the desired value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
