<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642717</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SYNCHRONIZING A SIMULCAST TRANSMISSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04H2067	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04H20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A simulcast system has a terminal controller (226) capable of measuring propagation delays, and calculating propagation delay differences from the measured propagation delays (1702) for each of the plurality of base sites (1602, 1604, 1606, 1608). The terminal controller (226) also receives and transmits data to each of the plurality of base sites (1602, 1604, 1606, 1608). The terminal controller (226) transmits the propagation delay differences, and a start command to the plurality of base sites (1602, 1604, 1606, 1608) for initiating simulcast retransmission of the data. The plurality of base sites (1602, 1604, 1606, 1608) also receive the propagation delay differences, the propagation delay difference (1706) being determined for delaying the retransmission of data at each of the plurality of base sites (1602, 1604, 1606, 1608). The plurality of base sites (1602, 1604, 1606, 1608) receive data from the terminal controller (226) to be retransmitted. The plurality of base sites (1602, 1604, 1606, 1608) stores the received data and receive the start command. The retransmission of the stored data is delayed from the receipt of the start command (1720) by the propagation delay difference calculated for each base site to enable the retransmission of the data at substantially the same time by the plurality of base sites (1602, 1604, 1606, 1608).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SYNCHRONIZING A SIMULCAST TRANSMISSION SYSTEMField of the InventionThis invention relates in general to simulcast transmission systems, and more particularly to a method and apparatus for synchronizing transmissions of a simulcast transmission system.Background of the InventionA number of methods have been proposed or are in use today for automatically synchronizing the message transmissions of transmitters utilized in simulcast transmission systems. One such method includes a master transmitter centrally located within a plurality of secondary transmitters disposed in an annular fashion around the central transmitter. The innermost annular ring of transmitters was synchronized to the master transmitter, while the remainder of the system transmitters were disabled. The next adjacent annular band of transmitters was then synchronized to the innermost annular band and the process was repeated until every annular band in the system was synchronized. Such a synchronizing arrangement guaranteed that adjacent annular bands were properly synchronized, however, such a system cannot estimate the variations in delay which were introduced because a common signal source for making the delay measurements was not used.Additionally, current methods of synchronizing the plurality of transmitters in a simulcast transmission system require a substantial amount of time required to complete the propagation delay measurement sequences. For a large simulcast transmission system, such as one having forty transmitters, delay measurement times of forty seconds and more were typical when each transmitter was sequentially accessed for measuring the individual transmitter propagation delay. However, by splitting a simulcast system into the smaller transmission regions, the delays could be simultaneously measured for regional transmitters in alternate transmission regions thereby reducing the total time required to synchronize transmissions within the system. This 

method of measurement of the transmitter delays, although it speeded up the delay measurement process, presented a new set of problems, such as that of measuring the delays required to synchronize the transmitters in adjacent transmission regions. Generally, to synchronize simulcast transmitters, the propagation delay times must be measured for the plurality of transmitters in order to account for propagation delay differences, however ,even when the delays are measured, jitters received at each transmitter resulted in indecisiveness in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A simulcast system having a transmitter controller capable of measuring propagation delays to a plurality of base sites coupled to the transmitter controller and calculating propagation delay differences from the measured propagation delays for each of the plurality of base sites, the transmitter controller being capable of receiving and transmitting data to each of the plurality of base sites, the plurality of base sites having transmitters capable of transmitting data as radio frequency transmission at substantially the same time, said transmitter controller comprising: means for transmitting the propagation delay differences to the plurality of base sites; means for transmitting a start command to the plurality of base sites for initiating simulcast retransmission of the data; the plurality base sites comprising: means for receiving the propagation delay differences, the propagation delay differences being determined for delaying the retransmission of data in each of the plurality of base sites; means for receiving the data from the transmitter controller to be retransmitted at the plurality of base sites; means for storing the received data; means for receiving the start command; and means for delaying retransmission of the stored data from the receipt of the start command by the propagation delay difference calculated for each of the plurality of base sites to enable the retransmission of the data at substantially the same time by the plurality of base sites.
2. The simulcast system according to claim 1 wherein the means for transmitting the data by the transmitter controller comprises a modem capable of transmitting the data at a speed faster than the speed of transmission capable on a narrow band radio frequency channel.
3. The simulcast system according to claim 1 further comprising a means for time compressing the data before transmitting the data to the plurality of base sites and the plurality of base sites further including a means for decompressing the received data. 


4. The simulcast system according to claim 1 wherein the transmitting means includes a means for sorting a plurality of calculated differences in propagation delays to ensure that each of the propagation delay differences is transmitted to each of the respective base sites.
5. A simulcast system having a transmitter controller capable of measuring propagation delays to a plurality of base sites coupled to the transmitter controller and calculating propagation delay differences from the measured propagation delays for each of the plurality of base sites, the transmitter controller being capable of receiving and transmitting data to each of the plurality of base sites, the plurality of base sites having transmitters capable of transmitting data as radio frequency transmission at substantially the same time, said transmitter controller comprising: transmitter for transmitting the propagation delay differences to the plurality of base sites; said transmitter further transmitting a start command to the plurality of base sites for initiating simulcast retransmission of the data; the plurality of base sites comprising: base site receiver for receiving the propagation delay differences, the propagation delay differences being determined for delaying the retransmission of data in each of the plurality of base sites; said base site receiver for receiving the data from the transmitter controller to be retransmitted at the plurality of base sites; memory for storing the received data; said base site receiver further receiving the start command; and timer for delaying retransmission of the stored data from the receipt of the start command by the propagation delay difference calculated for each of the plurality of base sites to enable the retransmission of the data at substantially the same time by the plurality of base sites.
6. A method for synchronizing data transmissions in a simulcast system, the simulcast system comprising a plurality base sites coupled to a transmitter controller capable of measuring propagation delays from the transmitter controller to the plurality of base sites and calculating differences in propagation delays for each of the plurality of base sites, the 


transmitter controller capable of receiving and transmitting data to each of the plurality of base sites, the plurality of base sites capable of transmitting data as radio frequency transmission at substantially the same time, said method comprising the steps of: (a) transmitting the propagation delay differences to the plurality of base sites;
(b) transmitting a start command to the plurality of base sites for initiating simulcast transmission of the data;
(c) receiving the transmitted data from the transmitter controller at each of the plurality of base sites;
(d) storing the received data at each of the plurality of base sites;
(e) receiving the start command by the plurality of base sites for initiating the simulcast retransmission of the stored data by the plurality of base sites; and (f) delaying the retransmission of the stored data by the plurality of base sites from the receipt of the start command by the propagation delay difference at each of the plurality of base sites to enable retransmission of the stored data at substantially the same time by the plurality of base sites.
7. The method for synchronizing data transmission according to claim 6 wherein the step of transmitting transmits the data at a speed faster than the speed of radio frequency transmission on a narrow band radio frequency channel.
8. The method for synchronizing data transmission according to claim 6 further comprises a step of time compressing the data before transmission to the plurality of base sites and the step of decompressing the received data at the plurality of base sites.
9. The simulcast system according to claim 6 wherein the step of transmitting including a step of sorting a plurality of calculated propagation delay differences to ensure that each of the propagation delay differences is transmitted to each of the respective base sites. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
