<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636887</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Probe for capacitive open-circuit tests.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R106	G01R106	G01R1073	G01R1073	G01R3102	G01R3102	G01R3104	G01R3128	G01R3128	G01R31312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R1	G01R1	G01R1	G01R1	G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a capacitive-probe assembly used in an automatic circuit 
tester (10) to sense varying electric fields that result adjacent to 

integrated-circuit packages (32) during tests of circuit boards (16), a 
spacer comprising resilient cellular material has a double-sided printed-board 

attached to it that provides the probe plate (52) to which the 
device signals are capacitively coupled. The spacer (44) is in turn 

mounted on a chip-probe mounting surface (30) provided by the tester's 
fixture (14). The result is a robust fixture assembly that is easy to 

manufacture. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENRAD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENRAD, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREVE PAUL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREVE, PAUL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to automatic electronic-circuit 
testing and in particular to capacitive testing for open circuits. The first step in testing electronic circuits that comprise a 
plurality of integrated circuits mounted on a printed-circuit board is to 
determine whether the board properly interconnects the integrated circuits 
mounted on it. In the typical case, it is only after this low-level test 
is complete that the more-complicated testing of the integrated-circuit 
and board functions can be performed. Traditionally, the prevalent type of interconnection failure was a 
path-to-path short circuit caused by the soldering process between conductive 
paths on the printed-circuit board. As surface-mounted devices 
have become more popular, however, the incidence of open circuits, 
typically between device pins and the paths to which they are to be connected, 
has increased dramatically. Accordingly, whereas testing for 
open circuits had not previously been considered worth the effort in 
many cases, the ability to perform such tests has now become more 
important. One type of open-circuit test, which lends itself particularly to 
performance by lower-cost test equipment, is the capacitive test. In this 
test, an AC signal is imposed on a printed-circuit path to which a device 
pin should be connected, and a capacitive probe placed against the 
device package picks up the resulting alternating electric field if the 
device pin is properly connected to the printed-circuit-board path. This 
approach can be quite effective, even in testing of surface-mount 
devices, whose pins typically are not readily accessible.  Although this approach does lend itself to testing of surface-mount 
and other types of board devices, its application presents certain 
difficulties. In the first place, the fixturing tends to be complex, since the 
capacitive probe is usually placed on the side of the circuit board under 
test opposite that on which the conventional, conductive probes are 
located. Therefore, a second fixture plate, disposed on the opposite side, 
must be provided. Additionally, the capacitive signal coupling is typically low in 
capacitance and thus high in impedance, and steps must accordingly be 
taken to reduce to as great an extent as possible the resultant susceptibility 
to noise. For this reason, the area of a plate of the capacitive 
probe should be comparable in size to that of the device package's upper 
surface so as to maximize capacitance. The typical disposition of such 
large
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
For testing, on a circuit board on which is mounted a circuit package 
that houses an integrated circuit and provides an IC pin intended to 

be conductively connected to a conductive path associated therewith on 
the circuit board, the continuity between the IC pin and the conductive 

board path associated therewith, an automatic circuit tester comprising: 

A) drive circuitry for generating test signals; 
B) a fixture for securing the circuit board, providing a chip-probe 
mounting surface, and affording electrical communication 

between the drive circuitry and the board path for application 
of the test signals to the board path when the circuit board is 

secured by the fixture, the fixture further including: 

i) a spacer comprising resilient cellular material, one side 
of the spacer being mounted on the chip-probe mounting 

surface for support thereby; and 
ii) a conductive probe plate mounted on an opposite side of 
the spacer for support thereby in the vicinity of the circuit 

package, capacitive coupling to the probe plate of signals 
occurring in the circuit package as a result of the test signals 

applied, and movement of the probe plate with respect 
to the chip-probe mounting surface by resilient deformation 

of the spacer; and 
C) continuity-indicating circuitry responsive to the signal coupled 
to the probe plate for determining whether the coupled signal 

meets a predetermined criterion and, if it does not, generating 
an indication of a lack of continuity between the board path 

and the IC pin. 
A tester as defined in claim 1 wherein the fixture further includes a 
mounting block by which the spacer is mounted to the probe mounting 

surface. 
A tester as defined in claim 1 wherein the resilient cellular material 
is cellular polyurethane. 
A tester as defined in claim 1 wherein the continuity-indicating circuitry 
determines whether the magnitude of the coupled signal exceeds a 

predetermined minimum. 
A tester as defined in claim 1 wherein the fixture includes a dielectric 
board on one surface of which the probe plate is provided as a conductive 

layer. 
A tester as defined in claim 1 wherein: 

A) the fixture includes a fixture plate that provides the chip-probe 
mounting surface; and 
B) the continuity-indicating circuitry includes: 

i) a buffer amplifier mounted on the fixture plate and 
including an input terminal; and 
ii) a flexible cable comprising a conductor that connects the 
probe plate to the input terminal of the buffer amplifier. 
A tester as defined in claim 6 wherein the flexible cable includes a 
second conductor maintained at a fixed, ground potential. 
A tester as defined in claim 7 wherein the fixture includes a dielectric 
board on one surface of which the probe plate is provided as a first 

conductive layer and on the other surface of which a ground plane connected 
to the second conductor is provided as a second conductive layer. 
A tester as defined in claim 8 wherein the spacer forms an aperture 
through which the cable runs. 
For testing, on a circuit hoard on which is mounted a circuit 
package that houses an integrated circuit and provides an IC pin 

intended to be conductively connected to a conductive path associated 
therewith on the circuit board, the continuity between the IC pin and th
e 
conductive board path associated therewith, an automatic circuit tester 

comprising: 

A) a fixture for securing the circuit board, providing a chip-probe 
mounting surface, and contacting the board path to conduct 

therefrom the signal occurring on the board path when the circuit 
board is secured by the fixture, the fixture further including: 


i) a spacer comprising resilient cellular material, one side 
of the spacer being mounted on the chip-probe mounting 

surface for support thereby; and 
ii) a conductive probe plate mounted on an opposite side of 
the spacer for support thereby in the vicinity of the circuit 

package, capacitive coupling to the IC pin of signals 
occurring on the probe plate, and movement of the probe 

plate with respect to the chip-probe mounting surface by 
resilient deformation of the spacer; 
B) drive circuitry for applying test signals to the probe plate; and 
C) continuity-indicating circuitry responsive to the signal conducted 
from the path by the fixture for determining whether 

the sensed signal meets a predetermined criterion and, if it 
does not, generating an indication of a lack of continuity 

between the board path and the IC pin. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
