<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645036</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN AUTOMATED METHOD FOR CHECKING PATENT APPLICATIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1727	G06F1727	G06Q1000	G06Q1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06Q	G06Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06Q10	G06Q10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automated method for checking patent applications or documents (1000) includes the steps of identifying subgroups of serial characters which relate to each other from within serial group of characters (200-350) and checking the subgroups for consistency of relation with regard to drafting rules (1700). Reference characters (600) are checked for consistency. A patent application is checked for all required parts (700-760). Inconsistency among elements for a selected character (600) is checked. Claim section (740), the number of claims (811) with proper dependency (920-948) are also checked. A recited hierarchical relationship is used to build a claim structure for checking antecedent basis for a family of claims (984). Elements needing antecedent basis are isolated and checked against recited potential antecedents appearing in the proper order (824-832). Claim elements lacking antecedents are reported to the user (830-834).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOFFA EMIL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOFFA, EMIL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOFFA EMIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOFFA, EMIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of
composition, and in particular, to an automated method
and apparatus for checking compliance of a serial
group of words such as a drafted document against a
set of word grouping rules such as drafting rules.
More particularly, the invention relates to an
automated method and apparatus for checking a patent
application against the rules for drafting a patent
application.Legal documents, as, for example, patent
applications have long been drafted and corrected by
attorneys through a process of drafting, reading and
revising. Patent applications in particular are
drafted in accordance with specific drafting rules
following the patent statutes and the Manual of Patent
Examining Procedure (MPEP). Such drafting rules
include rules for reference characters for elements
wherein like elements have like reference characters,
rules requiring antecedent basis for claim elements
and other drafting rules.Prior to the automated method provided by the
instant invention, the only way to check documents
against these drafting rules has been by reading and
revising the patent with the reader keeping the rules
and the patent under draft in mind while reviewing the
patent and indicating changes.It is, therefore, the motive of the invention to
provide an automated method of checking a patent
application. This application was checked with the
method of the invention.EP-0287713 discloses an automated method for checking for correct and
consistent use of expressions forming units of measure in a text processing
system by reference to a stored dictionary of allowable expressions. An automated method for checking a document
comprised of a serial group of characters is provided.
The method of Claim 1 comprises the steps of identifying
subgroups of serial characters which relate to each
other from within the serial group of characters, and
checking the subgroups for consistency of relation
with regard to structural rules.In one aspect of the invention, the method
includes the steps of allocating a unique location for
each occurrence of each of a plurality of reference
characters and then selecting each reference character
in turn and finding at least a first preceding word
for each occurrence of each selected reference
character. Then the at least first preceding word is
identified as an element of the selected reference
character. The steps of selecting reference
characters and identifying elements are repeated until
all occurrences of all reference characters have been
found. Then
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An automated method for checking a document stored in digital
form for compliance with a predetermined set of structural rules, the

document being comprised of a serial group of characters, the automated
method comprising the steps of:


a. reading the serial group of characters (200-340);
b. identifying a plurality of subgroups of serial characters
which relate to each other from within the serial group of characters (80);

and
c. checking the plurality of subgroups for consistency of
relation (440) with one another so as to comply with the predetermined set

of structural rules.
The automated method of claim 1 wherein the serial group of
characters comprises a plurality of character strings, wherein the

automated method further comprises the steps of:

a. reading the plurality of character strings wherein each
character string comprises at least one character (250-300); and
b. identifying each one of the plurality of character strings as
one of a plurality of string types wherein a reference character type is one

of the plurality of string types describing a reference character (310-340).
The method of claim 2 further comprising the steps of:

a. allocating a unique location for each reference character
(330);
b. selecting each reference character in turn and finding at least
a first preceding word for each occurrence of each selected reference

character (80); 
c. identifying the at least first preceding word as an element of
the selected reference character (380) and repeating steps b and c until all

occurrences of all reference characters have been found;
d. selecting each reference character in turn and counting (420)
all identified elements (380) for each selected reference character; and
e. comparing all identified elements against each other (440)
for each selected reference character to determine usage inconsistencies.
The method of claim 3 further including the step of reporting
identified elements which do not match the other identified elements for a

selected reference character (100).
The method of claim 2 further including the step of reading (20) a
keyword file (1100) wherein the keyword file (1100) includes a plurality

of keywords wherein each one of the plurality of keywords includes a
related pointing character which indicates that a number may precede or

follow an adjacent keyword.
The method of claim 1 further including the step of tokenizing
subgroups of characters in the document after reading the serial group of

characters (60).
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of identifying a plurality
of subgroups of characters includes the steps of identifying (700-760), in a

patent document, a predetermined number of sections of said document
including a background section, a summary, a brief description of the

drawings, a description of the preferred embodiment and a claims section,
each section being preceded by a respective predetermined section header. 
The method of claim 7 further including the step of reserving a line
count for each identified document section so as to locate each section as

needed for further processing.
The method of claim 6 wherein the step of reading the serial group
of characters further includes the steps of:


a. filling an indexed string array with a currently selected
character (230);
b. determining whether the currently selected character is a
punctuation character (260);
c. if the currently selected character is determined to be
punctuation then allocating the indexed string array to a state indicating

punctuation (270);
d. terminating the indexed string array when a string delimiter
is encountered (300);
e. determining whether the indexed string array is a reference
character (320); and
f. if the indexed string array is determined to be a reference
character then allocating the indexed string array to a state indicating a

reference character (330), otherwise allocating the indexed string array to
a state indicating a word (340).
The method of claim 9 wherein the step of allocating the indexed
string array to a state indicating punctuation further includes the step of

considering the special case where the currently selected character is a
period and wherein a period is differentiated from a decimal point (350). 
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of identifying a plurality of
subgroups of serial characters comprises identifying a plurality of claims

(800-834), and further including the steps of:

a. identifying each claim (800-834);
b. counting the at least one claim (120, 810, 811);
c. further identifying each claim as a dependent or independent
claim (924, 926); and
d. for each identified dependent claim, further identifying a
claim from which it depends (934, 938, 942, 946).
The method of claim 1 wherein the document is encoded in binary
format.
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of checking the plurality of
subgroups for consistency of relation (100) further includes the step of

reporting inconsistencies as errors in binary format.
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of checking for consistency
further includes the step of recognizing abbreviations and aliases.
The method of claim 5 wherein as an inconsistency is detected for a
selected reference character a user of the method is requested to verify

whether or not the serial group of characters causing the inconsistency is a
new keyword (370) and if the serial group of characters causing the

inconsistency is verified as the new keyword (370) the keyword file (1100)
is updated.
The method of claim 5 further comprising the steps of: 

a. assigning a type designator to each reference character,
where the keyword file is used by the digital computer to differentiate

numbers from reference characters (60);
b. selecting from memory each reference character in turn and
finding at least one preceding word for each occurrence of the selected

reference character (370);
c. identifying a first preceding word as an element of the
selected reference character and repeating steps b and c until all

occurrences of all reference characters have been found (390, 400, 410);
d. selecting from memory each reference character in turn and
counting all identified elements (420) for each selected reference character

(380); and
e. executing a set of computer process steps for comparing all
identified elements against each other for each selected reference character

to determine a consistency of usage (90).
The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of reporting at
least one identified element which is not used consistently in relation to all

identified elements for a selected reference character (100).
The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of checking for
words matching identified elements which are not proximate a reference

character (110).
The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of detecting an
error for a selected reference character, wherein as each error is detected

a user is requested to verify whether or not an indicated error is a
keyword (20) and if the indicated error is verified as a keyword (20) the

keyword file (1100) is updated. 
The method of claim 7 in which one of said plurality of subgroups
of characters comprises a brief description of drawings section, wherein at

least one drawing is referred to by at least one figure reference, the
method comprising the steps of:


a. locating the brief description of the drawing section (1104);
b. reading in the at least one figure reference wherein each
figure reference includes at least one figure number and at least one figure

description in the brief description of the drawings section (1106, 1108);
c. reading the patent specification exclusive of the brief
description of the drawings section for specification figure numbers and

specification figure descriptions (1112-1116); and
d. checking a consistency of usage of the specification figure
numbers and figure descriptions against the brief description of the

drawings section's at least one figure number and at least one figure
description (1118).
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of identifying a plurality
of subgroups of characters includes the steps of identifying a plurality of

claims, each claim comprising a plurality of words, the method further
including the steps of:


a. locating a lead claim with a lead claim number (902-914);
b. setting a claim count to one when the lead claim is found
(922, 972);
c. checking whether the words after the lead claim number are
consistent with claim drafting form (974-990);
d. checking for a next claim with a next claim number (910);
e. incrementing a claim count if the next claim is found (912); 
f. checking whether the words after the next claim number are
consistent with claim drafting form (974-990); and
g. repeating steps d through f until all claims have been
counted.
The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of reporting
claim numbers that do not follow a predetermined sequence (914).
The method of claim 21 wherein the step of locating a lead claim
further comprises the step of obtaining the location of the lead claim by

searching for claim language (804).
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of identifying a plurality
of subgroups of characters includes the steps of identifying a plurality of

successive claims, each claim comprising a plurality of words, the step of
checking the plurality of subgroups for consistency of relation comprises

checking for antecedent basis in said claims by:

a. searching for a claim element in at least one claim (810);
b. determining whether the claim element is a claim antecedent
and if the claim element is a claim antecedent adding the claim antecedent

to a list of antecedents (820, 826);
c. determining whether the claim element needs a claim
antecedent (820), and if the claim element needs a claim antecedent, then

checking the list of antecedents for the claim element (822-834); and
d. repeating steps b and c until all claim elements have been
checked.
The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of checking
whether a claim element to be added to the list of antecedents is already in 

the list of antecedents (822) and if the claim element is already in the list
of antecedents, reporting an error (830).
The method of claim 24 wherein at least one claim is a dependent
claim and the dependent claim has a list of antecedents for claim elements

of the dependent claim wherein the method further comprises the step of
checking the list of antecedents for claim elements of the dependent claim

(824-832).
The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of reporting an
error if an antecedent is not found in the antecedent list (834).
The method of claim 24 wherein the list of antecedents comprises a
linked list.
The method of claim 24 further including the step of reporting
claim element antecedents not referenced by other claim elements.
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of identifying a plurality
of subgroups of characters includes the steps of identifying a plurality of

successive claims, each claim comprising a plurality of words, the step of
checking for consistency of relation further comprising the steps of:


a. loading a first claim as a current claim (922);
b. reading the current claim to find references to claims (924);
c. if there are no references to claims in the current claim, then
indicating the current claim as an independent claim (926);
d. if there are references to claims in the current claim, then
determining whether the current claim refers to itself (934); 
e. if there are references to claims in the current claim, then
determining whether the current claim refers to a non-existent claim (938);
f. if there are references to claims in the current claim, then
determining whether the current claim refers to a higher numbered claim

(942); and
g. loading a next claim as the current claim (928-930) and
logically repeating steps b through g.
The method of claim 30 further including the step of reporting an
error if the current claim refers to itself (936).
The method of claim 30 further including the step of reporting an
error if the current claim refers to a non-existent claim (940).
The method of claim 30 further including the step of reporting an

error if the current claim refers to a higher numbered claim (944).
The method of claim 30 further including the step of reporting a
dependency structure of all claims (932).
The method of claim 24 wherein the step of checking the list of
antecedents (822-834) for the claim element further comprises the steps of:


a. checking the claim element on a word by word basis against
each antecedent in the list of antecedents (822, 824, 832);
b. determining if any antecedent in the list of antecedents does
not match the claim element (822, 824, 832).
The method of claim 24 wherein at least one claim comprises a
plurality of words starting with a first word, and wherein the step of

finding a claim element further comprises the steps of:

a. loading the first word of at least one claim as a current word
(972);
b. checking whether the current word is a trigger word (974);
c. if the current word is not a trigger word, then loading a next
word in the at least one claim as the current word and repeating step b

(986);
d. reading forward from the trigger word to a predetermined
claim word to determine a claim element (976);
e. if a predetermined claim word is not found, then reading
forward to the end of the at least one claim to determine a claim element

(978);
f. if no claim word or end of the at least one claim is found,
then reporting an error (980);
g. loading the next word in the at least one claim as the current
word (986); and
h. repeating steps b through g if the current word is not null
(988).
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of identifying a plurality of
subgroups of serial characters which relate to one another includes finding

claim elements (810A) in a patent document having a claims section
wherein the claims section begins at a first word of the claims section and

the claims section includes at least one predetermined trigger word, and
comprises the steps of:


a. loading the first word of the claims section as a current word
(972);
b. checking whether the current word is a trigger word (974); 
c. if the current word is not a trigger word, then loading a next
word in the claims section as the current word (986) and repeating step b;
d. reading forward from the trigger word to a predetermined
claim word to determine a claim element (976);
e. if a predetermined claim word is not found, then reading
forward to the end of the claims section to determine a claim element

(978);
f. if no claim word or end of the claims section is found, then
reporting an error (980);
g. loading the next word in the claims section as the current
word (986); and
h. repeating steps b through g if the current word is not null
(988).
The method of claim 37 wherein at the least one predetermined
trigger word is selected from the group consisting of: a, an, means for, at

least one, the, said.
The method of claim 38 wherein the step of identifying all claim
elements for each claim (976-978) further includes the step of looking

backward at a word string preceding the "means for" trigger word for that
claim and if a word preceding the word string is null or a number or a

claim word then allocating the word string as a claim antecedent (982).
The method of claim 37 wherein a plurality of claim antecedents
are generated for each claim element, and wherein the plurality of claim

antecedents are synonymous with the claim element (984). 
The method claim 37 wherein the predetermined claim word is
selected from the group consisting of: "comprising", "containing",

"consisting", ",", ".", ";", "(", "comprises", "includes", "having",
"has", "for", "is", "wherein", "further", "are", "adapted", "which",

"and", "such" "in", "along", "around", "below", "above", "over",
"under", "beneath", "after", "before", "means" and "consists".
The method of claim 37 wherein the step of identifying all claim
elements for each claim (976-978) further includes the steps of:


a. in a case where no antecedent delimiter is found and no
"means for" phase is found, looking for a phase "at least one" by

checking the current word string against "at" and looking for "least" and
"one" following "at";
b. reading forward from "at least one" or "at least";
c. finding a word "means" then looking for a word "for" to be
a word string immediately following "means";
d. if "means for" is found then reading "means for" until a
current word looking forward is null or a number or a claim word; and
e. allocating the forward word string as an antecedent (982).
The method of claim 5 wherein the keywords comprise words
selected from the group consisting of:



wherein a character "n" following a selected keyword represents "next"
(520) and indicates that a number may follow the selected keyword and a

character "b" following the selected keyword represents "back" (510) and
indicates that a number may precede the selected keyword.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
