<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649476</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR DETECTING AND QUANTIFYING SUBSTANCES IN BODY FLUIDS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	G01N3352	G01N3352	G01N3358	G01N3358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An (in vivo) method and apparatus for detecting an analyte in an individual. A sensor that includes a fluorescence reagent is placed in communication with the body fluids of the individual suspected of containing the analyte in such a way that once in place said sensor does not exit the skin of the individual. The sensor is configured to retain the fluorescence reagent while allowing analyte to diffuse into and out of said sensor. The sensor is illuminated transdermally, and the fluorescence from the fluorescence reagent associated with the presence of the analyte is measured.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSOR TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSOR TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARDULLO RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHICK WILLIAM L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLF DAVID E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARDULLO, RICHARD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHICK, WILLIAM, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLF, DAVID, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND DEVICE FOR DETECTING AND QUANTIFYING SUBSTANCES IN BODY FLUIDS Background of the Invention This application relates to detecting and quantifying substances in body fluids using fluorescence techniques.Various methods for detecting and quantifying substances in body fluids are known. For example, in the case of glucose these methods include various colorimetric reactions, measuring a spectrophotometric change in the property of any number of products in a glycolytic cascade or measuring the oxidation of glucose using a polarographic glucose sensor. U.S. Patent No. 4,401,122 discloses an in vivo method for measuring substances such as glucose which involves placing an enzyme (e.g., glucose oxidase) either in or under the skin and detecting the enzymatic reaction product (e.g., oxygen) directly through the skin either colorimetrically or by using polarographic or enzyme electrodes. The amount of enzymatic reaction product detected is a measure of the amount of substrate.Cerami, U.S. Patent No. 4,330,299 describes an assay for measuring glucose concentration in which detection is carried out by means of color-producing agents or reagents which form precipitates. In one embodiment, for example, rhodamine is bonded to a lectin and a carbohydrate is affixed to a solid support. The rhodamine-labelled lectin reversibly binds to the carbohydrate in the absence of glucose. When glucose is introduced, it binds to the lectin, thereby displacing the rhodamine-labelled lectin from the carbohydrate. The complexed and uncomplexed rhodamine-lectin are then physically separated, and the reduction in color intensity displayed by rhodamine-lectin bound to 

carbohydrate is measured as an indication of glucose concentration.Although such conventional assays have proven reliable, the reagents on which they rely become exhausted or must be removed. Therefore, these assays require the use of disposable sticks or replaceable cartridges, which can be expensive and inconvenient for the active user.Meadows and Schultz describe another method by which blood glucose levels can be determined using optical means. They describe a fiber optic glucose sensor based on the competitive binding of glucose and fluorescein-labelled dextran (FITC-dextran) to rhodamine- labelled concanavalin A (Rh-Con A) , Meadows, D. and J. S. Schultz, Talanta, 35*145-150 (1988).The Meadows and Schultz optical sensor is attended by many problems, which means it is of limited use in a clinical setting or in monitoring blood glucose levels in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. An in vivo method for detecting an analyte in an individual comprising the steps of a) placing a sensor in communication with the body fluids of said individual suspected of containing said analyte in such a way that once in place said sensor does not exit the skin of the individual, said sensor comprising a fluorescence reagent for detecting said analyte, said sensor being configured to retain said fluorescence reagent while allowing analyte to diffuse into and out of said sensor; b) illuminating said sensor transdermally; and c) measuring the fluorescence from said fluorescence reagent associated with the presence of said analyte in said individual.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said fluorescence reagent reversibly binds to said analyte.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises a carbohydrate.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein said carbohydrate comprises glucose or a derivative thereof.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises a glycoprotein, glycopeptide, or glycolipid.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises an ion.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises a protein or peptide. 


 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said protein or peptide is selected from the group consisting essentially of enzymes, hormones, lipoproteins, and antibodies.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises a steroid.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises an antigen or a hapten.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises theophylline.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises creatinin.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises a drug.
14. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises a polynucleotide.
15. The method of claim 1 wherein said analyte comprises a pesticide.
16. The method of claim 1 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises a fluorophore or compound labelled with said fluorophore that binds directly to said analyte. 


 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring the change in fluorescence intensity of said fluorophore or compound labelled with said fluorophore upon binding to said analyte.
18. The method of claim 16 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring the change in the excitation or emission spectrum of said fluorophore or compound labelled with said fluorophore upon binding to said analyte.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein the change in said excitation or emission spectrum of said fluorophore or compound labelled with said fluorophore is measured by measuring (a) the appearance or disappearance of emission peaks, (b) the ratio of the signal observed at two or more emission wavelengths, (c) the appearance or disappearance of excitation peaks, or (d) the ratio of the signal observed at two or more excitation wavelengths.
20. The method of claim 16 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring changes in the excited state lifetime of said fluorophore or compound labelled with said fluorophore.
21. The method of claim 1 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises an analogue of said analyte labelled with a fluorophore and a ligand capable of binding to both said analogue and said analyte. 


 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring the change in fluorescence intensity of said analogue labelled with said fluorophore upon binding to said analyte.
23. The method of claim 21 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring the change in the excitation or emission spectrum of said analogue labelled with said fluorophore upon binding to said analyte.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein the change in said excitation or emission spectrum of said analogue labelled with said fluorophore is measured by measuring
(a) the appearance or disappearance of emission peaks,
(b) the ratio of the signal observed at two or more emission wavelengths, (c) the appearance or disappearance of excitation peaks, or (d) the ratio of the signal observed at two or more excitation wavelengths.
25. The method of claim 21 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring changes in the excited state lifetime of said analogue labelled with said fluorophore.
26. The method of claim 1 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises an analogue of said analyte and a ligand labelled with a fluorophore and capable of binding to both said analogue and said analyte.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring the change in fluorescence intensity of said ligand labelled with said fluorophore upon binding to said analyte. 


 28. The method of claim 26 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring the change in the excitation or emission spectrum of said ligand labelled with said fluorophore upon binding to said analyte.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein the change in said excitation or emission spectrum of said ligand labelled with said fluorophore is measured by measuring
(a) the appearance or disappearance of emission peaks,
(b) the ratio of the signal observed at two or more emission wavelengths, (c) the appearance or disappearance of excitation peaks, or (d) the ratio of the signal observed at two or more excitation wavelengths.
30. The method of claim 26 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring changes in the excited state lifetime of said ligand labelled with said fluorophore.
31. The method of claim 21 wherein said ligand is selected from the group consisting essentially of an antibody, a receptor for said analyte, a lectin, an enzyme, and a lipoprotein.
32. The method of claim 1 wherein said fluorescence reagent is labelled with an energy-absorbing donor molecule and an energy-absorbing acceptor molecule, the excited state energy level of the donor overlapping with the excited state energy level of the acceptor, and said fluorescence is measured by determining the extent to which non-radiative fluorescence resonance energy transfer occurs between the donor and the acceptor upon binding. 


 33. The method of claim 32 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises a specific binding pair, one member of which is labelled with said donor molecule and the other member of which is labelled with said acceptor molecule.
34. The method of claim 33 wherein said specific binding pair comprises a ligand capable of binding to said analyte and a analogue of said analyte capable of binding to said ligand.
35. The method of claim 32 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises (a) a first ligand labelled with said energy-absorbing donor molecule and capable of binding to a first portion of said analyte and (b) a second ligand labelled with said energy-absorbing acceptor molecule and capable of binding to a second portion of said analyte different from said first portion, and said fluorescence is measured by determining the extent to which non-radiative fluorescence resonance energy transfer occurs between the donor and the acceptor upon binding.
36. The method of claim 35 wherein said first and second ligands are antibodies.
37. The method of claim 35 wherein said first and second ligands are oligonucleotides. 


 38. The method of claim 32 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises an agent capable of binding to said analyte, said agent being labelled with both said energy-absorbing donor molecule and said energy-absorbing acceptor molecule, said fluorescence being measured by determining the extent to which non- radiative fluorescence resonance energy transfer occurs between the donor and the acceptor upon binding.
39. The method of claim 32 wherein said illumination excites the donor and non-radiative fluorescence resonance energy transfer is determined by measuring the ratio of the fluorescence signal at two emission wavelengths, one of which is due to donor emission and the other of which is due to acceptor emission.
40. The method of claim 32 wherein said illumination is chosen such that it excites the donor at a first wavelength and the acceptor at a second wavelength, and non-radiative fluorescence resonance energy transfer is determined by measuring the ratio of the fluorescence signal due to the acceptor following donor excitation and the fluorescence signal due to the acceptor following acceptor excitation.
41. The method of claim 32 wherein said non- radiative fluorescence resonance energy transfer is determined by assessing whether there is a decrease in donor lifetime, a quenching of donor fluorescence, or an enhancement of acceptor fluorescence intensity.
42. The method of claim 32 wherein one or both of the donor-acceptor pair are fluorophores. 


 43. The method of claim 1 wherein said the detection of said analyte comprises an irreversible chemical reaction, with an accompanying change in fluorescence.
44. The method of claim 43 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises an enzyme and a co-factor or substrate that reacts with said analyte in the presence of said enzyme with an accompanying fluorescence change.
45. The method of claim 43 wherein said analyte is an enzyme and said fluorescence reagent comprises a substrate that is altered by said enzyme with an accompanying fluorescence change.
46. The method of claim 43 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises (a) an enzyme in whose presence said analyte reacts to form a detectable product and (b) an indicator for detecting the presence of said product.
47. The method of claim 43 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises (a) a substrate or co- factor capable of reacting with an enzyme to cause a detectable fluorescence change, (b) a first ligand labelled with a first portion said enzyme and capable of binding to a first portion of said analyte, and (c) a second ligand labelled with a second portion of said enzyme and capable of binding to a second portion of said analyte different from said first portion, neither said first portion of said enzyme nor said second portion of said enzyme being capable individually of interacting with said substrate or co-factor to produce a detectable fluorescence change, 


 the binding of said first and second ligands to said analyte causing said first and second portions of said enzyme to interact with each other so as to reconstitute said enzyme, thereby permitting reaction with said substrate or co-factor.
48. The method of claim 43 wherein said fluorescence reagent comprises (a) a substrate or co- factor capable of reacting with an enzyme to cause a detectable fluorescence change, (b) a ligand labelled with a first portion said enzyme and capable of binding to said analyte, and (c) an analogue of said analyte labelled with a second portion of said enzyme and capable of binding to said ligand, neither said first portion of said enzyme nor said second portion of said enzyme being capable individually of interacting with said substrate or co-factor to produce a detectable fluorescence change, the binding of said ligand and said analogue to each other causing said first and second portions of said enzyme to interact with each other so as to reconstitute said enzyme, thereby permitting reaction with said substrate or co-factor, the presence of said analyte disrupting binding between said analogue and said ligand.
49. The method of claim 43 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring the change in fluorescence intensity of said fluorescence reagent associated with the appearance of said detectable product.
50. The method of claim 43 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring the change in excitation or emission spectrum of said fluorescence 


reagent associated with the appearance of said detectable product.
51. The method of claim 50 wherein the change in said excitation or emission spectrum is measured by measuring (a) the appearance or disappearance of emission peaks, (b) the ratio of the signal observed at two emission wavelengths, (c) the appearance or disappearance of excitation peaks, or (d) the ratio of the signal observed at two excitation wavelengths.
52. The method of claim 43 wherein said fluorescence is measured by measuring changes in the excited state lifetime of said fluorescence reagent associated with the appearance of said detectable product.
53. The method of claim 1 wherein said sensor is provided with a selectively permeable membrane that permits analyte to diffuse in and out of said sensor but prevents said fluorescence reagent from diffusing out of said sensor.
54. The method of claim 1 wherein at least some of the components of said fluorescence reagent are immobilized within said sensor.
55. The method of claim 54 wherein said sensor comprises a porous matrix in which at least some of the components of said fluorescence reagent are immobilized within the pores of said matrix.
56. The method of claim 1 wherein at least some of the components of said fluorescence reagent are freely mobile within said sensor. 


 57. The method of claim 56 wherein the components of said fluorescence reagent are admixed with an adjuvant and injected as a bolus into said individual.
58. The method of claim 1 further comprising implanting in said individual a drug delivery system in communication with said sensor, said drug delivery system configured to release a prescribed amount of a drug in response to the level of analyte detected by said sensor
59. An in vivo method for detecting an analyte in an individual comprising the steps of a) placing a sensor in communication with the body fluids of said individual suspected of containing said analyte, said sensor comprising a fluorescence reagent for detecting said analyte that reversibly binds to said analyte, said sensor being configured to retain said fluorescence reagent while allowing analyte to diffuse into and out of said sensor, said fluorescence reagent comprising an energy- absorbing donor molecule and an energy-absorbing acceptor molecule, the excited state energy level of the donor overlapping with the excited state energy level of the acceptor; b) illuminating said sensor so as to i) excite the donor or ii) excite both the donor and acceptor; and c) measuring the fluorescence from said fluorescence reagent associated with the presence of said analyte in said individual by determining the extent to which non-radiative fluorescence resonance energy 


transfer occurs between the donor and the acceptor upon binding, said non-radiative fluorescence resonance energy transfer being determined by measuring i) the ratio of the fluorescence signal at two emission wavelengths, one of which is due to donor emission and the other of which is due to acceptor emission, when only the donor is excited, or ii) the ratio of the fluorescence signal due to the acceptor following donor excitation and the fluorescence signal due to the acceptor following acceptor excitation.
60. An in vivo sensor for non-invasively detecting an analyte in an individual comprising a fluorescence reagent for detecting said analyte, the fluorescence signal from said fluorescence reagent being indicative of the presence of said analyte in the individual, said sensor being configured such that (a) once implanted in the individual said sensor does not exit the skin of the individual, and (b) said fluorescence reagent is retained within said sensor while analyte is allowed to diffuse into and out of said sensor.
61. The method of claim 26 wherein said ligand is selected from the group consisting essentially of an antibody, a receptor for said analyte, a lectin, an enzyme, and a lipoprotein. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
