<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620026</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Golf club head.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B5300	A63B5300	A63B5304	A63B5304	A63B5306	A63B5306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B53	A63B53	A63B53	A63B53	A63B53	A63B53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A golf club having weight (10,11) members located at the toe (3) and 
the hosel (2) of a cavity back (5) club head (1) . The toe weight 

(10) and hosel weight (11) 
each have a center of mass which is located above a horizontal line 

drawn through the center of gravity of the club head when the club head 
is lying at address. In one preferred embodiment the toe weight (10) 

extends 
rearwardly from the toe rim (9) of the club head (1) and rearward of 

a plane 
containing the rear edges (6,7,8,9) of the club head (1) to increase the 

back weighting 
and therefore the dynamic loft of the club head (1). The hosel 

weight (11) 
extends outwardly from the hosel (2) and is located anywhere within a 90° 

segment of the outer periphery of the hosel. At one extreme position, 
the hosel weight (11) extends outwardly in a plane which is generally 

parallel 
to the leading edge of the club head and at another extreme position the 

hosel weight extends rearwardly and generally at right angles to the 
leading edge of the club head. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROGROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROGROUP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONG CLAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONG, CLAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to golf clubs and more 
particularly to golf club heads having weight distributions which increase 
important moments of inertia of the club head while also increasing the 
"dynamic loft" of the club head. Club heads employing various types of perimeter weighting 
have become quite common in the art, especially iron club heads or 
"irons" having so-called "cavity back" designs. In these club heads 
weight is in effect removed from the center of the club head and 
redistributed along the bottom of the club head, for example, or along the 
heel and toe portions of the club head, or around the entire periphery of 
the club head to produce a club head having a recess or cavity in the 
back. Club heads of the latter type have enjoyed considerable success 
since they effectively enlarge the "sweetspot" of the club head. The "sweetspot" of the club head is generally regarded to be 
that area on the striking face of the club head immediately surrounding 
the center of gravity of the club head. By enlarging the sweetspot, 
perimeter weighted club heads allow golfers of all abilities to realize 
improved results over conventional club heads when the golfer fails to 
strike the golf ball in line with the center of gravity of the club head.  
 
These improved results translate into mis-hit shots that travel farther and 
straighter than they would if struck with a club having another 
conventional club head design. Club heads are also known which include heel/toe weighting 
or hosel/toe weighting for reasons of improving the control of the club 
head during the swing and particularly at impact to produce shots which 
have less of a tendency to "hook" or "slice". The use of heel/toe or 
hosel/toe weighting on a club head increases the moment of inertia about 
a vertical axis through the center of gravity of the club head so that the 
club head is more stable when in a less than ideal orientation or position 
at impact. Examples of club heads employing heel/toe or hosel/toe 
weighting are found in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,995,865 to Cochran et al., 
4,826,172 to Antonious, and 5,078,400 to Desbiolles et al., and in UK 
Patent Application No. 2,170,719 to Kajita et al. Cochran et al. disclose an iron club head having weight 
members embedded in the rear surface of the club head at the toe and 
heel portions thereof to increase the "radius of gyration" of the club head. 
Cochran et al. teach that the mass of the toe weight should be two to 
three times as great as the mass of the heel weight.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A golf club head having a toe, a heel, a body 
extending between said toe and said heel, and a hosel 

extending upwardly from said heel for receiving a golf 
club shaft, said club head including a center of gravity 

located between said toe and said heel, and first and 
second weight members, said first weight member 

projecting rearwardly from said toe and said second 
weight member projecting outwardly from an angular 

segment of the periphery of said hosel, wherein said 
angular segment is less than 360° and said first and 

second weight members each have at least a portion 
thereof positioned above a horizontal line containing 

the center of gravity, said horizontal line being 
generally parallel to a support surface on which said 

club head rests when said club head is lying at address. 
The golf club head of claim 1 wherein said 
angular segment is approximately 90° and wherein at one 

extreme thereof, said second weight member projects away 
from and generally parallel to a lower leading edge of 

said club head and, at another extreme thereof, said 
second weight member projects rearwardly and generally 

at right angles to said lower leading edge of said club 
head. 
The golf club head of claim 2 wherein said first 
and second weight members each have a center of mass and 

said centers of mass of said first and second weight 
members are each located above said horizontal line. 
A golf club head having a toe, a heel, a body 
extending between said toe and said heel, and a hosel 

extending upwardly from said heel for receiving a golf 
club shaft, said body having top and bottom surfaces 

having rear edges, said club head including a center of 
gravity located between said toe and said heel, and a 

first weight member projecting rearwardly from said toe 
and projecting rearwardly of a plane containing said 

rear edges of said top and bottom surfaces, said first 
weight member having a center of mass located above a 

horizontal line containing said center of gravity of 
said club head, said horizontal line being generally 

parallel to a support surface on which said club head 
rests when said club head is lying at address, wherein a 

rear face of said club head is a recessed cavity back 
surrounded by a top rim, bottom rim, toe rim and heel 

rim and said first weight member projects rearwardly 
from said toe rim. 
The golf club head of claim 4 further including 
a second weight member, said second weight member 

projecting from said hosel, within an angular segment 
of the periphery of said hosel, said angular segment 

covering approximately 90° and wherein, at one extreme 
thereof, said second weight member projects away from 

and generally parallel to a lower leading edge of said 
club head and, at another extreme thereof, said second 

weight member projects rearwardly and generally at right 
angles to said lower leading edge of said club head. 
A golf club head having a toe, a heel, a body 
extending between said toe and said heel, and a hosel 

extending upwardly from said heel for receiving a golf 
club shaft, said body having top and bottom surfaces, 

 
said club head including a center of gravity located 

between said toe and said heel, and first and second 
weight members on said toe and said hosel, respectively, 

said first and second weight members each having a 
center of mass, said centers of mass of said first and 

second weight members each being located above a 
horizontal line containing said center of gravity of 

said club head, said horizontal line being generally 
parallel to a support surface on which said club head 

rests when said club head is lying at address. 
The golf club head of claim 6 wherein said first 
weight member projects rearwardly of a plane containing 

rear edges of said top and bottom surfaces and said 
second weight member projects from an angular segment of 

the periphery of said hosel, wherein said angular 
segment is less than 360°. 
The golf club head of claim 7 wherein said 
angular segment is approximately 90° and wherein, at one 

extreme thereof, said second weight member projects away 
from and generally parallel to a lower leading edge of 

said club head and, at another extreme thereof, said 
second weight member projects rearwardly and generally 

at right angles to said lower leading edge of said club 
head. 
A golf club head having a toe, a heel, a body 
extending between said toe and said heel, and a hosel 

extending upwardly from said heel for receiving a golf 
club shaft, said club head including a center of gravity 

located between said toe and said heel, and a weight 
member projecting outwardly from an angular segment of 

the periphery of said hosel, wherein said angular 
 

segment is less than 360°. 
The golf club head of claim 9 wherein said 
angular segment is approximately 90° and wherein, at one 

extreme thereof, said weight member projects away from 
and generally parallel to a lower leading edge of said 

club head and, at another extreme thereof, said weight 
member projects rearwardly and generally at right angles 

to said lower leading edge of said club head. 
The golf club of claim 9 wherein at least a 
portion of said weight member is positioned above a 

horizontal line containing the center of gravity, said 
horizontal line being generally parallel to a support 

surface on which said club head rests when said club 
head is lying at address. 
The golf club head of at least claim 1, 4, 6 or 
9 wherein said second weight member projects from said 

hosel rearwardly and generally at right angles to said 
lower leading edge. 
The golf club head of at least claim 1, 4, 6 or 
9 wherein said second weight member projects from said 

hosel away from and generally parallel to said lower 
leading edge. 
The golf club head as claimed in claim 12 
wherein said second weight member tapers upwardly and 

outwardly along said hosel. 
The golf club head as claimed in claim 13 
wherein said second weight member tapers upwardly and 

outwardly along said hosel. 
The golf club head of claim 1, 12, 14 or 15, 
wherein a rear face of said club head is a recessed 

cavity back surrounded by a top rim, bottom rim, toe rim 
and heel rim and said first weight member projects 

rearwardly from said toe rim such that said first weight 
member extends rearwardly of a plane containing said 

top rim, bottom rim, toe rim and heel rim. 
The golf club head of claim 16 further 
comprising a third weight member extending rearwardly 

from said heel rim. 
The golf club of claim 4 or 9 wherein said 
weight member includes a center of mass located above 

said horizontal line. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
