<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615756</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Nalbuphine esters and long-acting pharmaceutical compositions containing them
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07D48908	C07D48900	A61K31485	A61K31485	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07D	C07D	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07D489	C07D489	A61K31	A61K31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention is related to novel long acting analgesic 
Nalbuphine prodrugs including a process for the preparation, 

and phamaceutical composition comprising nalbuphine prodrugs. 
These prodrugs are long-acting injectable analgesics when given 

intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intracerebroventricularly or 
in the mammal via the oral, sublingual, buccally or 

percutaneous route or other administration routes. The chemical 
structure of nalbuphine prodrugs on this invention is shown in 

figure (1), while R group is R'CO, the R' is selected from the 
groups consisting of (a) straight chain alkyl group, (b) 

branched chain alkyl group, (c) straight chain alkyl group on 
benzene (d) branched chain alkyl group on benzene, wherein the 

straight chain 
 
branched chain is represents the saturated or 

unsaturated C1-40 alkyl groups. 
The nalbuphine prodrugs were synthesized by 
esterification of nalbuphine base with acid 

chlorides or acid anhydrides of saturated fatty 

acids or unsaturated fatty acids with various 
lengths. For therapeutic use, the prodrugs can 

be formulated into different dosage forms, such 
as oily injectable or oral preparations, etc. 

for spinal marrow, intramuscular, or 
intracerebroventricular injection routes, upon 

oral administration they have less of a first 
-pass effect and better bioavailability. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT SCIENCE COUNCIL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATIONAL SCIENCE COUNCIL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HO SHUNG-TAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER YOA-PU HU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG JHI-JOUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HO, SHUNG-TAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER, YOA-PU HU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, JHI-JOUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is related to novel long acting analgesic
Nalbuphine prodrugs, and to other pharmaceutical compositions.
An ideal analgesic should be characterized by a short onset
tine, be long acting, potent, cause no addiction, no cardic or
respiratory inhibition and fever other adverse effects. For the
relief of pain, local anethetics like xylocaine or bupivacaine 
can only be applay to a restricted areas. In addition local
anesthetics are short acting. Even though they are given
intracerebroventricularly the duration hardly exceeds 6 hours.
Thereof, for severe and deep pain caused by cardiac, pulmonary,
abdominal, osteopathia, and obstetrical surgery or severe burn
injury and terminal stages of cancer, local anesthetics are not
applicable.Nonnarcotic analgesics, such as aspirin and acetaminophen,
relieve pain of only low intensity, particularly the pain of
headache or toothache. They can not do much to help severe
pain, either. For pain of high intensity and widespread in
origin, narcotic analgesics are certainly indicated. Morphine,
meperidine, fentanyl interacting with specific receptors (i.e.
mu receptor) in the CNS belong to narcotic analgesics and
exhibit potent analgesic activity. Hayes, A.G. et al. (Br. J.
Pharmacol. vol. 79, 731, 1983) have reported that all of the
narcotic analgesics share the same disadvantages with respect
to addiction, addition and respiratory inhibition. For long
term use, addiction and addition are the most unwanted
problems. Severe respiratory depression and death often occur
seen in patients with poor respiratory function post cardiac
or chest surgery. In addition, the duration of narcotic
analgesics effects are somewhat short in clinical use. In order
to maintain an analgesic effect, the dosing interval needs to
be set at 3-5 hours. Even though the agent is given via a
spinal marrow, the duration could not be longer than 48 hours.
In the case of using larger amounts of narcotic analgesic (e.g.
morphine, 0.5-1.0 mg/dose) to prolong the effect, as described
in the literature published by Baxter,A.D. et al. (Can.J.
Anesth. vol. 36, 503, 1989), fatal respiratory depression is
likely to occur. 
Recently new type of opiods so-called narcotic agonist-antagonist
analgesics have been developed. Typical ones such as
buprenorphine, nalbuphine are shown in Figure 2 there exhibit
a dual action of agonism and antagonism on opiods receptors as
reported by Schmidt, W.K. et al. (Drug Alcohol Depend, vol. 14,
339, 1985). For instance, nalbuphine is the antagonist of mu
receptor and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A long acting pharmaceutical composition with analgesic activity, which comprises an
effective amount of the nalbuphine prodrug or salt of the formula (I)



wherein the R group is R'CO, R' being selected from the groups consisting of (a) straight chain
alkyl, (b) branched chain alkyl, (c) straight chain alkyl on benzene, (d) branched chain alkyl on

benzene or (e) phenyl, in admixture with a carrier or diluent selected from sesame oil, soybean
oil or ethyl ester peanut oil.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein R' contains
a straight chain saturated or unsaturated C1-40 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein R' contains
a branched chain saturated or unsaturated C1-40 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein R' is a straight
chain C6-40 alkyl group on benzene.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein R' is a
branched chain C6-40 alkyl group on benzene.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 2, wherein the alkyl
group is a C1-35 alkyl group. 
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 3, wherein the alkyl
group is a C1-35 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 4, wherein the alkyl
group is a C6-35 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 5, wherein the alkyl
group is a C6-35 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of analgesia according to
claim 1, which is for administration by injection.
A long acting pharmaceutical injection dosage form according to claim 10, for
administration by subcutaneous routes.
A long acting pharmaceutical injection dosage form according to claim 10, for
administration by intramuscular routes.
A long acting pharmaceutical injection dosage form according to claim 10, for
administration by spinal marrow or intracerebroventricular routes.
A long acting pharmaceutical injection dosage form according to claim 10, in which the
dosage form is selected from an oily solution injection and oily suspension injection dosage

forms.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 6, wherein the alkyl
group is a C1-30 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 7, wherein the alkyl
group is a C1-30 alkyl group. 
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 8, wherein the alkyl
group is a C6-30 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 9, wherein the alkyl
group is a C6-30 alkyl group.
A nalbuphine prodrug or salt of the formula (I)


wherein the R group is R'CO, R'being selected from the groups consisting of (a) C20-40 straight
chain alkyl, (b) C20-40 branched chain alkyl, (c) C26-40 straight chain alkyl on benzene or (d)

C26-40 branched chain alkyl on benzene.
A nalbuphine prodrug or salt according to claim 19, wherein R' is a straight chain
saturated or unsaturated C20-40 alkyl group.
A nalbuphine prodrug or salt, according to claim 19, wherein R' is a branched chain
saturated or unsaturated C20-40 alkyl group.
A nalbuphine prodrug or salt according to claim 19, wherein R' is a straight chain
saturated or unsaturated C26-40 alkyl group on benzene.
A nalbuphine prodrug or salt according to claim 19,-wherein R' is a branched chain
saturated or unsaturated C26-40 alkyl group on benzene.
A nalbuphine prodrug or salt- according to claim 20, wherein R' is a saturated or 
unsaturated C30-40 alkyl group.
A nalbuphine prodrug or salt according to claim 21, wherein R' is a saturated or
unsaturated C30-40 alkyl group.
A process for the preparation of nalbuphine prodrugs and salts of claim 19, which
comprises reacting nalbuphine with methylene chloride and a compound of the formula (II):


R'-COOH

wherein R' is selected from the groups consisting of (a) C20-40 straight chain alkyl, (b) C20-40
branched chain alkyl, (c) C26-40 straight chain alkyl on benzene, or (d) C26-40 branched chain

alkyl on benzene.
A process according to claim 26, wherein R' is a straight chain saturated or unsaturated
C20-40 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 15, wherein the alkyl
group is a C1-25 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 16, wherein the alkyl
group is a C1-25 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 17, wherein the alkyl
group is a C6-25 alkyl group.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition according to claim 18, wherein the alkyl
group is a C6-25 alkyl group.
Nalbuphine decanoate and its salts. 
Nalbuphine enanthate and its salts.
Nalbuphine behenate and its salts.
Nalbuphine erucicate and its salts.
Nalbuphine arachidate and its salts.
A process according to claim 26, wherein R' is a branched chain saturated or unsaturated
C20-40 alkyl group.
A process according to claim 26, wherein R' is a straight chain saturated or unsaturated
C26-40 alkyl group on benzene.
A process according to claim 26, wherein R' is a branched chain saturated or unsaturated
C26-40 alkyl group on benzene.
The long acting pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of analgesia according to
claim 1, comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent for percutaneous

administration.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
