<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658137</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
QUICK CHANGE MOLD FOR BLOW MOLDING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C3100	B29C3100	B29C4904	B29C4904	B29C4942	B29C4942	B29C4950	B29C4950	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C31	B29C31	B29C49	B29C49	B29C49	B29C49	B29C49	B29C49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Tooling for a quick change of molds and associated accessories for a blow molding machine for blow molding hollow plastic articles or articles, including a mold (2) that can be opened, with a feed opening (20) for introducing compressed air, an air injection nozzle (4) for the passage of compressed air, a nest (5) to hold the articles (31) after being produced and released by the mold, trim tooling (6) for the removal of the flash (32), characterized by the mold, the nest and the trim tooling being supported by two parallel opposing, spaced apart supporting plates (10), which constitute a modular assembly (1) that is movable lengthwise by a corresponding carriage (50), and by the fact that the air injection nozzle for the introduction of compressed air into the mold is assembled on a movable, self-retaining support (40).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOOVER UNIVERSAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOOVER UNIVERSAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALDI MASSENZIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALDI, MASSENZIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 QUICK CHANGE MOLD FOR BLOW MOLDING APPARATUS Technical FieldThis invention relates to a quick change mold tooling arrangement for blow molding apparatus used for producing hollow plastic articles.Background ArtIt is known that in any industrial sector there is the need for production lines which are characterized by a high degree of flexibility so that they can be retooled rapidly in order to adjust production runs to the variable demands and conditions of the market, both as to the quantity and the type of the items being produced.Such a need is deeply felt in the art of machines for producing hollow plastic items that contemplate the replacement of molds, where molding particularly blow molding, takes place, so as to allow the changing of shape and/or structure of the produced items using only one blow molding machine.Known blow molding machines for producing hollow plastic articles include at least one mold having a mold cavity with the shape of the article to be produced, the mold being adapted to be opened and closed. The mold is opened to receive a preform or parison and then closed. After the mold has been closed, compressed air is introduced into the parison contained within the mold through a compressed air feed inlet and a corresponding feed nozzle to carry out the blowing of the parison which is expanded and conformed to the inner wall of the mold cavity to acquire the desired shape. The blow molding machine includes at least one nest or dolly, divided in two sections, that holds the article after being blown and when it has been released by the mold. The machine further includes trim tooling for removing the flash from the article. Also, the machine includes several feed lines for supplying cooling water to the mold and lines for supplying compressed air to the nozzles.The following operations are required to change the mold and associated accessories: disassemble the group of 

dollies; disassemble the trim tooling; disconnect the cooling lines of the water cooling system for the molds; disassemble the molds; disconnect the compressed air lines; disassemble the air feed nozzles; reassemble the new tooling; adjust the center distance between the mold and the nest or dolly in the new tooling; adjust the position of the trim tooling in the new tooling; and align the axis of the air feed nozzles with that of the compressed air inlets in the new mold.It is evident that such a large number of operations requires time and numerous different tools, that is in contrast with the necessity of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. Tooling for quick change of molds and associated accessories in a blow molding machine for blow molding hollow plastic articles, which includes a mold (2) that can be opened; a feed opening for compressed air inlet; a nozzle for compressed air feeding; a nest (5) for holding the hollow plastic article after being blown and released by the mold; trim tooling (6) for the removal of the flash (32); characterized by the fact that said mold, said nest, and said trim tooling are supported by two spaced apart, parallel and opposing plates (10) constituting a unitary or modular assembly (1) which is movable as a unit lengthwise by means of a corresponding carriage (50) , and said compressed air feeding nozzle is assembled on a removable self-bearing support (40) .
2. Tooling according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that said support (40) comprises a frame that includes a plate (41) which on its upper side is removably connected to a fixed part (100) of the machine, and on its lower side mounts four vertical rods (44) for guiding a second plate (42) on the back (410) of which there is located the head of the stem of a corresponding cylinder (110) which is operable along a vertical axis and the lower side (420) of which is in contact with the base of the nozzle in order to allow the actuation, that is, the insertion into and the withdrawal from, respectively, the feed opening (20) of the mold, and a third plate (43) fixed to the lower parts of said vertical rods (44) and equipped with a guide boss (45) for the nozzle stem.
3. Tooling according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the distance "a" between the vertical axis of the feed opening of the mold and the median vertical axis of the nest is variable and is adjusted prior to the assembly of the modular assembly on the blow molding machine. 


 4. Tooling according to claims 1, characterized by the fact that the position of said nozzle with respect to the feed opening of the corresponding mold is variable and is preset prior to the assembly of the modular assembly and the support on the blow molding machine.
5. Tooling according to claim 1 characterized by the fact that said trim tooling are associated with corresponding means of motion (60) in orthogonal direction with respect to that of translation (x-x) of the modular assembly (1) .
6. Tooling according to claim 1 characterized by the fact that said means of motion of the trim tooling (6) includes a cylindrical actuator (60) with its axis in orthogonal orientation with respect to the direction (x-x) of translation of the unitary or modular assembly (1) .
7. Tooling according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that said trim tooling (6) are assembled on an independent carriage to be assembled and replaced together with the unitary or modular assembly (1) .
8. Tooling according to claim 1 characterized by the fact that said modular assembly (1) includes a mold (2) with two compressed air feed inlets (20) through which compressed air is fed from two corresponding nozzles (4) .
9. Tooling according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the number of openings (20) of a mold (2) and relative nozzles (4) for blowing is variable depending upon the size and shape of the article to be produced.
10. Tooling according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that said supporting plates (10) are equipped with several connectors (21) for fast connection of the cooling system lines. 


 11. Tooling according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that said supporting plates (10) are equipped with several parallel and transverse projecting pins (11) which represent elements of guidance and linkage for the corresponding means (70) of spreading of the plates.
12. Tooling according to claim 5, characterized by the fact that said means of motion of the trim tooling (6) includes a cylindrical actuator (60) with its axis in orthogonal orientation with respect to the direction (x-x) of translation of the unitary or modular assembly (1) .
13. Tooling according to claim 5, characterized by the fact that said trim tooling (6) are assembled on an independent carriage to be assembled and replaced together with the unit or modular assembly (1) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
