<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621456</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Single-cam compound bow.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F41B500	F41B510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F41B	F41B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F41B5	F41B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cam (18) is eccentrically journaled at one 
end of a compound archery bow (B) and a pulley (17) is 

journaled at the other end of the bow. A cable (22) 
passes around the pulley to form a bowstring section 

(22a) and a second cable section (22b), both sections 
forming a dual feed single cam compound bow. The amount 

of feed out to both ends of the bowstring is 
approximately the same. One embodiment of the cam 

provides a large radius cam groove (18b) and a smaller 
radius cam groove (18a) which are designed to 

synchronize the rate of cable feed out at both ends of 
the bowstring section during the drawing operation. An 

anchor cable (25) is provided to tie the two limbs of 
the bow together during the flexing of the bow. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEAR ARCHERY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEAR ARCHERY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCPHERSON MATHEW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCPHERSON, MATHEW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Pat. 
Application No. 07/875,748 filed April 28, 1992 and entitled 
"Dual-Feed Single-Cam Compound Bow". In the past, most compound archery bows have used two 
cams, respectively mounted on the limb tips at opposite ends of the 
bow to provide the means to store more energy in the draw cycle 
and to reduce the force necessary to hold the bowstring in the full 
draw position. Examples of such compound bows are disclosed in the 
following U.S. patents. 
U.S. Pat. No. Issued To Date Issued 3,486,495AllenJune 23, 1966 3,890,951Jennings, et al.June 24, 1975 4,060,066KudlacekNov. 29, 1977 4,079,723DarlingtonMar. 21, 1978 4,112,909CaldwellSep. 12, 1978  4,300,521SchmittNov. 17, 1981    The early compound bows utilized cams consisting of 
eccentrically mounted circular shaped elements. As the desire for 
more stored energy and greater arrow velocities developed, special 
shaped cam elements were designed to provide these characteristics. 
These shaped cam elements, like the circular shaped elements, were 
mounted on the limb tips. It is well known in the art that to 
obtain the best bow performance, the cam elements at each end of 
the bow should be properly synchronized with each other. Patents 
disclosing various means to accomplish proper cam synchronization 
include the following:  U.S. Pat. No. Issued To Date Issued 3,841,295HunterOct. 15, 1974 3,958,551KetchumMay 25, 1976 4,103,667Shepley, Jr.Aug. 1, 1978 4,178,905GronerDec. 18, 1979 The more modern compound bows have reverted back to the 
more simplistic design of the original 3,486,495 Allen patent, but 
the requirement for cam synchronization is still present as noted, 
for example, by the teachings of the following patents: 
U.S. Pat. No. Issued To Date Issued 4,372,285SimondsFeb. 8, 1983 4,440,142SimondsApr. 3, 1984 4,909,231LarsonMar. 20, 1990 It is obvious, of course, that the use of a single cam 
avoids the problem of cam synchronization and, in fact, there are 
single cam bows known in the prior art. One such bow, popularly 
referred to as the "DynaBo" was invented by Len Subber. The 
original Dynabo design had one working limb located at the upper 
end of the bow handle. A single cam element was mounted on a rigid 
pylon at the lower end of the bow. The single cam element 
functioned in the same manner as the cam elements on the previously 
mentioned two cam bows. As the Dynabo was drawn, one track of the 
cam element payed out line to the bowstring which was fixed to the 
upper limb tip and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A compound archery bow comprising a pair of flexible resilient 
first and second bow limbs with a handle connecting the inner 

ends thereof, 
a cam journaled at the first bow limb end, 

a rotational member journaled at the second bow limb end and 
having at least one peripheral groove portion therein, 

a cable, having an intermediate portion trained around the 
rotational member to form first and second cable sections, 

an anchor cable extending between the first and second bow 
limbs having one end fixed to the bow limb on which the 

rotational member is journaled and the other end secured to 
the cam, 

said cam having at least one eccentric groove for taking up 
the anchor cable as the bow is being drawn and having means 

for feeding out the two cable sections as the bow is being 
drawn, and 

means for securing the ends of the first and second cable 
sections and the anchor cable sections to the cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 1 wherein the 
rotational member is a pulley. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
first cable section forms a bowstring. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 1 wherein the 
 

means for securing the ends of the first and second cable 
sections and the anchor cable section to the cam are anchor 

pins located on the cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 1 including means 
permitting an end of at least one of said cable sections to be 

lengthwise adjustably secured to the cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 1 wherein the 
means for feeding out the two cable sections as the bow is 

being drawn comprises at least a first additional groove and 
a second additional groove on said cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 6 wherein said 
first and second additional grooves have different peripheral 

lengths and wherein the first cable section is received in the 
first additional groove and the second cable section is 

received in the second additional groove. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 7 wherein said 
first additional groove has a larger peripheral length than 

said second additional groove, and wherein said first 
additional groove is located between said second additional 

groove and said eccentric groove of said cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 7 wherein the 
eccentric groove for taking up the anchor cable has a 

different peripheral length than said first and second 
additional grooves. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 7 including means 
permitting an end of at least one of said cable sections to be 

 
lengthwise adjustably secured to the cam. 
A compound bow as set forth in claim 10 wherein said means 
permitting an end of at least one of said cable sections to be 

lengthwise adjustably secured to the cam are anchor pins on 
the cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 1 wherein the 
means for feeding out the first and second cable sections as 

the bow is being drawn includes the eccentric groove which 
takes up the anchor cable section as the bow is being drawn. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 12 wherein the 
means for securing the ends of the first and second cable 

sections and the anchor cable section to the cam is an anchor 
pin on the cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 1 wherein the 
means f
or feeding out the first and second cable sections as 
the bow is being drawn includes an additional groove in the 

cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 14 wherein the 
additional groove in the cam is eccentric. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 15 wherein the 
first and second cable sections are secured to a first pin on 

the cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 14 wherein the 
anchor cable section is secured to a second pin on the cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 6 wherein said 
eccentric groove is located between said first additional 

 
groove and said second additional groove on said cam. 
A cam for use in a compound archery bow having means thereon 
to feed out a first cable section and means thereon to feed 

out a second cable section. 
A cam as set forth in claim 19 wherein said means to feed out 
the first cable section and means to feed out the second cable 

section comprise first and second grouves having different 
peripheral lengths. 
A cam as set forth in claim 20 wherein said cam includes a 
third groove having a different peripheral lengths than said 

first and second grooves for receiving an anchor cable 
section. 
A cam as set forth in claim 19 which includes means permitting 
an end of at least one of said cable sections to be lengthwise 

adjustably secured to the cam. 
A cam as set forth in claim 22 wherein said means permitting 
an end of at least one of said cable sections to be lengthwise 

adjustably secured to the cam are anchor pins on the cam. 
A cam as set forth in claim 19 wherein the means for feeding 
out the first and second cable sections as the bow is being 

drawn comprises the eccentric groove which takes up the anchor 
cable as the bow is being drawn. 
A cam as set forth in claim 24 wherein the means for securing 
the ends of the first and second cable sections and the anchor 

cable to the cam is an anchor pin. 
A cam as set forth in claim 19 wherein the means for feeding 
 

out the first and second cable sections as the bow is being 
drawn comprises an additional groove in the cam. 
A cam as set forth in claim 26 wherein the additional groove 
in the cam is eccentric. 
A cam as set forth in claim 27 wherein the first and second 
cable sections are secured to a first pin on the cam. 
A cam as set forth in claim 28 wherein the anchor cable 
section is secured to a second pin on the cam. 
A cam as set forth in claim 21 wherein said third groove is 
located between said first groove and said second groove on 

the cam. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
anchor cable has two sections at one end thereon, and wherein 

each such section is mounted on opposite sides of said 
rotational member. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 31 wherein each 
such section includes loops for affixing each such section to 

an axle on which the rotational member is journaled. 
A compound archery bow as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
rotational member has a single peripheral groove portion 

therein. 
An anchor cable for use in a compound archery bow having two 
sections at one end thereof each such section terminating in 

a loop for affixing one end of the cable to an end of said 
archery bow, and a loop at the other end of said cable for 

affixing said other end to the other end of said archery bow. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
