<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1097997</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Human carnosinase, its isolation and uses
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N948	C12N948	C12N1557	C12N1557	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
HC polypeptides and polynucleotides and methods for producing such
polypeptides by recombinant techniques are disclosed. Also disclosed are methods for

utilizing HC polypeptides and polynucleotides in the design of protocols for the treatment
of Alzheimer's disease and cognitive disorders, developmental abnormalities and fetal

deficiencies, neurodegenerative disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,
Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, abnormal mental states, ischemic shock., epilepsia,

among others, and diagnostic assays for such conditions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANOFI SYNTHELABO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANOFI-SYNTHELABO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUDEK VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMIRNOVA-ROBERT TATIANA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUFEL MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUDEK, VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMIRNOVA-ROBERT, TATIANA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUFEL, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to newly identified polynucleotides, polypeptides encoded
by them and to the use of such polynucleotides and polypeptides, and to their
production. More particularly, the polynucleotides and polypeptides of the present
invention relate to human carnosinase, hereinafter referred to as HC, and its use. The
invention also relates to inhibiting or activating the action of such polynucleotides and
polypeptides.Carnosine and related dipeptides such as anserine are naturally-occurring
histidine-containing compounds. They are found in several tissues, most notably in
muscle, where they represent an appreciable fraction of the total water-soluble nitrogen-containing
compounds. The biological roles of these dipeptides are conjectural but they
are believed to act as cytosolic buffering agents. Numerous studies have demonstrated,
both at the tissue and organelle levels, that they possess strong and specific antioxidant
properties. Carnosine and related dipeptides have been shown to prevent peroxidation
of model membrane systems, leading to the suggestion that they represent water-soluble
counterparts of lipid-soluble antioxidants, such as alpha-tocopherol, in protecting
cell membranes from oxidative damage. Other roles ascribed to these dipeptides include
actions as neurotransmitters, modulation of enzymatic activities and chelation of heavy
metals. Many therapeutic actions of carnosine and histidine-containing dipeptides have
been suggested, including antihypertensive effects, actions as immunomodulating
agents, wound healing and antineoplastic effects (Mol Aspects Med 1992;13(5):379-444).Carnosine and anserine are hydrolyzed in serum by the enzyme carnosinase.
Carnosinase from human plasma has been purified (Clin Chim Acta 1991 Feb 15;196(2-3):193-205).
Human serum carnosinase is found to be a glycoprotein with an isoelectric
point of 4.4 and a subunit molecular weight of 75,000; the active enzyme being a dimer
and the two subunits being connected by one or more disulfide bonds. The enzyme is
especially active in hydrolyzing carnosine and anserine, preferring dipeptides which
contain histidine in the C-terminal position. Brain contains a high amount of carnosinase.
The physiological function of this enzyme seems to be the hydrolysis of homocarnosine
in the brain and the splitting of carnosine and anserine in the blood stream.Several reports describe variable phenotypes for a serum carnosinase
deficiency, which range from normal to severe psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, and
myoclonic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An isolated polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide sequence at least 80%
identical to a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of :


(a) the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1;
(b) a nucleotide sequence encoding the HC polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID
NO:2;
(c) the nucleotide sequence comprising the sequence located between
nucleotide numbers 1 to 1524 set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1;
(d) the nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide comprising amino acids
from about 255 to about 272 set forth in SEQ ID NO:2;
(e) the nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide comprising amino acids
from about 475 to about 490 set forth in SEQ ID NO:2;
(f) a nucleotide sequence encoding the HC polypeptide expressed by the cDNA
clone contained in ATCC deposit number PTA-541;
(g) a nucleotide sequence able to hybridize with the nucleotide sequence set
forth in SEQ ID NO:1 or the cDNA clone contained in ATCC deposit number PTA-541;
(h) a nucleotide sequence encoding the mature HC polypeptide expressed by
the cDNA clone contained in ATC
C deposit number PTA-541;
(i) a nucleotide sequence complementary to any of the nucleotide sequences
defined in (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) or (h) above, as well as fragments, derivatives,

variants, mutated forms of these nucleotide sequences.
Polynucleotide according to claim 1, wherein it comprises the nucleotide
sequence located between nucleotide number 1 and nucleotide number 500, or the

nucleotide sequence located between nucleotide number 501 and nucleotide number
1524 of the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:1.
A DNA or RNA molecule constituting a recombinant vector, comprising an
expression system which is capable of producing a HC polypeptide when said expression

system is present in a compatible host, wherein said DNA or RNA molecule comprises a
polynucleotide according to claim 1 or 2.
A host cell comprising the expression system of claim 3.
A process for producing a HC polypeptide comprising the steps of transforming
or transfecting a host cell with an expression vector according to claim 3, culturing said

host cell under appropriate conditions so that said host cell produces HC polypeptide,
and recovering the polypeptide from the culture.
An isolated HC polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence which is at least
80% identical to a sequence selected from the group consisting of :


(a) the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2;
(b) the amino acid sequence of HC polypeptide having the complete amino acid
sequence encoded by the cDNA clone contained in ATCC deposit number PTA-541;
(c) the amino acid sequence of the mature HC polypeptide having the complete amino
acid sequence encoded by the cDNA clone contained in ATCC deposit number PTA-541;

as well as fragments, derivatives, variants or mutated forms of these amino acid
sequences.
Polypeptide according to claim 6, susceptible to be obtained by the process of
claim 5 or by chemical synthesis.
An antibody, or a fragment thereof, able to recognize a HC polypeptide according
to claim 6.
Antibody according to claim 8 able to recognize a polypeptide comprising amino
acid residues from about 255 to about 272 of SEQ ID NO:2, a polypeptide comprising

amino acid residues from about 475 to about 490 of SEQ ID NO:2.
A method for identifying agonists of HC polypeptide comprising the steps of:

(a) contacting a host cell according to claim 4 with a candidate compound; and
(b) determining whether the candidate compound effects a signal generated by
activation of HC polypeptide.
An agonist of HC polypeptide identifiable by the method of claim 10.
An agonist according to claim 11, wherein the candidate compound is selected
among compounds which present a structural or functional, or both, similarity with

known agonists of carnosinase or of the metalloprotease family, or compounds which
are known to be involved in a large number of biological processes.
A method for identifying antagonists of HC polypeptide comprising the steps of :

(a) contacting a host cell according to claim 4 with an agonist of HC polypeptide, and
(b) determining whether the signal generated by said agonist is diminished in the
presence of a candidate compound.
An antagonist of HC polypeptide identifiable by the method of claim 13.
Antagonist according to claim 14, wherein the candidate compound is selected
among compounds which present a structural or functional, or both, similarity with

known antagonists of carnosinase or of the metalloprotease family, or compounds which
are known to be involved in a large number of biological processes.
A process for diagnosing a disease or a susceptibility to a disease in a subject
related to expression or activity of a HC polypeptide according to claim 6 in a subject

comprising:

(a) determining the presence or absence of a mutation in the nucleotide sequence
encoding said HC polypeptide in the genome of said subject; and/or
(b) analyzing for the presence or amount of said HC polypeptide expression in a
sample derived from said subject.
Pharmaceutical composition, for preventing and/or treating in a subject a disease
or susceptibility to a disease related to an under-expression or under-activity of HC

polypeptide, said composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least an
agonist of HC polypeptide or a derivative or homologue thereof identified by the method

according to claim 10, and/or at least a HC polypeptide according to claim 6, and/or at
least a nucleotide sequence able to express in vivo a HC polypeptide according to claim

6.
Pharmaceutical composition for preventing and/or treating in a subject a disease
or susceptibility to a disease related to over-activity or over-expression of HC polypeptide,

said composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least an antagonist of
HC polypeptide or a derivative or homologue thereof identified by the method according to

claim 13, and/or at least a nucleic acid molecule that inhibits the expression of the
nucleotide sequence encoding HC polypeptide and/or at least a peptide which competes

with HC polypeptide.
Pharmaceutical composition according to claim 17 or 18, comprising a
recombinant vector according to claim 3, able to express in vivo a polypeptide according

to claim 6.
Pharmaceutical composition according to any of claims 17 to 19, further
comprising at least a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
Pharmaceutical composition according to any of claims 17 to 20 for prevention
and/or treatment of Alzheimer's disease and cognitive disorders, developmental

abnormalities and fetal deficiencies, neurodegenerative disorders such as amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, abnormal mental states, ischemic

shock, epilepsia, among others.
Use of a HC polypeptide according to claim 6, for the treatment of Alzheimer's
disease and cognitive disorders, developmental abnormalities and fetal deficiencies,

neurodegenerative disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease,
schizophrenia, abnormal mental states, ischemic shock, epilepsia, among others.
Use of a HC polypeptide according to claim 6, for the preparation of a
pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and cognitive

disorders, developmental abnormalities and fetal deficiencies, neurodegenerative
disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia,

abnormal mental states, ischemic shock, epilepsia, among others.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
