<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1053527</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAPPING COMPLIANCE INFORMATION INTO USEABLE FORMAT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	B25J916	G06Q4000	G06Q4000	G06F1730	B25J916	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	B25J	G06Q	G06Q	G06F	B25J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	B25J9	G06Q40	G06Q40	G06F17	B25J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for providing access to compliance information includes a subsystem for acquiring securities information from one or more database sources. The system extracts compliance information from the acquired securities information that is related to a particular security. The system also includes a subsystem for providing access to the computer-readable compliance information files over a computer communications link.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEWRIVER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEWRIVER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMSTER RICHARD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURAKOFF STEPHEN V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FEIN ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMEL SERGIU S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATKIN HEATH L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILEY GARETT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMSTER, RICHARD, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURAKOFF, STEPHEN, V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FEIN, ROBERT, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMEL, SERGIU, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATKIN, HEATH L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILEY, GARETT, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to manipulating disclosure information about securities stored in
computer-readable form in the Securities and Exchange Commission's EDGAR database and/or
one or more other repositories and, more particularly, to manipulating data contained in such
securities submissions databases to extract only certain information such as a mutual fund
prospectus.Government agencies and securities exchanges require that certain information be made
available to an investor before a security is sold, and that certain information be delivered to an
investor with the confirmation of any transaction. This delivery of this information has historically
taken place in person, or via document delivery services, such as the U.S. Mail, Federal Express,
or United Parcel Service. Recently, government agencies and securities exchanges began
allowing securities issuers and intermediaries to comply with information delivery requirements by
delivering the information in an electronic format, for example by transmitting the information
from one computer to another over a computer network.Securities information is published in various electronic databases including the Securities
and Exchange Commission's ("SEC") EDGAR database. EDGAR, the Electronic Data
Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system, performs automated collection, validation, indexing,
acceptance, and forwarding of submissions by companies and others that are required by law to
file forms with the SEC. The primary purpose of EDGAR is to increase the efficiency and
fairness of the securities market for the benefit of investors, corporations, and the economy by
accelerating the receipt, acceptance, dissemination, and analysis of time-sensitive corporate
information filed with the agency. EDGAR information is available on the internet at:
http://www.sec.gov.Although securities information is available from databases like EDGAR, the information
is not readily available in a useful electronic format that enables compliance with government and
securities exchange regulations, especially with regard to mutual funds and other non-corporate
securities. EDGAR was designed in a manner that makes information regarding non-corporate 
securities difficult to find. EDGAR mutual fund information, for example, is listed as a
submission of the corporate issuer, not the fund name that is marketed to the consumer,
and may include information for more than one fund. EDGAR submissions also may
include updates and amendments to earlier submitted information. It is quite
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computer-assisted method for composing compliance information, the method
comprising:


(a) acquiring (10) securities information from one or more database sources (305,307);
(b) identifying (12) at least one portion of the acquired securities information as being
compliance information for a particular security; and
(c) creating (14) a computer-readable file comprising the identified at least one
portion,

   wherein the computer-readable file comprises compliance information for the
particular security.
The method of claim 1, further comprising:

identifying the at least one portion as being one type of document from a
predetermined list (303) of document types; and
cross-referencing the particular security with the created computer-readable
file.
The method of any of claims 1-2, further comprising:

searching the identified at least one portion for an identifying component
located therein;
providing a list (303) of predetermined identifying components, each
predetermined identifying component in the list associated with at least one

predetermined security;
comparing the identifying component found in the identified at least one portion to the list
of predetermined identifying components; and
when the identifying component found in the indentified at least one portion matches one of
the predetermined identifying components in the list, determining the

corresponding predetermined security as being the at least one security
corresponding to the identified at least one portion.
The method of any of claims 1-3, further comprising providing access to the
computer-readable file over a computer communications link (294). 
The method of any of claims 1 - 4, wherein the acquiring step comprises
acquiring the securities information from at least the EDGAR database of the Securities

and Exchange Commission.
The method of any of claims 1 - 5, wherein the creating step comprises creating a
file that contains a prospectus of the predetermined security.
The method of any of claims 3 and 4-6 as dependent on claim 3, wherein the identifying component is any one
of:


an internal identification number;
a CUSIP number; and
a stock exchange ticker symbol.
The method of any of claims 1 - 7, wherein step (b) comprises:

identifying a start line and an end line of the identified at least one portion in the
acquired securities information.
The method of any of claims 1 - 8, further comprising:

identifying an effective date of the identified at least one portion.
The method of any of claims 1 - 9, wherein the particular security is a mutual
fund.
The method of any of claims 1 - 10, further comprising:

identifying at least one portion in each of at least two documents in the acquired
securities information.
The method of any of claims 1 - 11, wherein step (a) comprises acquiring the
securities information from a database to which security filings are submitted in

accordance with government regulations.
A system for composing compliance information, the system comprising: 

an obtainment subsystem (300) configured to:

acquire securities information from one or more database sources (305,307);
identify at least one portion of the acquired securities information as being
compliance information for a particular security; and
create a computer-readable file comprising the identified at least one
portion,

   wherein the computer-readable file comprises compliance information for
the particular security.
The system of claim 13, wherein:

the obtainment subsystem is further configured to:

identify the at least one portion of the acquired securities information as
being one type of document from a predetermined list (303) of document types;
cross-reference the particular security with the created computer-readable
file; and
an accessing subsystem (325) configured to:

provide access to the computer-readable file over a computer
communications link.
The system of any of claims 13 - 14, wherein:

the obtainment subsystem is further configured to:

search the at least one identified portion for an identifying component
located therein;
provide a list (303) of predetermined identifying components, each
predetermined identifying component in the list associated with at least one

predetermined security;
compare the identifying component found in the at least one portion to the
list of predetermined identifying components; and
when the identifying component found in the at least one portion matches
one of the predetermined identifying components in the list, determine the

corresponding predetermined security as corresponding to the identified at least
one portion.
The system of any of claims 13 - 15, wherein the obtainment subsystem
comprises:


an acquisition subsystem (310) configured to acquire the securities information by
accessing at least the EDGAR database of the Securities and Exchange Commission to

acquire EDGAR submissions containing the securities information;
a cataloging subsystem (312) configured to locate the compliance information in the
EDGAR submissions; and
a splitting subsystem (314) configured to extract the compliance information from the
EDGAR submissions.
The system of any of claims 13 - 16, further comprising:

an effective date subsystem (316) configured to identify an effective date of the
identified at least one portion.
The system of any of claims 13 - 17, wherein the accessing subsystem comprises
a document processor configured to convert the compliance information into another

document format.
The system of any of claims 13 - 18, wherein at least one of the one or more
database sources is a database to which security filings are submitted in accordance with

government regulations.
The system of any of claims 13 - 19, wherein the particular security is a mutual
fund. 
A computer-readable data storage device comprising computer executable
instructions for execution on a computer to cause the computer to aid an operator in a

method of composing compliance information, the method comprising:

acquiring (10) securities information from one or more database sources (305,307),
identifying (12) at least one portion of the acquired securities information as being
compliance information for a particular security; and
creating (14) a computer-readable file comprising the identified at least one portion,

   wherein the computer-readable file comprises compliance information for the
particular security.
The computer-readable data storage device of claim 21, wherein the computer
executable instructions further comprise steps of:


identifying the at least one portion as being one type of document from a
predetermined list (303) of document types; and
cross-referencing the particular security with the created computer-readable
file.
The computer-readable data storage device of any of claims 21 - 22, wherein the
computer executable instructions further comprise steps of:


searching the identified at least one portion for an identifying component located
therein;
providing a list (303) of predetermined identifying components, each predetermined
identifying component in the list associated with at least one predetermined security;
comparing the identifying component found in the at least one portion to the list
of predetermined identifying components; and
when the identifying component found in the at least one portion matches one of
the predetermined identifying components in the list, determining the corresponding

predetermined security as being the at least one security corresponding to the identified
at least one portion.
The computer-readable data storage device of any of claims 21 - 23, wherein the
computer executable instructions further comprise steps of: 


providing each line of text in the acquired securities information with a line
number;
identifying a start line and an end line of text in the acquired securities
information corresponding to the identified at least one portion; and
copying the acquired securities information from the identified start line to the
identified end line into the computer-readable file.
The computer-readable data storage device of any of claims 21 - 24, wherein the
one or more database sources comprise the EDGAR database of the Securities and

Exchange Commission.
The computer-readable data storage device of any of claims 21 - 25, wherein the
computer-readable file is stored on a file server (325).
The computer-readable data storage device of any of claims 24 - 26, wherein the
lines of text in the acquired securities information are each marked with a unique

number.
The computer-readable data storage device of any of claims 21 - 27, wherein the
particular security is a mutual fund.
The computer-readable data storage device of any of claims 21 - 28, wherein at
least one of the one or more database sources is a database to which security filings are

submitted in accordance with government regulations.
The computer-readable data storage device of any of claims 21 - 29, wherein the
computer executable instructions further comprise a step of:


determining an effective date associated with the identified at least one portion.
The computer-readable data storage device of any of claims 21 - 30, wherein the
computer-readable file is stored on a file server (325) accessible via a computer

communications link (355).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
