<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1161176</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HAND HELD INSPECTION DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1227	A61B1227	A61B1233	A61B1233	A61B124	A61B124	A61B1267	A61B1267	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention includes an inspection instrument (10) for use in medical, dental, law enforcement, other inspection, examination and surveillance procedures. The device includes a body (12) having an integral speculum (14) with a video image capturing device or camera (16), a power supply and a video display (20). These components, in addition to user actuated controls, are disposed integrally with the body (12). The body is adapted for convenient engagement and manipulation by a user's hand to provide a unitary, hand held device capable of illuminating, capturing an image of a subject, and displaying the image. The video display (20) is disposed on a display portion of the speculum, while components of the image capture device, such as a lens (30), and light emitter are disposed on a nose portion (15) of the speculum. The nose portion is modularly replaceable with alternate nose portions sized and shaped to facilitate various discrete inspection procedures.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TSAI JORY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TSAI, JORY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSAI JORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSAI, JORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HAND HELD INSPECTION DEVICEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to hand held inspection instruments, and more particularly to an integrated hand held viewing scope and display for medical, dental, law enforcement, and other related fields.2. Background InformationVarious hand held instruments for use by a physician or dentist during examination of a patient have been known in the art for many years. Such hand held instruments include the otoscope for examination of the ear, ophthalmoscope for examination of the eye, larynx illuminator (throat) , nasal pharynx illuminator (nasal passages) , dermatologic magnifier (skin) and anoscope (lower G.I. tract).Also, in the prior art, it has been known to employ miniature or micro-video cameras in connection with various surgical and surveillance procedures. Examples of such video cameras are known as remote head color CCD cameras. These cameras typically employ an array of semiconductive chips using a technology known as charge coupled diode sensors. Such micro-cameras are capable of yielding more than 500 lines of resolution per axis, resulting from the use of 400,000 or more pixels. Use of such micro-video cameras and related equipment, such as endocouplers, have been known for some time in connection with certain types of 

surgery and, particularly, surgery conducted through the use of small incisions in the body wall in videoendoscopy procedures. Such procedures have become increasingly commonplace in connection with procedures upon the gall bladder, appendix, intestine, etc., where the problem is of an internal nature.In addition to relatively widespread use of such micro- video technology in the operating room, which includes the display of a procedure upon separate monitors, this technology has also been utilized in the dentist's or physician's office in the context of otherwise routine examination and diagnosis. An example of an instrument incorporating this technology is shown, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 5,762,605, issued to Cane et al . This device discloses a hand held optical diagnostic instrument including a CCD sensor and an external light source. The instrument is coupled to a discreet monitor, which may permit both patient and physician to observe an image of the examination. Moreover, devices of this type may be utilized to produce a video record of such an examination and/or provide either a videotape of the examination or selected print frames thereof.Such devices may also be used to provide a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An inspection instrument comprising: a body adapted for engagement by a user's hand; a speculum integrally disposed within said body; an image capture device and a light source, said image capture device and said light source being disposed
'
 integrally within said body; and a video display disposed integrally with said body.
2. The inspection instrument of claim 1, further comprising a power supply disposed integrally with said body.
3. The inspection instrument of claim 2, further comprising a power source disposed integrally with said body.
4. The inspection instrument of claim 1, wherein said image capture device and said light source are disposed integrally within said speculum.
5. The inspection instrument of claim 1, wherein said image capture device further comprises a lens disposed in optical communication with an image sensor.
6. The inspection instrument of claim 5, wherein said light source emits light substantially coaxially with a central optical axis of said image capture device. 

7. The inspection instrument of claim 6, wherein said light source further comprises a light emitting diode.
8. The inspection instrument of claim 1, further comprising a user actuatable power switch disposed integrally on said body.
9. The inspection instrument of claim 8, wherein said power switch is operable by a user's thumb.
10. The inspection instrument of claim 1, further comprising a power supply disposed integrally within said body.
11. The inspection instrument of claim 10, wherein said power supply is adapted for being coupled with an external power source.
12. The inspection instrument of claim 11, wherein said power supply further comprises charging circuitry adapted to recharge rechargeable batteries disposed integrally with said body.
13. The inspection instrument of claim 12, wherein said charging circuitry further comprises contacts disposed externally on said body, said contacts adapted for power coupling contact with an external power source when said body is received within a charger.
14. The inspection instrument of claim 1, further comprising video circuitry adapted to couple said video imaging device with said video display. 

15. The inspection instrument of claim 14, wherein said video circuitry further comprises an external port disposed on said body, said external port adapted to couple with an external video display.
16. The inspection instrument of claim 15, further comprising an external video display.
17. The inspection instrument of claim 1, wherein said image capture device is adapted to capture an image of an object disposed within an axis of examination of said instrument and said video display is disposed within said axis of examination.
18. The inspection instrument of claim 17, wherein said video display further comprises a substantially planar screen portion, said screen portion being disposed substantially orthogonally to said axis of examination.
19. The inspection instrument of claim 17, wherein said video display further comprises a substantially planar screen portion, said screen portion being disposed substantially orthogonally to a plane which includes said axis of examination.
20. An inspection instrument comprising: a body adapted for engagement by a user's hand; said body including a speculum disposed integrally therewith; an image capture device disposed integrally within 


 said body, said image capture device having a a light source disposed integrally within said body, said light source being adapted to emit light along at least one light emission axis disposed substantially parallel to said central optical axis; and a video display disposed integrally with said body, said video display being coupled with said video capture device to display an image captured thereby.
21. A method of examining a patient comprising the steps of:
(a) utilizing an instrument including: a body adapted for engagement by a user's hand, said body including a speculum disposed integrally therewith; an image capture device; a light emitter; said image capture device and said light emitter being disposed integrally with said body; and a video display disposed integrally with said body; and
(b) manipulating the instrument relative to a patient while the user simultaneously faces both the patient and the video display.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of:
(c) transmitting the image to a remote display.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of:
(d) recording the image on an image recorder. 

24. The inspection instrument of claim 1, wherein said image capture device further comprises an image recorder.
25. The inspection instrument of claim 1, further comprising an image recorder.
26. An instrument comprising: a body adapted for engagement by a user' s hand; a speculum integrally disposed within said body; a lens and a light outlet, said lens and said light outlet being disposed integrally within said body; and a video display disposed integrally with said body.
27. The instrument of claim 26, wherein said lens and light outlet are disposed integrally within a nose portion of said speculum.
28. The instrument of claim 27, wherein said nose portion further comprises a modular unit adapted for alternate engagement and disengagement with said body.
29. The instrument of claim 28, further comprising a plurality of said nose portions being interchangeably engagable with said body. 

0. The instrument of claim 29, wherein each of said plurality of nose portions are sized and shaped to facilitate discrete examining procedures. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
