<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1266536</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POSITION ASSISTED HANDOFF WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W3600	H04W3632	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W36	H04W36	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of using historic data from previous calls made from mobile terminals within a wireless communications network to predict future call management options to maximize quality. The method may include determining a route traveled by a mobile terminal in a mobile communication network by determining the geographic position of the mobile terminal at a plurality of time instants as the mobile terminal is moving within the network. The positions are stored in a memory, and a route is determined when a predetermined number of locations occur within a predetermined area. Once a route is determined, subsequent mobile terminals moving through the network are monitored and their paths are compared with the predetermined routes. The mobile terminal is considered to be moving along the predetermined route when the path matches any of the predetermined routes. The projected path of the mobile terminal along the identified route is used to assist in planning and executing call handoffs for the mobile terminal in an efficient manner.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAITH ALEX KRISTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAITH, ALEX,KRISTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 POSITION ASSISTED HANDOFF WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates generally to the management of mobile terminals in a wireless communication network and, more particularly, to a method for using mobile terminal position and previous handoff information to assist in call management.In a mobile communication network, service areas are typically divided into a plurality of cells, with each cell typically served by a base station. Mobile terminals within a particular cell communicate over RF channels with the base station serving that cell. The base station may handle a plurality of simultaneous calls from mobile terminals. The base stations are connected with one another and to the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) by mobile services switching center (MSCs). The MSCs coordinate the activities of all the base stations and connect the mobile communication network to the PSTN. A typical MSC may handle 100,000 cellular subscribers and 5,000 simultaneous conversations at a time. The MSC also accommodates billing and system maintenance functions. In some higher density networks, several MSCs are used in a single network.During the course of a call, a mobile terminal may move from one cell into another. A switching technique called a handoff enables the call to proceed uninterrupted when the user moves between cells. When the mobile terminal moves into a different cell while a call is in progress, the MSC automatically 

transfers the call from the current channel being used to a new channel belonging to the base station serving the new cell.Handoff decisions are typically based on received radio signal strength and channel quality as monitored by the base station serving the mobile terminal. Received signal strengths are easily monitored and signal quality for any given channel is often determined by the bit error rate or word error rate over a given channel. A handoff from the current channel to another channel is typically initiated when the signal level or channel quality drops below acceptable levels and another channel is available capable of providing acceptable communications. In some systems, a hysteresis algorithm is applied in order to avoid a ping-pong situation in which a second handoff occurs shortly after a first handoff due to the mobile terminal moving slightly back towards the direction of the original base station. To avoid these situations, the candidate cell may be required to be better than the current cell by a given amount,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. A method for determining a route traveled by a mobile terminal in a mobile communication network comprising: determining the geographic position of one or more mobile terminals at a plurality of time instants; storing said plurality of geographic positions in a memory; and determining, based on said plurality of geographic positions, one or more routes traveled by said mobile terminals. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining the geographic position of one or more mobile terminals comprises determining the geographic position of one or more mobile terminals while said mobile terminals are active in a call.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining the geographic position of one or more mobile terminals comprises determining the geographic position of one or more mobile terminals said based on a signal transmitted by said one or more mobile terminals.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein said one or more mobile terminals include a position estimating device for determining the corresponding mobile terminal's geographic position.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein said determining the geographic position of one or more mobile terminals comprises said position estimating device generating geographic position information and transmitting said 


geographic position information from said one or more mobile terminals to said mobile communication network.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein said determining the geographic position of one or more mobile terminals comprises said mobile communication network further processing said geographic position information after receipt from said one or more mobile terminals.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining one or more routes traveled by said mobile terminals comprises aggregating position data reported by a plurality of said mobile terminals. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining one or more routes traveled by said mobile terminals comprises determining one or more routes traveled by said mobile terminals based upon a density of positions within a predetermined geographic area. 

9. A method for matching the path traveled by a mobile terminal in a mobile communication network to a predetermined route stored in memory, comprising: determining the current path traveled by said mobile terminal based on the position of said mobile terminal at a plurality of time instants; comparing said current path traveled by said mobile terminal to one or more predetermined routes stored in said memory; and determining whether said current path matches one of said predetermined routes stored in said memory based on said comparison of said current path to said predetermined routes.
10. The method according to claim 9 wherein said comparing said current path traveled by said mobile terminal to one or more predetermined routes stored in said memory comprises computing a metric representing the correlation between said current path of said mobile terminal and said predetermined route.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein said comparing said current path traveled by said mobile terminal to one or more predetermined routes stored in said memory comprises comparing said current path traveled by said mobile terminal to one or more predetermined routes stored in said memory comprises over a predefined distance.
12. The method of claim 9 further including defining predetermined routes by aggregating position data reported by a plurality of mobile terminals. 

13. The method of claim 9, wherein said determining said current path traveled by said mobile terminal comprises determining the position of said mobile terminal from a signal transmitted by said mobile terminal.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein said mobile terminal includes a position estimating device and wherein said position estimating device helps perform said determining the position of said mobile terminal.
15. A method for tracking handoffs in a mobile communication network comprising: identifying a route associated with a path traveled by a mobile terminal; monitoring the position of a mobile terminal traveling along said route; when a hand-off event occurs, determining the hand-off position of said mobile terminal along said route at the time of said hand-off event; and storing said hand-off position corresponding to said hand-off event in said mobile communication network.
16. The method of claim 15 further including measuring service quality at a predetermined time period before and after said hand-off event and storing said service qualities in said mobile communication network.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein said service quality includes estimate at least one of the following: bit error rate and word error rate.
18. The method of claim 15 further including measuring both an uplink
and a downlink service quality. 

19. The method of claim 16 further including storing the difference between said before and after service qualities.
20. The method of claim 15 further including storing an indication of the direction said mobile terminal was traveling along said route at the time of said hand-off.
21. The method of claim 15, further including storing an indication of the speed of said mobile terminal at the time of said hand-off.
22. The method of claim 15 further including maintaining an overall service metric associated with each of said handoff positions. 23. A method for tracking handoffs by mobile terminals in a mobile communication network comprising: storing a route traveled by mobile terminals in a memory; storing a plurality of hand-off positions associated with said route in said memory; and grouping said hand-off positions according to predetermined criteria.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein said grouping said hand-off positions according to predetermined criteria comprises grouping said hand-off positions based on time.
25. The method of claim 23 wherein said grouping said hand-off positions according to predetermined criteria comprises grouping said hand-off positions based on a direction of travel along said route.
26. The method of claim 23 wherein grouping said hand-off positions according to predetermined criteria comprises grouping said hand-off positions based on the identity of said mobile terminal. 

27. The method of claim 23 wherein said grouping said hand-off positions according to predetermined criteria comprises grouping said hand-off positions based on a subscription identity.
28. The method of claim 23 wherein said grouping said hand-off positions according to predetermined criteria comprises grouping said hand-off positions based on a plurality of predetermined criteria.
29. A method of determining a handoff for a mobile terminal actively engaged in a call and moving within a mobile communication network, said method comprising: servicing said mobile terminal through a first base station as said mobile terminal moves through a first geographic area served by said first base station; matching the movement of said mobile terminal with a predetermined route that is stored in said mobile communication network; and thereafter, maintaining service to said mobile terminal through said first base station when said mobile terminal moves within a second geographic area served by a second base station based upon said route indicating that said mobile terminal will return to said first geographic area.
30. The method of claim 29 further including said first base station handing off said mobile terminal to said second base station if said mobile terminal moves into said second geographic area and a quality level drops below a predetermined level. 

31. The method of claim 29 further including timing said mobile terminal as it moves within said second geographic area and further including said first base station handing off said mobile terminal to said second base station if said mobile terminal remains within said second geographic area for a predetermined time.
32. The method of claim 29 further including monitoring the movement of said mobile terminal within said second geographic area and further including determining whether said mobile terminal has deviated from said route while moving within said second geographic area. 33. The method of claim 29 further including tracking the movement of said mobile terminal as it moves within said first geographic area served by said first base station.
34. A method for managing handoffs in a mobile communication network comprising: storing a route traveled by mobile terminals in a memory; storing a plurality of hand-off positions associated with said route in said memory; monitoring the position of a mobile terminal traveling along said route; and performing a handoff when said mobile terminal reaches one of said handoff positions.
35. The method according to claim 34, further including: storing metrics for selected handoff positions, 


 selecting one of said handoff positions based on said stored metrics and wherein said performing a handoff when said mobile terminal reaches one of said handoff positions comprises thereafter handing-off said mobile terminal from a first base station to a second base station when said mobile terminal reaches said selected handoff position.
36. The method of claim 35 further including updating said stored metric for said selected handoff position following said handoff.
37. The method of claim 34 wherein said monitoring the position of said mobile terminal traveling along said route comprises determining the position of said mobile terminal based on a signal transmitted by said mobile terminal.
38. The method of claim 34 wherein said mobile terminal includes a position estimating device for determining said mobile terminal's geographic position. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein said monitoring the position of said mobile terminal traveling along said route comprises said mobile terminal reporting said mobile terminal's geographic position to said mobile communication network.
40. The method of claim 35 wherein said second base station begins transmitting to said mobile terminal at a first handoff position and said first base station stops transmitting to said mobile terminal a second handoff position.
41. A method for sending a channel list to a mobile terminal in a mobile communication network comprising: determining the current position of said mobile terminal; 


 selecting one or more channels to be monitored by said mobile terminal based on said current position of said mobile terminal; and sending a channel list containing said selected channels from said mobile communication network to said mobile terminal.
42. The method of claim 41 wherein said selecting one or more channels to be monitored by said mobile terminal comprises selecting one or more channels to be monitored by said mobile terminal based on previous call hand-offs. 43. The method of claim 41 wherein said further including sending a channel list containing said selected channels to said mobile terminal comprises said mobile communication network sending a channel list containing said selected channels to said mobile terminal when said mobile terminal nears a handoff position. 44. The method of claim 41 further including said mobile terminal receiving said channel list and further including said mobile terminal monitoring a plurality of channels greater than said selected channels prior to said receiving said channel list.
45. The method of claim 44 further including said mobile terminal measuring said selected channels more often than said mobile terminal monitored said plurality of channels.
46. The method of claim 43 further including said mobile terminal monitoring said selected channels more frequently as said mobile terminal nears said handoff position. 

47. A method of determining areas within a cellular communications network having poor service quality comprising: monitoring the geographic location of at least one mobile terminal moving through said network; monitoring the service quality associated with said at least one mobile terminal; storing the geographic positions corresponding to locations where said at least one mobile terminals encounter service quality falling below a predetermined threshold; and identifying geographic areas with poor service quality within said network based on the density of said stored geographic positions.
48. The method of claim 47 wherein said monitoring the service quality associated with said at least one mobile terminal comprises monitoring the service quality associated with said at least one mobile terminal during active calls.
49. A method for managing handoffs between a first base station and a second base station in a mobile communication network comprising: storing a route traveled by mobile terminals in a memory; storing a plurality of hand-off positions associated with said route in said memory; monitoring the position of a mobile terminal traveling along said route while said mobile terminal communicates with said first base station; 


beginning transmission from said second base station to said mobile terminal when said mobile terminal reaches a first one of said handoff positions based on said monitoring the position of said mobile terminal traveling along said route; and terminating transmissions from said first base station when said mobile terminal reaches a second handoff position based on said monitoring the position of said mobile terminal traveling along said route. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
