<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1064566</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIFFERENTIAL PULSE RADAR MOTION SENSOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S7292	G01S7292	G01S1300	G01S1302	G01S1318	G01S1322	G01S1356	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S7	G01S7	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pulse Doppler radar motion sensor system and method for sensing target motion within a gated region is provided with approximately constant response versus target distance. The sensor includes a transmitter (19) for transmitting a sequence of RF bursts comprised of a number of cycles at the transmitter frequency (12). The transmitted burst width alternates at a pattern frequency to provide a pattern of varying burst widths (14). The sensor includes a receiver (20) responsive to the transmitted bursts and burst echoes from moving targets within its sensing field. The receiver (20) produces a pattern frequency with a signal amplitude (25) representative of the difference in moving target response for two different range gated regions defined by the transmitted burst widths. The difference is detected to provide a range invariant target motion response in a sharply defined region. Another mode provides a quadrature receive channel for target direction determination. Yet another mode time sequences the transmitted bursts to provide multiple range cell operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCEWAN TECHNOLOGIES LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCEWAN TECHNOLOGIES, LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCEWAN THOMAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCEWAN, THOMAS E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DIFFERENTIAL PULSE RADAR MOTION SENSORBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to electronic sensors, and more particularly to radar motion sensors based on pulse echo range gating.Description of Related Art Continuous Wave CW Doppler radar motion sensors emit a continuous wave, radio frequency RF carrier and mix the transmitted RF carrier with the return echos to produce a difference frequency equal to the Doppier shift produced by a moving target from which the carrier is reflected. CW Doppler sensors have a number of deficiencies that limit their wide spread application, including: 1) lack of a definite range limit, which leads to false triggers on distant clutter; 2) extremely high sensitivity at close range, causing false triggering on nearby small objects likes insects and on vibration; 3) high current consumption due to the CW operation making battery operation impractical; and 4) inability to co-locate sensors due to mutual interference.Range limiting or gating of the Doppler radar can be implemented with either amplitude modulation AM or frequency modulation FM. In United States Patent No. 3,719,944 byAdrian, a range limited FM Doppler proximity razing system for the U.S. Navy is disclosed. In this system, the range limit is related to FM bandwidth, and for short ranges of for example less than 3 meters, a high FM bandwidth, for example greater than 100 megaHertz is required. A main shortcoming with FM Doppler is response lobes that extend beyond the range limit. In other words, the range limit is not an absolute cut-off, just a substantial reduction in response. Another deficiency is the lack of range precision in low cost implementations. FM deviation in microstrip type oscillators is not well defined. In spite of these limitations, FM Doppler provides a response amplitude versus target distance that is much more uniform than seen in CW Doppler. The Adrian patent describes this technology in detail. AM, or pulse, Doppler motion sensors have been described in United States Patent No.4,197,537 by Follen, et al., in United States Patent No. 5,682,164 by McEwan, and others. In pulse Doppler, a short pulse is transmitted and its echo is mixed with either the transmitted- 1 - 

pulse or a local oscillator such that either the pulse timing or its width defines the range gated region. With amplitude modulation, response beyond the gated region is zero because there is no leakage as in FM Doppler. While pulse Doppler exhibits excellent gating characteristics,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A sensor comprising: a transmitter which transmits a sequence of transmitted bursts of electromagnetic energy to produce a sensor field, the transmitted bursts having burst widths which vary according to a pattern; a receiver which receives a combination of the transmitted bursts and reflections of the transmitted bursts and produces a combined output; and signal processing resources responsive the combined output which generate a sensor output signal indicating variations in differences in the combined output due to the pattern of varying burst widths .
2. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the transmitter includes: a burst width control circuit which controls the pattern of varying burst widths, by switching the burst widths of the transmitted bursts in the sequence of transmitted bursts between a first burst width and a second burst width at a pattern frequency.
3. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the transmitter includes: a burst width control circuit which controls the pattern of varying burst widths, by switching the burst widths of the transmitted bursts in the sequence of transmitted bursts between or among a plurality of burst widths according to the pattern.
4. The sensor of claim 1 , including a circuit coupled to the transmitter by which to adjust the burst width.
5. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the transmitter transmits the sequence of transmitted bursts at a transmitter frequency with a burst repetition rate, and the transmitter frequency is on the order of gigaHertz and the burst repetition rate is on the order of megaHertz.
6. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the transmitter includes a transmit antenna and the receiver includes a receive antenna, and the transmit and receive antennas are mounted such that the transmitted bursts are proximity coupled to the receive antenna.
- 18 - 

7. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the transmitter includes: a radio frequency oscillator responsive to burst width control signals to produce the transmitted bursts, and a burst width control circuit, coupled to the oscillator, which generates the burst width control signals to vary the burst widths of the transmitted bursts in the sequence of transmitted bursts according to the pattern.
8. The sensor of claim 7, wherein the pattern comprises switching between a first burst width and a second burst width at a pattern frequency.
9. The sensor of claim 7, wherein the pattern comprises varying the pulse width in response to a substantially continuously varying control signal.
10. The sensor of claim 9, wherein the substantially continuously varying control signal comprises a sine wave at a pattern frequency.
11. The sensor of claim 9, wherein the substantially continuously varying control signal comprises a triangle wave at a pattern frequency.
12. The sensor of claim 9, wherein the substantially continuously varying control signal comprises a ramp signal at a pattern frequency.
13. The sensor of claim 9, wherein the substantially continuously varying control signal comprises a noise modulated signal at a pattern frequency.
14. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the transmitter comprises an oscillator including a transistor having a source, a gate and a drain, and a burst width control circuit coupled to the source and drain, which starts a burst by lowering a voltage on the source of the transistor, and a ends a burst by decreasing voltage on the drain of the transistor.
- 19 

15. The sensor of claim 14, including a damping resistor coupled to the drain of the transistor.
16. The sensor of claim 14, including a damping resistor coupled to the source of the transistor.
17. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the transmitter comprises an oscillator including a transistor having an emitter, a base and a collector, and a burst width control circuit coupled to the source and drain, which starts a burst by lowering a voltage on the emitter of the transistor, and ends a burst by decreasing voltage on the collector of the transistor.
18. The sensor of claim 17, including a damping resistor coupled to the collector of the transistor.
19. The sensor of claim 17, including a damping resistor coupled to the emitter of the transistor.
20. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the transmitter comprises: a radio frequency oscillator having a transmit frequency between 900 megaHertz and 24 gigaHertz.
21. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the transmitter comprises: a radio frequency oscillator having a transmit frequency between 5 and 6 gigaHertz.
22. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the burst widths fall within a range from about 2 to 100 nanoseconds, and the burst widths vary between about 1 and 10 nanoseconds of a maximum burst width for the sequence of transmitted bursts.
23. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the burst widths fall within a range from about 2 to 20 nanoseconds, and the burst widths vary between about 1 and 10 nanoseconds of a maximum burst width for the sequence of transmitted bursts.
- 20 - 

24. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the burst widths vary between about 10 percent and about 50 percent of a maximum burst width for the sequence of transmitted bursts.
25. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the pattern is characterized by a pattern frequency and receiver includes: a mixer which mixes a transmitted burst with reflections of the transmitted burst, and a pattern frequency filter, coupled to the mixer, to produce a pattern frequency signal.
26. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the receiver includes: a peak detector which detects a peak of a combination of a transmitted burst with reflections of the transmitted burst, and a pattern frequency filter, coupled to the peak detector, to produce a pattern frequency signal.
27. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the signal processing resources comprise: an output filter adapted to detect differences in the combined output of the receiver according to the pattern which indicate motion in the sensor field.
28. The sensor of claim 27, wherein the output filter blocks frequencies below about
0.5 Hertz.
29. The sensor of claim 27, wherein the signal processing resources comprise: an output filter adapted to detect differences in the pattern frequency signal according to the pattern which indicate vibration in the sensor field.
30. The sensor of claim 29, wherein the output filter blocks frequencies below about
20 Hertz.
31. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the receiver includes an in-phase channel and a quadrature phase channel.
32. The sensor of claim 31 , including a transmit antenna, an in-phase receive antenna and a quadrature phase receive antenna.
- 21 - 

33. The sensor of claim 32, wherein the transmitted bursts have a transmit frequency above about 1 gigaHertz, and including an antenna horn having a focal point, and wherein the in-phase receive antenna and the quadrature phase receive antenna comprise antenna elements mounted at respective locations inside the horn, within about lambda/8 at the transmit frequency of the focal point of the horn.
34. The sensor of claim 1 , wherein the pattern establishes a plurality of range cells, and the signal processing resources demultiplex the combined output to provide sensor output signals for the plurality of range cells.
35. A sensor comprising : a transmitter which transmits a sequence of transmitted bursts of electromagnetic energy to produce a sensor field, the transmitter including a radio frequency oscillator responsive to burst width control signals to produce the transmitted bursts having a transmitter frequency between about 900 megaHertz and 24 gigaHertz, and a burst width control circuit, coupled to the oscillator, which generates the burst width control signals to vary the burst widths of the transmitted bursts in the sequence of transmitted bursts according to a pattern, the transmitted bursts having burst widths in a range of about 2 to 100 nanoseconds; a receiver which receives a combination of the transmitted bursts and reflections of the transmitted bursts and produces a combined output; and signal processing resources responsive the combined output which generate a sensor output signal indicating motion in the sensor field indicated by differences in the combined output due to the pattern of varying burst widths.
36. The sensor of claim 35, wherein the pattern comprises switching between a first burst width and a second burst width at a pattern frequency.
37. The sensor of claim 35, wherein the pattern is characterized by a pattern frequency and receiver includes:
22 


 a mixer which mixes a transmitted burst with reflections of the transmitted burst, and a pattern frequency filter, coupled to the mixer, to produce a pattern frequency signal.
38. The sensor of claim 35 , wherein the receiver includes: a peak detector which detects a peak of a combination of a transmitted burst with reflections of the transmitted burst, and a pattern frequency filter, coupled to the peak detector, to produce a pattern frequency signal.
39. The sensor of claim 35, wherein the signal processing resources comprise: an output filter adapted to detect differences in the pattern frequency signal according to the pattern which indicate motion in the sensor field.
40. The sensor of claim 39, wherein the output filter blocks frequencies below about
0.5 Hertz.
41. The sensor of claim 35 , wherein the signal processing resources comprise: an output filter adapted to detect differences in the pattern frequency signal according to the pattern which indicate vibration in the sensor field.
42. The sensor of claim 41 , wherein the output filter blocks frequencies below about
20 Hertz.
43. The sensor of claim 35, wherein the receiver includes an in-phase channel and a quadrature phase channel.
44. The sensor of claim 43, including a transmit antenna, an in-phase receive antenna and a quadrature phase receive antenna.
45. The sensor of claim 44, wherein the transmitted bursts have a transmit frequency above about 1 gigaHertz, and including an antenna horn having a focal point, and wherein the in-phase receive antenna and the quadrature phase receive antenna comprise
23 


antenna elements mounted at respective locations inside the horn, within about λ/8 at the transmit frequency of the focal point of the horn.
46. The sensor of claim 35, wherein the pattern establishes a plurality of range cells, and the signal processing resources demultiplex the combined output to provide sensor output signals for the plurality of range cells.
47. The sensor of claim 35, wherein the radio frequency oscillator includes a transistor having a source, a gate and a drain, and a burst width control circuit coupled to the source and drain, which starts a burst by lowering a voltage on the source of the transistor, and a ends a burst by decreasing voltage on the drain of the transistor.
48. The sensor of claim 47, including a damping resistor coupled to the drain of the transistor, and a damping resistor coupled to the source of the transistor.
49. The sensor of claim 35, wherein the radio frequency oscillator includes a transistor having an emitter, a base and a collector, and a burst width control circuit coupled to the source and drain, which starts a burst by lowering a voltage on the emitter of the transistor, and ends a burst by decreasing voltage on the collector of the transistor.
50. The sensor of claim 49, including a damping resistor coupled to the collector of the transistor, and a damping resistor coupled to the emitter of the transistor.
51. The sensor of claim 35 , wherein the receiver includes an in-phase channel and a quadrature phase channel.
52. The sensor of claim 51 , including a transmit antenna, an in-phase receive antenna and a quadrature phase receive antenna.
24 - 

53. The sensor of claim 52, including an antenna horn having a focal point, and wherein the in-phase receive antenna and the quadrature phase receive antenna comprise antenna elements mounted at respective locations inside the horn, within about λ/8 at the transmitter frequency of the focal point of the horn.
54. The sensor of claim 35, wherein the pattern establishes a plurality of range cells, and the signal processing resources demultiplex the combined output to provide sensor output signals for the plurality of range cells.
55. A method for detecting disturbance in a sensor field, comprising: transmitting a sequence of transmitted bursts of electromagnetic energy to produce a sensor field, the transmitted bursts having burst widths which vary according to a pattern; receiving a combination of the transmitted bursts and reflections of the transmitted bursts and producing a combined output; and processing the combined output to generate a sensor output signal indicating variations in differences in the combined output due to the pattern of varying burst widths.
56. The method of claim 55 , wherein the transmitted bursts have a frequency between about 900 megaHertz and 24 gigaHertz, and including: varying the burst widths of the transmitted bursts in the sequence of transmitted bursts so that the transmitted bursts have burst widths in a range of about 2 to 100 nanoseconds which between about 1 and 10 nanoseconds of a maximum burst width for the sequence of transmitted bursts according to the pattern.
- 25 - 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
