<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1204486</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESSES FOR COATING A METAL SUBSTRATE WITH AN ELECTRODEPOSITED COATING COMPOSITION AND DRYING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C25D1322	B05D302	B05D100	B05D302	B05D100	B05D304	B05D304	C25D1322	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C25D	B05D	B05D	B05D	B05D	B05D	B05D	C25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C25D13	B05D3	B05D1	B05D3	B05D1	B05D3	B05D3	C25D13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for drying a liquid electrodeposited coating composition applied to a metal substrate is provided. Infrared radiation and warm air are applied simultaneously to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of at least about 1 minute, the velocity of the air at the surface of the electrodeposited coating composition being less than about 4 meters per second. The temperature of the metal substrate is increased at a rate ranging from about 0.25  DEG C per second to about 2  DEG C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature of the substrate ranging from about 35  DEG C to about 140  DEG C. Infrared radiation and hot air are applied simultaneously to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of at least about 2 minutes, during which the temperature of the metal substrate is increased at a rate ranging from about 0.2  DEG C per second to about 1.5  DEG C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature ranging from about 160  DEG C to about 215  DEG C, such that a dried electrodeposited coating is formed upon the surface of the metal substrate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PPG IND OHIO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PPG INDUSTRIES OHIO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMCH DONALDSON J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMCH, DONALDSON, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to drying of electrodeposited coating
compositions for automotive coating applications and, more particularly, to
multi-stage processes for drying liquid electrodeposited coating compositions
which include a combination of infrared radiation and convection drying.Today's automobile bodies are treated with multiple layers of coatings
which not only enhance the appearance of the automobile, but also provide
protection from corrosion, chipping, ultraviolet light, acid rain and other
environmental conditions which can deteriorate the coating appearance and
underlying car body.The formulations of these coatings can vary widely. However, a major
challenge that faces all automotive manufacturers is how to rapidly dry and 
cure these coatings with minimal capital investment and floor space, which is
valued at a premium in manufacturing plants.Various ideas have been proposed to speed up drying and curing
processes for automobile coatings, such as hot air convection drying. While
hot air drying is rapid, a skin can form on the surface of the coating which
impedes the escape of volatiles from the coating composition and causes
pops, bubbles or blisters which ruin the appearance of the dried coating.Other methods and apparatus for drying and curing a coating applied
to an automobile body are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,771,728;
4,907,533; 4,908,231 and 4,943,447, in which the automobile body is heated
with radiant heat for a time sufficient to set the coating on Class A surfaces of
the body and subsequently cured with heated air.U.S. Patent No. 4,416,068 discloses a method and apparatus for
accelerating the drying and curing of refinish coatings for automobiles using
infrared radiation. Ventilation air used to protect the infrared radiators from
solvent vapors is discharged as a laminar flow over the car body. Fig. 15 is a
graph of temperature as a function of time showing the preferred high
temperature/short drying time curve 122 versus conventional infrared drying
(curve 113) and convection drying (curve 114). Such rapid, high temperature
drying techniques can be undesirable because a skin can form on the surface
of the coating that can cause pops, bubbles or blisters, as discussed above.U.S. Patent No. 4,336,279 discloses a process and apparatus for
drying automobile coatings using direct radiant energy, a majority of which
has a wavelength greater than 5 microns. Heated air is circulated under
turbulent conditions against the back sides of the walls of the heating
chamber to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for drying a liquid electrodeposited coating composition
applied to a metal substrate, comprising the steps of:


(a) applying infrared radiation and warm air simultaneously
(114) to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of

at least about 1 minute, the velocity of the air at the surface of
the electrodeposited coating composition being less than about 4

meters per second, the temperature of the metal substrate being
increased at a rate ranging from about 0.25°C per second to about

2°C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature of the
substrate ranging from about 35°C to about 140°C; and
(b) applying infrared radiation and hot air simultaneously (116)
to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of at

least about 2 minutes, the temperature of the metal substrate
being increased at a rate ranging from about 0.2°C per second to

about 1.5°C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature ranging
from about 160°C to about 215°C, such that a dried electrodeposited

coating is formed upon the surface of the metal substrate.
The process according to claim 1, wherein the metal substrate is
selected from the group consisting of iron, steel, aluminum, zinc,

magnesium and alloys and combinations thereof.
The process according to claim 1, wherein the metal substrate is
an automotive body component.
The process according to claim 1, wherein the volatile material of
the liquid electrodeposited coating composition is selected from 

the group consisting of water, organic solvents and low molecular
weight organic acids.
The process according to claim 4, wherein the volatile material of
the liquid electrodeposited coating composition comprises water.
The process according to claim 1, wherein the infrared radiation
is emitted at a wavelength ranging from about 0.7 to about 20

micrometers.
The process according to claim 6, wherein the wavelength ranges
from about 0.7 to about 4 micrometers.
The process according to claim 1, wherein the infrared radiation
is emitted at a power density ranging from about 10 to about 40

kilowatts per square meter of emitter wall surface.
The process according to claim 1, wherein the air has a
temperature ranging from about 35°C to about 140°C in step (a).
The process according to claim 1, wherein the period ranges from
about 1 minute to about 3 minutes in step (a).
The process according to claim 1, wherein the air velocity ranges

from about 0.5 to about 4 meters per second in step (a).
The process according to claim 1, wherein the temperature of the
metal substrate is increased at a rate ranging from about 0.8°C

per second to about 1.2°C per second in step (a). 
The process according to claim 1, wherein the peak metal
temperature of the metal substrate ranges from about 70°C to about

95°C in step (a).
The process according to claim 1, wherein the air has a
temperature ranging from about 120°C to about 180°C in step (b).
The process according to claim 1, wherein the period ranges from
about 2 minutes to about 3 minutes in step (b).
The process according to claim 1, wherein the temperature of the
metal substrate is increased at a rate ranging from about 0.25°C

per second to about 1.1°C per second in step (b).
The process according to claim 1, wherein the peak metal
temperature of the metal substrate ranges from about 190°C to

about 205°C in step (b).
The process according to claim 1, further comprising a preliminary
step of applying the electrodepositable coating (110) by immersing

the metal substrate in a bath containing a liquid electrodepositable
coating composition and permitting excess liquid electrodepositable

coating composition to drain from the metal substrate for at least
about 5 minutes in air at a temperature ranging from about 10°C to

about 40°C and having a velocity of less than about 0.5 meters per
second.
The process according to claim 1, further comprising an additional
step (c) of applying a second electrodepositable coating

composition (118) over the dried electrodeposited coating of step
(b). 
The process according to claim 1, further comprising an additional
step (c') of applying hot air (120) to the dried electrodeposited

coating for a period of at least about 6 minutes after step (b) at
a peak metal temperature ranging from about 160°C to about 215°C,

such that a cured electrodeposited coating is formed upon the
surface of the metal substrate.
The process according to claim 20, wherein additional step (c')
further comprises applying infrared radiation (120) to the dried

electrodeposited coating simultaneously while applying the hot
air.
The process according to claim 1, further comprising an additional
step (d) of applying a primer/surfacer composition over the dried

electrodeposited coating.
The process according to claim 1, further comprising an additional
step (e) of applying a basecoating composition over the dried

electrodeposited coating.
A process for coating a metal substrate, comprising the steps of
depositing a liquid electrodepositable coating composition (110)

on a surface of the metal substrate to form a liquid

electrodeposited coating composition thereon; and

exposing the liquid electrodeposited coating composition to air
(112) having a temperature ranging from about 10°C to about 40°C

for a period of at least about 30 seconds to volatilize at least a
portion of volatile material from the liquid electrodeposited

coating composition, the velocity of the air at a surface of the
liquid electrodeposited coating composition being less than about

4 meters per second:
 
prior to drying of the liquid electrodeposited coat according to

the process of claim 1.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
