<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999038457</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TUBULAR STENT CONSISTING OF HORIZONTAL EXPANSION STRUTS AND CONTRALATERALLY ATTACHED DIAGONAL-CONNECTORS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circumferentially connected stent in a non-expanded state with a longitudinal axis, including a plurality of expansion struts forming a first expansion column, the first expansion column including a first expansion strut, a second expansion strut and a first joining strut. The first joining strut couples a distal end of the first expansion strut to a distal end of the second expansion strut, and the first expansion strut has a stepped distal portion and the second expansion strut has a stepped proximal portion. A plurality of expansion struts defines a second expansion column, and the second expansion column includes a first expansion strut, a second expansion strut and a first joining strut which couples a distal end of the first expansion strut to a distal end of the second expansion strut, and the first expansion strut has a stepped proximal portion and the second expansion strut has a stepped distal portion. A first serial connecting strut column is formed of a plurality of serial connecting struts and includes a first serial connecting strut. The first serial connecting strut column couples the first expansion column to the second expansion column.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JANG G DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JANG, G., DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANG G DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANG, G., DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TUBULAR STENT CONSISTS OF HORIZONTAL EXPANSION STRUTS AND CONTRALATERALLY ATTACHED DIAGONAL-CONNECTORSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention:This invention relates to intravascular stents, and more particularly to an intravascular stent, which provides easy introduction through tortuous sections of vessels but this invention can be used as an intraluminal scaffolding device in any tubular body anatomy.Description of the Related Art:Angioplasty, either coronary or general vascular, has advanced to become the most effective means for revascularization of stenosed vessels. In the early 1980's, angioplasty first became available for clinical practice in the coronary artery, and has since proven an effective alternative to conventional bypass graft surgery. Balloon catheter dependent angioplasty has consistently proven to be the most reliable and practical interventional procedure. Other ancillary technologies such as laser based treatment, or directional or rotational atherectomy, have proven to be either of limited effectiveness or dependent on balloon angioplasty for completion of the intended procedure. Restenosis following balloon-based angioplasty is the most serious drawback and is especially prevalent in the coronary artery system.Many regimens have been designed to combat restenosis, with limited success, including laser based treatment and directional or rotational atherectomy. Intravascular stenting, however, noticeably reduces the restenosis rate following angioplasty procedures. The procedure for intravascular stent placement typically involves pre-dilation of the target vessel using balloon angioplasty, followed by deployment of the stent, and expansion of the stent such that the dilated vessel walls are supported from the inside.The intravascular stent functions as scaffolding for the lumen of a vessel. The scaffolding of the vessel walls by the stent serve to: (a) prevent elastic recoil of the dilated vessel wall, (b) eliminate residual stenosis of the vessel; a common occurrence in balloon angioplasty procedures, (c) maintain the diameter of the stented vessel-1- 

segment slightly larger than the native unobstructed vessel segments proximal and distal the stented segment and (d) as indicated by the latest clinical data, lower the restenosis rate. Following an angioplasty procedure, the restenosis rate of stented vessels has proven significantly lower than for not stented or otherwise treated vessels; treatments include drug therapy and other methods mentioned previously.Another
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A circumferentially connected stent in a non-expanded state with a longitudinal axis, comprising: a plurality of expansion struts forming a first expansion column, the first expansion column including a first expansion strut, a second expansion strut and a first joining strut coupling a distal end of the first expansion strut to a distal end of the second expansion strut, the first expansion strut having a stepped distal portion and the second expansion strut having a stepped proximal portion; a plurality of expansion struts defining a second expansion column, the second expansion column including a first expansion strut, a second expansion strut and a first joining strut coupling a distal end of the first expansion strut to a distal end of the second expansion strut, the first expansion strut having a stepped proximal portion and the second expansion strut having a stepped distal portion; and a first serial connecting strut column formed of a plurality of serial connecting struts and including a first serial connecting strut, the first serial connecting strut column coupling the first expansion column to the second expansion column.
2. The stent of claim 1, wherein the first and second expansion columns and the first serial connecting strut column form asymmetric cells.
3. The stent of claim 2, wherein each of an asymmetric cell includes a proximal slot formed between a pair of adjacent expansion struts in the first expansion column and a distal slot formed between a pair of adjacent expansion struts in the second expansion column.
4. The stent of claim 1, wherein each of the serial connecting struts in the first serial connecting strut column has a proximal portion coupled to a proximal stem, a distal portion coupled to a distal stem and an intermediate portion that couples the proximal and distal portions of the serial connecting strut.
5. The stent of claim 4, wherein each intermediate portion of a serial connecting strut in the first serial connecting strut column diagonally couples the
-35- 


proximal and distal portions of the serial connecting strut.
6. The stent of claim 1 , wherein the first serial connecting stmt contralaterally couples the stepped distal portion of the first expansion strut of the first expansion column to the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut of the second expansion column.
7. The stent of claim 4, wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut is contralaterally coupled to the stepped distal portion of the first expansion strut of the first expansion column, and the distal stem of the first serial connecting strut is contralaterally coupled to the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut of the second expansion column.
8. The stent of claim 4, wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut is contralaterally coupled to a side of the stepped distal portion of the first expansion strut of the first expansion column, and the distal stem of the first serial connecting strut is contralaterally coupled to a side of the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut of the second expansion column.
9. The stent of claim 8, wherein in the first expansion column, the proximal portion of the first expansion strut has a longitudinal axis that is parallel to a longitudinal axis of the stepped distal portion of the first expansion strut.
10. The stent of claim 9, wherein in the second expansion column, the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut has a longitudinal axis that is parallel to a longitudinal axis of the distal portion of the first expansion strut.
1 1. The stent of claim 9, wherein the longitudinal axis of the proximal portion of the first expansion strut in the first expansion column is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the distal portion of the second expansion strut in the first expansion column.
12. The stent of claim 9, wherein in the first expansion column, a first side
-36- 


of the proximal portion of the first expansion strut has a same longitudinal axis as a first side of the proximal portion of the first serial connecting strut in the first serial strut connecting column.
13. The stent of claim 12, wherein in the first expansion column a second side of the distal portion of the second expansion strut has a same longitudinal axis as a second side of a distal portion of the first serial connecting stmt in the first serial stmt connecting column.
14. The stent of claim 13, wherein in the second expansion column a second side of the distal portion of the first expansion strut has a same longitudinal axis as the second side of the distal portion of the first serial connecting stmt in the first serial strut connecting column.
15. A circumferentially connected stent in a non-expanded state with a longitudinal axis, comprising: a plurality of expansion struts forming a first expansion column, the first expansion column including a first expansion strut, a second expansion strut and a first joining strut coupling a distal end of the first expansion strut to a distal end of the second expansion strut, the first expansion strut having a stepped distal portion and the second expansion strut having a stepped proximal portion; a plurality of expansion struts defining a second expansion column, the second expansion column including a first expansion strut, a second expansion strut and a first joining strut coupling a distal end of the first expansion strut to a distal end of the second expansion strut, the first expansion strut having a stepped proximal portion and the second expansion strut having a stepped distal portion; a first serial connecting strut column formed of a plurality of serial connecting struts and including a first serial connecting strut, the first serial connecting strut column coupling the first expansion column to the second expansion column; a plurality of expansion struts forming a third expansion column, the third expansion column including a first expansion strut, a second expansion strut and a first joining strut coupling a proximal end of the first expansion strut to a proximal end of the second expansion strut, the first expansion strut having a stepped proximal portion and
-37- 


the second expansion strut having a stepped distal portion; and a second serial connecting strut column formed of a plurality of connecting struts including a first serial connecting strut, the first serial connecting strut column coupling the second expansion column to the third expansion column.
16. The stent of claim 15, wherein the first and second expansion columns and the first serial connecting strut column form a first set of asymmetric cells, and the second and third expansion columns and the second serial connecting strut column form a second set of asymmetric cells.
17 The stent of claim 16, wherein each of a first set of an asymmetric cell includes a proximal cell slot formed between a pair of adjacent expansion struts in the first expansion column and a distal cell slot formed between a pair of adjacent expansion stmts in the second expansion column.
18 The stent of claim 17, wherein each of a second set of an asymmetric cell includes a proximal cell cell slot formed between a pair of adjacent expansion struts in the second expansion column and a distal slot formed between a pair of adjacent expansion struts in the second expansion column.
19. The stent of claim 15, wherein each of the serial connecting struts in the first and second serial connecting strut columns has a proximal portion with a proximal stem, a distal portion with a distal stem and an intermediate portion that couples the proximal and distal portions.
20. The stent of claim 15, wherein the intermediate portion of each of the serial connecting struts of the first serial connecting strut column diagonally couples the proximal and distal portions.
21. The stent of claim 20. wherein the intermediate sections of the serial connecting struts of the first serial connecting strut column all extend in the same direction.
-38- 

22. The stent of claim 21, wherein the intermediate sections of the serial connecting struts of the second serial connecting strut column all extend in the same direction.
23. The stent of claim 22, wherein the intermediate sections of the serial connecting struts of the first and second serial connecting strut columns extend in different directions.
24. The stent of claim 23, wherein only a portion of the expansion struts in the first expansion strut column are coupled by serial connecting struts in the first serial connecting strut column to expansion struts in the second expansion stmt column.
25. The stent of claim 24, wherein only a portion of the expansion struts in the second expansion strut column are coupled by serial connecting struts in the second serial connecting strut column to expansion struts in the third expansion strut column.
26. The stent of claim 20, wherein the first serial connecting strut of the first serial connecting strut column contralaterally couples the stepped distal portion of the first expansion strut of the first expansion column to the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut of the second expansion column.
27. The stent of claim 26, wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the first serial connecting strut column is coupled to a side of the stepped distal portion of the first expansion strut in the first expansion column, and the distal stem of the first serial connecting strut is coupled to a side of the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut in the second expansion column.
28. The stent of claim 27, wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the first serial connecting strut column is coupled to the side of the stepped distal portion of the first expansion strut in the first expansion column at a connect angle of 85° or greater, wherein the connect angle is formed closest to a step formed in the first expansion strut of the first expansion column.
-39- 

29. The stent of claim 28, wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the first serial connecting strut column is coupled to the side of the stepped distal portion of the first expansion strut in the first expansion column at a connect angle of 90° or greater, wherein the connect angle is formed closest to a step formed in the first expansion strut of the first expansion column.
30. The stent of claim 29, wherein the distal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the first serial connecting strut column is coupled to the side of the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut in the second expansion column at a connect angle of 85° or greater, wherein the connect angle is formed closest to a step formed in the first expansion strut of the second expansion column.
31. The stent of claim 29, wherein the distal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the first serial connecting strut column is coupled to the side of the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut in the second expansion column at a connect angle of 90° or greater, wherein the connect angle is formed closest to a step formed in the first expansion strut of the second expansion column.
32. The stent of claim 27, wherein the first serial connecting strut of the second serial connecting strut column contralaterally couples the stepped distal portion of the second expansion stmt of the second expansion column to the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut of the third expansion column.
33. The stent of claim 32, wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the second serial connecting strut column is coupled to a side of the stepped distal portion of the second expansion strut in the second expansion column, and the distal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the second serial connecting stmt column is coupled to a side of the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut in the third expansion column.
34. The stent of claim 33, wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the second serial connecting strut column is coupled to the side of the stepped distal portion of the second expansion strut in the second expansion column
-40- 


at a connect angle of 85° or greater, wherein the connect angle is formed closest to a step formed in the second expansion strut of the second expansion column.
35. The stent of claim 33, wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the second serial connecting strut column is coupled to the side of the stepped distal portion of the second expansion strut in the second expansion column at a connect angle of 90° or greater, wherein the connect angle is formed closest to a step formed in the second expansion strut of the second expansion column.
36. The stent of claim 33, wherein the distal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the second serial connecting strut column is coupled to the side of the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut in the third expansion column at a connect angle of 85° or greater, wherein the connect angle is formed closest to a step formed in the first expansion strut of the third expansion column.
37. The stent of claim 33, wherein the distal stem of the first serial connecting strut in the second serial connecting strut column is coupled to the side of the stepped proximal portion of the first expansion strut in the third expansion column at a connect angle of 90° or greater, wherein the connect angle is formed closest to a step formed in the first expansion strut of the third expansion column.
38. The stent of claim 19, wherein the first and second expansion columns and the first connecting strut column form a first set of asymmetric cells, and the second and third expansion columns and the second connecting strut column form a second set of asymmetric cells.
39. A circumferentially connected stent in a non-expanded state with a longitudinal axis, comprising: a plurality of expansion stmts forming a first expansion column, the first expansion column including a first expansion strut, a second expansion strut and a first joining strut coupling a distal end of the first expansion strut to a distal end of the second expansion strut, the first expansion strut having a stepped proximal portion and the second expansion strut having a stepped distal portion;
-41. 


 a plurality of expansion struts defining a second expansion column, the second expansion column including a first expansion strut, a second expansion strut and a first joining strut coupling a distal end of the first expansion strut to a distal end of the second expansion strut, the first expansion strut having a stepped distal portion and the second expansion strut having a stepped proximal portion; and a first serial connecting strut column formed of a plurality of serial connecting struts and including a first serial connecting strut, the first serial connecting strut column coupling the first expansion column to the second expansion column .
40. The stent of claim 39, wherein the first and second expansion columns and the first serial connecting strut column form asymmetric cells.
41. The stent of claim 40, wherein each of an asymmetric cell includes a proximal slot formed between a pair of adjacent expansion struts in the first expansion column and a distal slot formed between a pair of adjacent expansion stmts in the second expansion column.
42. The stent of claim 39, wherein each of the serial connecting stmts in the first serial connecting strut column has a proximal portion with a proximal stem, a distal portion with a distal stem and an intermediate portion that couples the proximal and distal portions of the serial connecting strut.
43. The stent of claim 42, wherein each intermediate portion of a serial connecting strut in the first serial connecting strut column diagonally couples the proximal and distal portions of the serial connecting stmt.
44. The stent of claim 43, wherein the first serial connecting strut contralaterally couples the distal portion of the first expansion strut of the first expansion column to the proximal portion of the first expansion strut of the second expansion column.
45. The stent of claim 41 , wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut is contralaterally coupled to the distal portion of the first expansion
-42- 


 rut of the first expansion column, and the distal stem of the first serial connecting contralaterally coupled to the proximal portion of the first expansion stmt of the :cond exnansion column.
46. The stent of claim 42, wherein the proximal stem of the first serial connecting strut is contralaterally coupled to a side of the distal portion of the first expansion strut of the first expansion column, and the distal stem of the first serial connecting strut is contralaterally coupled to a side of the proximal portion of the first expansion strut of the second expansion column.
47. The stent of claim 46, wherein in the first expansion column, the distal portion of the first expansion strut has a longitudinal axis that is parallel to a longitudinal axis of the proximal portion of the second expansion strut.
48. The stent of claim 47, wherein in the second expansion column, the proximal portion of the first expansion strut has a longitudinal axis that is parallel to a longitudinal axis of the distal portion of the second expansion strut.
49. The stent of claim 48, wherein the distal portion of the first expansion strut in the first expansion column has a longitudinal axis that is parallel to a longitudinal axis of the proximal portion of the first expansion strut in the second expansion column
-43- 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
