<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1993018356</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTROL SYSTEM FOR AN AIR CONDITIONING/REFRIGERATION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04D2700	F04D2700	F04D2702	F04D2702	F24F100	F24F100	F24F1100	F24F1100	F25B100	F25B100	F25B104	F25B1053	F25B4106	F25B4106	F25B4902	F25B4902	G05D2319	G05D2319	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04D	F04D	F04D	F04D	F24F	F24F	F24F	F24F	F25B	F25B	F25B	F25B	F25B	F25B	F25B	F25B	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04D27	F04D27	F04D27	F04D27	F24F1	F24F1	F24F11	F24F11	F25B1	F25B1	F25B1	F25B1	F25B41	F25B41	F25B49	F25B49	G05D23	G05D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECOAIR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECOAIR CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POWELL JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POWELL, JAMES, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionCONTROL SYSTEM FOR AN AIR CONDITIONING/REFRIGERATION SYSTEMTechnical FieldThis invention relates generally to control systems for air conditioning/refrigeration systems. Background ArtRecent international legislation engendered by environmental concerns over the issues of global warming and ozone depletion have mandated the elimination of freons including those used in the multi-billion dollar air conditioning/refrigeration industry. Substitute refrigerants that have more beneficial environmental indices such as R134A (a replacement for R12 which is widely used in the automotive industry) have been proposed for use in conventional air conditioning/ refrigeration systems but at the cost of incurring significant input power penalties, loss of capacity for given component size, and other problems such as lubricant incompatibility.Most present air conditioning and refrigeration devices, especially those of small capacity typical of home and automotive air conditioners, use positive displacement compressor devices of relatively low pressure ratio (e.g.4/1 ). These devices, which typically run at constant speed, pressure charge an accumulator or storage device with high pressure refrigerant for subsequent expansion (and cooling) in the evaporator heat exchanger. These systems cycle on and off to maintain the accumulator storage tank pressure. As the cooling load decreases and less refrigerant flow is required, the on- off cycle time becomes larger. Among the deficiencies with this approach are the fact that the energy efficiency during startup is significantly less than that of steady state running, the frequent cycling during all operating conditions can have deleterious impact 

on reliability, the variation of cooling with demand is considerable due to the charging and discharging of the accumulator, and, in fact, the load variation which can be accommodated with this type of operation is somewhat limited. Subsequent improvements on this type of operation can be found in more modern systems which modulate compressor and, in some cases, evaporator and condenser fan speeds to obtain more nearly uniform operation and somewhat improved cycle turn down range and efficiency. These systems typically employed fixed or variable displacement piston, scroll, or wobble plate compressors, numerous examples of which can be found in the literature.Recent technologies have been disclosed which use refrigerants with much higher specific volumes than the conventional R12 and R22 fluids. These systems, which are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of controlling α refrigeration system having a working fluid and, in sequence, an evaporator, a variable speed centrifugal compressor, a condenser and an expansion valve, comprising: a) accelerating rotation of said compressor; b) measuring the acceleration of said compressor; c) measuring the temperature or pressure of the working fluid at said compressor; d) determining rate of change of the temperature or pressure of said working fluid during any acceleration of said compressor; e) decreasing acceleration of said compressor if said rate of change of the temperature or pressure of said working fluid indicates surging of said compressor; and f) repeating steps (b) through (e) until said compressor stops accelerating.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said acceleration of said compressor in step (a) is to a predetermined maximum level.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the temperature of the working fluid is measured in step (c) within or downstream adjacent to said compressor.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the pressure of the working fluid is measured in step (c) within or downstream adjacent to said compressor.
5. Apparatus for controlling a refrigeration system having a working fluid and, in sequence, an evaporator, a variable speed centrifugal compressor, a condenser and an expansion valve, comprising: a sensor for measuring the acceleration of said compressor; 


 α sensor for measuring the temperature or pressure of the working fluid at said compressor; and a microprocessor control for determining rate of change of the temperature or pressure of said working fluid during any acceleration of said compressor and decreasing acceleration of said compressor if said rate of change of the temperature or pressure of said working fluid indicates surging of said compressor.
6. A method of controlling a refrigeration system having a working fluid and, in sequence, an evaporator, a variable speed centrifugal compressor, a condenser and an expansion valve, comprising: a) operating said compressor at a constant speed; b) maintaining said working fluid a first predefined level of superheat between said evaporator and said compressor while said compressor is operating at constant speed; c) accelerating rotation of said compressor; d) increasing the superheat of said working fluid between said evaporator and said compressor to a second predefined level above said first predefined level and maintaining the superheat at said second predefined level while said compressor is accelerating; and e) decreasing the superheat of said working fluid to said first predefined level when said compressor returns to a constant operating speed.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein said expansion valve is adjustable to vary the flow of said working fluid in the system and wherein the superheat of said working fluid is increased in step (d) by adjusting flow of said working fluid through said expansion valve.
8. The method of claim 6 wherein said evaporator includes a variable speed fan to vary the rate of heat transfer of said working 


fluid and wherein the superheat of said working fluid is increased in step (d) by adjusting heat transfer of said working fluid at said evaporator.
9. Apparatus for controlling a refrigeration system having a working fluid and, in sequence, an evaporator, a variable speed centrifugal compressor, a condenser and an expansion valve, comprising: a sensor for determining when said compressor is operating at a constant speed; a microprocessor control for maintaining said working fluid at a first predefined level of superheat between said evaporator and said compressor while said compressor is operating at constant speed; a sensor for determining when rotation of said compressor is accelerating; and a microprocessor control for increasing the superheat of said working fluid between said evaporator and said compressor to a second predefined level above said first predefined level and maintaining the superheat at said second predefined level while said compressor is accelerating.
10. A method of monitoring a variable speed centrifugal compressor in a refrigeration system having a working fluid, comprising: 
•
 a) during an initiation period, accelerating rotation of said compressor while: i) measuring the acceleration of said compressor; ii) measuring power input to said compressor; and iii) measuring rate of change of temperature or pressure of the working fluid at said compressor; b) repeating step (a) to assemble a plurality of said measurements; 


 c) storing said acceleration, power input and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during said initiation period; d) subsequent to said initiation period, accelerating rotation of said compressor while: i) measuring the acceleration of said compressor; ii) measuring power input to said compressor; and
Hi) measuring rate of change of temperature or pressure of the working fluid at said compressor; and e) determining an indication of deterioration of said compressor by comparing said acceleration, power input and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during said subsequent period with said acceleration, power input and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during said initiation period.
1 1. The method of claim 10 further including the step of signalling deterioration of a drive component of said compressor if, in step (e), the power input to said compressor in said subsequent period increases by a predetermined amount over the power input in said initiation period while the acceleration and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements remain constant between said periods.
12. The method of claim 10 further including the step of signalling deterioration of a pressurizing component of said compressor if, in step (e), the rate of change of temperature or pressure of said working fluid in said subsequent period decreases by a predetermined amount over the rate of change of temperature of said working fluid in said initiation period while the compressor acceleration remains constant between said periods. 


13. The method of claim 10 wherein said compressor is driven by an electrically powered motor and wherein said power input to said compressor in steps (a)(ii) and (d)(ii) is measured by the level of electric power input to said motor.
14. The method of claim 10 wherein, following a determination of deterioration of said compressor, steps (a) - (c) are repeated in a new initiation period and steps (d) and (e) are repeated to determine an indication of deterioration of said compressor from said new initiation period.
15. Apparatus for monitoring a variable speed centrifugal compressor in a refrigeration system having a working fluid, comprising: a sensor for measuring the acceleration of said compressor; a sensor for measuring power input to said compressor; a sensor for measuring rate of change of temperature or pressure of the working fluid at said compressor; and a microprocessor control for storing acceleration, power input and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during an initiation period and determining an indication of deterioration of said compressor by comparing acceleration, power input and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during a subsequent period with said acceleration, power input and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during said initiation period.
16. A method of controlling a refrigeration system having a working fluid and, in sequence, an evaporator, a variable speed centrifugal compressor, a condenser and an expansion valve, comprising: a) during an initiation period, accelerating rotation of said compressor while: 


 i) measuring the acceleration of said compressor; and ii) measuring rate of change of temperature or pressure of the working fluid at said compressor; b) repeating step (a) to assemble a plurality of said measurements; c) storing said acceleration and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during said initiation period; d) subsequent to said initiation period, accelerating rotation of said compressor while: i) measuring the acceleration of said compressor; and ii) comparing said acceleration measurement during said subsequent period with said acceleration and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during said initiation period; and e) decreasing acceleration of said compressor if, for a comparable acceleration during said initiation period, said rate of change of the temperature or pressure of said working fluid during said initiation period indicates surging of said compressor.
17. Apparatus for controlling a refrigeration system having a working fluid and, in sequence, an evaporator, a variable speed centrifugal compressor, a condenser and an expansion valve, comprising: a sensor for measuring the acceleration of said compressor; a sensor for measuring rate of change of temperature or pressure of the working fluid at said compressor; and a microprocessor control for storing acceleration and working fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during an initiation period; comparing an acceleration measurement during said subsequent period with said acceleration and working 


fluid rate of change of temperature or pressure measurements during said initiation period; and decreasing acceleration of said compressor if, for a comparable acceleration during said initiation period, said rate of change of the temperature or pressure of said working fluid during said initiation period indicates surging of said compressor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
