<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1997000427</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FORCE SENSITIVE SCALE AND DUAL SENSOR LOAD CELL FOR USE THEREWITH
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G300	G01G314	G01G1908	G01G1908	G01L120	G01L122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	G01G	G01G	G01G	G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G3	G01G3	G01G19	G01G19	G01L1	G01L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A force sensitive scale and dual sensor load cells for use therewith isolate, measure, and reject out residual rejected effects from the output of the scale. By isolating residual rejected effects, the overall accuracy of the scale may be improved, and the scale may be made substantially insensitive to the position of an object on the scale. In addition, where a scale includes multiple  load cells coupled in parallel to a load receiving member and spaced apart in the direction of the force vector, the outputs of the load cells may be effectively scaled to cancel out frictional effects inherent in the scale.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEIGH TRONIX
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEIGH-TRONIX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRUECHTE KEVIN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON THOMAS M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUSTICE GENE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNGER ROGER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRUECHTE, KEVIN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, THOMAS, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUSTICE, GENE, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNGER, ROGER, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FORCE SENSITIVE SCALE AND DUAL SENSOR LOAD CELL FOR USE THEREWITHField of the InventionThe invention is directed generally to the area of force measurement, for example in force sensitive scales such as those used on lift trucks and the like. The invention is in particular directed to a scale and a load cell used therein which reject many non-load force effects, such that the scale exhibits increased accuracy and reduced sensitivity to the position of objects on the scale.Background of the InventionForce sensitive scales, i.e. , scales which are capable of measuring the applied force due to gravity of an object placed upon the scale, have numerous applications. One such application, for example, is on lift trucks, or forklifts, to weigh objects which are lifted and transported by the forks of the lift truck as they are being transported. Lift truck scales preferably do not require any specific operation by an operator of the lift truck other than positioning the truck and lifting the objects. As a result, the weighing operation is very efficient and non- intrusive.One example of a lift truck scale which is particularly useful in the art is the subject of U.S. Patent No. 4,421,186 to Bradley, which is incorporated by reference herein. Generally, Bradley discloses a lift truck scale including a vertically oriented plate that is mounted to the existing crossbars disposed on the front of a standard lift truck. The plate is mounted through four load-bearing load cells arranged into two laterally-spaced vertical columns, which serve as the sole mechanical connection between the scale and the existing crossbars. The conventional forks used with the lift truck are hung off of the vertical plate in the same manner as they would the crossbars, whereby a load present on the forks is transferred across the load cells by the vertical plate. 

 Each load cell in the Bradley design includes four strain gauges connected in a wheatstone bridge circuit to reject many non-load force effects. Moreover, the outputs of the load cells are summed to provide the total weight reading for the scale.The Bradley lift truck scale is capable of rejecting many non-load force effects (i.e. , forces and moments which are not found along the primary force vector that is being measured). The Bradley scale is therefore relatively accurate, typically having an accuracy of about 1 % . Bradley also has the advantage that it is easy to install on conventional lift trucks, thereby making it relatively cost effective. Also, the Bradley scale
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A load cell, comprising:
(a) a load cell body;
(b) a first force sensor positioned on the load cell body to sense a first force applied to the load cell body along a first force vector, and provide a first output representative thereof;
(c) a second force sensor positioned on the load cell body to sense a second force applied to the load cell body along a second force vector, and provide a second output representative thereof; and (d) rejection means, coupled to receive the first and second outputs, for rejecting residual rejected effects due to the second force from the first output and generating a third output representative thereof.
2. The load cell of claim 1 , wherein the load cell body includes a deformable member having a narrowed portion with opposing planar side surfaces, and wherein the first sensor is disposed on at least one of the side surfaces.
3. The load cell of claim 2, wherein the deformable member further includes opposing top and bottom surfaces oriented generally orthogonal to the side surfaces, and wherein the second sensor is disposed on at least one of the top and bottom surfaces.
4. The load cell of claim 2, wherein the deformable member is disposed between a threaded shank and a circular flange oriented generally orthogonal to a longitudinal axis of the shank.
5. The load cell of claim 1, wherein the first force sensor includes four force transducers electrically coupled in a wheatstone bridge circuit, two of the force transducers being oriented on the load cell body to be placed in tension in response to a force applied along the first force vector, and two of the force transducers being oriented on the load cell body to be placed in compression in response to a force applied along the first force vector. 


 6. The load cell of claim 5, wherein the second force sensor includes four force transducers electrically coupled in a wheatstone bridge circuit, two of the force transducers being oriented on the load cell body to be placed in tension in response to a force applied along the second force vector, and two of the force transducers being oriented on the load cell body to be placed in compression in response to a force applied along the second force vector.
7. The load cell of claim 6, wherein the force transducers in the first and second sensors each comprise a strain gauge.
8. The load cell of claim 7, wherein the first and second outputs of the first and second sensors are coupled in parallel, and wherein the rejection means comprises at least one resistor, coupled to the second output of the second sensor, for scaling the second output relative to the first output.
9. The load cell of claim 8, wherein the resistor is a variable resistor.
10. The load cell of claim 8, wherein the first and second sensors respectively include first and second inputs, each providing an excitation signal for driving the respective sensor, and wherein the rejection means further includes input scaling means for scaling the relative magnitudes of the excitation signals provided to the first and second sensors through the first and second inputs.
11. The load cell of claim 10, further comprising temperature compensating means for compensating the first sensor for the effects of temperature, the temperature compensating means including at least one thermistor coupled to the first input of the first sensor.
12. The load cell of claim 1, wherein the rejection means includes scaling means, responsive to the second output, for scaling the first output to reject residual rejected effects therefrom and thereby provide the third output. 


 13. The load cell of claim 12, wherein the first and second sensors respectively include first and second inputs for receiving an excitation voltage, wherein the first and second sensors each comprise a resistive network which varies in resistance in response to the applied force along the respective force vector, and wherein the first and second outputs of the first and second sensors are coupled in parallel.
14. The load cell of claim 13, wherein the scaling means comprises at least one resistor, coupled to one of the first and second outputs, for scaling the resistance across the one of the first and second outputs relative to the other of the first and second outputs.
15. The load cell of claim 13, wherein the scaling means comprises input scaling means for scaling the relative magnitudes of the first and second inputs driving the first and second sensors.
16. A method of sensing force with a load cell of the type having a load cell body and first and second force sensors positioned thereon to sense forces applied to the load cell body respectively along first and second force vectors, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) sensing a first force applied to the load cell body along the first force vector with the first force sensor and generating a first output representative thereof;
(b) sensing a second force applied to the load cell body along the second force vector with the second force sensor and generating a second output representative thereof; and
(c) scaling the first output in response to the second output to reject residual rejected effects from the first output.
17. A scale, comprising: (a) a base; 


 (b) a force receiving member adapted to receive an object to be weighed;
(c) a plurality of load cells coupled between the force receiving member and the base to deflect in response to a force applied to the force receiving member by the object, each load cell having a first output primarily responsive to at least a portion of the force applied by the object, and a second output primarily responsive to residual rejected effects sensed by the load cell; and
(d) load cell driving means for providing a force signal representative of the force applied to the force receiving member by the object, the driving means including:
(1) rejection means, coupled to the first and second outputs of each load cell, for rejecting residual rejected effects from the first output of each load cell; (2) cornering means for adjusting the relative sensitivities of the first outputs of the load cells such that the sum of the first outputs is substantially insensitive to the position of the object on the force receiving member; and
(3) summing means for summing the first outputs of the load cells to provide the force signal.
18. The scale of claim 17, wherein the base and the force receiving member respectively include first and second vertically oriented plates, and wherein the plurality of load cells include first and second load cells laterally spaced from one another and extending substantially peφendicular to the first and second plates.
19. The scale of claim 18, wherein the force receiving member further includes a pair of forks mounted to the second plate which extend outwardly from the second plate generally peφendicular to an outer surface thereof. 


 20. The scale of claim 19, wherein the first plate includes at least one hook for securing the first plate to a crossbar on a lift truck; whereby the scale is a lift truck scale.
21. The scale of claim 19, wherein the plurality of load cells further includes third and fourth load cells respectively aligned in vertical columns with the first and second load cells.
22. The scale of claim 19, further comprising at least first and second flexures respectively aligned in vertical columns with the first and second load cells.
23. The scale of claim 22, wherein the first and second plates each include two laterally spaced vertical columns of at least two mounting apertures, and wherein the load cells and the flexures have identical mounting hardware; whereby the load cells and the flexures are interchangeably mountable in each mounting aperture.
24. The scale of claim 17, wherein the first and second outputs of each load cell are generated by first and second force sensors, respectively positioned on the load cell to sense first and second forces applied to the load cell along first and second force vectors, each force sensor including four force transducers electrically coupled in a wheatstone bridge circuit, two of the force transducers being oriented to be placed in tension in response to a force applied along the respective force vector, and two of the force transducers being oriented to be placed in compression in response to the force applied along the respective force vector.
25. The scale of claim 24, wherein the force transducers include strain gauges.
26. The scale of claim 24, wherein the first and second outputs of the first and second sensors are coupled in parallel, and wherein the rejection means 


 comprises at least one resistor, coupled to the second output of the second sensor, for scaling the second output relative to the first output.
27. The scale of claim 24, wherein the plurality of load cells include a top left, a top right, a bottom left, and a bottom right load cell spaced apart from one
5 another in a generally vertical plane.
28. The scale of claim 27, wherein the first and second sensors respectively include first and second inputs, each providing an excitation signal for driving the respective sensor, and wherein the rejection means includes input scaling means for scaling the relative magnitudes of the excitation signals provided to the
10 first and second sensors through the first and second inputs.
29. The scale of claim 28, wherein the first and second inputs of the first and second sensors are coupled to a common excitation signal, and wherein the input scaling means includes first and second top/bottom trim potentiometers coupled to the common excitation signal, the first top/bottom trim potentiometer coupled
15 between the second inputs to the top left and bottom left load cells, and the second top/bottom trim potentiometer coupled between the second inputs to the top right and bottom right load cells; whereby residual rejected effects are rejected by adjusting the first and second trim potentiometers.
30. The scale of claim 29, wherein the cornering means includes
20 excitation scaling means for scaling the excitation signals to the first inputs of the load cells relative to one another.
31. The scale of claim 30, wherein the excitation scaling means includes a left/right balance potentiometer coupled to the common excitation signal and first and second top/bottom balance potentiometers each coupled to the left/right balance
-25 potentiometer, the first top/bottom balance potentiometer coupled between the first inputs to the top left and bottom left load cells, and the second top/bottom balance potentiometer coupled between the first inputs to the top right and bottom right load 


cells; whereby the scale is cornered by adjusting the left/right and top/bottom balance potentiometers.
32. The scale of claim 31, further comprising zeroing means, coupled across the common excitation signal, for zeroing the force signal when no external force is applied to the force receiving member, the zeroing means comprising a potentiometer driven by the force signal.
33. The scale of claim 17, wherein the rejection means includes scaling means, responsive to the second output of each load cell, for scaling the first output of each load cell to reject residual rejected effects therefrom.
34. The scale of claim 33, wherein each load cell includes a sensor for generating the first output, the sensor including an input for receiving an excitation voltage, wherein each sensor comprises a resistive network which varies in resistance in response primarily to the force applied by the object, and wherein the cornering means includes excitation scaling means for scaling the relative magnitudes of the inputs to the sensors on the plurality of load cells.
35. The scale of claim 17, wherein the summing means comprises means for coupling the first outputs of the load cells to a common output signal.
36. The scale of claim 17, further comprising tilt adjusting means for adjusting the force signal to compensate for tilt in the force receiving member, the tilt adjusting means including first and second tilt sensors for determining first and second tilt angles about first and second orthogonal axes.
37. The scale of claim 36, wherein the tilt adjusting means generates a tilt adjusted signal from the force signal by applying the equation: 


 W = - + tan^φ. + σj + tan
2
(φ
2
 + σ
2
)
where W is the tilt adjusted signal, S is the force signal, φ, is the first tilt angle, φ
2
 is the second tilt angle, σ,, and σ
2
 are phase shift constants, and A is a sensitivity factor constant.
38. A method of weighing an object on a scale of the type including a plurality of load cells coupled between a force receiving member and a base to deflect in response to a force applied to the force receiving member by the object, each load cell having a first output primarily responsive to at least a portion of the force applied by the object, and a second output primarily responsive to residual rejected effects sensed by the load cell, the method comprising the steps of: (a) rejecting residual rejected effects from the first output of each load cell by scaling the first output of each load cell in response to the second output of the load cell;
(b) adjusting the relative sensitivities of the first outputs of the load cells such that the sum of the first outputs is substantially insensitive to the position of the object on the force receiving member; and
(c) summing the first outputs of the load cells to provide the force signal.
39. A scale, comprising: (a) a base; (b) a force receiving member adapted to receive a force applied along a force vector;
(c) first and second load cells, coupled between the force receiving member and the base in parallel and spaced apart on the force receiving member generally in the direction of the force vector such that the load cells share the force, each load cell providing an output representative of at least a portion of the force applied along the force vector; and
(d) load cell driving means for providing a force signal representative of the force applied to the force receiving member by summing 


 the outputs of the load cells, the driving means including frictional effect rejecting means for adjusting the relative sensitivities of the outputs of the load cells to reject frictional effects in the scale.
40. The scale of claim 39, wherein the force vector is in the direction of gravity.
41. The scale of claim 39, wherein each load cell includes a sensor for generating the output, the sensor including an input for receiving an excitation voltage, wherein each sensor comprises a resistive network which varies in resistance in response to the force applied along the force vector, and wherein the frictional effect rejecting means includes input scaling means for scaLing the relative magnitudes of the inputs to the sensors.
42. The scale of claim 41, wherein the input scaling means includes a potentiometer coupled between a common excitation signal and the inputs of the sensors; whereby frictional effects are rejected by adjusting the potentiometer.
43. The scale of claim 41, wherein the sensor of each load cell includes four strain gauges electrically coupled in a wheatstone bridge circuit, two of the strain gauges being oriented on the load cell to be placed in tension will response to a force applied along the force vector, and two of the strain gauges being oriented on the load cell to be placed in compression in response to a force applied along the force vector.
44. A method of weighing an object on a scale of the type including first and second load cells coupled between a force receiving member and a base in parallel and spaced apart on the force receiving member generally in the direction of an applied force vector such that the load cells share an applied force, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) on each load cell, providing an output representative of at least a portion of the force applied along the applied force vector; 


 (b) adjusting the relative sensitivities of the outputs of the load cells to reject frictional effects in the scale; and
(c) providing a force signal representative of the force applied to the force receiving member by summing the outputs of the load cells. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
