<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999047076</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WIRE-TUBULAR HYBRID STENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Radially-expandable stents are provided with improved longitudinal flexibility and stability, improved torsional flexibility and stability, improved trackability and conformability, and improved hoop strength. The stents combine the advantages typically associated with wire stents with those typically associated longitudinal stability. The stents include a plurality of cylindrical sections successively arranged along a longitudinal axis of the stent, a plurality of W-shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections, each of the W-shaped elements having a center section and two outside legs, the plurality of W-shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections opening in alternating directions along the longitudinal axis of the stent, wherein the W-shaped elements in adjacent cylindrical sections alternate between pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis and pairs of W-shaped elements that open away from each other along the longitudinal axis when moving about the circumference of the adjacent cylindrical sections; and a plurality of tie members connecting adjacent cylindrical sections along the longitudinal axis of the stent, the tie members connecting center sections of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis in each pair of adjacent cylindrical sections. Methods of implanting the stents in body lumens are also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANG KENNY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANG, KENNY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 WIRE-TUBULAR HYBRID STENTField of the InventionThe present invention relates to intravascular stent implants for maintaining vascular patency in humans and animals and more particularly to a stent having a plurality of radially expandable sections interconnected along the longitudinal length of the stent.Background of the Invention Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is used to increase the lumen diameter of a coronary artery partially or totally obstructed by a build-up of cholesterol fats or atherosclerotic plaque. Typically a first guidewire of about .038 inches in diameter is steered through the vascular system to the site of therapy. A guiding catheter, for example, can then be advanced over the first guidewire to a point just proximal of the stenosis. The first guidewire is then removed. A balloon catheter on a smaller .014 inch diameter second guidewire is advanced within the guiding catheter to a point just proximal of the stenosis. The second guidewire is advanced into the stenosis, followed by the balloon on the distal end of the catheter. The balloon is inflated causing the site of the stenosis to widen. Dilatation of the occlusion, however, can form flaps, fissures and dissections which threaten reclosure of the dilated vessel or even perforations in the vessel wall. Implantation of a metal stent can provide support for such flaps and dissections and thereby prevent reclosure of the vessel or provide a patch repair for a perforated vessel wall until corrective surgery can be performed. It has also been shown that the use of intravascular stents can measurably decrease the incidence of restenosis after angioplasty thereby reducing the likelihood that a secondary angioplasty procedure or a surgical bypass operation will be necessary.An implanted prosthesis such as a stent can preclude additional procedures and maintain vascular patency by mechanically supporting dilated vessels to prevent vessel reclosure. Stents can also be used to repair aneurysms, to support artificial 

vessels as liners of vessels or to repair dissections. Stents are suited to the treatment of any body lumen, including the vas deferens, ducts of the gallbladder, prostate gland, trachea, bronchus and liver. The body lumens range in diameter from small coronary vessels of 3 mm or less to 28 mm in the aortic vessel. The invention applies to acute and chronic closure or reclosure of body lumens.A typical stent is a cylindrically shaped wire formed device intended to act as a permanent prosthesis. A typical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A radially expandable stent for implantation within a body vessel, comprising: a plurality of cylindrical sections successively arranged along a longitudinal axis of the stent; a plurality of W-shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections, each of the
W-shaped elements comprising a center section and two outside legs, the plurality of W- shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections opening in alternating directions along the longitudinal axis of the stent, wherein the W-shaped elements in adjacent cylindrical sections alternate between pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis and pairs of W-shaped elements that open away from each other along the longitudinal axis when moving about the circumference of the adjacent cylindrical sections; and a plurality of tie members connecting adjacent cylindrical sections along the longitudinal axis of the stent, the tie members connecting center sections of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis in each pair of adjacent cylindrical sections.
2. A stent according to claim 1, wherein the center section of each of the W-shaped elements is shorter in the longitudinal direction than the outside legs of the W-shaped element.
3. A stent according to claim 1 , wherein the center section of each of the W-shaped elements have a longitudinal length that is about half of the longitudinal length of the outside legs of the W-shaped element.
4. A stent according to claim 1, wherein the stent comprises first, second, and third cylindrical sections arranged along the longitudinal axis in that order, and further wherein the tie members connecting the center sections of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other in the first and second cylindrical sections are offset about the circumference of the stent from the tie members connecting the centers 


of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other in the second and third cylindrical sections.
5. A stent according to claim 1 , wherein the center section of each of the W-shaped elements is connected to the outside legs of the W-shaped element with rounded bends.
6. A stent according to claim 1, wherein the cylindrical sections are in-phase with each other.
7. A stent according to claim 1, wherein the cylindrical sections are out-of-phase with each other.
8. A radially expandable stent for implantation within a body vessel, comprising: a plurality of cylindrical sections successively arranged along a longitudinal axis of the stent; a plurality of W-shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections, each of the W-shaped elements comprising a center section and two outside legs, wherein the center section of each of the W-shaped elements is shorter in the longitudinal direction than the outside legs of the W-shaped element, the plurality of W-shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections opening in alternating directions along the longitudinal axis of the stent, wherein the W-shaped elements in adjacent cylindrical sections alternate between pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis and pairs of W-shaped elements that open away from each other along the longitudinal axis when moving about the circumference of the adjacent cylindrical sections; and a plurality of tie members connecting adjacent cylindrical sections along the longitudinal axis of the stent, the tie members connecting center sections of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis in each pair of adjacent cylindrical sections; wherein the stent comprises first, second, and third cylindrical sections arranged along the longitudinal axis in that order, and further wherein the tie members connecting 


the center sections of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other in the first and second cylindrical sections are offset about the circumference of the stent from the tie members connecting the centers of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other in the second and third cylindrical sections.
9. A stent according to claim 8, wherein the center section of each of the W-shaped elements is connected to the outside legs of the W-shaped element with rounded bends.
10. A stent according to claim 8, wherein the cylindrical sections are in-phase with each other.
11. A stent according to claim 8, wherein the cylindrical sections are out-of-phase with each other.
12. A method of implanting a radially expandable stent within a body lumen comprising the steps of: a) providing radially expandable stent in a compressed state comprising: a plurality of cylindrical sections successively arranged along a longitudinal axis of the stent, a plurality of W-shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections, each of the
W-shaped elements comprising a center section and two outside legs, the plurality of W- shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections opening in alternating directions along the longitudinal axis of the stent, wherein the W-shaped elements in adjacent cylindrical sections alternate between pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis and pairs of W-shaped elements that open away from each other along the longitudinal axis when moving about the circumference of the adjacent cylindrical sections; and a plurality of tie members connecting adjacent cylindrical sections along the longitudinal axis of the stent, the tie members connecting center sections of the pairs of 


W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis in each pair of adjacent cylindrical sections; b) advancing the stent to a desired location within a body lumen; and c) radially expanding the stent within the body lumen.
13. A method according to claim 12, wherein the center section of each of the W- shaped elements is shorter in the longitudinal direction than the outside legs of the W- shaped element.
14. A method according to claim 12, wherein the center section of each of the W- shaped elements have a longitudinal length that is about half of the longitudinal length of the outside legs of the W-shaped element.
15. A method according to claim 12, wherein the stent comprises first, second, and third cylindrical sections arranged along the longitudinal axis in that order, and further wherein the tie members connecting the center sections of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other in the first and second cylindrical sections are offset about the circumference of the stent from the tie members connecting the centers of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other in the second and third cylindrical sections.
16. A method according to claim 12, wherein the center section of each of the W- shaped elements is connected to the outside legs of the W-shaped element with rounded bends.
17. A method according to claim 12, wherein the cylindrical sections are in-phase with each other.
18. A method according to claim 12, wherein the cylindrical sections are out-of- phase with each other. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
