<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2001009766</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD, APPARATUS, AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR AUTOMATIC PAGE SUPPRESSION IN FORMS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F946	G06F946	G06F1724	G06F1724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F9	G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed are methods for reducing the number of "pages", e.g HTML, JavaScript/ECMA Script, or XML documents or the like, in forms-based transaction applications.  One disclosed method involves using dynamic contents documents such as JavaServer pages that include a list of required fields for completion of a transaction.  When the transaction initiates the dynamic contents document interacts with a server process to determine if sufficient values for the required form fields are already available, for instance, from a use profile or previous transaction.  If so, these values can be used.  If, for one or more pages, a form field value is not available, these and only these pages are provided to the user; the others are suppressed.  In another aspect, rather than having an ordered set of predetermined pages some of which can be suppressed, just in time pagination is obtained by determining which fields lack sufficient field values, 
<
i
>
a priori
<
/i
>
.  These field values are placed in pages as they are located and the pages provided to the user when they reach a suitable size.  With just in time pagination, those and only those form fields for which user data input is needed can be split into pages suitable for viewing on the user's client platform and provided to the user.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RESPONDTV INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RESPONDTV, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN NOUHUYS CAIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBER JAY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN NOUHUYS, CAIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBER, JAY, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD, APPARATUS, AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR AUTOMATIC PAGE SUPPRESSION IN FORMSFIELDThe invention relates generally systems for on-line transactions and, more particularly, to transaction architectures in client server communications employing markup language based electronic forms for processing transaction related information.BACKGROUNDClient-server applications employing markup language based electronic documents, e.g. the World Wide Web, often involve forms (also referred to herein as"forms pages"). Electronic commerce applications are particularly reliant on forms for receiving information from a party to a transaction that information which is necessary to complete the transaction. Especially as these applications are made available to devices with limited resolutions (compared to the displays commonly used with conventional personal computers or workstations) these forms are spanning multiple pages. This trend towards the proliferation of forms pages has at least two undesirable effects.A first undesirable effect is that a succession of pages can become tedious and frustrating to the user. Users are frequently drawn to, for instance World Wide Web applications, because of their increased convenience over conventional methods of transacting. A tedious succession of forms pages to complete a transaction negates at least a portion of the user benefits to transacting in this way. "Impulse transactions" are desirable from a consumer perspective, as they allow the consumer to immediately (or more nearly so) obtain and enjoy items they wish to consume and the tedious succession of forms pages may prevent "impulse transactions." Accordingly, it would be desirable for a system to exist that allowed for the reduction or elimination of the 

number of forms pages required for a user to complete a forms-based transaction application.A second undesirable effect is that multiple forms pages involve multiple requests for resources of the server, thereby increasing server overhead. For instance, an operator of an electronic marketplace may have an appreciable amount of overhead costs devoted to hardware for adequate transaction processing abilities to serve customers promptly. If each transaction requires processing multiple forms pages, as the number of forms pages increases, the operator needs to invest in additional computing hardware to maintain the same level of prompt customer service. Thus it would be advantageous for means to exist by which server operators processing forms-based transactions
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method of reducing the number of pages provided for user input in forms-based user transaction applications, said computer-implemented method comprising: examining a set of form fields associated with information required to complete a user transaction application for determining if sufficient form field values corresponding to said set of form fields are available to complete said user transaction application; and
if at least one of said form field values corresponding to said set of form fields is unavailable, providing a page for receiving said at least one of said set of form field values; and otherwise providing a request to a successor page for further processing of said user transaction application. 2. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 wherein: said set of form fields is divided among a plurality of ordered pages; and said step of providing a request to a successor page comprises redirecting a request to said successor page.
3. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 further comprising: providing a selectable option for determining whether said user transaction application should have the number of pages for user input reduced and, wherein reducing the number of pages provided for user input occurs only if said selectable option is selected. 4. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 wherein providing a page for receiving said at least one of said set of form field values comprises: 


 repetitively adding at least one of said form fields corresponding to said at least one of said set of form field values to a developing page; and providing said developing page for receiving said at least one of said set of form field values. 5. The computer-implemented method according to claim 4 wherein the step of adding at least one of said form fields comprises: determining if adding at least one of said form fields would result in said developing page, when rendered by a client application, to exceed predetermined limits, and; if not, adding said at least one of said form fields to said developing page.
6. A computing apparatus configured for reducing the number of pages provided for user input in forms-based user transaction applications, comprising: means for examining a set of form fields associated with information required to complete a user transaction application; means for determining if sufficient form field values corresponding to said set of form fields are available to complete said user transaction application; and means for providing a page for receiving said at least one of said set of form field values if at least one of said form field values corresponding to said set of form fields is unavailable and otherwise providing a request to a successor page for further processing of said user transaction application.
7. An apparatus according to claim 6 futher comprising:
means for providing a selectable option for determining whether said user transaction application should have the number of pages for user input reduced and, wherein reducing the number of pages provided for user input in forms- 


 based user transaction applications occurs only if said selectable option is selected.
8. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein: said set of form fields is divided among a plurality of ordered pages; and wherein providing a request to a successor page comprises redirecting a request to said successor page.
9. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein providing a page for receiving said at least one of said set of form field values comprises: repetitively adding at least one of said form fields corresponding to said at least one of said set of form field values to a developing page; and providing said developing page for receiving said at least one of said set of form field values.
10. An apparatus according to claim 9 wherein adding at least one of said form fields comprises: determining if adding at least one of said form fields would result in said developing page, when rendered by a client application, to exceed predetermined limits, and if not, adding said at least one of said form fields to said developing page.
11. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable code embodied therein for reducing the number of pages provided for user input in forms-based user transaction applications, said computer readable code comprising; code for examining a set of form fields associated with information required to complete a user transaction application; code for determining if sufficient form field values corresponding to said set of form fields are available to complete said user transaction application; and 


 code for providing a page for receiving said at least one of said set of form field values if at least one of said form field values corresponding to said set of form fields is unavailable and otherwise providing a request to a successor page for further processing of said user transaction application. 12. The computer program product according to claim 11 wherein said set of form fields is divided among a plurality of ordered pages; and wherein providing a request to a successor page comprises redirecting a request to said successor page.
13. The computer program product according to claim 11 further comprising code for providing a selectable option, said selectable option for determining whether said user transaction application should have the number of pages for user input reduced and, wherein reducing the number of pages provided for user input in forms-based user transaction applications occurs only if said selectable option is selected. 14. The computer program product cording to claim 11 wherein said code providing a page for receiving said at least one of said set of form field values comprises: code for repetitively adding at least one of said form fields corresponding to said at least one of said set of form field values to a developing page; and code for providing said developing page for receiving said at least one of said set of form field values.
15. The computer program product according to claim 14 wherein adding at least one of said form fields comprises:
determining if adding at least one of said form fields would result in said developing page, when rendered by a client application, to exceed predetermined limits, and if not, adding said at least one of said form fields to said developing page. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
