<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2003087776</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR SAMPLING AND TESTING A SPECIMEN
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L300	B01L300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	B01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L3	B01L3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (10) for testing a specimen.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEY KENNETH A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEY, KENNETH, A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEY KENNETH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEY, KENNETH, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS FOR SAMPLING AND TESTING A SPECIMENCROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThe present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/242,915 filed October 24, 2000, and titled Apparatus forSampling and Testing a Specimen.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to a specimen testing apparatus and, more specifically, to a self-contained, tamper-proof system for screeningfor particular compounds (e.g., drugs and drug metabolites) and/or hormones (as in pregnancy test kits).BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ARTMore businesses are requiring new employees to undergo pre- employment drug testing before hiring. Also, post-accident drug testing is almost routine, especially when flammable or hazardous waste hauling isinvolved, or where the safety of a large number of people are concerned (e.g., oil tanker captain, truck driver or high-speed train engineer). Normally, a urinespecimen is taken and tested by a local lab. If the test turns up positive, the specimen must then be sent to a more sophisticated, usually remotely located,testing lab. 

 In order to ensure that there has been no tampering with thespecimen and to prevent contamination of the specimen, severalcompanies have developed self-contained screening devices. These self-contained screening devicesusually comprise a specimen container having a screw-top lid and a plurality of reagent test strips suspended around the inner perimeter of thespecimen container. The test strips turn a specific color in the presence of particular drug residues.Home Pregnancy test kits operate in a similar manner. Each pregnancy test kits comprise a test strip designed to turn a specific color or to form a symbol (e.g. a "+" sign) in the presence of a hormone. The hormone appears in a woman's urine only when she is pregnant.Drug Free Enterprises, Inc., of Scott Valley, California, produces a self-contained urinalysis screening device that it markets under the name DRUGCHECK and claims to be able to detect a number of drug metabolites in minutes. Phamatech, Inc. of San Diego, California, markets a self-contained pregnancy test kit under the name CLEARCHOICE.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention is a self-contained, tamper-proofscreening/testing apparatus. The present invention consists of a container,a closure that snaps or screws onto the container and a cassette holding arapid test strip that matingly engages with the closure.A liquid specimen is stored in the container. A series of windows or 

inlets permit the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
I claim:
1. An apparatus for testing specimens comprising:
a outer container for holding a specimen;
a closure having means adapted to securely attach the closure to the container, said closure having a hollow shaft that projects into the inside of
the container, the first end of the shaft attached to the closure and the second end of the shaft distally extending into the container, and the inner walls of the shaft defines an interior chamber, the shaft having at least one inlet proximate
its distal end; and a plug cover having at least one window, said plug cover seals off the
inlets.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an elongated tube that extends away from the closure and into the container, said tube having an isolator bottom attached to the distal end of the tube, the isolator bottom having at least one window for allowing at least a portion of any liquid specimen held in the container into the interior of the tube; a test cassette having means adapted to securely attach the cassette
to the closure but permitting rotational movement of the test cassette relative to the closure, the cassette having a top section and a tubular pipe section
that extends from the top section into the interior of the shaft for frictionally engaging the inner surface of the shaft, said cassette communicates with the
interior bottom of the plug cover to move said plug cover a predetermined
distance in the longitudinal direction such that said plug cover engages the 


isolator bottom as the cassette is inserted, the plug cover aligns the windows
between the shaft and plug cover to expose the pipe section of the cassette
to the liquid specimen and closes the windows between the tube and isolator
bottom to define an inner container within said outer container for isolating
said at least portion of the liquid specimen from any liquid specimen present
in the outer container.
3. The apparatus fo claim 2 wherein rotation of the cassette aligns
the inlets of the pipe section with the previously aligned inlets of both the shaft and plug cover allowing the liquid specimen to enter the interior of the
cassette.
4. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a test strip secured to the interior of the pipe section wherein said test strip is capable of being exposed to the specimen when the specimen enters the interior of the
cassette.
5. An apparatus for testing specimens comprising: a container for holding a specimen; a closure having means adapted to securely attach the closure to the container, said closure having a hollow shaft that projects into the inside of
the container, the first end of the shaft attached to the closure and the second end of the shaft distally extending into the container, and the innerwalls of the
shaft defines an interior chamber, the shaft having at least one inlet proximate
its distal end; and a test cassette having means adapted to securely attach the cassette
to the closure but permitting rotational movement of the test cassette relative 


to the closure, the cassette having a top section and a tubular pipe section
that extends from the top section into the interior of the shaft for frictionally
engaging the inner surface of the shaft.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a test strip
positioned on the top section of said cassette and extending at least partially into the tubular pipe section, the pipe section having a valve opening that can
be aligned with the inlet and for allowing the inlet to communicate with the tubular section of the pipe section and eventually to the top section thereby
allowing a portion of the specimen to be directed to the test strip.
7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said means adapted to securely attach the closure to the container comprises mating threads that allow the closure to screw onto the container.
8. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a collar having a living edge for aligning the test strip within the tubular pipe section and providing a controlled pressure to the multi-layered test strip.
9. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a plug cover having at least one window, said plug cover seals off the inlets in the absence of the
cassette.
10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a cassette having at least one inlet and designed such that when the cassette pushes on the
interior landing area of the plug cover thus aligning the inlets of the shaft.
11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising gates on the
cassettes wherein rotation of the cassette aligns the gates of the cassette with
the inlets of the shaft thereby allowing at least a portion of the specimen into 


the interior of the cassette.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a mesh applied
over the windows of the plug cover and over the inlets of the closure to
prevent unwanted particles from entering the cassette.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a locking
mechanism on the landing area designed to engage the cassette such that when the cassette is removed, it pulls the plug cover up thereby re-sealing the
closures.
14. An apparatus for isolating a sample of a liquid specimen and testing said sample without contaminating the remaining liquid specimen, the apparatus comprising: an outer container having a first end that is open and a second end that is closed, the outer container being capable of holding a liquid specimen; an isolator bottom positioned within the container proximate the second end of the container, the interior of the isolator bottom initially communicating with the interior of the container so that if a liquid specimen is present in the outer container, at least a portion of the liquid specimen would flow into the
isolator bottom if a liquid specimen is present in the outer container; and a closure having a top side and a bottom side, the bottom side facing the interior of the container, the closure having means to releasably attach to
the first end of the container, the closure includes an elongated tube that
extends away from the closure and into the container, said tube having means
to engage said isolator bottom, the tube ultimately forming a seal with the
isolator bottom to define an inner container within the outer container for 


storing and isolating at least some of the liquid specimen from said at least a
portion of the liquid specimen if present within said inner container.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising:
a shaft having a hollow interior and a distal end that is designed
to extend inside said tube from the closure towards the second end of the
container, the hollow interior of the shaft communicates with the closure, thereby defining a pathway from a point within said inner container to the top
side of the closure; and an elongated shaft cover having a first end and a second end, said second end of the shaft cover being closed off, said shaft cover having an interior dimension slightly larger than the exterior dimension of the shaft so that the shaft cover functions as a sheath over said shaft and has an initial position that sealedly isolates the interior of the shaft from the interior of the
tube.
16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising an inlet means
located on the shaft at least one egress means on the shaft cover, said egress means located proximate the inlet means of the shaft the shaft cover being designed to frictionally engage the shaft so that when a force is applied to the shaft cover, the shaft cover is designed to move in a predetermined
manner with respect to the position of the shaft thereby aligning the shaft cover inlet with the shaft inlet means thereby permitting a sample of the liquid
specimen within the inner container to enter the interior of the shaft.
17. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising a test cassette
having a top section that is designed to be secured to the top side of the 


closure, the test cassette having an elongated body section that is designed
to extend at least partially into said shaft, the cassette having means for
testing the sample of liquid specimen that comes in contact with said body
section.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said testing means is a chemically treated test-strip.
19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said elongated body section has a sufficiently long longitudinal dimension such that it engages the closed end of the shaft cover before the test cassette is secured to the closure so that when the test cassette is secured to the closure said elongated body section applies a longitudinal force to the shaft cover thereby moving said shaft cover in said pre-determined manner.
20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising a keyhole at the closed end of the shaft cover and a mating key at the distal end of the elongated body section so that when the cassette is secured to the closure a rotational force is applied to the shaft cover via the elongated body section thereby moving said shaft cover in a pre-determined manner.
21. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said means to releasably attach the closure to the container comprises mating threads that allow the closure to screw onto the container.
22. The apparatus fo claim 14 wherein said tube has a circular
cross-section.
23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said isolator bottom is frusto-
conical in shape. 

24. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said tube has a rectangular
cross-section.
25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said isolator bottom is
rectangular in shape.
26. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said tube has an oval cross-
section.
27. An apparatus for isolating a sample of a liquid specimen and testing said sample without contaminating the remaining liquid specimen, the apparatus comprising: an outer container having a first end that is open and a second end that is closed, the outer container being capable of holding a liquid specimen; a closure having a top side and a bottom side, the bottom side facing the interior of the container, the closure having means to releasably attach to the first end of the container, the closure includes an elongated tube that extends away from the closure and into the container, said tube having an isolator bottom attached to the distal end of the tube, the isolator bottom having at least one window for allowing at least a portion of any liquid specimen stored in the outer container into the interior of the tube, the closure
communicates with the bottom of the outer container via said tube and isolator assembly to close said window in the isolator bottom, when said window is closed the tube and isolator bottom define an inner container within the outer
container for isolating said at least portion of the liquid specimen from any
liquid specimen present in the outer container.
28. The apparatus fo claim 27 further comprising a shaft having a 


hollow interior and a distal end that is designed to extend inside said tube
from the closure towards said second end of the outer container, the distal
end attached to an isolator bottom that partially seals off said distal end, the
isolator bottom having at least one window that defines a passage from the
exterior of the shaft to the hollow interior of the shaft, the hollow interior of the
shaft communicates with the closure, thereby relating a pathway from a point within said inner container to the top side of the closure;
an elongated shaft cover having a first end and a second end, said second end of the shaft cover being closed off, said shaft cover having an interior dimension slightly larger than the exterior dimension of the shaft so that the shaft cover functions as a sheath over said shaft and has an initial position that sealedly isolates the interior of the shaft from the interior of the tube. wherein said elongated body section has a sufficiently long longitudinal dimension such that it engages the closed end of the shaft cover before the test cassette is secured to the closure so that when the test cassette is secured to the closure said elongated body section applies a longitudinal force to the shaft cover thereby moving said shaft cover in said
pre-determined manner.
29. The apparatus fo claim 27 wherein said tube has a circular
cross-section.
30. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said isolator bottom is frusto-
conical in shape.
31. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said tube has a rectangular 


cross-section. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
