<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2003098566</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPLAUSE DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63H500	A63H500	A63H3322	A63H3322	G10H126	G10H126	G10H132	G10H132	G10K1504	G10K1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63H	A63H	A63H	A63H	G10H	G10H	G10H	G10H	G10K	G10K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63H5	A63H5	A63H33	A63H33	G10H1	G10H1	G10H1	G10H1	G10K15	G10K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An applause device (10) includes a sound generator capable of generating at least one applause sound. The sound generator preferably can generate at least one sound which can indicate approval or disapproval, such as clapping, hollering, whistling, booing, and hissing. A switch (28) permits the user to select between each of the sounds. The device also preferably comprises illumination structure (18) so as to illuminate at least a portion of the sound generation device. In a preferred embodiment, the applause device (10) is shaped substantially, at least in part, in the shape of an open hand. A method for generating applause sounds is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOTFRIED BRADLEY L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOTFRIED, BRADLEY, L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTFRIED BRADLEY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTFRIED, BRADLEY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPLAUSE DEVICEFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to portable sound generating devices, and more particularly to such devices that are used at sporting events, concerts, and other entertainment events.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONSporting events, concerts and other entertainment events create the desire on the part of the audience to express approval or disapproval with the entertainment. In many cases, it is difficult to maintain a vocal presence without straining one's voice. Many attendees wish to also make a visual statement and, accordingly, wear hats and bring signs or other paraphernalia to hold up and wave so as to make a visual statement. Various noisemakers and compressed air sounding machines have previously been provided for attendees to make various sounds to signify their support, approval or disapproval. These devices do not permit the user to make a visual statement in a darkened stadium or auditorium. Also, the noisemakers generally produce sounds which are loud, but do not have any particular significance to the event.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAn applause device, according to the invention, includes a housing and an applause sound generating device in the housing. The applause sound can be any suitable applause sound, and can be selected from sounds such as clapping, hollering, and whistling. The invention is not limited in that regard, however, as any sound which expresses approval or disapproval is acceptable. The applause device also preferably includes lighting structure. The lighting structure for lighting the applause device permits a visual statement in a darkened environment. In a preferred embodiment, the applause device is fashioned substantially in the shape of an open hand, so as to suggest applause.Preferably, at least a portion of the housing comprises a light-emitting portion. The applause device preferably has a light source in the housing and a switch on 

the housing, wherein the switch activates the light source. As a result, the light- emitting portion is illuminated. The light-emitting portion can be translucent and/or transparent and, in a particularly preferred embodiment is formed at least partially of translucent plastic.The applause device can have a switch on the housing, wherein the switch activates the applause sound generating device. The housing can have one or more apertures, so that at least a portion of the applause sound generated by the applause sound generating device can escape from the housing through the apertures.The applause
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An applause device, comprising: a housing; and an applause sound generating device in said housing.
2. The applause device of claim 1 , wherein the applause sound generated by said applause sound generating device is at least one selected from the group consisting of clapping, hollering, whistling, booing, and hissing.
3. The applause device of claim 1 or 2, wherein at least a portion of said housing comprises a light-emitting portion.
4. The applause device of claim of claim 3, further comprising a light source in said housing and a switch on said housing, wherein said switch activates said light source, whereby said light-emitting portion is illuminated.
5. The applause device of claim 3 or 4, wherein said light-emitting portion is translucent.
6. The applause device of claim 3 or 4, wherein said light-emitting portion is transparent.
7. The applause device of claim 3 or 4, wherein said light-emitting portion is formed of translucent plastic.
8. The applause device of any preceding claim, wherein at least a portion of said applause device suggests the shape of a hand.
9. The applause device of any preceding claim, further comprising a switch on said housing, wherein said switch activates said applause sound generating device. 

10. The applause device of any preceding claim, further comprising at least one aperture in said housing, wherein at least a portion of the applause sound generated by said applause sound generating device escapes from said housing through said apertures.
11. The applause device of any preceding claim, further comprising attachment structure attached to said housing.
12. The applause device of claim 11 , wherein said attachment structure is at least one of the group consisting of a hook, a ring, or a first synthetic material which detachably connects to a second synthetic material when the first and second materials are pressed together.
13. An applause device, comprising: a housing having a light-emitting portion formed from material which is at least one selected from the group consisting of translucent and transparent; an applause sound generating device in said housing; a sound switch on said housing, wherein said sound switch activates said applause sound generating device; and a light source in said housing and an illuminating switch on said housing, wherein said illuminating switch activates said light source, whereby said light- emitting portion is illuminated.
14. A method for applauding, comprising the steps of: providing a device having an applause sound generating device; and operating the applause sound generating device to generate a sound of applause.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the applause sound is at least one selected from the group consisting of clapping, hollering, whistling, booing, and hissing.
P1017373;1 

16. The method of claim 14 or 15, further comprising the step of illuminating the applause device.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein said illuminating step comprises the steps of: providing a housing, wherein at least a portion of the housing comprises a light-emitting portion.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein said illuminating step further comprises the steps of: providing a light source in the housing and a switch on the housing, wherein the switch activates the light source; and configuring the switch to activate the light source.
19. The method of claim 17 or 18, wherein the light-emitting portion is translucent.
20. The method of claim 17 or 18, wherein the light-emitting portion is transparent.
21. The method of claim 17 or 18, wherein the light-emitting portion is formed of translucent plastic.
22. The method of any of claims 14 to 21 , further comprising the step of providing at least a portion of the housing in the shape of an open hand.
23. The method of any of claims 14 to 22, further comprising the steps of providing a switch on the housing, wherein the switch activates the applause sound generating device; and causing the switch to activate the applause sound generating device. 

24. The method of any of claims 14 to 23, further comprising the step of providing at least one aperture in the housing, wherein at least a portion of the applause sound generated by the applause sound generating device escapes from the housing through the apertures.
25. The method of any of claims 14 to 24, further comprising the step of attaching attachment structure to the housing.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the attachment structure is at least one of the group consisting of a hook, a ring, or a first synthetic material which detachably connects to a second synthetic material when the first and second materials are pressed together. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
