<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638500</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Re-reeling machine for sheet material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H1930	B65H1930	B65H1922	B65H2700	B65H1820	B65H1922	B65H1814	B65H2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H19	B65H19	B65H19	B65H27	B65H18	B65H19	B65H18	B65H27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A re-reeling machine for sheet material, such as paper or the like, comprising a group of 
three rollers (1,2,3) forming a cradle in which winding of the sheet material (W) takes 

place on a core (C) that is introduced between a pair of rollers (1, 2), the third roller (3) 
having a variable axis to allow the increase in diameter of the log being made up and 

discharge of the made up log (R), in which at least one of the rollers (1, 2, 3) has a 
variable diameter and takes on different diameters during the reel winding stage and 

during the "exchange" stage, i.e. during introduction of a new core (C) into the winding 
cradle and discharge of the made up log (R). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a re-reeling machine for sheet material, such as paper or 
the like. In particular, the re-reeling machines to which the present invention refers unwind large 
rolls of sheet material particularly paper, to produce a plurality of logs, of a pre-established 
diameter, that are subsequently cut cross-wise to the desired length, to 
obtain rolls of toilet paper, kitchen paper or similar products. The logs are normally made up on a tubular cardboard core. The most widely used method at present is so-called free winding between three rollers (EP-A-0 524 158). 
This means that the core is introduced, without a support, into the cradle formed by 
three rollers with parallel axes, which set it in rotation, causing a web of paper to wind 
onto it. Of the three rollers, two have substantially fixed axes, whilst the third, also 
called the pressure roller has a mobile axis to allow the diameter of the log being made 
up to increase and the log to be discharged at the end of winding. The three rollers turn at a constant speed, which is normally that at which the paper is 
fed, during winding of the log, whilst for discharge of the finished log and introduction 
of the new core the most widely used techniques rely on large variations in speed 
between the rollers. These different roller speeds are necessary to allow translation of 
the core between the insertion rollers and translation of the log between the discharge 
rollers. These large variations in roller speeds, in some cases to the point of stopping a roller, 
subject the machine structure to considerable stresses, with the resulting risk of 
breakage, and above all give rise to uneven winding of the reel of paper.  
 The aim of the invention is to eliminate the above-mentioned drawbacks, related to the 
variations in angular speed (r.p.m) of the rollers. The aim is achieved by providing for at least one of the three winding rollers to have a 
variable diameter. In this way, the speed of the three rollers can be maintained constant, obtaining a 
variation in the peripheral speed of at least one of them, as a result of the variation in its 
own external diameter, thus causing translation of the core in the winding cradle and/or 
discharge from the cradle of the made up log. The roller that works both during introduction of the new core and during discharge of 
the log is conveniently of variable diameter, and this diameter is decreased during the 
"exchange" stage, that is during core introduction-log discharge. Obviously all
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A re-reeling machine for sheet material comprising a group of three rollers (1, 2, 3) 
with parallel axes, forming a cradle in which the sheet material (W) is wound around a 

core (C), introduced between a pair (1, 2) of such rollers, a roller (3) of the three 
having a mobile axis to allow the increase in diameter of the log being made up and 

discharge of the made up log (R), characterized in that one of said rollers (1, 2, 3) has a 
variable diameter, taking on different diameters at least in the winding phase and in the 

exchange phase, that is during introduction of a new core (C) and discharge of the 

made up log (R). 
A re-reeling machine according to claim 1, characterized in that of the three rollers 
(1, 2, 3), the roller with a variable speed is the one (2) that cooperates with the other 

rollers (1, 3) for introduction of the core (C) into the winding cradle and discharge of 
the made up log (R), respectively. 
A re-reeling machine according to claim 2, characterized in that said variable 
diameter roller (2) takes on a smaller diameter during the exchange stage and a larger 

diameter during the winding stage. 
A re-reeling machine according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that said rollers (1, 2, 3) all turn at a constant speed. 
A re-reeling machine according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that the peripheral speeds of said rollers (1, 2, 3) are constant and the same as each 

other and as the speed at which the sheet material (W) is fed during winding of the log 
(R), whilst in the exchange stage the peripheral speed of at least one of the rollers (1, 2, 

3) is different from that of the others. 
A re-reeling machine according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that at least one of said pair of rollers (1, 2) has a mobile axis to vary the center distance 

between the rollers.  
 
A re-reeling machine according to claim 1, characterized in that the variation in 
diameter of at least one of said rollers (1, 2, 3) is obtained by providing for the 

respective mantle (6) to be divided into a plurality of longitudinal sectors (7), that can 
be moved radially with respect to the body (5) of the roller to pass from a lowered or 

retracted position, in which the diameter is smaller, to a raised or extended position, in 
which the diameter is larger. 
A re-reeling machine according to claim 7, characterized in that said body (5) of the 
roller (1, 2 or 3) is hollow inside and houses means (8-17) for radially moving said 

sectors (7). 
A re-reeling machine according to claim 8, characterized in that said means for 
radially moving the sectors (7) comprise a bar (11) that is coaxial with the roller (1, 2, 

3), provided with two threads (12, 13), a right-hand thread and a left-hand 
thread, for 

engagement of the respective sleeves (14, 15), whose axial sliding motion is 
transformed, by means of connecting gear (8, 10, 16, 17), into a radial movement of 

said sectors (7). 
A re-reeling machine according to claim 9, characterized in that said sectors (7) are 
each supported by a series of spindles (8) guided in radial holes (9) provided in said 

hollow body (5) of the roller, whose inner ends are fixed to a respective longitudinal 
shaft (10) having the ends connected to said sleeves (14, 15) by means of respective 

connecting rods (16, 17). 
A re-reeling machine according to any one of claims 7 to 10, characterized in that 
provision is made for longitudinal elastic strips (19), disposed between adjacent sectors 

(7), to cover the longitudinal slits (18) that are formed in the mantle (6) of the variable 
diameter roller (1, 2, 3), when said sectors (6) are in the raised position. 
A re-reeling machine according to any one of claims 7 to 10, characterized in that 
the mantle (6) of the roller (1, 2, 3) is covered by an elastic stocking.  

 
A re-reeling machine according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that the change in diameter of said at least one variable diameter roller (1, 2, 3) is 

interlocked with a control logic. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
