<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619251</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Transport apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G4768	B65G5100	B65G5103	B65G4768	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G47	B65G51	B65G51	B65G47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Article transport apparatus (10) comprises first 
and second transport means (12,14) for transporting a 

plurality of articles, in the form of biscuits (100). 
The second transport means is arranged to receive 

biscuits from the first transport means, and the second 
transport means comprises a plurality of lanes (18) 

extending lengthwise of the second transport means, along 
which articles can be transported. The first transport 

means comprises guide means (20,22,28) to guide the 
article towards at least a selected one of the lanes. 

The guide means may be in the form of laterally movable 
walls (20,22) or rotatable members (28). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEFABS ENG SYSTEMS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEFABS ENGINEERING SYSTEMS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CALLADINE DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYNCH DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CALLADINE, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYNCH, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to transport apparatus. In particular, but not 
exclusively, this invention relates to transport apparatus for transporting 
articles such as biscuits. In the food industry, particularly that aspect of the industry relating to 
the production of biscuits, there is a need to transport the biscuits from one 
part of the factory to the wrapping machines. This is usually done by a 
conveyor. An example of such a conveyor is disclosed in our co-pending patent 
application published under No.GB-A-2260305. This specification discloses 
apparatus which can transport biscuits to the wrapping machines. Usually, the factories employ several wrapping machines wrapping 
biscuits on one conveyor. In the event that one of the wrapping machine fails, 
it is necessary to divert the biscuits destined for that machine to another of the 
machines. In the prior art devices this has been done by the use of gates 
closing off one or more lanes. However, while such gates are adequate at slow speeds, they lead to 
problems at higher speeds since the biscuits can build up around the closed 
lanes. It is an object of this invention to obviate and/or mitigate this 
disadvantage of the prior art. Specification No.FR-A-2259770 further discloses an apparatus for conveying a plurality of 
articles, wherein articles conveyed in a single lane are diverted into a plurality of lanes.  
 According to one aspect of this invention, there is provided article 
transport apparatus comprising first and second transport means for 
transporting a plurality of articles, the second transport means being arranged 
to receive articles from the first transport means, the second transport means 
comprising a plurality of lanes extending lengthwise thereof along which the 
articles can be transported, characterised in that the first transport means  
 
comprises a low friction zone across which the articles can travel, and the first 
transport means further comprises guide means to guide the articles towards at 
least a selected one of the lanes, and sections of the lanes being selectively movable 
laterally to divert the articles from one or more of said lanes to one or more 
other ones of said lanes. The transport means may include a surface along which the articles can 
travel. The guide means may comprise at least wall members movable laterally 
across said surface. Preferably the guide means comprises a pair of opposed 
wall members movable laterally across said surface. The first transport means may comprise a plurality of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Article transport apparatus (10) comprising first and second transport 
means (12,14) for transporting a plurality of articles (100), the second transport 

means (14) being arranged to receive articles from the first transport means 
(12), the second transport means (14) comprising a plurality of lanes (18) 

extending lengthwise thereof along which the articles (100) can be transported, 
characterised in that the first transport means (12) comprises a low friction zone 

across which the articles (100) can travel, and the first transport means (12) further 
comprises guide means (20,22,28) to guide the articles (100) towards at least a 

selected one of the lanes (18), and sections of the lanes (18) being selectively movable 
laterally to divert the articles (100) from one or more of said lanes (18) to one or more 

other ones of said lanes (18). 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 1 characterised in that the 
first transport means is in the form of an airbed (12). 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 2 characterised in that the 
airbed (12) slopes at an angle of between 1° and 6°. 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 2 or 3 characterised in 
that the airbed (12) slopes at an angle of between 2° and 3°. 
Article transport apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that the guide means comprises wall members (20,22) movable 

laterally across the first transport means (12). 
Articles transport apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein 
the guide means comprises a plurality of rotatable members (28) arranged 

across the first transport means (12), said rotatable members being adapted to 
prevent articles being directed towards a selected one of the lanes (18). 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 6, characterised in that 
the rotatable members (28) are movable from a first position in which the upper  

 
surfaces thereof are flush with the surface of the first transport means (12), and 

a second position in which the rotatable members (28) block the path of articles 
on the first article transport means (12). 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 6 or 7 characterised in 
that the rotatable members (28) are arranged across the exit of the first 

transport means (12). 
Article transport apparatus according to any of Claims 6 to 8 
characterised in that the rotatable members (28) are in the form of rotatable 

discs. 
Article transport apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that each lane (18) is provided with a conveyor to convey the 

articles in said lanes. 
Article transport apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that the second transport means (14) includes channelling 

means (17) arranged between the lanes (18) and the first transport means (12). 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 11 characterised in that 
the channelling means (17) comprises a plurality of paths to channel the 

articles to corresponding lanes (18). 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 12 characterised in that 

the channelling means (17) is sloped downwardly towards said lanes (18) at an 
angle of between 10° and 25°, whereby the articles can slide towards the lanes 

(18). 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 13 characterised in that 
the channelling means (17) slopes at an angle of between 15° and 20°. 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 13 or 14, characterised in 
that the channelling means (17) slopes at an angle of substantially 18°.  

 
Article transport apparatus according to any preceding Claim 
characterised in that it includes intermediate conveying means (16) arranged 

between the first transport means (12) and the second transport means (14), the 
intermediate conveying means (16) being in the form of at least one belt 

conveyor to convey said articles. 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 16 characterised in that 
the intermediate conveying means (16) comprises a plurality of belt conveyors 

(116) arranged side by side, each belt conveyor (116) being adapted to convey 
articles to selected lanes (18). 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 17 characterised in that 
the speed of the belt conveyors (116) of the intermediate conveying means (16) 

are individually controllable. 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 18 characterised in that 
separating means are provided between adjacent conveyor belts. 
Article transport apparatus according to any of Claims 10 to 19 
characterised in that the lanes are arranged in first and second sections (24,26), 

the second section (26) being downstream of the first section (24), the first 
section (24) comprising a plurality of lanes (18) adapted to be movable laterally 

in the first direction, and the second section (26) comprising a plurality of lanes 
(18) adapted to be movable laterally in a second direction. 
Article transport apparatus according to Claim 20 characterised in that 
each of said first and second sections (24,26) comprises a plurality of outer 

lanes (18) movable independently of a plurality of inner lanes (18). 
A method for transporting articles, said method characterised by 
allowing the articles to travel across first transport means (12) comprising a low 

friction zone, guiding the articles with guide means (20,22,28) on the low 
friction zone to a selected one or more of a plurality of lanes (18) on a second  

 
transport means (14), and sections of the lanes (18) being selectively movable laterally to divert 

the articles (100) from one or more of said lanes (18) to one or more other ones of said lanes (18). 
A method according to Claim 22 characterised in that the articles (100) can be 
guided on the first transport means (12) by at least one lateral movable wall 

member (20,22). 
A method according to Claim 22 or 23 characterised in that the articles (100) 
can be guided by a pair of opposed movable wall members (20,22). 
A method according to Claim 22 characterised in that the articles (100) can be 
guided by the use of a plurality of selectively movable rotatable members (28) 

adapted to be moved into the path of articles on the first transport means (12) to 
block the path of some of the articles thereon. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
