<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655970</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PARTICLE BINDING TO FIBERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D04H164	D06M13256	D04H164	A61F1315	A61F1353	D06M13285	D06M2300	D06M13292	D21H1116	D06M2300	D06M13342	C08J300	A61F1300	D06M13184	D06M1300	C08J300	A61F1300	A61F1349	D06M2308	A61L1516	D06M13288	A61F1315	D21H1100	A61L1560	D06M2308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D04H	D06M	D04H	A61F	A61F	D06M	D06M	D06M	D21H	D06M	D06M	C08J	A61F	D06M	D06M	C08J	A61F	A61F	D06M	A61L	D06M	A61F	D21H	A61L	D06M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D04H1	D06M13	D04H1	A61F13	A61F13	D06M13	D06M23	D06M13	D21H11	D06M23	D06M13	C08J3	A61F13	D06M13	D06M13	C08J3	A61F13	A61F13	D06M23	A61L15	D06M13	A61F13	D21H11	A61L15	D06M23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A binder is applied to particles (602) which are then combined with fibers (600) to bind the particles to the fibers (600). The particles (602) have functional sites for forming a hydrogen bond or a coordinate covalent bond. The fibers (600) have hydrogen bonding functional sites. The binder comprises binder molecules, the binder molecules having at least one functional group that is capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the fibers. A substantial portion of the particles (602) that are adhered to the fibers (600) may be adhered in particulate form by hydrogen bonds or coordinate covalent bonds to the binder, and the binder in turn may be adhered to the fibers (600) by hydrogen bonds. Fibers (600) containing particles (602) bound by this method are easily densified.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEYERHAEUSER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN MICHAEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG RICHARD H SR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN, MICHAEL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG, RICHARD, H., SR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns a method of binding particles to fibers, a fibrous product
and binder coated particles and the binders are non-polymeric. The fibers and
bound particles may be easily densified by external
application of pressure. The binders are reactivatable,
and may be applied to particles, which thereafter may be
bound to fibers on a wet-laid fiber sheet manufacturing
line. In particular embodiments, the invention concerns
binding superabsorbent particles to cellulosic fibers
which may then be used, for example, to make absorbent
fibers that are densified and incorporated into
absorbent products. In other embodiments, the invention
concerns the reactivation and use of binder coated
particles, preferably at an article manufacturing plant,
at a location remote from a pulp-sheet manufacturing
line to bind superabsorbent and/or other particles to
cellulosic fibers which may then be used, for example,
as absorbent fibers incorporated into absorbent
products.Superabsorbent polymers have been developed in
recent years that are capable of absorbing many times
their own weight of liquid. These polymers, which are
also known as water insoluble hydrogels, have been used
to increase the absorbency of sanitary products such as
diapers and sanitary napkins. Superabsorbent polymers
are often provided in the form of particulate powders,
granules, or fibers that are distributed throughout
absorbent cellulosic products to increase the absorbency
of the product. Superabsorbent particles are described,
for example, in U.S. Patent No. 4,160,059; U.S. Patent
No. 4,676,784; U.S. Patent No. 4,673,402; U.S. Patent
No. 5,002,814; and U.S. Patent No. 5,057,166. Products
such as diapers that incorporate absorbent hydrogels are
shown in U.S. Patent No. 3,669,103 and U.S Patent
No. 3,670,731. One problem with the use of superabsorbents is
that the superabsorbent material can be physically
dislodged from the cellulosic fibers of an absorbent
product. Separation of the superabsorbent from its
substrate reduces the absorbency of the product and
diminishes the effectiveness of the superabsorbent
material. This problem was addressed in European Patent
Application 442 185 A1, which discloses use of a
polyaluminum chloride binder to bind an absorbent
polymer to a fibrous substrate. The polyaluminum
binder, however, suffers from the drawback of being an
inorganic product that is not readily biodegradable.
Moreover, that European patent does not offer any
guidance for selecting binders other than polyaluminum
chloride that would
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of binding particles to fibers with a binder, comprising the steps of:

providing fibrous material comprising a fiber having a hydrogen bonding
functionality;
providing particles having a hydrogen bonding functionality;
selecting a non-polymeric organic binder having a volatility of less than that of
water, the non-polymeric organic binder molecules having at least one functional

group capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the particles, and at least one
functional group capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the fibrous material,
exposing the particles in the absence of the fibers to the binder to at least partially
coat the particles with the binder in an amount from 0,01 to 5% by weight based on

the weight of the particles; and
binding in particulate form the particles to the fibrous material.
The method according to claim 1 wherein the functional groups are each capable
of forming hydrogen bonds.
The method of claim 1 wherein the non-polymeric organic binder has functional

groups that are selected from the group consisting of a carboxyl, a carboxylate, a
carbonyl, a sulfonic acid, a sulfonate, a hydroxyl, a phosphoric acid, a phosphate,

an amide, an amine, and combinations thereof. 
The method of claim 3 wherein the non-polymeric organic binder is selected from
the group consisting of glycerin, a glycerin monoester, a glycerin diester, glyoxal,

ascorbic acid, urea, glycine, pentaerythritol, a monosaccharide, a disaccharide,
citric acid, taurine, tartaric acid, dipropylene glycol, trimethylene glycol, propylene

glycol, a diol, 2,3-butanediol, ethylene glycol, an urea derivative, and combinations
thereof.
The method of claim 4 wherein the non-polymeric organic binder is selected from
the group consisting of glycerin, a glycerin monoester, a glycerin diester, urea, and

combinations thereof.
The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are present in an amount of 0.05 to 80
percent of the total weight of the fibrous material and particles.
The method of claim 1 wherein the binder is present in an amount of from 0.03 to 1
percent of the weight of the particles.
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of exposing the particles to the binder
comprises the step of exposing the particles to the binder as the particles are

being combined with the fibrous material.
The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are exposed to the binder in the
absence of the fibrous material followed by allowing the binder to assume an

inactive state, then later activating the binder from an inactive state by providing
heat, an activating fluid, or by applying kinetic energy to the particles or to the

fibers in the presence of the particles, or by adding the particles to the fibers while
activating fluid is on the fibers.
The method according to claim 9 wherein the non-polymeric binder includes a
functionality selected from the group consisting of a carboxyl, a carboxylate, a

carbonyl, a sulfonic acid, a sulfonate, a phosphate, a phosphoric acid, a hydroxyl,
an amine, an amide, and combinations thereof. 
The method according to claim 10 wherein there are at least two functionalities on
the molecule selected from this group, and the two functionalities are the same or

different.
The method of claim 1 wherein the fibers are wood pulp fibers in a wet laid fiber
sheet or web manufacturing line, and the binder coated particles are combined

with the fibers.
The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are exposed to the binder in the
absence of the fibrous material followed by allowing the binder to assume an

inactive state, then later activating the binder from an inactive state by adding an
activating fluid before, simultaneously with, or after combining the binder coated

particles with the fibrous material.
The method of claim 13 wherein the activating fluid is water in the form of a liquid,
steam or humid gas.
The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of:

providing individualized cellulose fibers that have hydrogen bonding functional
sites, wherein the individualized fibers are cured in the presence of a crosslinking

material to produce high bulk fibers with intrafiber covalent crosslinks, and the
fibers are fiberized to reduce interfiber bonding between the cured fibers; and

wherein the step of binding the particles to the fibrous material comprises the step
of adding the particles to the fibers before, during or after the fibers are cured

wherein the particles are bound to the fibers.
The method of claim 15 wherein the curing step comprises using any crosslinking
material and curing the crosslinking material before combining the binder coated

particles and the cured fibrous material. 
The method of claim 1 or 15 wherein the particles comprise superabsorbent
particles.
The method of claims 1 or 15 and including the step of densifying the fibers and
the bound particles by applying external pressure to the fibers.
The method of claim 18 including the step of forming the fibers into a web or sheet
before the densifying step such that the web or sheet is densified by applying

external pressure to the web or sheet.
The method of claim 18 wherein the particles are superabsorbent particles.
The method of claim 18 wherein the particles are superabsorbent particles and the
binder is in an active state.
The method of claim 21 wherein the densifying step comprises densifying the
fibers and the adhered particles under conditions of ambient temperature.
The method of claim 21 in which the densifying step comprises applying pressure
to the web or sheet to produce a product having a density of from 0.05 g/cm
3
 to 0.7
g/cm
3
.
The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are soluble in water and are sparingly
soluble in the binder.
The method of claim 1 wherein the particles have a solubility in water of at least
10 g in 300 ml of water at 25°C, and a solubility in the binder of no more than 5 g in

300 ml of the binder at 25°C.
The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are substantially soluble in water and
in the binder. 
The method of claim 25 further comprising the step of activating the binder on the
particles from an inactive state by providing heat, an activating fluid, or by applying

kinetic energy to the particles, or to the fibers in the presence of the particles, or by
adding the particles to the fibers while activating fluid is on the fibers.
A method of binding particles to fibers with a binder, comprising the steps of:

providing fibrous material comprising fibers having a hydrogen bonding
functionality;
providing particles having a hydrogen bonding functionality;
selecting a non-polymeric organic binder having a volatility of less than that of
water, the non-polymeric organic binder molecules having at least one functional

group capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the particles, and at least one
functional group capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the fibrous material, and
spraying the binder on the particles as the particles are being combined with the
fibrous material, the binder being sprayed in an amount from 0,01 to 5% by weight

based on the weight of the particles to bind the particles to the fibrous material.
A method of binding particles to fibers with a binder, comprising the steps of:

providing fibrous material comprising a fiber having a hydrogen bonding
functionality;
providing particles having a hydrogen bonding functionality;
selecting a non-polymeric organic binder having a volatility of less than that of
water, the non-polymeric organic binder molecules having at least one functional

group capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the particles, and at least one
function
al group capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the fibrous material, and 
combining the particles with the binder in an amount from 0,01 to 5% by weight

based on the weight of the particles and in the substantial absence of the fibrous
material and introducing the combined particles and binder to the fibrous material,

under conditions that favor formation of hydrogen bonds to bind the particles in
discrete particulate form to the fibrous material.
The method of claim 29 wherein the step of providing fibrous material comprises
the step of providing individualized cellulose fibers that have hydrogen bonding

functional sites and curing said individualized cellulose fibers in the presence of a
cross-linking material to produce high bulk fibers with intrafiber covalent crosslinks.
The method of claims 14 to 30, wherein the non-polymeric organic binder is
propylene glycol.
The method of claim 31, wherein the non-polymeric binder is present in an amount
ranging from 0.03 to 1 percent of the total weight of the particles.
A fibrous product obtainable by the method according to any one of claims 1 to 32.
A fibrous product comprising:

fibrous material comprising a fiber having a hydrogen bonding functionality;
particles having a hydrogen bonding functionality;
a non-polymeric organic binder having a volatility of less than that of water, the
non-polymeric organic binder molecules having at least one functional group

capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the particles, and at least one functional
group capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the fibrous material,

wherein the binder is primarily applied to the particles in an amount from 0,01 to
5% by weight based on the weight of the particles and wherein the particles in

particulate form are bound to the fibrous material. 
The product of claim 34 wherein the non-polymeric organic binder has functional
groups that are selected from the group consisting of a carboxyl, a carboxylate, a

carbonyl, sulfonic acid, a sulfonate, a hydroxyl, a phosphoric add, a phosphate, an
amide, an amine, and combinations thereof.
The product of claim 34 wherein the non-polymeric organic binder is selected from
the group consisting of glycerin, a glycerin monoester, a glycerin diester, glyoxal,

ascorbic acid, urea. glycine, pentaerythritol, a monosaccharide, a disaccharide,
citric acid, taurine, tartaric acid, dipropylene glycol, propylene glycol, trimethylene

glycol, a diol 2,3-butanediol. ethylene glycol, an urea derivative, and combinations
thereof.
The product of claim 34 wherein the non-polymeric organic binder is selected from
the group consisting of glycerin, a glycerin monoester, a glycerin diester, urea, and

combinations thereof.
The product of claim 34 wherein the particles are soluble in water and are sparingly
soluble in the binder.
The product of claim 34 wherein the particles comprise superabsorbent particles.
The product of claim 34 in the form of a web having a density of from 0.05 to 0.7
g/cm
3
.
The fibrous product according to claim 34 comprising:

individualized, high bulk fibers having intrafiber covalent bonds wherein the fibers
have hydrogen bonding functionalities;
bound particles which are at least partially coated with a binder, the binder being
primarily present on the particles wherein the particles have a hydrogen bonding

functionality, and the binder comprises binder molecules, the binder molecules
having at least one functional group that is capable of forming a hydrogen bond 

with the particles and at least one functional group that is capable of forming a
hydrogen bond with the fibers, wherein the product comprises 0.05-80 percent of

said bound particles.
A product according to claim 41, having a density of from 0.05 g/cm
3
 to 0.7 g/cm
3
.
The fibrous product of claim 34, wherein the binder is present in an amount of from
0.03 to 1 percent of the weight of the particles.
Binder coated particles comprising:

particles that have at least one functional site that is a hydrogen-bonding functional
site; and
a non-polymeric binder having a volatility of less than that of water, the non-polymeric
organic binder molecules having at least one functional group that is

capable of forming hydrogen bonds with the particles, and at least one functional
group that is capable of forming hydrogen bonds with a fibrous material, the binder

having functional groups selected from the group consisting of a carboxyl, a
carboxylate, a carbonyl, a sulfonic acid, a sulfonate, a phosphoric acid, a

phosphate, an amide, an amine and combinations thereof, the binder being
present in an amount of 0,01 to 5% by weight based on the weight of the particles.
Binder coated particles, comprising:

particles having at least one hydrogen bonding functionality; and
a binder selected from the group consisting of a glycerin monoester, a glycerin
diester, urea, and combinations thereof, wherein the amount of binder is from 0,01

to 5% by weight based on the weight of the particles.
Binder coated particles comprising:

particles that have at least one functional site that is a hydrogen-bonding functional
site; and
a diol, the diol being present in an amount of from 0,01 to 5% by weight based on
the weight of the particles.
The particles of claim 46, wherein the diol is selected from the group consisting of
propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, propylene gylcol oligomer, ethylene glycol,

trimethylene glycol, and 2,3-butane diol.
The particles of claim 44, wherein the non-polymeric binder is lactic acid.
An absorbent article comprising the fiber product according to any one of claims 33
to 43.
The method of claims 14 to 30, wherein the non-polymeric
organic binder is ethylene glycol.
An article for absorbing bodily fluids comprising
the fibrous product obtainable by the method according

to any one of claims 1-32 or 50.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
