<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646291</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NONLINEAR OPTICAL FREQUENCY CONVERTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F135	G02F137	H01S3108	H01S3108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYGNUS LASER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYGNUS LASER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEAUSOLEIL RAYMOND G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEAUSOLEIL, RAYMOND, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 NONLINEAROPTICALFREQUENCYCONVERTERField of the Invention The present invention relates to nonlinear optical frequency conversion and, in particular, to techniques for efficiently producing very high nonlinear optical frequency conversion efficiencies.Background of the InventionOptical harmonic generation has been known since the experiments of Franken et al. in 1961. Nonlinear optical frequency converters are particularly useful for laser systems which are capable of efficiently producing high-intensity optical fields at a long infrared wavelength, but not at shorter visible or ultraviolet wavelengths. The highest harmonic generation conversion efficiencies to date have been observed usingType II quadrature frequency conversion. This scheme uses two consecutive Type II frequency doubling crystals oriented so that the planes containing their optic axes and the beam propagation vectors are orthogonal. Since, under Type II phase-matching conditions, the input field is polarized at 45° with respect to this plane for the first crystal, the fundamental field which remains unconverted after passing through the crystal is correctly polarized for efficient conversion in the second crystal.Furthermore, the second harmonic field output from the first crystal is polarized incorrectly for optimum phase-matching in the second crystal (otherwise, back- conversion would occur); consequently, it will pass through the second crystal without loss (except for absorption and surface reflections).Type I quadrature frequency conversion has not been demonstrated to date, because the polarizations of the fundamental input beams must be parallel.Consequently, either the fundamental fields which remain unconverted after passing through the first crystal are incorrectly polarized for efficient conversion in the second crystal (if it has been rotated by 90° relative to the first), or the harmonic field 

produced in the first crystal will be back-converted in the second crystal (if it has not been rotated by 90° relative to the first).The overall efficiency of existing high average power visible laser systems is severely limited by the conversion efficiency of the harmonic generator. In the case of all-solid-state lasers, a high efficiency frequency converter will dramatically reduce the number and the cost of the needed diode pump lasers, as well as significantly reduce the operating costs of the overall laser system. Conventional moderate-efficiency frequency converters generally use a single crystal of potassium dideuterium
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Clains :
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. An optical frequency conversion apparatus for receiving an optical input beam having a first frequency and a polarization, and for producing an optical output beam at a second frequency equal to twice the first frequency, the apparatus comprising: a first nonlinear conversion means positioned to receive the input beam, the first nonlinear conversion means being constructed and oriented such that a portion of the input beam is converted into a first higher frequency beam at the second frequency, and such that the first higher frequency beam leaves the first nonlinear conversion means approximately colinearly with a residual beam comprising a portion of the input beam not converted into the first higher frequency beam; waveplate means for producing a relative rotation between the polarization of the first higher frequency beam and the polarization of the residual beam; and a second nonlinear conversion means positioned in the path of the first higher frequency beam and the residual beam, the second nonlinear conversion means being constructed and oriented such that a portion of the residual beam is converted into a second higher frequency beam at the second frequency, the first and second higher frequency beams comprising the output beam, the polarizations of the first and second higher frequency beams being orthogonal to one another.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the polarization of the first higher frequency beam is orthogonal to the input beam.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the polarization of the first higher frequency beam is oriented at an angle of 45 ° relative to the polarization of the input beam.
4. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the polarization of the second higher frequency beam is orthogonal to the polarization of the residual beam.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the polarization of the second higher frequency beam is oriented at an angle of 45° relative to the polarization of the residual beam.
6. The apparatus of Claim 1, 2, or 4, wherein the waveplate means comprises a net full-waveplate at the first frequency and a net half-waveplate at the 


second frequency, and wherein the waveplate means is oriented to rotate the polarization of the first higher frequency beam about its axis of propagation by a net angle of 90°.
7. The apparatus of Claim 1, 2, or 4, wherein the waveplate means comprises a full-waveplate at the second frequency and a half-waveplate at the first frequency, and wherein the waveplate means is oriented to rotate the polarization of the residual beam about its axis of propagation by a net angle of 90°.
8. The apparatus of Claim 1, 2, or 5, wherein the waveplate means comprises a net full-waveplate at the first frequency and a net half-waveplate at the second frequency, and wherein the waveplate means is oriented to rotate the polarization of the first higher frequency beam about its axis of propagation by a net angle of 45°.
9. The apparatus of Claim 1, 2, or 5, wherein the waveplate means comprises a net full-waveplate of the second frequency and a net half-waveplate at the first frequency, and wherein the waveplate means is oriented to rotate the polarization of the residual beam about its axis of propagation by a net angle of 45°.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1, 3, or 5, wherein the waveplate means comprises a net full-waveplate at the first frequency and a net half-waveplate at the second frequency, and wherein the waveplate means is oriented to rotate the polarization of the first higher frequency beam about its axis of propagation by a net angle of 45°, such that the polarizations of the first higher frequency beam and the residual beam are both parallel to the input polarization.
11. The apparatus of Claim 1, 3, or 4, wherein the waveplate means comprises a net full-waveplate at the second frequency and a net half-waveplate at the first frequency, and wherein the waveplate means is oriented to rotate the polarization of the residual beam about its axis of propagation by a net angle of 45°, such that the polarizations of the first higher frequency beam and the residual beam are parallel to one another and rotated relative to the polarization of the input beam by an angle of 45°.
12. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the first and second conversion means each comprises a uniaxial crystal. 


 13. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the first and second conversion means each comprises a biaxial crystal.
14. An optical frequency conversion apparatus for receiving an optical input beam having a first frequency and a polarization, and for producing an optical output beam at a second frequency equal to twice the first frequency, the apparatus comprising: a beam splitter transmissive at the first frequency and reflective at the second frequency, the beam splitter being positioned such that it receives the input beam and transmits the input beam to produce a transmitted input beam; nonlinear conversion means positioned to receive the transmitted input beam, the nonlinear conversion means being constructed and oriented such that a portion of the transmitted input beam is converted into a first higher frequency beam at the second frequency, and such that the first higher frequency beam leaves the nonlinear conversion means approximately colinearly with a residual beam comprising a portion of the transmitted input beam not converted into the first higher frequency beam; waveplate means comprising a quarter waveplate at the second frequency and a full waveplate at the first frequency, the waveplate being positioned such that the first higher frequency beam and the residual beam pass through the waveplate; a mirror positioned to reflect the first higher frequency beam and residual beam back through the waveplate and nonlinear conversion means, such that the waveplate again acts as a quarter waveplate for the first higher frequency beam, and such that the nonlinear conversion means produces a second higher frequency beam at the second frequency having a polarization orthogonal to that of the first higher frequency beam, and such that the beam splitter transmits the residual beam and reflects the first and second higher frequency beams to produce the output beam. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
