<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637891</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Video data compression.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2010	G11B2010	H03M730	H03M730	H04N5907	H04N5907	H04N592	H04N592	H04N726	H04N726	H04N730	H04N730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	H03M	H03M	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B20	G11B20	H03M7	H03M7	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for recording and reproducing video data is described 
that utilises data compression to increase storage capacity. Real time 

input video data is decorrelated, quantized and entropy encoded. User 
control of a compression control parameter, such as quantization step 

width, is provided so that the user can adjust the loss of fidelity 
through compression to a desired level. The compressed data is output 

to a storage RAM 38 at an unregulated varying data rate. The system 
allows real time storage of video data in a manner in which the loss of 

fidelity is held constant and the amount of storage capacity required 
for particular sections of input video data varies with the information 

content of that input video data. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY UK LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY UNITED KINGDOM LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STONE JONATHAN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STONE, JONATHAN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to video data compression. More 
particular, this invention relates to the real time recording of video 
data as compressed video data. Data compression is utilised in the still image field. The 
proposed JPEG standard provides a non real time image data compression 
technique for use in situations such as the compression of still images 
by and for storage within general purpose computers. The JPEG 
technique utilises quantization as one step in the compression process. 
The quantization step width applied may be changed to change the degree 
of compression achieved. Using a small quantization step width will 
increase the length of time needed to encode the data (limited rate 
data channels within a computer) and the amount of storage space needed 
to store the compressed image. Conversely, using a large quantization 
step width will decrease the length of time needed to encode the data 
and the amount of storage space needed to store the compressed image. 
The asynchronous, non real time nature of the JPEG approach means that 
such variation is not an issue of importance. It is also known to utilise real time compression systems in 
conjunction with storage applications in order to increase the storage 
capacity. A requirement in such systems is the achieving of a constant 
output bit rate compatible with the storage medium used. This approach 
results in a variable picture quality depending upon the image 
information content. Furthermore, since these systems have to achieve 
an acceptable picture quality with the most difficult of images, they 
produce an image quality in excess of that genuinely required for the 
majority of pictures with a consequential reduction in storage 
capacity. The constant data rate approach is imposed on convention 
compression systems due to the nature of the storage media that are 
generally used. In particular, storage media such as magnetic tapes, 
hard-discs and magneto optic discs have mechanical inertia such that 
they are only able to deal with a constant data rate when operating 
close to their peak performance. Thus, for images with a small amount 
of information content, the image quality exceeds the specification 
(and is likely to be lossless) and for images with a large amount of  
 
information, the image quality can be below specification. Viewed from one aspect this invention provides apparatus for real 
time recording constant rate uncompressed video data, said apparatus 
comprising:
 
   means for compressing said uncompressed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for real time recording constant rate uncompressed 
video data, said apparatus comprising: 

   means for compressing (30, 32, 34) said uncompressed video data 
to form compressed video data at a varying compressed data rate, said 

varying compressed data rate being unregulated and dependent upon a 
compression control parameter (Q) which controls loss of fidelity 

through compression, and suitability of said uncompressed video data 
for compression; 

   means for user adjustment of said compression control parameter; 
and 

   means for storing (38) said compressed video data at said varying 
compressed data rate; 

   whereby, in use, a user may adjust said compression control 
parameter to balance loss of fidelity against maximum recording 

capacity for particular uncompressed video data. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for storing 
comprises a magnetic disc storage medium. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for storing 
comprises a random access memory (38). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3, comprising a write controller 
(36) for generating an aperiodic write control signal (En) for 

triggering storage of a byte of compressed video data in said random 
access memory when said byte is output by said means for compressing 

and for incrementing a write address of said random access memory along 
a predetermined sequence. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
said means for compressing comprises a quantizer (32) and said 

compression control parameter is quantization step width (Q). 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
said means for compressing comprises a frequency separator (30) for 

 
transforming said video data into the spatial frequency domain. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
said means for compressing comprises an entropy encoder (34). 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, having 
means for real time reproducing said uncompressed video data at said 

constant uncompressed data rate from said compressed video data, said 
means for real time reproducing comprising: 

   means for reading (40) said compressed data from said means for 
storing at said varying compressed data rate; and 

   means for decompressing (42, 44, 46) said compressed video data 
at said varying compressed data rate to form said uncompressed video 

data at said constant uncompressed data rate, said means for 
decompressing being controlled by said compression control parameter 

stored in association with said compressed data. 
Apparatus as claimed in claims 4 and 8, comprising a read 
controller (40) for generating an aperiodic read control signal (En) 

for triggering reading of a byte of compressed video data from said 
random access memory (38) when said means for decompressing is ready 

for a next a byte of compressed video data and for incrementing a read 
address of said random access memory along said predetermined sequence. 
Apparatus as claimed in claims 5 and 8, wherein said means for 
decompressing comprises a dequantizer (44). 
Apparatus as claimed in claims 6 and 8, wherein said means for 
decompressing comprises a frequency combiner (46) for transforming said 

video data into the spatial domain. 
Apparatus as claimed in claims 7 and 8, wherein said means for 
decompressing comprises an entropy decoder (42). 
A method of real time recording constant rate uncompressed video 
data, said method comprising the steps of: 

   compressing said uncompressed video data to form compressed video 
 

data at a varying compressed data rate, said varying compressed data 
rate being unregulated and dependent upon a compression control 

parameter which controls loss of fidelity through compression, and 
suitability of said uncompressed video data for compression; 

   adjusting said compression control parameter in response to user 
input; and 

   storing said compressed video data at said varying compressed 
data rate; 

   whereby, in use, a user may adjust said compression control 
parameter to balance loss of fidelity against maximum recording 

capacity for particular uncompressed video data. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
