<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632071</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for preparing segmented copolymers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08F28500	C08F206	C08F204	C08F25500	C08F28500	C08F25500	C08F25502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08F285	C08F2	C08F2	C08F255	C08F285	C08F255	C08F255	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved aqueous slurry process (with co-solvent) for the preparation
of segmented copolymers of polyolefins and poly((meth)acrylates) is disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROHM 
&
 HAAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROHM AND HAAS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLIKEMAN RICHARD ROY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLIKEMAN, RICHARD ROY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is concerned with a process for preparing segmented
copolymers.It has recently been shown by Ilenda et al. in U.S. Patent 4,957,974,
that segmented copolymers, such as graft
copolymers, of polyolefins, such as polypropylene, within a specific molecular
weight range, and of polymethacrylates within a certain composition and
molecular weight range, are useful additives for polyolefins for imparting melt
strength. Such segmented copolymers are also useful for the compatibilization
of polyolefins and polar polymers. An improved process for the manufacture of
these segmented copolymers has been sought to lower cost of manufacture and
to yield the product in a more suitable particulate form free of agglomerates and
fines.The term "segmented copolymer" refers to polymers wherein at least one
segment of polymer A is chemically joined to at least one segment of different
polymer B, and encompasses block copolymers, where the segments are joined at
at least one end of the segments, and also graft copolymers, where there may be a
trunk of polymer A to which at least one segment of polymer B is attached at a
site on the trunk which is not at the end. Because it is difficult cleanly to separate
and analyze polymers where a vinyl monomer such as styrene or methyl
methacrylate is polymerized in the presence of a crystalline polyolefin, such as
polypropylene, and because the possibility exists for both block and graft
copolymers to be formed, we have chosen to use the inclusive term "segmented
copolymers".The prior art discloses many grafted polymers from vinyl monomers onto
pre-formed polyolefins, which art is noted in the Natoli et al. application
discussed below. The prior art further discloses many technologies to prepare
segmented copolymers, especially by the polymerization of vinyl monomers in
the presence of pre-formed polyolefins, such as in solution, in emulsion, in a
solvent-swollen aqueous dispersion, and in an aqueous dispersion without a
solvent. Again, relatively few of these references relate to aqueous-related
processes wherein the vinyl monomer is an ester of a lower alkyl (meth)acrylate,
and none disclose the specific polymers with high molecular weight grafted
chains as taught by Ilenda et al. The methods disclosed for the polymerization of
methacrylate ester monomers, such as methyl methacrylate, in the presence of a
crystalline polymer, such as polypropylene, utilize methods which require a
period of contact between the polymer and the monomer to be polymerized, 
which may further
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for preparing a segmented copolymer of a polyolefin and of a
polymer comprised of greater than 50 weight percent of units derived

from at least one alkyl (meth)acrylate, comprising:

a) preparing a slurry of 100 parts of particles of polyolefin of average
particle size below 6 mm. with


1. from 100 to 500 parts of water; and
2. from 0.1 to 5 parts of at least one dispersant, the at least one
dispersant maintaining the polyolefin particles in particulate

form, the at least one dispersant being chosen from polymers
which are copolymers of units derived from (meth)acrylic

esters and at least one of units derived from a partially or
totally neutralized copolymerizable unsaturated acid;
b) heating the slurry in a pressure vessel with agitation until a
temperature of at least 60 °C is obtained;
c) prior to or during said heating adding to the slurry from 0 to 100
parts of one or more organic solvents, miscible with the later-added

first monomer mixture;
d) adding to the heated slurry either separately or in combination

1. from 5 to 120 parts of a first monomer mixture which is
greater than 50% by weight of at least one alkyl

(meth)acrylate, and which preferably contains from greater
than 5 to 25% by weight of units derived from an unsaturated

copolymerizable acid;
2. from 0.01 to 2 parts of at least one polymerization initiator;
3. one or more organic solvents, miscible with the first
monomer mixture so that the total of solvent added in steps

(c) and (d) is from 5 to 100 parts of solvent;
e) continuing heating to maintain the reaction temperature at at least
60 ° C, for at least 30 minutes; optionally, neutralizing the units

derived from an unsaturated polymerizable acid to convert the
units at least partially to an ammonium or alkali metal salt;
f) heating the reaction mixture to a temperature at least above 115 ° C
and above the softening point of the polyolefin particles;
g) further adding to the reaction vessel

1. from 5 to 200 parts of a second monomer mixture which is
greater than 50% by weight of at least one alkyl

(meth)acrylate;
2. from 5 to 150 parts of at least one organic solvent, miscible
with the second monomer mixture;
3. from 0.01 to 2 parts of at least one polymerization initiator;
h) holding the reaction vessel at a temperature above 115 ° C and
above the softening point of the polyolefin particles until essentially

complete conversion of the monomers to polymer occurs, the
polymer being formed being at least partially grafted to the

polyolefin to form the segmented copolymer, the segmented
copolymer remaining in particulate form.
The process of Claim 1, wherein the polyolefin is predominately
composed of units derived from propylene or ethylene or copolymers

thereof.
The process of Claims 1 or 2, wherein the segmented copolymer is a
segmented copolymer of polypropylene, polyethylene or a copolymer

which is mainly formed from units derived from propylene or ethylene
and of a polymer comprised of greater than 80 weight percent of units

derived from methyl methacrylate. 
The process of Claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein the at least one dispersant is a
partially neutralized copolymer of 35 parts ethyl acrylate and 65 parts of

(meth)acrylic acid and of molecular-weight above 100,000.
The process of Claims 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the first monomer mixture is
polymerized at a temperature below the softening point of the polyolefin,

followed by polymerization of the remaining monomer at a temperature
above the softening point of the polyolefin.
The process of any one of claims 2 - 5, wherein the polypropylene or
ethylene homopolymer or copolymer has a molecular-weight of from

50,000 to 1,000,000, and wherein the methyl methacrylate polymer has a
molecular weight of from 20,000 to 200,000.
The process of any one of claims 1 - 6, wherein the (meth)acrylate polymer
formed contains up to 50%, and preferably up to 20%, of units derived

from at least one other methacrylate ester, an acrylate ester, an unsaturated
copolymerizable acid, glycidyl methacrylate, or a vinyl aromatic monomer.
The process of any one of claims 2 - 7, wherein the (meth)acrylate polymer
formed contains up to 20% of units derived from at least one other

methacrylate ester, an acrylate ester, an unsaturated copolymerizable acid,
glycidyl methacrylate, or a vinyl aromatic monomer.
The process of Claim 8, wherein the unsaturated copolymerizable acid is
methacrylic acid or acrylic acid.
The process of Claims 8 or 9, wherein further the units derived from the
unsaturated copolymerizable acid are at least partially converted to an

ammonium, alkaline earth, alkali metal, or zinc salt prior to or during
isolation.
The process of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first and/or
second monomer mixture further contains from 0.1 to 5 parts of a

copolymerizable surfactant.
The process of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising in any
order: 


i) separating the solvent from the particulate segmented copolymer
particles;
ii) separating any remaining water from the particulate segmented
copolymer particles.
The process of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the solvent is not
separated from the particulate segmented copolymer particles during or

after separation from the water.
The process of Claim 13, wherein the solvent is glycerol monostearate,
oleic acid or hydrogenated soybean 
oil.
The process of any one of claims 8 - 14, wherein the methacrylic acid or
acrylic acid is present only in step (d)(i).
The process of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the solvent is not
separated from the particulate segmented copolymer particles during or

after separation from the water and wherein the solvent is non-volatile at
300 °C.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
