<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647920</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for deriving image width 
&
 height from raw image data.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T760	G06T760	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T7	G06T7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention involves a method of deriving 
the height and width of a graphic image from raw image 

data stored in a computer system. It includes commencing 
execution of a height-width derivation program in the 

computer system and, at least once, operating the height-width 
derivation program to perform a series of steps. 

These include calculating the area of the image size, 
e.g. using the total number of bytes, and calculating the 

square root of the area to obtain a first value, and then 
determining by assumption a first assumed width and a 

first assumed height. For example, these assumptions may 
be achieved by calculating one half of the first value to 

obtain a first assumed width value and dividing the area 
by the first assumed width value to obtain a first 

assumed height value. Next, the first assumed height 
value and first assumed width value are rounded to the 

nearest whole number, further adjusting said values by 
predetermined increments and the resulting adjusted 

values are multiplied until their product produces the 
closest value equal to the area of the image size to 

obtain a second assumed height value and a second assumed 
width value. The method also involves a series of 

iterations to determine error indexes for various altered 
assumed values and finding the values with the lowest 

error index. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLZMANN GERARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLZMANN, GERARD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of 
determining heights and widths of graphic images when 
only the raw computer data of the images is available. 
The method includes the use of a computer and an 
algorithm to develop assumed values and includes error 
index calculations to arrive at height and width values 
with the lowest error index. Computer Systems have been used to operate 
algorithms to solve computer related problems for many 
years. United States Patent No. 5,129,013 to Gerard J. 
Holzmann and Robert C. Pike describes a graphic image 
editor in which editing commands are inputted into a 
computer by a user to form an image transformation 
function using algorithms so as to define how to alter 
pixels of an image and which portions of that image to 
alter. This patent not only illustrates the use of 
algorithms, but also illustrates a basic understanding by 
the artisan of the creation of computer images-by pixels. 
These images are stored by a structured set of raw image 
data to establish pixel intensity, color, etc. and each 
line of an image is formed of a predetermined set of 
pixels represented by some whole number. Attempts have been made to develop programs for 
predetermining heights and widths of rectangular graphic 
images from raw computer data, but these have been slow 
and unreliable. One commercially available program for computer 
graphics, known as Adobe Photoshop, includes an option 
for reading in raw image files; however, Adobe Photoshop  
 
requires the user to supply height and width while the 
present invention method includes the use of a computer 
and an algorithm to derive height and width. Thus, it is believed that the method of the present 
invention is neither taught nor suggested in the prior 
art. The present invention involves a method of deriving 
the height and width of a graphic image from raw image 
data stored in a computer system. It includes commencing 
execution of a height-width derivation program in the 
computer system and, at least once, operating the height-width 
derivation program to perform a series of steps. 
These include calculating the area of the image size, 
e.g. using the total number of bytes, and calculating the 
square root of the area to obtain a first value, and then 
determining by assumption a first assumed width and a 
first assumed height. For example, these assumptions may 
be achieved by calculating one half of the first value to 
obtain a first assumed width value and dividing the area 
by the first assumed width value
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of deriving height and width of a graphic 
image from raw image data stored in a computer system, 

which comprises: 

a.) commencing execution of a height-width 
derivation program in the computer system; and, 
b.) at least once operating the height-width 
derivation program to perform the steps of: 


(i) calculating a first assumed height value 
and a first assumed width value based on a 

predetermined assumed relationship between said 
first assumed height value and said first 

assumed width value; and, 
(ii) adjusting the first assumed height value 
and first assumed width value by rounding out 

to the nearest whole number, further adjusting 
said values by predetermined increments and 

multiplying the resulting adjusted values until 
their product produces the closest value equal 

to the area of the image size to obtain a 

second assumed height value and a second 
assumed width value; 
(iii) assuming said second assumed height and 
said second assumed width represent a 

rectangular image, calculating an error index 
by isolating a center portion and discarding a 

section of one or more outer portions of said 
assumed rectangular image data and, for the 

remaining center portion image data, testing 
the correlation of the image data for 

neighboring scanlines to determine differences, 
and taking the total sum of difference values 

to obtain an error index; and, 
(iv) determining by comparison the width-height 
assumption having the lowest error index-value. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said correlation testing is performed 
by adding a predetermined number of adjacent lines, dividing by the number of such 

lines to obtain an average, subtracting at least one of said lines of the remaining data 
therefrom and summing the difference values, by repeating the aforesaid averaging 

steps and subtracting steps for predetermined increments of lines moving down at 
least one line at a time for each such increment. 
The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said calculation of a first 
assumed height and first assumed width value is determined by calculating the area 

of the image, taking the square root of the area of the image to obtain a value and 
utilizing assumptions on the relationship between height and width, calculating 

height and width values from said value. 
The method of claim 3, wherein a number of channels of the image is 
known and the area is first divided by an integer n for n-channel image raw data. 
The method of claim 3, wherein the image is known to be color and 
the area is first divided by 3 for color image raw data having three bytes per pixel. 
The method of claim 3, wherein a number of channels of the image is 
unknown and the method further includes calculating separate error indexes for each 

possible n value where n is an integer representing each possible number of 
channels, and then selecting values based on the lowest error index-value. 
A method of deriving height and width of a graphic image from raw 
image data stored in a computer system, which data includes a total number of bytes 

in said graphic image, which comprises: 

a) commencing execution of a height-width derivation program in the 
computer system; and, 
b) at least once operating the height-width 
 

derivation program to perform the steps of: 

(i) deriving the total number of bytes from 
said raw image data, calculating the area of 

the image size using the raw image data and 
calculating the square root of the area to 

obtain a first assumed value; 
(ii) calculating a first assumed height value 
and a first assumed width based on a 

predetermined assumed relationship between said 
first assumed height value and said first 

assumed width value; 
(iii) rounding the first assumed height value 
and first assumed width value to the nearest 

whole number, further adjusting said values by 
predetermined increments and multiplying the 

resulting adjusted values until their product 
produces the closest value equal to the area of 

the image size to obtain a second assumed 
height value and a second assumed width value; 
(iv) assuming said second assumed height and 
said second assumed width represent a 

rectangular image, calculating an error index 
by discarding a section of one or more outer 

portions of said assumed rectangular image data 
and, for the remaining undiscarded image data, 

by adding a predetermined number of adjacent 
lines, dividing by the number of such lines to 

obtain an average, subtracting at least one of 
said lines of the remaining data therefrom and 

summing the difference values, by repeating the 
aforesaid averaging steps and subtracting steps 

for predetermined increments, and taking the 
total sum of difference values to obtain an 

error index; and, 
(v) determining by comparison the width-height 
 

assumption having the lowest error index-value. 
The method of claim 7, wherein paragraph (b) steps further includes: 

(iv) assuming said second assumed height and said second 
assumed width represent a rectangular image, calculating an error 

index by isolating a center portion and discarding a predetermined 
portion of top and bottom and left and right of the image data and, 

for the remaining center portion image data, by adding the first and 
third lines, dividing by two to obtain an average, subtracting the 

second line of the remaining data therefrom and summing the 
difference values, by repeating the aforesaid averaging steps and 

subtracting steps for sequential three line increments one line down 
at a time, and taking the total sum of difference values to obtain an 

error index; and, 
(v) determining by comparison the width and height assumption 
having the lowest error index-value. 
The method of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the image is known to be 
color and the area is first divided by 3 for color image raw data having three bytes 

per pixel. 
The method of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein in step (b.) (vi), each 
non-whole number value obtained for an assumed height is discarded before an error 

index is calculated based thereon. 
The method of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein a number of channels of 
the image is unknown and the method further includes calculating separate error 

indexes for each possible n value where n is an integer representing each possible 
number of channels, and then selecting values based on the lowest error index-value. 
The method of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the value obtained from 
the square root of the image area is divided by two to obtain a first assumed width 

value and a first assumed height value is obtained by dividing the image area by the 
first assumed width value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
