<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655500</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Allergenic polypeptide from Japanese cedar pollen and dna encoding it
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1529	A61K3800	C07K14415	A61K3800	C12N1529	A61K3900	C07K14415	A61K3900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	A61K	C07K	A61K	C12N	A61K	C07K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	A61K38	C07K14	A61K38	C12N15	A61K39	C07K14	A61K39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A novel allergenic polypeptide was isolated from 
cedar pollen and determined for physicochemical properties. A 

nucleic acid sequence coding the polypeptide and its whole 
amino acid sequence were both determined sequenced and a 

replicable recombinant DNA and a transformant capable of 
producing the polypeptide were made with DNAs which beared the 

nucleic acid sequence. The polypeptide and its conjugates with 

saccharides exhibited a notable desensitizing effect in mammals 
when orally or parenterally administered thereto, suggesting 

that they were useful as desensitizer directed to treatment, 
prevention and diagnosis of pollen allergy. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAYASHIBARA BIOCHEM LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA HAYASHIBARA SEIBUTSU KAGAKU KENKYUJO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURIMOTO MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAMBA MOTOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORIGOE KAKUJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURIMOTO, MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAMBA, MOTOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORIGOE, KAKUJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a novel polypeptide causative
of pollen allergy, as well as to a DNA coding the same.In Japan for these ten and several years, the number
of persons who complain of rhinitis and/or conjunctival hyperemia
due to pollen allergy has steadily increased. As mass
media have frequently taken up, with viewpoint of public
health, this must be now one of unnegligible problems because
patients are so many and incidence is in early spring where
various events are held one after another.Pollen allergy is a type of allergic disease and the
antigenic substances in cedar pollen, i.e. cedar pollen allergens,
are said to be one of the major causes. When cedar
pollens which float in the air come into human body, then
immunoglobulin E antibodies against those are immediately
produced. If further cedar pollen comes into the body under
these conditions, then it arises an immunoreaction with the
immunoglobulin E antibodies which may arise allergic symptoms.It is known that there are at least two distinct
types of allergens in cedar pollens, which differ in antigenicity.
One type is such as reported by Yasueda etal. in 
Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Vol.71, No.1,
pp.77-86 (1983), which is now designated as "Cry j I". The
other type is such as reported in Tani-ai etal., FEBS Letters,
Vol.239, No.2, pp.329-332 (1988) and Sakaguchi etal., Allergy,
No.45, pp.309-312 (1990), which is now designated as "Cry j
II". It is said that in cedar pollens Cry j I and Cry j II are
usually present at a ratio of about 50:1-5:1, as well as that
sera from patients with pollen allergy generally react with
both Cry j I and Cry j II. Sawatani etal. reported in
Allergy, Vol.42, No.6, pp.738-747 (1993) that Cry j II exhibited
approximately the same antigenicity in the intradermal and
RAST tests as Cry j I did.As described above, several types of cedar pollen
allergens have been already isolated and characterized to some
degree, thus it has become possible to treat and prevent pollen
allergy in human by administering purified cedar pollen allergens
thereto for desensitization. Recently several proposals
therefor have been made: For example, Japan Patent Kokai
Nos.156,926/89 and 93,730/91 propose that allergens with an
amino acid sequence starting at N-terminal as represented by
Asp-Asn-Pro-Ile-Asp-Ser or Ala-Ile-Asn-Ile-Phe-Asn are co-valently
bound to pullulan, a type of polysaccharide, and the
resultant conjugates are administered as desensitizer to human.
Although diagnosis and desensitization of allergic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A polypeptide, which bears the following physicochemical
properties:


(1) Molecular weight

55,000±5,000 daltons as determined by SDS-polyacrylamide
gel electrophoresis
(2) Isoelectric point

9.0±0.5 as determined by isoelectric point electrophoresis
(3) N-Terminal amino acid sequence

Bearing at N-terminal an amino acid sequence as
represented by Ala-Met-Lys-Phe-Ile-Ala-Pro-Met-Ala-Phe-Val-Ala-Met-Gln-Leu-Ile-Ile-Met-Ala-.
(4) Ultraviolet absorption spectrum

Showing an absorption maximum around 280nm.
(5) Solubility in solvents

Soluble in water, physiological saline and
phosphate buffer.
(6) Biological activity

Combining with immunoglobulin E antibodies
collected from bloods of patients with pollen

allergy.

Causative of pollen allergy.
(7) Stability

Inactivated when incubated in aqueous solution 
(pH7.2) at 100°C for 10 minutes.

Substantially not inactivated even when allowed
to stand in aqueous solution (pH7.2) at 4°C for

1 month.
The polypeptide according to claim 1 comprising
an amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID. No. 1 or a homologous

sequence to SEQ ID. No. 1 and having an N-terminal sequence
comprising the N-ter
minal sequence of claim 1.
The polypeptide of claim 1, which originates
from cedar pollen.
A DNA, which codes the polypeptide of claim 1.
The DNA of claim 4, wherein said polypeptide
comprising an amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID. No. 1 or

a homologous sequence to SEQ ID. No. 1 and having an N-terminal
sequence comprising the N-terminal sequence of claim 1.
The DNA of claim 4, which bears either a nucleic
acid sequence starting at 5'-terminal as shown in the Sequence

Listing with SEQ ID No.2 or a nucleic acid sequence which is
complementary therewith.
The DNA of claim 4, wherein based on degeneracy
in genetic codes, one or more nucleic acids in the nucleic acid

sequence as shown in the Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.2 are
replaced with other nucleic acids without changing the amino

acid sequence as shown in the Sequence Listing with SEQ ID
No.1.
The DNA of claim 4, which originates from either 
pollen or male flower of cedar.
A replicable recombinant DNA, which comprises
the DNA of claim 4, and an expression vector.
The replicable recombinant DNA of claim 9,
wherein said DNA bears a nucleic acid sequence starting 5'-terminal

as shown in the Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.2 or a
nucleic acid sequence which is complementary therewith.
The replicable recombinant DNA of claim 9,
wherein in said DNA, based on degeneracy of genetic codes, one

or more nucleic acids in the nucleic acid sequence in the
Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.2 are replaced with other

nucleic acids without changing the amino acid sequence in the
Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.1.
The replicable recombinant DNA of claim 9,
wherein said DNA originates from pollen or male flower of

cedar.
The replicable recombinant DNA of claim 9,
wherein said expression vector is pKK223-3.
A transformant, which comprises the replicable
recombinant DNA of claim 9, and an appropriate host to which

said replicable recombinant DNA is introduceable.
The transformant of claim 14, wherein said DNA
bears a nucleic acid sequence starting 5'-terminal as shown in

the Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.2 or a nucleic acid sequence
which is complementary therewith.
The transformant of claim 14, wherein in said 
DNA, based on degeneracy of genetic codes, one or more nucleic

acids in the nucleic acid sequence as shown in the Sequence
Listing with SEQ ID No.2 are replaced with other nucleic acids

without changing the amino acid sequence as shown in the
Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.1.
The transformant of claim 14, wherein said
expression vector is pKK223-3.
The transformant of claim 14, wherein said host
is a microorganism of 
Escherichia
coli.
A process to produce polypeptide, which comprises
cultivating in a culture medium the transformant of

claim 14, and collecting the produced polypeptide from the
resultant culture.
The process of claim 19, wherein said polypeptide
bears an amino acid sequence as shown in the Sequence

Listing with SEQ ID No.1 or an amino acid sequence which is
homologous therewith.
The process of claim 19, wherein said DNA bears
a nucleic acid sequence starting at 5'-terminal as shown in the

Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.2 or a nucleic acid sequence
which is complementary therewith.
The process of claim 19, wherein in said DNA,
based on degeneracy of genetic codes, one or more nucleic acids

as shown in the Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.2 are replaced
with other nucleic acids without changing the amino acid

sequence as shown in the Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.1. 
The process of claim 19, wherein said DNA
originates from pollen or male flower of cedar.
The process of claim 19, wherein a host in said
transformant is a microorganism.
The process of claim 19, wherein a vector in
said transformant is pKK223-3.
The process of claim 19, wherein the produced
polypeptide is collected from the resultant culture by one or

more members selected from the group consisting of salting out,
dialysis, filtration, concentration, centrifugation, gel

filtration chromatography, ion exchange chromatography, affinity
chromatography, gel electrophoresis and isoelectric point

electrophoresis.
A desensitizer, which contains as effective
ingredient the polypeptide of claim 1.
The desensitizer of claim 27, wherein said
polypeptide bears an amino acid sequence as shown in the

Sequence Listing with SEQ ID No.1 or an amino acid sequence
which is homologous therewith and having an N-terminal sequence comprising the N-terminal sequence of claim 1.
The desensitizer of claim 27, wherein said
polypeptide is collected from a culture which is obtainable by

cultivating in a culture medium a transformant which contains a
DNA coding the polypeptide described in claim 1.
The desensitizer of claim 27, wherein said
polypeptide is covalently bound to a saccharide.
The desensitizer of claim 30, wherein said 
saccharide consists essentially of repeating maltotriose units.
The desensitizer of claim 27, which contains
serum albumin and/or gelatin as stabilizer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
