<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647161</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MIXING A QUANTITY OF LIQUID IN A CONTAINER FOR AN ANALYSIS, A MIXING AND MEASURING NEEDLE AND METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING THE NEEDLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F308	B01F308	B01F500	B01F506	B01F506	B01F510	B01F1100	B01F1100	B01L300	B01L300	B01L302	B01L302	G01N3510	G01N3510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01L	B01L	B01L	B01L	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F3	B01F3	B01F5	B01F5	B01F5	B01F5	B01F11	B01F11	B01L3	B01L3	B01L3	B01L3	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method for mixing of a liquid quantity for an analysis, and a mixing and measuring needle (1) which is suited for it. According to the invention for the mixing a needle (1) is used comprising a flowing duct (3) having at its end at least one aspiration and discharge opening (4), and the mixing is carried out by keeping the opening in a cuvette (6) or other such mixing container below the liquid surface (10) and by carrying out the mixing with a to-and-fro motion, wherein liquid is alternately aspirated from the container to a flowing duct of the needle and squirted back from the flowing duct into the container. The essence of the invention is that the flowing duct (3) has a necking (19) extending essentially to the opening (4) at the end of the duct, in the length of which duct the flow resistance of the duct is growing at least to tenfold, wherein at discharge stages from the opening according to the vena contracta phenomenon an at first convergent and thereafter turbulently divergent liquid flow (20) is discharged. The mixing can be combined with the measuring taking place in the needle simultaneously, wherein the needle is gradually emptied of the liquid to be measured. According to the invention the point part of the needle (1) is conical and has at least one opening (4) which has been directed aside from the longitudinal axis of the needle. The needle (1) can be manufactured by electroforming.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KAARTINEN NIILO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KAARTINEN, NIILO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAARTINEN NIILO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAARTINEN, NIILO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Method for mixing a quantity of liquid in a container for an analysis, a mixing and measuring needle and method for manufacturing the needleThe invention relates to a method for mixing a quantity of liquid in a container for an analysis using a needle comprising a flowing duct having at its end at least one aspiration and discharge opening, by keeping the opening in a container below the liquid surface and by carrying the mixing with a to-and-fro motion, wherein the liquid is alternately aspirated from the container to a flowing duct of the needle and sprayed from the flowing duct back into the container. The method is especially intended for the mixing of liquid samples to be analyzed in measuring cuvettes of automatic analyzers in the field of clinical chemistry.The components of the liquid quantity to be mixed in the cuvette are typically measured with a measuring needle, which is flexibly connected to an automatic microsyringe. The measuring is carried out so that a sample and a diluent or a reagent are aspirated with the syringe to the needle and optionally air bubbles to separate these from each other. The point of the measuring needle is moved to the cuvette, wherein the sample with its diluent or reagent is emptied. Thereafter the measured components and the reagents which optionally were in the cuvette in advance are mixed with each other. The mixing has been carried out mechani- cally e.g. by moving the point of the measuring needle in the cuvette by using a separate mixer or by carrying out the mixing with ultrasound. After the mixing the cuvette is transported to the incubation, measuring or other such further handling.The mentioned known methods for mixing a liquid quantity all are more or less slow and tediuos. The use of a separate 

mechanical mixer is tedious and comprises an extra step in the preparation of the liquid quantity for an analysis. The point of the measuring needle in turn is inefficient as a mechanical mixer because of its thinness.From the published German Application DE 27 22 586 is known the in the beginning mentioned way of mixing, which is based on the to-and-fro movements. Because of the form of the needle the mixing is, anyhow, inefficient and it isn't mentioned for analytical purposes.The purpose of this invention is to provide a solution, by which the liquid quantity to be analyzed can be mixed more efficiently than earlier without any need for a separate, moving mixer in the container. The invention is characteri¬ zed in that a needle is used, in the flowing duct
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. Method for mixing a liquid quantity (9) in a container (6) for an analysis using a needle (1) , which comprises a flowing duct (3) , at the end of which is at least one aspiration and discharge opening (4), by keeping the opening in a container beneath the liquid surface (10) and carrying out mixing with a to-and-fro motion, wherein liquid is alternately aspirated from the container to a flowing duct in the needle and squirted from the flowing duct back into the container, characterized in that a needle (1) is used having in its flowing duct (3) a necking (19) extending essentially to the opening (4) at the end of the duct, in the length of which necking the flow resistance of the duct is growing at least to tenfold, wherein at the discharge stages from the opening according to the vena contracta phenomenon an at first convergent and thereafter turbulently divergent liquid flow (20) is discharged, and that the liquid quantity moving in the to-and-fro movements is at most about 20% of the total volume of the liquid quantity to be mixed.
2. Method according to claim 1, characterized in that the mixing has been connected with the simultaneous measuring carried out with the needle (1) , wherein the liquid quantities aspirated from the container (6) to the needle are on an average smaller than the liquid quantities squirted from the needle to the container.
3. Method according to claim 1, characterized a measuring is first carried out with the needle (1), in which measuring the liquid to be measured is first discharged from the needle to the container (6) , whereafter the liquid in the container (9) is mixed with said to-and-fro mixing movements.
4. Method according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the liquid quantity to be moved to-and-fro in the 


mixing is about 0.1-5% of the total volume of the liquid quantity (9) to be mixed.
5. Method according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the frequency of the to-and-fro mixing movements is about 5-200Hz, preferably about 50Hz.
6. Method according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the mixing takes about 0.1-2 seconds, preferably about 0,5 seconds.
7. Method according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the to-and-fro mixing movements are provided by the repeated compressions exerted on the pipe (21) which is as an extension to the needle (1) and is of a flexible material, as a result of which compressions the volume of the pipe is changing.
8. Method according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the flowing duct (3) of the needle (1) is tapering conically at an angle of about 15-60° towards the opening (4) at the end of the duct.
9. Method according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the discharging flow of liquid is directed towards the side walls (7) of the container from openings (4) which are on the needle (1) before its point (5) and are directed to the sides.
10. Method according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the needle (1) is lifted during the discharging of the liquid flow, so that the opening(s) (4) follow(s) the rise of the liquid surface (10) in the container (6).
11. A mixing and measuring needle (1) which comprises a tubular shaft (2) and inside it a flowing duct (3) , which ends before the point (5) of the needle in at least one 


aspiration and discharge opening (4) which is directed aside from the longitudinal axis of the needle, characterized in that the point part of the needle has been formed as conically tapering and that in the flowing duct there is a necking (19) extending to said opening, in the length of which necking the flow resistance of the duct is growing at least to tenfold, wherein at discharge stages from the opening according to the vena contracta phenomenon an at first converging and thereafter turbulently divergent liquid flow (20) is discharged.
12. Needle according to claim 11, characterized in that the point (5) of the needle is solid.
13. Needle according to claim 11 or 12, characterized in that the point part of the needle is tapering off at an angle of between about 15-60°.
14. Needle according to claim 13, characterized in that the diameter of the point (5) of the needle is less than 0.3mm.
15. Needle according to claim 12, characterized in that the point part of the needle is in the shape of a dagger.
16. Needle according to any of claims 11-15, characterized in that the discharge openings (4) have been directed obiquely forward in relation to the longitudinal direction of the needle (1) .
17. Needle according to any of claims 11-16, characterized in that the flowing duct (3) ends in two or several discharge openings ( ) which are at regular intervals on the different, sides of the needle (1).
18. A method for manufacturing the mixing and measuring needle (1) according to any of claims 11-17, characterized in that the needle (1) is manufactured by electroforming by 


electrolytically precipitating around an elongate, needle¬ like mold (11) a layer (14) of a metal, by removing the mold metal from inside the layer, so that a tubular, metallic needle is obtained having a longitudinal duct (3) inside it, and by drilling on the side of the needle at the end of the duct as the discharge opening (4) of the duct at least one opening (17) which goes through the metal layer.
19. Method according to claim 18, characterized in that an excess of the metal is precipitated around the point (12) of the mould (11) and that after the precipitation step the point part (18) of the needle is tooled as conically tapering or in the shape of a dagger, at which stage the extra metal (15) is removed. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
