<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656190</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for applying surgical clips
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1712	A61B1728	A61B17128	A61B1728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus 10 is provided for applying surgical 
clips which includes provisions for applying a partially closed 

clip to ducts or shunts during a surgical procedure such as 
cholecystectomy procedures. The apparatus includes means 40 

for effecting a partial closing stroke of the handle mechanism 
to correspond to a partial closure of the jaw members, and 

permits a partial opening stroke to release the partially 
closed clip in the jaw mechanism. Other features of the 

invention include means 156 for preventing over-advancement of 
a clip to the jaw mechanism, means 60 for cradling the clip as 

it is advanced from the clip supply to the jaw mechanism, means 
74 for preventing splaying of the jaws in the event of a clip-over-clip 

application, and a novel rotation collar 22. The 
instrument of the present invention provides the surgeon with 

visual, audible, and tactile indication of the positioning of 
the jaw members to effect the application of a partially closed 

clip. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus for applying
surgical clips to body tissue during laparoscopic or endoscopic
procedures, and more particularly, to a surgical clip applier
adapted to apply fully crimped clips as well as a partially
formed clip during surgical procedures. Such apparatus is
diclosed in US-A-5084057, in relation to which prior art, claim
1 below is differentiated.In laparoscopic and endoscopic surgical procedures, a
small incision is made in the patient's body to provide access
for a tube or cannula device. Once extended into the patient's
body, the cannula provides an access port which allows
insertion of various surgical instruments through the cannula
for acting on organs, blood vessels, ducts, or body tissue far
removed from the incision. Often during these procedures, it
is necessary to apply hemostatic clips to blood vessels or
various ducts to prevent the flow of body fluids therethrough
during the procedure. Many times, the surgical procedure may
necessitate the temporary implantation of shunts or tubes into
ducts or vessels. Such procedures, such as gall bladder
surgery, often require the placement of a shunt into the ducts
during excision of the organ. To secure the shunt, a clip must
be applied which is partially closed so as to avoid occluding
the shunt. While instruments for performing surgical clip
application are known in the art, none provide indication of
the successful application of a partially crimped clip, such as
is necessary to secure the shunt. Fully crimping a clip over a
shunt will obviously occlude the shunt and defeat its purpose.One clip applier known well in the art is described
in U.S. Patent No. 5,084,057, mentioned above. This instrument
includes a mechanism for sequentially advancing a plurality of
surgical clips towards a pair of distal jaw meters. Through
actuation of handle structure, the jaw meters are closed to 
advantageously crimp the clip. The instrument does not provide
an indication of the spacing between the jaws during the
closing of the jaw members, other than through visual
examination of the jaw members through an endoscope. Thus,
when attempting to detachably secure a shunt to tissue, e.g.,
for cholangiography, it can be difficult to ascertain whether
the jaw members have closed to an appropriate gap for securing
the shunt.Furthermore, many instruments now incorporate ratchet
mechanisms to prevent inadvertent opening of the handles and
jaws until the clip is fully crimped, requiring a full closing
stroke. Thus, the instruments are not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus (10) for applying surgical clips which
includes a handle portion (12); a body portion (18)

extending from said handle portion; a jaw mechanism
(20) extending from said body portion at an end

opposite said handle portion and movable between an
open position for receiving a clip and a closed

position for forming a clip in response to movement of
said handle portion, such movement from the open to

the closed position defining a closing stroke of the
jaw mechanism; a clip supply (70) disposed within said

body portion; and means (60) for advancing a clip from
said clip supply to said jaw mechanism; said apparatus

being characterized by:

   a ratchet mechanism for completion of the closing
stroke of said jaw mechanism, the ratchet mechanism

(48, 40) permitting a partial opening stroke of said
jaw mechanism after at least a partial closing stroke

is effected, to permit release of a partially-formed
clip from said jaw mechanism.
An apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said
ratchet mechanism is disposed within said handle

portion, said ratchet mechanism including at least one
rack member (48) and at least one pawl member (40).
An apparatus according to Claim 2, wherein said rack
member has a length which corresponds to a partial

closing stroke of said jaw mechanism. 
An apparatus according to Claims 2 or 3, wherein said
rack member (48) includes a plurality of teeth (100,

102) over a portion of a length of said rack member, a
remaining portion (104) of said length of said rack

member being devoid of teeth, such that said plurality
of teeth permit incremental closure and said remaining

portion of said rack member permits said partial
opening stroke during said closing stroke.
An apparatus according to claims 2, 3 or 4, wherein
said ratchet mechanism includes at least two rack

members (114, 116).
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said rack
members are arranged in a series relation having a

space (104) therebetween, such that said pawl member
engages and traverses a first (114) of said rack

members, said space, and a second (116) of said rack
member in sequence during the closing stroke.
An apparatus according to claims 5 or 6, wherein said
a partial opening stroke of said jaw mechanism is at

least partially formed within said space between said
rack members.
An apparatus according to Claims 5, 6 or 7, wherein
two side by side rack members (48, 118) include a

plurality of teeth and are positioned in a parallel
relationship, on of the rack members (48) having teeth

over a portion of its length and a remaining portion
of said length being devoid of teeth, and the other

rack member (118) having teeth over its length. 
An apparatus according to Claim 8, wherein said first
rack member is engaged by said pawl member, and said

second rack member is engaged by a portion of said
movable handle member (14).
An apparatus according to any one of claims 2 to 9,
wherein said pawl member includes means for

maintaining said pawl member out of engagement with
said rack member subsequent to a complete closing

stroke to permit a complete opening stroke.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising visual indicator means (24,

260) associated with a camming means for providing
indication of a predetermined position of said jaw

mechanism between said open position and said closed
position.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein said jaw mechanism comprises a pair of

jaw members (126, 128) and further comprising means
(174) for engaging said jaw members to prevent said

jaw members from being spaced apart from each other a
distance which is greater than said gap defined by

said jaw members in said open position.
An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said
engaging means comprises a bracket (174) including a

pair of tab members for engaging a portion of said jaw
members to restrict splaying of said jaw members away

from each other a distance greater than said gap.
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
further comprising tissue stop means (78) disposed 

adjacent said jaw mechanism for aligning said jaw
mechanism with respect to a vessel, said tissue stop

means contacting said vessel only when said jaw
mechansim is devoid of a clip.
An apparatus according to Claim 14, further comprising
means (150) disposed on said tissue stop means for

arresting advancement of a clip into said jaw
mechanism, said arresting means engaging at least an

inside surface of said clip during advancement to said
jaw mechanism to arrest advancement and align said

clip within said jaw mechanism.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising means (150) associated with

said jaw mechanism for blocking advancement of a clip
into said jaw mechanism unless said jaw mechanism is

in said open position.
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
further comprising cradling means (158, 162)

associated with said advancing means (60) for engaging
at least an outside surface of a clip during

advancement of said clip to said jaw mechanism.
An apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said
advancing means comprises a pusher bar (60) and said

cradling means comprises a notch (158) in a distal end
of said pusher bar, said notch being dimensioned and

configured to overlay and engage at least a bight
portion of said clip during advancement of said clip.
An apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said
advancing means comprises a pusher bar and said 

cradling means comprises clip engaging fingers (162)
depending from a distal end of said pusher bar, said

fingers being dimensioned and configured to grasp at
least a bight portion of said clip during advancement

of said clip.
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
further comprising collar means (22) for coupling said

body portion to said handle portion, said collar means
being rotatable about a longitudinal axis to effect

rotation of said body portion about said longitudinal
axis, an external surface of said collar means having

finger engageable means (192) including a plurality of
indentations dimensioned and configured to

substantially enclose the volar surface of a
distalmost phalange of an index finger of a user for

effecting single finger rotation of said collar means
and said body portion about said longitudinal axis.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
