<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655910</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
USE OF POUCH FOR IMPLANTATION OF LIVING CELLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F202	A61F202	A61K900	A61K900	A61K950	A61K950	A61K3512	A61K3512	A61K3537	A61K3539	A61M3700	A61M3700	C12N506	C12N506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61M	A61M	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K35	A61K35	A61K35	A61K35	A61M37	A61M37	C12N5	C12N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device and method of use are provided for improving the long-term treatment of a patient by surgically implanting encapsulated or unencapsulated cells or cell clusters producing a therapeutic agent and for retrieving such cell bodies. A pouch is placed over a vascularized tissue pedicle in an individual's body so that at least part of the pedicle is encased by projecting into the opening of the pouch. The pouch is attached to the pedicle around the pouch opening.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV WASHINGTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIONNE KEITH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHARP DAVID W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIONNE, KEITH, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHARP, DAVID, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 USE OF POUCH FOR IMPLANTATION OF LIVING CELLSBackground of the InventionTherapeutic agents have been implanted into patients for treatment of chronic conditions, deficiencies and disease. In one form of treatment, microcapsules containing cells (or cell clusters) for producing such therapeutic agents, have been used. Specifically, pancreatic islet cell grafts have been performed by implantation either freely into the peritoneal cavity or into an epiploic flap pedicle. (Cugnenc, P.H., et al., Chirurgie 1990, 116(6) p.268-74, and Altman, J.J. , Hor . Metab. Res. Suppl. 1990, 25 p.136-7.) Micro- capsules containing other cells have been implanted in various areas of the body. One problem with known techniques is that there is no effective way to retrieve the encapsulated cells. In certain instances, it would be desirable to replace such cell capsules because of (a) possible expiration or failure of the cells, (b) a need to change the therapeutic approach or modify the dosage levels, (c) catastrophic failure, or (d) allergic reaction. When using microcapsules, a large number (e.g. hundreds or thousands) are normally employed for dispersion within the individual thereby effectively preventing retrieval.Another approach which has been suggested is the loading of tissue fragments of insulinomas in permselective tubular membranes which are implanted. (Altman, J.J., Diabetes June 1986, 35(6) p.625-33.) Altman reports 

that the insulinoma tissue retrieved after implantation showed functionally active endocrine cells and no evidence of graft rejection. However, this is not the optimum environment for long term grafts because the cells are not in close proximity to well-vascularized tissue. Also, the unencapsulated cells do not have optimal diffusional characteristics.In view of the foregoing, there is a need for implantation of encapsulated or unencapsulated cells into a patent providing optimum conditions for long term cell viability and which permits the complete retrieval of such cells.Summary of the InventionIn accordance with the invention, a device and method of use are provided for improving the long-term treatment of a patient by surgically implanting encapsulated or unencapsulated cells or cell clusters producing a therapeutic agent (collectively "cell bodies") and for retrieving such cell bodies. According to the method, a pouch is placed over a vascularized tissue pedicle in an individual■s body so that at least part of the pedicle is encased by projecting into the opening of the pouch. The pouch is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for implanting into an individual a plurality of cell bodies producing a therapeutic agent, said method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a biocompatible and biostable pouch over a vascularized tissue pedicle pendant from and projecting into a cavity of an individual's body so that at least part of said pedicle is encased by projecting into the opening of the pouch, (b) attaching said pouch to said pedicle, and
(c) dispersing a number of said cell bodies, spaced apart, into multiple locations of said pedicle.
2. The method of Claim 1 in which said cell bodies are encapsulated.
3. The method of Claim 1 in which said placing step is performed by molding a biocompatible polymer onto the surface of said pedicle and permitting said polymer to set in the form of a continuous pouch conforming to the shape of the adjacent pedicle.
4. The method of Claim 1 in which said attaching step is performed by suturing.
5. The method of Claim 1 in which said attaching step is performed by tightening the perimeter of the pouch opening around the pedicle.
6. The method of Claim 6 in which the perimeter of said pouch opening is elastic and attaches by expansion to fit over said pedicle followed by contraction into a compression fit. 


7. The method of Claim 1 in which said pedicle is naturally occurring.
8. The method of Claim 1 in which, prior to step (a) , a vascularized tissue mass is detached from the individual's body and connected to a vascular source at a selected site on the wall of the cavity within the individual to revascularize said tissue mass, thereby forming the vascularized tissue pedicle of step (a) .
9. The method of Claim 1 further comprising (d) introducing growth factor into the pouch.
10. The method of Claim 1 further comprising:
(d) surgically removing said pouch, attached pedicle, and contained cell bodies as a unit from the individual's body.
11. The method of Claim 1 further comprising:
(d) dislodging said plurality of cell bodies from said pedicle and collecting them in the pouch, and
(e) surgically removing said pouch and contained dislodged cell bodies from the individual 's body leaving the pedicle in place.
12. The method of Claim 1 in which said cell bodies are dispersed by injection from a conduit through said pouch into different sites on said pedicle.
13. The method of Claim 1 in which said cell bodies are dispersed into said pedicle through a cannula into an artery feeding said pedicle.
14. The method of Claim 1 further comprising: 


 (d) placing a cortex-forming substrate around said pedicle, and
(e) inducing angiogenesis in said cortex-forming substrate.
15. A method for implanting into an individual a plurality of cell bodies producing a therapeutic agent, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) placing a biocompatible and biostable pouch over a vascularized tissue pedicle pendant from and projecting into a cavity of an individual's body so that at least part of said pedicle is encased by projecting into the opening of the pouch, said pouch containing cell bodies dispersed on and adhered to the inner wall of the pouch, and (b) attaching said pouch to said pedicle.
16. The method of claim 15 in which said cell bodies are encapsulated.
17. The method of Claim 15 further comprising:
(d) surgically removing said pouch, attached pedicle, and cell bodies as a unit from the individual's body.
18. The method of Claim 15 further comprising:
(d) dislodging most of said cell bodies from said pedicle and collecting them in the pouch, and (e) removing said pouch and contained dislodged cell or cell cluster bodies from the individual's body leaving the pedicle in place.
19. A device for implanting into an individual a plurality of cell bodies producing a therapeutic agent comprising a biocompatible and biostable flexible pouch 


and a plurality of cell bodies producing a therapeutic agent and contained by said pouch.
20. The device of Claim 19 in which said cell bodies are encapsulated.
21. The device of Claim 19 in which cell bodies are dispersed on the inner wall of said pouch and adhered to the same.
22. The device of Claim 19 including means for attaching the opening of the pouch to a vascularized tissue pedicle.
23. The device of claim 19 in combination with a vascularized tissue pedicle surgically removed from an individual's body, said removed pedicle being encased by projecting into the opening of the pouch, said pouch being attached to said pedicle, said cell bodies being dispersed on multiple locations of said pedicle.
24. An individual implanted with cell bodies producing a therapeutic agent, comprising a biocompatible and biostable flexible pouch disposed over a vascularized tissue pedicle pendant form and projecting into a cavity of an individual's body so that at least part of said pedicle is encased by projecting into the opening of the pouch, said pouch being attached at its opening to said pedicle, and a plurality of said cell bodies dispersed on multiple locations of said pedicle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
