<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647630</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for producing 5-arylhydantoins
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07D23378	C07D23300	C07D23374	C07D49900	C07D49900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07D233	C07D233	C07D233	C07D499	C07D499	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a novel process for 
the preparation of 5-arylhydantoins as an important 

intermediate of (D)-arylglycines (e.g., (D)-p-hydroxyphenylglycine) 
useful for the synthesis of semisynthetic 

penicillines and cephalosporins, the process comprising (i) 
reacting a 5-unsubstituted hydantoin compound with a 

halogenating agent and (ii) reacting the resulting product 
with a p-unsubstituted phenol compound, the hydroxy group of 

which may be protected, to substitute the 5-position of the 
hydantoin compound with the phenol compound at the para 

position. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHOWA DENKO KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHOWA DENKO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YASUDA HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YASUDA, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a novel process for 
the preparation of 5-arylhydantoins as an important 
intermediate of (D)-arylglycines (e.g., (D)-p-hydroxyphenylglycine) 
useful for the synthesis of semisynthetic 
penicillines and cephalosporins. 5-Arylhydantoins have been classically known to be 
synthesized in accordance with Bucherer-Berg method by which 
the corresponding arylaldehyde is reacted with ammonium 
carbonate and sodium cyanide (see "J. Prakt. Chem.", page 
291, 140 [1934]). Many other synthesis methods have been known such as 
a method which comprises the reaction of glyoxylic acid, urea 
and an aryl compound under acidic conditions (see JP-A-54-106740 
(the term "JP-A" as used herein means an "unexamined 
published Japanese patent application"), JP-B-55-22474 (the 
term "JP-B" as used herein means an "examined Japanese patent 
publication")), a method which comprises the reaction of 5-hydroxyhydaintoin 
with an aryl compound (see JP-A-54-138560), 
a method which comprises the reaction of allantoin with 
phenol (see JP-B-55-16582), a method which comprises the 
reaction of the reduction product of parabanic acid with 
phenol (see JP-A-3-206080) and a method which comprises the 
reaction of 4-hydroxyphenylketoacetal with phenol (see JP-A-4-364150).  
 Bucherer-Berg method requires the use of sodium 
cyanide, which is very dangerous. This method is also 
disadvantageous in that the resulting crude hydantoin 
contains a large amount of products of the secondary reaction 
occurring with the oxidation of phenol ring under alkaline 
conditions and thus is liable to coloration. The synthesis methods which comprise the use of 
starting materials such as glyoxylic acid, 5-hydroxyhydantoin, 
allantoin, parabanic acid and 4-hydroxyphenylketoacetal 
leave something to be desired because these starting 
materials are expensive. Journal of Organic Chemistry, vol. 56, 1991 p. 6897-6904 
discloses 5-bromohydantoin. From Journal of Heterocyclic 
Chemistry, vol. 11, 1974 p. 833 to 834 there is known that by 
amidoalkylation of phenols by hydantoins new hetero-tricyclic 
systems can be synthesized.  
 It is therefore an object of the present invention to 
provide a process for the preparation of 5-arylhydantoins 
with a high purity in a high yield. It is another object of the present invention to 
provide a process for the preparation of industrially 
advantageous 5-arylhydantoins wherein all the reactions can 
be effected in the same solvent system in the same reaction 
vessel. It is a further object
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for producing a 5-arylhydantoin which 
comprises (i) reacting a 5-unsubstituted hydantoin compound 

with a halogenating agent and (ii) reacting the resulting 
product with a p-unsubstituted phenol compound, the hydroxy 

group of which may be protected, to substitute the 5-position 
of the hydantoin compound with the phenol compound at the 

para position. 
The process as in claim 1, wherein said p-unsubstituted 
phenol compound is represented by formula (III) 


 
wherein R represents a hydrogen atom or a protective group 

for phenolic hydroxy group and R
3
, R
4
, R
5
 and R
6
 each 
represent a hydrogen atom or a group which does not 

substantially impair the para-orientation property of phenol 
compound. 
A process as in claim 1, wherein said 5-unsubstituted 
hydantoin compound is represented by formula 

(I) 

 
wherein R
1
 represents a hydrogen atom or a protective group  
 

for nitrogen atom, and R
2
 represents a hydrogen atom, and 
alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, an alkenyl group 

having 3 to 10 carbon atoms, an alkynyl group having 3 to 10 
carbon atoms, an acyl group having 2 to 10 carbon atoms, an 

aryl group which may be substituted, an aralkyl group which 
may have a substituent on the ary moiety, an aminocarbonyl 

group which may have a substituent on the amino moiety, an 
alkoxycarbonyl group having 2 to 8 carbon atoms, an 

aryloxycarbonyl group which may have a substituent on the 
aryl moiety, an aralkyloxycarbonyl group which may have a 

substituent on the aryl moiety, a sulfinyl group having 1 to 
8 carbon atoms, a sulfonyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, 

or a nitrogen substituent group. 
The process as in claim 1, wherein said p-unsubstituted 
phenol compound and said 5-unsubstituted 

hydantoin compound are phenol and hydantoin, respectively, 
and said 5-arylhydantoin is 5-(p-hydroxyphenyl)hydantoin. 
The process as in claim 1, wherein said reaction 
(i) is conducted in the presence of an acid. 
The process as in claim 1, wherein said reaction 
(i) is conducted in the presence of a radical reaction 

initiator. 
The process as in claim 1, wherein said reaction 
(i) is conducted in a solvent containing substantially no 

water. 
A process for producing a of 5-arylhydantoin  
 

represented by formula (IV) 

 
wherein R represents a hydrogen atom or a protective group 

for phenolic hydroxy group; R
1
 represents a hydrogen atom or 
a protective group for nitrogen atom, and R
2
 represents a 
hydrogen atom, and alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, an 

alkenyl group having 3 to 10 carbon atoms, an alkynyl group 
having 3 to 10 carbon atoms, an acyl group having 2 to 10 

carbon atoms, an aryl group which may be substituted, an 
aralkyl group which may have a substituent on the ary moiety, 

an aminocarbonyl group which may have a substituent on the 
amino moiety, an alkoxycarbonyl group having 2 to 8 carbon 

atoms, an aryloxycarbonyl group which may have a substituent 
on the aryl moiety, an aralkyloxycarbonyl group which may 

have a substituent on the aryl moiety, a sulfinyl group 
having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, a sulfonyl group having 1 to 8 

carbon atoms, or a nitrogen substituent group; and R
3
, R
4
, R
5
 
and R
6
 each represent a hydrogen atom or a group which does 
not substantially impair the para-orientation property of 

phenol compound, which comprises the reaction of a 5-halohydantoin 
compound represented by formula (II') and a p-unsubstituted 

phenol compound represented by formula (III):  
 


 
wherein X represents a chlorine atom, a bromine atom, or an 

iodine atom. 
The process as in claim 8, wherein said p-unsubstituted 
phenol compound and said 5-unsubstituted 

hydantoin compound are phenol and hydantoin, respectively, 
and said 5-arylhydantoin is 5-(p-hydroxyphenyl)hydantoin. 
The process as in claim 8, wherein said reaction 
(i) is conducted in a solvent containing substantially no 

water.  
 
A process for the preparation of 6-[(p-hydroxyphenyl)-α-amino-acetylamino]-2,2-dimethylpenam-3-carboxylic acid compound, which comprises the steps of: 


(a) preparing a 5-arylhydantoin compound according to 
claim 1; 
(b) deprotecting a protective group of the 5-arylhydantoin 
compound if the 5-arylhydantoin compound has 

the protective group for the phenolic hydroxy group or for 
the nitrogen atom of the hydantoin ring; 
(c) preparing an optically active arylglycine by 
hydrolysis including optical resolution of the 5-arylhydantoin 

compound obtained by step (a) or (b); and 
(d) preparing a dane salt by condensation reaction of 
an alkaline metal salt of the arylglycine compound obtained 

in step (c) and an ester of acetoacetic acid. 
The process as in claim 11, wherein said 6-[(p-hydroxyphenyl)-α-amino-acetylamino]-2,2-dimethylpenam-3-carboxylic acid compound is amoxicillin. 
A process for the preparation of 6-[(p-hydroxyphenyl)-α-amino-acetylamino]-2,2-dimethylpenam-3-carboxylic 

acid compound, which comprises the steps of:  
 


(a) preparing a 5-arylhydantoin compound according to claim 8; 
(b) deprotecting a protective group of the 5-arylhydantoin 
compound if the 5-arylhydantoin compound has the 

protective group for the phenolic hydroxy group or for the 
nitrogen atom of the hydantoin ring; 
(c) preparing an optically active arylglycine by 
hydrolysis including optical resolution of the 5-arylhydantoin 

compound obtained by step (a) or (b); and 
(d) preparing a dane salt by condensation reaction of 
an alkaline metal salt of the arylglycine compound obtained 

in step (c) and an ester of acetoacetic acid. 
The process as in claim 13, wherein said 6-[(p-hydroxyphenyl)-α-amino-acetylamino]-2,2-dimethylpenam-3-carboxylic acid compound is amoxicillin. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
