<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616820</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Servocontrol for fiber-optic, phototherapy pad
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N506	A61N506	F21V800	F21V800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	F21V	F21V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N5	A61N5	F21V8	F21V8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for controlling the amount of light radiation directed upon an 
infant from a fiberoptic phototherapy pad (18) by feedback from a 

light detector 
that itself is a fiberoptic pad (18). The fiberoptic detecting pad 

(18) receives and 
detects the light density radiation over an area and is located 

intermediate the normal fiberoptic phototherapy pad (10) and the 
infant and 

therefore is in the best position to detect accurately, the light impinging 
upon the infant. In some embodiments, the light detector pad is 

manufactured as part of the fiberoptic phototherapy pad itself as a unitary 
construction. Light readily travels through the light detector to the 

infant, yet the light detector senses the light intensity and density of 
the light passing therethrough. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DATEX OHMEDA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DATEX-OHMEDA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTTITTA ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREMENCHUGSKY VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTTITTA, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREMENCHUGSKY, VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a system and method of controlling the output of
a fiberoptic phototherapy pad, and, more particularly, to a system and
method for sensing the light intensity of a fiberoptic phototherapy pad and
for providing a servocontrol to deliver a prescribed amount of light
therapy to an infant.Hyperbilirubinemia is an affliction of newborn infants typified by an
elevated level of a toxic molecule known as bilirubin in the infant's
blood. Current medical therapy for such affliction is through the use of
phototherapy where light radiation, generally within certain desired
wavelengths, is directed upon the infant's skin.The most widely used means currently is through banks of lights that are
placed over the infant and which direct the light in the desired path to
impinge upon the infant. While effective, such lights are cumbersome in
that they interfere with personnel attending to the infant and also
generate undesirable heat surrounding those personnel. Additionally, since
such lights are occasionally moved, adjusted, turned off for various
reasons during attending the infant, it is difficult to accurately access
the actual amount of phototherapy provided to the infant.A more recent innovative commercial means of combatting hyper-bilirubinemia
is by means of a fiberoptic light pad or blanket that is made of optic
fibers. One such commercial product is shown and described in Daniel, U.S.
Patent 4,234,907 and where the optical fibers are used as warp fibers in a
commercial loom and woven with normal threads (weft threads) to produce a
fabric having interwoven optical fibers and regular threads. As the
optical warp fibers are woven with the weft fibers, the bending of the
optic fibers emits the light in a desired pattern.There are many advantages to the fiberoptic pad over the conventional light
systems, one of them being that the pad itself contacts the infants skin
and therefore the light actually reaching the infant is more accurately
controlled since each infant may have the fiberoptic pad placed in the same 
relative position with respect to its skin. Thus, unlike lights that may
be varied, moved etc, the dosage afforded to the infant can be accurately
administered.With the advent of accurate administration, therefore, it is now possible
and desirable to apply precisely a known amount of light therapy to the
infant. Additionally, as the science of light therapy advances, more
insight is being gained with respect to the amount of light and the
desirable wavelengths to be utilized. As to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for delivering light radiation to the skin of an infant for
phototherapy, said system comprising:


(a) a light source (12) for producing light of a known wavelength
suitable for phototherapy,
(b) a fiberoptic light emitting pad (10) comprising a plurality of
emitting optical fibers adapted to be positioned in close

proximity to an infant,
(c) means (14) to transmit the light radiation from said light source
(12) to said plurality of emitting optical fibers to cause said

fiberoptic light emitting pad (10) to emit light radiation to
impinge upon the skin of the infant, 
characterised in that

the system also comprises
(d) an optical transducer (22) and
(e) a light detecting pad (18)
adapted to be

interposed between said fiberoptic
light emitting pad (10) and the infant, said light detecting pad

(18) comprising a plurality of optical fibers, that are collected together
at one end into at least are bundle that is connected to the transducer.
A system as claimed in Claim 1 
characterised in that
 said light
detecting pad (18) comprises a pad having a plurality of optical

fibers interwoven with fill fibers.
A system as claimed in Claim 2 
characterised in that
 said fill fibers
are light transparent fibers (46) of a thermoplastic material.
A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 
characterised in that

said light emitting pad and said light detecting pad are combined into
a unitary construction (30).
A system as defined in Claim 4 
characterised in that
 said light
emitting pad comprises a plurality of layers (32, 34, 36, 38, 40) of

interwoven light emitting optical fibers (44). 
A system as claimed in Claim 5 
characterised in that
 said light
detecting pad comprises a layer (42) of light detecting optical fibers

overlying said plurality of layers (32, 34, 36, 38, 40) of light
emitting optical fibers and is located in closest proximity to the

infant.
A system as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 6 
characterised
in
that

said light detecting pad (56) comprises a plurality of weft fibers
(40) comprised of a transparent thermo-plastic material spaced apart a

predetermined distance and a plurality of warp fibers (58) comprised
of light detecting optical fibers spaced apart a distance of about

3-10 times the distance between said emitting optical fibers.
A system as claimed in Claim 1 
characterised in that
 said light
detecting pad comprises a plurality of discrete sections of light

detecting optical fibers interwoven with fill fibers, said discrete
sections having at least one set of ends interwoven together.
A system as claimed in Claim 1 
characterised in that
 said light
detecting pad comprises a plurality of discrete sections of light

detecting optical fibers interwoven with fill fibers, each of said
discrete sections having its ends interwoven together independent of

the ends of said other discrete sections.
A system as claimed in Claim 1 
characterised in that
 said light
emitting pad and said light detecting pad comprise light emitting

optical fibers (68) and light detecting optical fibers (70) interwoven
together.
A system as claimed in Claim 10 
characterised in that
 said light
emitting optical fibers (68) are woven in the warp direction and said

light detecting optical fibers (70) are woven in the weft direction.
A system as claimed in Claim 10 
characterised in that
 said light
emitting optical fibers are woven in the weft direction and said light

detecting optical fibers are woven in the warp direction. 
A system as claimed in Claim 10 
characterised in that
 said light
emitting optical fibers are formed in discrete gr
oups of fibers, each
of said groups having its ends woven together into separate bundles

(94) of light emitting optical fibers.
A system as claimed in Claim 10 
characterised in that
 said light
detecting optical fibers are formed in discrete groups of fibers (98),

each of said groups having its ends woven together into separate
bundles (102) of light detecting optical fibers.
A system as claimed in Claim 1 
characterised in that
 said light
detecting pad comprises a plurality of light detecting optical fibers

having light absorption centers formed along said light detecting
optical fibers, said light absorption centers located at predetermined

spacing along said light detecting optical fibers. 
A light detecting and light emitting fibreoptic pad (30) for providing light phototherapy to
an infant, said fibreoptic pad (30) adapted to be located in close proximity to the infant,

said fibreoptic pad (30) comprising light emitting optical fibres (68) that are collected
together at one end into at least one bundle that is adapted for connection to a radiation

source to receive light radiation from the source and emit that received radiation into the
light emitting fibres, thereby directing that light toward the infant, 
characterised in that

the fibreoptic pad (30) also comprises light detecting optical fibres (70) that:

are interwoven with the light emitting optical fibres
are adapted to be located adjacent the infant to receive representative light emitted by
said light emitting optical fibres impinging upon the infant,
are collected together at one end into at least one bundle to collect such detected light,
said at least one bundle being adapted for connection to an optical transducer (22).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
