<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0499280</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Throwaway milling cutter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23C524	B23C516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23C	B23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23C5	B23C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a throughaway milling cutter 
comprising a cutter body (1) rotatable about an axis, at 

least one recess (14) formed at a front face (1A) of the 
cutter body (1) and having a bottom wall and side walls; 

an inclined face (15) formed at the bottom wall and 
inclined about the front face (1A), a cartridge (13) 

inserted in the recess (14) movably along the inclination 
direction of the inclined face (15) a wiper cutting insert 

(10B) removably mounted on the cartridge (13) and having a 
wiper cutting edge (3) generally parallel to a plan 

perpendicular to the axis of the cutter body (1) and a 
front flank face disposed adjacent to the wiper cutting 

edge (3), a wedge (8A) inserted between the side wall and 
the cartridge (13) and capable of moving the cartridge 

(13) along the inclination direction of the inclined face 
(15), and a means (18) for clamping the cartridge (13) to 

the recess (14). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI MATERIALS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI MATERIALS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARAI TATSUO C O TSUKUBA-SEISAK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAITO TAKAYOSHI C O TSUKUBA-SE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARAI, TATSUO, C/O TSUKUBA-SEISAKUSHO,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAITO, TAKAYOSHI, C/O TSUKUBA-SEISAKUSHO,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a milling cutter according 
to the precharacterising part of claims 1 and 11 respectively 
having a indexable wiper cutter insert, in which easy and precise 
positioning of the wiper cutter insert is possible. In general, a milling cutter for use in finishing workpieces 
has a wide and flat cutting edge, called a wiper cutting edge, 
for finishing at a front end of a cutter body. Particularly, a 
throwaway milling cutter (hereinafter referred to simply as 
"cutter") having an indexable wiper cutter insert (hereinafter 
referred to simply as "wiper tip") does not require sharpening 
of the cutting edge, so that the cutter body can be used over a 
relatively long service life. Therefore, the tool cost is lower, 
and therefore this type of cutter is widely used. With respect to this type of cutter, there is disclosed a 
cutter having cutting edges for ordinary cutting operation and 
having wiper cutting edges for finishing in Japanese Patent Laid-Open 
No. Sho 60-85816, representing the closest prior art. In the 
cutter in Sho 60-85816, the 
ordinary cutting operation by the cutting edges and the finishing 
by the wiper cutting edges are performed concurrently. Figures 14 and 15 show a conventional cutter such as in No. 
Sho 60-85816. The cutter in these figures comprises a cutter 
body 1 in the shape of a ring and having a rotational axis. A 
plurality of cutting edges 2 and at least one wiper cutting edge 
3 are disposed at a radially outer surface of the cutter body 1.  
 
In the figures, only one wiper cutting edge 3 is shown. In the cutter, a radially outer surface of the cutter body 
1 is formed with chip pockets 4A, 4B by removing radially 
outwardly a part of the wall of the cutter body 1. Recesses 5A, 
5B are formed at a trailing portion of the chip pockets 4A, 4B. 
Positioning pieces 6A, 6B are attached in the recesses 5A, 5B. The positioning piece 6A is thrusted and fixed to the recess 
5A by wedge 8 attached to the recess 5A. In contrast, the 
positioning piece 6B is fixed to the recess 5B only by a screw 
9, so as to reduce the volume of the chip pocket 4B. A tip 10A having a cutting edge 2 is removably mounted to 
a front end of the locating piece 6A, a wiper tip 10B having a 
wiper cutting edge 3 is removably mounted to a front end of the 
positioning piece 6B. The cutting edge 2 is located at a radially outer portion 
of the wiper cutting edge 3 in order to carry out finishing by 
the wiper cutting edge 3 immediately after the rough cutting by 
the cutting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A throw-away milling cutter comprising:
 
   a cutter body (1) rotatable about an axis, said cutter body (1) having 

a rear face and a front face (1A) directed toward a workpiece; a wiper 
cutting insert is arranged at the front face, said wiper cutting insert 

having a wiper cutting edge (3) generally parallel to a plane perpendicular 
to the axis of the cutter body (1) and a front flank face 

disposed adjacent to the wiper cutting edge (3);
characterized by
;
 
   at least one recess (14) formed at the front face (1A) of the 

cutter body (1), said recess having a bottom wall and side walls;
 
   an inclined face (15) formed at the bottom wall, said 

inclined face being inclined toward a given direction with 
respect to the front face (1A) when the front face is directed 

upwardly;
 
   a cartridge (13) inserted in the recess movably along said 

given direction of the inclined face (15);
 
   the wiper cutting insert (10B) is removably mounted to the 

cartridge (13);
 
   a wedge (8A) inserted between the side wall and the 

cartridge (13), said wedge being capable of moving the 
cartridge along said given direction of the inclined face 

(15); and
 
   a means (18) for clamping the cartridge (13) to the recess 

(14). 
A throw-away milling cutter according to Claim 1, 
wherein said wedge (8A) is inserted toward said bottom wall of 

the recess (14).  
 
A throw-away milling cutter according to one of Claims 
1 and 2, wherein said cartridge (13) is clamped by a clamp 

bolt (18) perpendicularly attached to the bottom wall of the 
recess (14). 
A throw-away milling cutter according to Claim 3, 
wherein said inclined face (15) is upslope toward the cutting 

direction (Fig. 3) and is parallel to said front flank face, 
said wedge (8A) being disposed at the lower surface of the 

inclined face (15). 
A throw-away millling cutter according to Claim 3, 
wherein said inclined face (15) is downslope toward the 

cutting direction (Fig. 4), and the angle (γ) between the 
inclined face (15) and said front flank face is set to be 

greater than the inclined angle (ϑ) of the inclined face so as 
to set a positive flank angle (α) to said front flank angle, 

said wege (8A) being disposed at the upper surface of the 
inclined face (15). 
A throw-away milling cutter according to Claim 5, 
wherein said cutter body is formed with second recesses at a 

forward and radially outward position thereof, a throw-away 
cutter insert attached to the second recess, said throw-away 

cutter insert having a major cutting edge facing toward the 
forward and radially outward direction. 
A throw-away milling cutter according to Claim 3, 
wherein said means for clamping includes a second wedge (25 

Fig. 9) inserted in a space between said cartridge (26) and a 
wall of said recess opposing said first wedge (8A), so that 

the longitudinal position of the cartridge (26) can be 
adjusted by adjusting upper and lower positions of the first 

wedge (8A) and the second wedge (25).  
 
A throw-away milling cutter according to Claim 6, 
wherein said clamping means (Fig. 13A) is a connecting pin 

(40) capable of elastic bending, said cartridge (13) and said 
bottom wall of the recess (14) being formed with a hole 

respectively, and end of the connecting pin (40) being 
inserted into the hole (41) of the cartridge (13) and another 

end of the connecting pin (40) being inserted into the hole 
(42) in said bottom wall, so that the cartridge (13) can be 

moved along the inclination direction of said inclined face 
when the wedge (8A) is pushed into said recess (14) so as to 

elastically deform the connecting pin (40). 
A throw-away milling cutter according to Claim 8, 
wherein the side wall of the end of the connecting pin (40), 

inserted into the hole (41) of the cartridge (13) is generally 
in the shape of a portion of a sphere. 
A throw-away milling cutter according to Claim 6, 
wherein said clamping means is a spacing piece (50) inserted 

between the side face of the cartridge (13) and the side wall 
of said recess (14), said spacing piece (50) being capable of 

elastic deformation, so that the cartridge (13) can be moved 
along the inclination direction of said inclined face when the 

wedge (8A) is pushed into said recess so as to elastically 
deform the spacing piece (50). 
A throw-away milling cutter comprising:
 
   a cutter body (1) rotatable about an axis, said cutter body 

having a rear face and a front face (1A) directed toward a 
workpiece; a wiper cutting insert is arranged at the front face, 

said wiper cutting insert (10B) having a wiper 
cutting edge (3) generally parallel to a plane perpendicular 

to the axis of the cutter body (1) and a front flank face 
disposed adjacent to the wiper cutting edge (3);
characterized by
 
   at least one recess (14) formed at the front face (1A) of 

the cutter body, (1), said recess having a bottom wall and side wall;
  
 

   an inclined face (15) formed at the bottom wall, said 
inclined face being inclined toward a given direction with 

respect to the front face (1A) when the front face is directed 
upwardly;
 
   a cartridge (13) inserted in the recess (14) so as to be 

immovable;
 
   the wiper cutting insert (10B) is removably attached to the 

cartridge (13);
 
   a wedge (8A) inserted between the side wall and the 

cartridge (13), said wedge being capable of pushing the side 
face of the cartridge (13) toward said given direction of the 

inclined face;
 
   said cartridge (13) having a lower face contacting with 

said inclined face and a upper face mounting said wiper 
cutting insert (10B), said lower and upper face being formed 

with at least one slit (31), respectively, so that the wiper 
cutting insert (10B) can be moved along said certain direction 

of said inclined face when the wedge (8A) is pushed into said 
recess (14) so as to elastically deform the portion adjacent 

to the slit or slits (31). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
