<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624210</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FABRIC CONTAINING GRAFT POLYMER THEREON
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06M1537	D06M15263	D06M13203	D06M10134	D03D1500	D06M1414	D06M10100	D06M15564	D03D102	B60R2116	D06M13288	D06M10130	D06M1416	D03D102	D06M1521	B60R2116	B60R2123	D06M1400	D06M13282	B60R21235	D06M10116	D03D1500	D06M1300	D06M13244	D06M1302	D06M13292	D06M13184	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D03D	D06M	D06M	D06M	D03D	B60R	D06M	D06M	D06M	D03D	D06M	B60R	B60R	D06M	D06M	B60R	D06M	D03D	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06M15	D06M15	D06M13	D06M101	D03D15	D06M14	D06M101	D06M15	D03D1	B60R21	D06M13	D06M101	D06M14	D03D1	D06M15	B60R21	B60R21	D06M14	D06M13	B60R21	D06M101	D03D15	D06M13	D06M13	D06M13	D06M13	D06M13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A solution for forming a graft substrate containing a graft initiator, a catalyst for activating the graft initiator, a first component of water dispersable polymer and a second component of a monomer, each of which includes a functional group for reaction with an activated site on the substrate for grafting thereto and water. A method for grafting at least one of the components to a fiber, yarn or fabric substrate is also disclosed wherein increased flame retarding and yarn integrity is achieved while simultaneously allowing control of fabric porosity. The fabric substrate (12) is mounted on wind roll (60) and roll (65) which feeds the fabric to the rotary screen (70) which selectively, in a predetermined pattern, applies the grafting composition to the fabric (12). An air bag material suitable for use in a passive restraint system is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REEVES BROS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REEVES BROTHERS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMEWOOD JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KERR RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENZEL JILL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDUJA MOHAN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOTTATHIL PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMEWOOD, JOHN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KERR, RICHARD, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENZEL, JILL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDUJA, MOHAN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOTTATHIL, PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field
of graft polymer coatings, especially as applied to
nylon and polyester yarn, fibers, woven and non-woven
fabrics suitable for air bag fabrics.In recent years, automotive manufacturers
have begun to increase the utilization of air bag
safety devices in their vehicles. Therefore, there
has been a continuing effort to improve the safety,
performance and durability of these life-saving
devices.An automotive air bag is comprised of an
inflatable/deflatable bag, an inflation device, and an
impact sensor. Inflation is most often provided by a
sodium azide propellant positioned within the
inflation device which is ignited in response to
activation by an impact sensor. The combustion of
this propellant yields nitrogen gas to provide rapid
(about 0.2 - 0.5 sec) inflation of an air bag.
Inflation is followed immediately with a deflation
cycle. Without such an immediate deflation, the
impact of a passenger upon the air bag itself could
cause substantial injury.One means of providing a deflation function
for an air bag is to provide for partial air bag gas
porosity. Currently, this approach is provided by
utilizing a porous air bag made of uncoated fabric or
non-porous fabric with vents. When utilizing such
fabrics, it is required that the exhaust rate of the
air bag fabric be less than the inflation rate after
propellant ignition, otherwise a positive pressure 
would not occur within the bag. The entire
inflation/deflation cycle spans approximately 0.6
seconds.There is concern regarding several problems
associated with the partial air bag porosity approach
as it applies to current art on passenger and/or
driver side air bags. The primary concerns centers
upon the possibility that fabric yarn distortion or
separation may compromise the inflation cycle. These
conditions can result in an unequal volume fill of the
bag, higher than acceptable gas leak rate at areas of
distortion or separation, or jet stream effects that
result in improper bag registration at the peak of the
inflation event.Fabric coatings have been used to provide a
certain degree of yarn stability to air bag material
but, at the same time, such coatings severely decrease
bag porosity and increase cost. It would be highly
advantageous to have an air bag material that would
maintain yarn integrity during air bag inflation while
providing the required air bag porosity.The inflation/deployment of a driver side
air bag: for example is both rapid (about 0.2
seconds) and aggressive, reaching a static pressure of
2.0
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for making an air bag which comprises:

forming a fabric of filaments or yarns in a desired
configuration;
treating the filaments or yarns with a first component,
to provide the resultant air bag fabric with increased

resistance to fraying, and filament or yarn pull-out or
distortion, during manufacture or use of the fabric; and
forming an air bag from the fabric, 
characterized in
that
 said treatment step comprises grafting the first
component onto the filaments or yarns and wherein the first

component comprises a water dispersible polymer of an
aliphatic or aromatic polyurethane, polyvinyl chloride or

neoprene.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the grafted
fabric provides increased pliability compared to a coated

fabric.
A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the grafted
fabric further provides increased porosity compared to a

coated fabric. 
A method for making an air bag fabric, for use in a
method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, which

comprises:

forming a fabric of filaments or yarns in a desired
configuration; and
grafting a first component onto the filaments or yarns,
to provide the resultant air bag fabric with increased

resistance to fraying, and filament or yarn pull-out or
distortion, during manufacture or use of the fabric compared

to fabrics made of non-grafted filaments or yarns, wherein
the first component is a water dispersible polymer selected

from the group consisting of aliphatic or aromatic polyester
polyurethanes, polyvinyl chloride and neoprene.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, which further comprises grafting the first component

onto the filaments during a spin finishing operation and
thereafter forming the fabric.
A method as claimed in claim 5, which further
comprises grafting the first component onto filaments during

a spin finishing operation, forming yarns from the grafted
filaments, and thereafter forming the yarns into the fabric. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, which
further comprises forming yarns from filaments, grafting the

first component onto the yarns and thereafter forming the
yarns into the fabric.
A method as claimed in claim 7, which further comprises
beaming the yarns and grafting the first component onto the

beamed yarn during a slashing operation.
A method as claimed in claim 7, which further comprises
beaming the grafted yarns prior to forming the fabric.
A method as claimed in claim 7, which further comprises
repackaging the grafted yarns and utilizing the repackaged

yarns as fill yarns during formation of the fabric.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, which
further comprises grafting the first component onto staple

and spinning the grafted staple into yarns.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, which
further comprises cutting the grafted filaments into staple

and spinning the staple into yarns before forming the
fabric. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein the first component is grafted onto the filaments or

yarns after forming the fabric.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
which further comprises contacting the filaments or yarns or

the fabric with the first component in a solution by a
dipping, spraying, printing or coating operation.
A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the solution
is selectively applied to the fabric to obtain a desired gas

permeability range.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
which further comprises calendering the fabric to decrease

the gas permeability properties thereof.
A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the
calendering step is conducted after the grafting step to

increase the pliability of the fabric.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
which further comprises selecting the filaments or yarns to

be polyamide, polyester, polyaramid or mixtures thereof. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the water dispersible polymer is a polyurethane

having sufficient soft segments to provide a desired
pliability to the fabric.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
which further comprises grafting a second component onto the

filaments or yarns or onto the first component, wherein the
second component is a water dispersible monomer having a

molecular weight of about 1200 or less.
A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein the monomer is
an acrylate or methacrylate monomer.
A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein the monomer is
a diacrylate compound.
A method as claimed in claims 20, 21 or 22, wherein the
monomer to polymer ratio is at least 2:1.
A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein the monomer to
polymer ratio is at least 5:1. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
which further comprises adding a flame retardant agent to

the fabric to increase its flame retardancy.
A method as claimed in claim 25, wherein the flame
retardant agent is a cyclic phosphorate ester, a halogenated

compound, a thioureaformaldehyde compound or mixtures
thereof.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
which further comprises adding an antioxidant, antiozonant

or stabilizer to the fabric to increase its heat or aging
resistance.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
which further comprises applying the solution to those

portions or areas of the fabric which will be subject to
sewing or mechanical cutting to prevent or reduce fraying or

tearing of the fibers or yarns of the fabric during the
sewing or cutting operations.
A method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the first
component is grafted to the fibers or yarns in preselected

areas of fabric. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
which further comprises mechanically cutting the fabric into

a desired pattern.
A method for making an air bag or an air bag fabric as
claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further

comprising the step of:

formulating a solution of a graft initiator for

activating sites on the filaments or yarns, a catalyst for
activating the graft initiator, the first component and

water.
A method for making an air bag fabric as claimed in
claim 31, comprising forming a fabric from a plurality of

filaments or yarns to at least some of which the first
component has been grafted in order to provide a desired

range of gas permeability, a pliability which is
substantially increased compared to coated fabrics, or a

degree of filament or yarn integrity which allows the fabric
to be mechanically pattern cut with substantially improved

resistance to fraying, filament or yarn pull-out or
distortion compared to non-grafted filaments or yarns. 
A method for making an air bag fabric as claimed in
claim 32, wherein the first component is grafted to

substantially all of the filaments or yarns of the fabric.
An air bag fabric obtainable by a method as claimed in
any one of claims 4 to 33.
An air bag fabric as claimed in claim 34, wherein the
range of gas permeability of the fabric is reduced to values

which are substantially equivalent to a neoprene-coated air
bag fabric while maintaining pliability comparable to an

uncoated air bag fabric.
A method of making an air bag, which comprises
making an air bag fabric by a method as claimed in any

one of claims 4 to 33 and forming an air bag from the
fabric.
An air bag obtainable by a method as claimed in
claim 36.
An inflatable air bag restraint system for a vehicle
comprising: 


an air bag as claimed in claim 37, in a configuration
adapted for attachment to the vehicle and which is

inflatable upon collision of the vehicle;
and means for inflating the inflatable air bag with a
gas upon the occurrence of a collision; wherein the air bag

is inflated with the gas by the inflating means to a desired
shape upon collision.
A solution for use in a method as claimed in any one of
claims 1 to 33 comprising:


a graft initiator which contains a metal ion for
activating sites on a fabric having active hydrogens;
a peroxide or peracid catalyst for activating the graft
initiator;
a first component which includes a functional group and
is suitable for grafting on to a substrate, the first

component being a water dispersible polymer selected from
the group consisting of aliphatic or aromatic polyester

polyurethanes, polyvinyl chloride and neoprene; and
a second component which includes a functional group
and being a water dispersible monomer having a molecular

weight of about 1200 or less.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
