<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651710</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BICYCLE COOLER AND MOUNTING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62J700	B62J706	B62J900	B62J900	B62J1100	B62J1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62J	B62J	B62J	B62J	B62J	B62J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62J7	B62J7	B62J9	B62J9	B62J11	B62J11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An insulating bicycle cooler (11) adapted for detachable mounting to a mounting bracket (13). The mounting bracket (13) is adapted for detachable attachment to the head and handlebar intersection of a conventional bicycle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JANKO USA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JANKO U.S.A., INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMAS JAN BARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMAS, JAN, BARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 S P E C I F I C A T I O NBICYCLE COOLER AND MOUNTING APPARATUS of which the following is a specification. 
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a mounting bracket for detachable mounting to the head and handlebar intersection of a conventional bicycle in combination with a container adapted for mounting to the bracket, and more particularly, relates to an insulated cooler having a connective attachment element adapted for mounting to the mounting bracket. There are numerous bicycle packs, pack supports, baskets and other assemblies known in the prior art. These devices generally utilize straps and clips for attaching baskets or light weight packs to a bicycle. The object of these prior packs and pack supports is to provide a light weight, usually softsided or wire frame, container for transporting small articles normally used for bicycle maintenance or to carry amenities such as water, extra clothing, small amounts of food or other amenities.However, occasions arise such as picnic trips, etc., where it is desired to carry much larger items by bicycle. It would be highly desirable to provide for a larger heavy duty container, such as an insulated cooler or similarly large container, having a simple design and which could be quickly and conveniently attached to a bicycle.It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a heavy duty container and mounting bracket combination which easily attaches to and is removed from a bicycle.It is a further object of the present invention to provide an insulated cooler adapted for mounting to a mounting bracket for attachment to a bicycle. It is another object of the invention to provide a cooler mounting bracket combination wherein the cooler is provided with reflective 

material attached to one or more parts of the cooler and to one or more parts of the mounting bracket. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION These and other objects are achieved in a container and mounting bracket combination for detachable mounting to the head and handlebar intersection of a bicycle frame. The mounting bracket, is securable to the bicycle handlebars for removably receiving a container in a secure and stable position.The back surface of the container includes a mounting platform adapted for connection to the mounting bracket. 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 illustrates the bicycle cooler and mounting bracket mounted on the handlebars of a bicycle. Figure 2 illustrates the back side of the cooler disengaged from the mounting bracket, and a back view of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An insulated cooler and mounting bracket combination for detachable mounting of the cooler to the head and handlebar intersection of a bicycle frame, comprising: a mounting bracket adapted to mount onto the handlebar of a bicycle for stable securement thereto during movement of the bicycle, said mounting bracket having mounting structure engageable with a configured structure for removably receiving the configured structure; an insulated cooler having a front surface, a bottom surface, two opposing side surfaces, and a back surface; a mounting platform secured to said back surface, said mounting platform having a configured structure for mounting engagement with said mounting structure of said mounting bracket whereby said insulated cooler is disengageable from said mounting bracket when said mounting bracket is fixedly secured to the bicycle without removal of said mounting bracket from the bicycle.
2. An insulated cooler and mounting bracket combination according to claim 1 wherein said mounting structure includes a first means defining a C-shaped slot, and wherein said configured structure includes a member carrying a second means for defining tabs for engagement with said slots.
3. An insulated cooler and mounting bracket combination according to claim 1 wherein said member is shaped as an extended platform.
4. A container and mounting bracket adapted for detachable connection to a bicycle, the bicycle having a frame, a head, and handlebars comprising: 


 a mounting bracket having a front side and a back side, said front side having a retention member defining a mounting groove, said back side having a first arm support, a second arm support and a foot member for securement of said mounting bracket to a bicycle.
5. An improved container and mounting bracket adapted for detachable connection to a bicycle, the bicycle having a frame, a head, and handlebars the improvement comprising: a mounting bracket having a front side and a back side, said front side having a retention member defining a mounting groove, said back side having three molded brackets, a first arm support, a second arm support and an adjustable foot member, said arm supports and said foot member each having a proximal end and a distal end, said proximal ends of said arm supports and said foot support being pivotally mounted to a separate one of said molded brackets, the molded brackets for said arm supports being symmetrically positioned about a vertical centerline on the container back side and the bracket for the adjustable foot member being positioned below the arm member brackets along the vertical centerline, said distal ends of said arm supports further comprising an arcuate arm extension for engagement with said handlebars and an arm extension support, said arm extension support connecting said arcuate arm extensions, foot member having a first head brace, the first head brace having a curved surface for making rotating sliding contact with a cylindrical bicycle head, and having a second head brace having a curved surface for making rotating sliding contact with a cylindrical bicycle head, said foot member manipulable for engaging either one of said head braces against the cylindrical bicycle head; and 



 a container, having a front surface, a back surface and two opposing side surfaces, a top and a bottom, said back surface having a mounting platform, said mounting platform engageable with said mounting groove of said mounting bracket.
6. A container according to claim 4 wherein said foot member is adjustable in length.
7. A mounting bracket according to Claim 2 wherein said adjustable foot member has a proximal end, and a distal end, said distal end further comprising a threaded adjustment means attached to said proximal end, said foot member further comprising a first head brace for engaging the bicycle head, said first head brace threadedly attached to said threaded adjustment means, said proximal end being pivotally attached to said molded bracket so that the distal end may be pivoted for locating said first head brace in a position between said arm members when the same are pivoted tight against said back side; and said proximal end having a second head brace for engaging the bicycle head when the distal end is pivoted for locating the first head brace in a position between said arm members and wherein said first head brace is adapted to receive said threaded adjustment means.
8. The mounting bracket according to claim 2 wherein each arm support is rotatable relative to said bracket and is provided with a surface for limiting the extent of upward rotation of said arm supports.
9. The mounting bracket of claim 5 wherein said first and said second head brace are provided with a slot for accommodating a bicycle hand brake cable. 


 10. The mounting bracket of claim 2 wherein said first and said second head brace is provided with a pair of holes on opposite sides of said curved surface for engagement with a security strap for biasing said head brace against said bicycle head.
11. The mounting bracket of Claim 2 further comprising reflective means for reflecting light.
12. The container of claim 2 wherein the mounting platform is T-shaped.
13. The container of claim 12 wherein the horizontal component of the mounting platform has dimensions which permit snug mounting within the mounting groove of the mounting bracket and the vertical component of the mounting platform has dimensions which permit its insertion into the slot of the mounting bracket.
14. The container of Claims 4 wherein the container is an insulated cooler.
15. The cooler of Claim 14 wherein the cooler comprises a front surface, a back surface, opposing side surfaces, a handle and a lid, said back surface further comprising a mounting platform, said mounting platform adapted for mounting in said mounting groove and said slot of said mounting bracket, said lid adapted for secure mounting on said top of said cooler and said handle mounted to said opposing side surfaces of said cooler.
16. The cooler of claim 15 wherein said handle is pivotally mounted to said opposing sides of said cooler. 


 17. The cooler of Claim 15 further comprising reflective means for reflecting light.
18. The cooler of Claim 17 wherein the reflective means comprises plastic reflectors.
19. The cooler of Claim 17 wherein the reflective means comprises reflective tape.
20. The cooler of Claim 17 wherein the reflective means comprises plastic reflective material.
21. The cooler of Claim 17 wherein the reflective means is mounted to said sides of said cooler.
22. The cooler of Claim 17 wherein the reflective means is mounted to said handle of said cooler.
23. The cooler of Claim 17 wherein the reflective means is mounted to said sides, said front and said handle of said cooler. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
