<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625191</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MYCOBACTERIAL SPECIES-SPECIFIC REPORTER MYCOBACTERIOPHAGES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K14005	C07K1401	C07K14195	C07K1435	C12N700	C12N700	C12N1574	C12N1574	C12Q118	C12Q118	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C12N7	C12N7	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophages (reporter mycobacteriophages), methods of producing such reporter mycobacteriophages and the use of such reporter mycobacteriophages for the rapid diagnosis of mycobacterial infection and the assessment of drug susceptibilities of mycobacterial strains in clinical samples. In particular, this invention is directed to the production and use of luciferase reporter mycobacteriophages to diagnose tuberculosis. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophages comprise mycobacterial species-specific mycobacteriophages which contain reporter genes and transcriptional promoters therein. When the reporter mycobacteriophages are incubated with clinical samples which may contain the mycobacteria of interest, the gene product of the reporter genes will be expressed if the sample contains the mycobacteria of interest, thereby diagnosing mycobacterial infection.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EINSTEIN COLL MED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV PITTSBURGH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALBERT EINSTEIN COLLEGE OF MEDICINE OF YESHIVA UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOOM BARRY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATFULL GRAHAM F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBS WILLIAM R JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOOM, BARRY, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATFULL, GRAHAM, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBS, WILLIAM, R., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MYCOBACTERIAL SPECIES-SPECIFIC REPORTER MYCOBACTERIOPHAGESSTATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTERESTThis invention was made with government support under NIH Grant Number AI26170. FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophages (reporter mycobacteriophages), methods of making such reporter ycobacteriophages, and the use of such reporter mycobacteriophages, for example, to rapidly diagnose mycobacterial infection and to assess drug susceptibilities of mycobacterial strains in clinical samples. Specifically, this invention relates to the use of mycobacterial species-specific luciferase reporter mycobacteriophages to diagnose tuberculosis and to assess the drug susceptibilities of the various strains of Mvcobacterium tuberculosis(M. tuberculosis) .To produce the mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophages of the invention, transcriptional promoters and reporter genes are introduced into the genomes of mycobacterial 

species-specific mycobacteriophages. These reporter genes may be the genes for luciferase or the β-galactosidase gene, and provide the DNA which encodes production of a gene product. The reporter mycobacteriophages may be used by incubating same with samples which may contain the specific mycobacteria of interest. If the mycobacteria of interest is present, then the reporter mycobacteriophages introduce the recombinant nucleic acids which encode expression of the gene product into the mycobacteria of interest, and the mycobacteria then express the gene product. The expressed reporter gene product may be detected by a suitable assay, for example, through the detection of photons or the conversion of an easily assayable chemical reaction. The presence of such gene product indicates that the sample contains the mycobacteria of interest, and hence the mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophages may be used to detect and thereby diagnose the specific mycobacterial infection. In addition, since signals may not be generated by cells which are not metabolically active in the presence of antibiotics, the mycobacteria species-specific reporter mycobacteriophages of this invention may be used to assess the drug susceptibilities of various strains of mycobacteria. If antibiotic drugs are added to the sample containing the reporter mycobacteriophages and the gene product 

is detected, the mycobacteria is metabolically active and hence resistant to the antibiotic drug. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In 1990, there was a 10%
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of producing mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophages which comprises introducing reporter genes and transcriptional promoters into the genomes of
•
*-*
■
 mycobacterial species-specific mycobacteriophages wherein upon incubation with the mycobacteria for which said reporter mycobacteriophage is specific, the reporter genes of said reporter mycobacteriophage will express a gene product which is detectable.
10 2. The method according to Claim 1 wherein
. the reporter genes and transcriptional promoters are introduced into the mycobacteriophages by shuttle phasmid technology.
3. The method according to Claim 1 wherein 15 the reporter genes and transcriptional promoters are introduced into the mycobacteriophages by homologous recominbation or PCR.
4 . The method according to Claim 1 wherein the reporter genes and transcriptional promoters are 0 introduced into the mycobacteriophages by transposon technology.
5. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the reporter genes and transcriptional promoters are 


introduced into the mycobacteriophages by debilitated phages packaged into page heads and tails.
6. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the reporter genes and transcriptional promoters are introduced into the mycobacteriophages by plasmids packaged into phage heads and tails.
7. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the reporter genes and transcriptional promoters are introduced into the mycobacteriophages by recombinant DNA techniques. δ. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the mycobacteria is M. tuberculosis.
9. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the mycobacterial species-specific mycobacteriophage is L5, TM4 or DS6A.
10. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the reporter genes are luciferase genes or the β-galactosidase gene.
11. The method according to Claim 10 wherein the luciferase genes are selected from the group consisting of Firefly lux gene, Vibrio fischeri lux genes, Xenorhabdus luminescens lux genes and lacZ genes.
12. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the transcriptional promoter is hsp60 or the L5 gene
62 promoter. 


 13. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the gene product is photons.
14. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the gene product is made detectable by contacting said gene product with a substrate.
15. The method according to Claim 14 wherein the substrate is luciferin or decanal.
16. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage produced by the method of Claim 1.
17. A mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage. comprising a mycobacterial species-specific mycobacteriophage which contains in its genome reporter genes and a transcriptional promoter, wherein the reporter genes express a gene product upon incubation with the mycobacteria for which the reporter mycobacteriophage is specific. lδ. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage according to Claim 17 wherein the mycobacteria is M. tuberculosis.
19. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage according to Claim 17 wherein the mycobacterial species-specific mycobacteriophage is L5, TM4 or DS6A. 20. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage according to Claim 17 


wherein the reporter genes are luciferase genes or the β-galactosidase gene.
21. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage according to Claim 20 wherein the luciferase genes are selected from the group consisting of Firefly lux gene, Vibrio fischeri lux genes, Xenorhabdus luminescens lux genes and lacZ genes.
22. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage according to Claim 17 wherein the transcriptional promoter is hsp60 or the L5 gene 62 promoter.
23. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage according to Claim 17 wherein the gene product is photons.
24. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage according to Claim 17 wherein the gene product is made detectable by contacting said gene product with a substrate. 25. The mycobacterial species-specific reporter mycobacteriophage according to Claim 24 wherein the substrate is luciferin or decanal.
26. A method of diagnosing a mycobacterial disease which comprises incubating a sample which may contain myco- bacteria with mycobacterial species-specific mycobacteriophages which contain 


reporter genes and transcriptional promoters in their genomes, wherein the reporter genes produce a gene product upon incubation with the mycobacteria for which the mycobacteriophage is specific, and wherein the gene product is detectable.
27. The method according to Claim 26 wherein the mycobacterial disease is tuberculosis.
2δ. The method according to Claim 26 wherein the mycobacteria is M. tuberculosis. 29. The method according to Claim 26 wherein the mycobacterial species-specific mycobacteriophage is L5, TM4 or DS6A.
30. The method according to Claim 26 wherein the reporter genes are luciferase genes or the β-galactosidase gene.
31. The method according to Claim 30 wherein the luciferase genes are selected from the group consisting of Firefly lux gene, Vibrio fischeri lux genes, Xenorhabdus luminescens lux genes and lacZ genes.
32. The method according to Claim 26 wherein the transcriptional promoter is hsp60 or the L5 gene 62 promoter.
33. The method according to Claim 26 wherein the gene product is photons.
34. The method according to Claim 26 wherein 


the gene product is made detectable by contacting said gene product with a substrate.
35. The method according to Claim 34 wherein the substrate is luciferin or decanal. 36. The method according to Claim 26 wherein the sample is blood or sputum.
37. A method of assessing drug resistance of a mycobacterial strain which comprises:
(a) incubating a sample which contains a myco- bacterial strain with mycobacterial species-specific mycobacteriophages which contain in their genomes transcriptional promoters and reporter genes which produce gene products; (b) adding an anti-mycobacterial drug to the incubation; and (c) detecting whether the gene product is present in the sample, such presence indicating drug resistance of the mycobacterial strain.
36. The method according to Claim 37 wherein the mycobacterial strain is a strain of M. tuberculosis.
39. The method according to Claim 37 wherein the mycobacterial species-specific mycobacteriophage is L5, or TM4 or DS6A. 


 40. The method according to Claim 37 wherein the reporter genes are luciferase genes or the β-galactosidase.
41. The method according to Claim 40 wherein 5 the luciferase genes are selected from the group consisting of Firefly lux, gene. Vibrio fischeri lux genes, Xenorhabdus luminescens lux genes and lacZ genes .
42. The method according to Claim 37 wherein 
"
10 the gene product is photons.
43. The method according to Claim 37 wherein the transcriptional promoter is hsp60 or the L5 gene 62 promoter.
44. The method according to Claim 37 wherein 15 the anti-mycobacterial drug is selected from the group consisting of streptomycin, isoniazid, ethambutol, rifampicin, ciproflo- xacin, novobiocin and cyanide.
45. The method according to Claim 37 wherein the gene product is made detectable by contacting said
20 gene product with a substrate.
46. The method according to Claim 45 wherein the substrate is luciferin or decanal.
47. The method according to Claim 37 wherein the sample is blood or sputum. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
