<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653051</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STRUCTURE AND METHOD FOR DIFFERENTIATING ONE OBJECT FROM ANOTHER OBJECT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J350	G01N2127	A01M700	G01J342	G01J142	G01J350	G01J342	A01M2100	G01J104	G01J144	G01J104	A01M2100	G01J142	G01N2125	A01M700	G01J144	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01N	A01M	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	A01M	G01J	G01J	G01J	A01M	G01J	G01N	A01M	G01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J3	G01N21	A01M7	G01J3	G01J1	G01J3	G01J3	A01M21	G01J1	G01J1	G01J1	A01M21	G01J1	G01N21	A01M7	G01J1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and a method are provided for selectively eliminating weeds in agriculture operations. To provide selective elimination, at least two light (radiation) emitters (201, 202), powered by an internal power source, are modulated to switch on and off at very high speeds. Each emitter emits radiation of a different emitter wavelength. The on/off modulation of one emitter is phase shifted by approximately 90 degrees with respect to the modulation of the particular spot on the ground. The light beams (203, 204), provided by the emitters, are reflected off a plant (206) or the soil and are intercepted by a photodetector. Because plants have a characteristic spectral reflectance in regions of the electromagnetic spectrum which can be discriminated from the spectral reflectance of the background earth, the relative amplitudes of the reflected radiation at the two emitter wavelengths varies depending on whether the radiation is reflected off a plant or the soil. A ratio of the radiation at the two emitter wavelengths received by the photodetector is converted to phase. This phase is compared to an initial reference phase of the modulation of one of the emitters. A controller (221) uses this phase information to determine the presence or absence of a plant and then eliminates the weed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PATCHEN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PATCHEN, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECK JIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VYSE TOM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECK, JIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VYSE, TOM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a structure and a method
for differentiating one object from another, and in particular
to a structure which optically detects weeds and
then eliminates those weeds.In many situations it is necessary to distinguish one
type of object from another. While this is essential in
such diverse areas as manufacturing, data processing
and mail delivery, object differentiation is particularly important
in agriculture. For example, the ability to distinguish
weeds from desired plants is essential to allow
weeds to be destroyed because even sparse weed populations
decrease the moisture, light and nutrients available
to crop plants, thereby significantly reducing yields
of these crops. Additionally, weeds can clog machinery
and impede access to crops during farm operations
such as harvesting. Spraying of herbicide is a conventional
method of controlling weeds. However, when
spraying herbicide to control scattered weeds, most of
the herbicide is wasted by being deposited on bare soil
where the herbicide has no effect. Because herbicides
are expensive, many growers attempt to save money by
using less herbicide. However, larger chemically-tolerant
weeds often escape control because of insufficient
herbicide application. Moreover, herbicides may have
highly undesirable effects on the environment, for example,
by causing contamination of ground water or
causing chemical burning of different crops in adjacent
fields during floods. Thus, a need exists to reduce both
herbicide cost and environmental impact by selectively
spraying only the weeds.Methods for optically distinguishing between soil
and plants are currently known in the art. For example
WO 89/12510 detects a planted area by measuring the
radiance of a target area in the red and near infra-red
wavebands and compares the ratio of these reflectance
values. Natural sunlight is relied on. US 3 910 701 describes
a portable sensor unit to detect plants by reflectance
at two different wavelengths of artificial light generated
by LEDS. However, many of these methods use
devices which rely on natural sunlight to create a reflected
image. Thus, the devices cannot operate at night,
and are seriously impaired under cloudy conditions, or
even when operated in shadows. Other methods for optically
distinguishing between soil and plants use devices
which rely on an artificial white light source to create
the reflected image. However, under normal (i.e. sunny)
operating conditions, this artificial light source must
compete with the sun which is thousands
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A structure for selectively eliminating weeds in
agricultural operations comprising:


at least two sources (201,202) of substantially
monochromatic modulated light, each light source

(201,202) providing a light beam (203,204) with a
different wavelength, each said light beam being focused

at an area of a surface (206), said surface (206) being
substantially stationary;
a detector (210) for detecting a reflectance of
light from said area;
means for analyzing (214) said reflectance to
determine whether said area is a plant;
means for initiating (221) a selected activity with
respect to plants other than a selected type in response to a signal from said

means for analyzing; and
mechanical means for moving said at least two
substantially monochromatic light sources and said

detector with respect to said surface (206) so that said
area is scanned across said surface (206) wherein said

selected activity comprises applying at least one
herbicide to one or more of said plants other than

said selected type.
further comprising a plate having an aperture
(209A) positioned in operative relation to said

detector, wherein said aperture limits said reflectance
of said ligh
t beam from said predetermined surface area, wherein said
aperture (209A) has a length significantly greater than its

width, said aperture (209A) extending lengthwise in a
direction substantially perpendicular to a direction in which

said means for moving moves said structure.
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said light
sources are light emitting diodes (201, 202).
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said light
sources are lasers.
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said light source
comprise chromatic light sources with filters.
The structure of Claim 4, wherein said chromatic
light sources are incandescent lights with filters.
The structure of claim 4, wherein said chromatic
light sources are florescent lights with filters.
The structure of Claim 1 further comprising a first
lens (205) for focusing said light beams at said

predetermined surface area.
The structure of Claim 7 further comprising a
second lens (208) for focusing said reflectance of said light

beams through said aperture onto said detector.
The structure of Claim 8, further comprising a
sample and hold circuit (218) for comparing a first

reflectance during a first predetermined time frame to a
second reflectance during a second predetermined time frame.
The structure of any preceding Claim, wherein said
means for analyzing includes a controller (221). 
The structure of Claim 10, wherein said means for
initiating comprises a driver (228) activated by said

controller (221) if a plant is detected.
The structure of Claim 11, further comprising a
valve (227) coupled to said driver (128), wherein said valve

(223) is activated if said driver (228) is activated.
The structure of Claim 12 further comprising a
nozzle (229) coupled to said valve (227) for spraying

herbicide (226) on said plant (206) if said valve is
activated.
The structure of claim 11 further comprising a hoe
coupled to said driver (228), wherein said hoe is activated

if said driver (228) is activated.
The structure of any preceding Claim, wherein said
means for analyzing comprises a speed detector (224) coupled

to said controller for timing the activation of said driver
(228).
The structure of any preceding Claim, wherein said
light sources are phased with respect to one another such

that one of said light sources has a phase shift with respect
to a phase of another of said light sources.
The structure of any one of Claims 1 to 15, wherein said
light sources are multiple tone modulated.
The structure of any preceding Claim, wherein said 
light sources have phases with no overlap and are

synchronised with circuitry following said detector.
A structure according to any preceding Claim,
wherein said two light sources comprise:


means (201,202) for generating radiation of a first
selected substantially monochromatic wavelength; during

a first time interval and for generating radiation of a
second selected substantially monochromatic wavelength

during a second time interval;
characteristics of materials in said area being
determined by characteristics of those portions of said

radiation of said first and second selected wavelengths
reflected from said area;
means for receiving (210,214) those portions of
said radiation of said first and second selected

wavelengths reflected from said area and for processing
signals representative of the reflected portions of said

radiation of said first and second selected wavelengths
to provide an indication of said characteristics of said

materials in said area.
The structure of Claim 19, wherein said means for
receiving and processing (210,214) comprises a plurality of 

radiation detectors (210) for generating a plurality of
signals, each of said plurality of radiation detectors (210)

detecting reflected radiation from a respective area of a
corresponding plurality of areas and generating a respective

signal, said means for receiving and processing (210,214)
providing said indication so that herbicide (226) is applied

or not applied to each of said plurality of areas based on
said plurality of signals.
The structure of Claim 20, wherein said means for
receiving and processing (210,214) provides said indication

so that herbicide (226) is applied to one of said plurality
of areas only if an adjacent area of said plurality of areas

is determined by said means for receiving and processing
(210,214) to be a plant.
The structure of Claim 19, wherein said means for
receiving and processing (210,214) determines a period of

time that said characteristics of said materials in said area
indicate said area in a plant.
The structure of Claim 19 further comprising means
for detecting a speed of movement with respect to said

surface.
The structure of Claim 23, wherein said area to
which said means for applying applies herbicide (226) is an

area different from said area upon which said radiation of
said first and second selected wavelengths is incident, said

area to which said means for applying applied herbicide (226)
being disposed directly behind said area upon which said 

radiation of said first and second selected wavelengths is
incident with respect to a direction of movement in which

said means for moving moves said means for generating, said
means for directing, said means for receiving and processing

(210,214), and said means for applying.
The structure of Claim 19, wherein said first time
interval and said second time interval overlap.
The structure of Claim 19, wherein said first time
interval and said second time interval do not overlap.
A structure according to any one of Claims 1 to 15.
wherein said light sources comprise:


means for modulating light of a first wavelength
with a first modulation signal having a first frequency;
and means for modulating light of the different
wavelength with a second modulation signal having a

second frequency;
a light detector detecting a portion of said light
of said first wavelength and a portion of said light of

said different wavelength reflecting from said area of
said surface, said light detector having an output lead;
a filter circuit coupled to said output lead of
said light detector, said filter circuit rejecting

signals on said output lead of said detector circuit due
to incident sunlight which have frequencies lower than

said frequencies of said first and second modulation
signals, said filter circuit outputting a detector

output signal indicative of said first and second
modulation signals; 
a processing circuit which analyzes said detector
output signal and causes an herbicide to be sprayed onto

said area of said surface based on a determination of
relative magnitudes of light of said first wavelength

and light of said second wavelength which is detected by
said detector after being refle
cted from said surface;
and
means for moving said first and second
substantially monochromatic light sources (201,202) said

light detector, said filter circuit (213) and said
processing circuit (214) over said area of said surface.
The structure of Claim 27, wherein said frequency
of said first modulation signal is substantially identical to

said frequency of said second modulation signal, said first
and second modulation signals have digital waveforms, and

said processing circuit sprays said herbicide (226) onto said
area of said surface after said light detector (210) no

longer detects light of said first wavelength and said second
wavelength reflecting from said area due to movement of said

means for moving over said surface.
The structure of Claim 28, wherein said light
detector is a photodetector (210), and wherein said filter

circuit (213) comprises a capacitor (212) having a first lead
and a second lead, an inductor (211) having a first lead and

a second lead, and an amplifier having an input lead, said
first lead of said capacitor (212) being coupled to said

first lead of said inductor (211), to said output lead of
said light detector (210), and to said input lead of said

amplifier (214), said second lead of said capacitor (212) 
being coupled to said second lead of said inductor (211).
The structure of Claim 29, wherein said filter
circuit (213) further comprises a phase detector (217), said

phase detector (217) having a first input lead, a second
input lead, and an output lead, and wherein said amplifier

has an output lead, said output lead of said amplifier being
coupled to said first input lead of said phase detector, said

second input of said phase detector (217) being coupled to
receive one of said modulation signals which modulate said

first and second substantially monochromatic light sources.
A method of determining a location of a plant
comprising the steps of:


mechanically moving at least two sources of
substantially monochromatic modulated light over a

surface area, each light source providing a light beam
with a different wavelength;
focusing said light beam at said surface area;
detecting a reflectance of said light beams from
said surface area through an aperture in a plate which

aperture limits the reflectance of the light beam from
said area and wherein said

aperture (209A) has a length significantly greater than its
width, said aperture (209A) extending lengthwise in a

direction substantially perpendicular to a direction in which
said means for moving moves said structure.
analyzing said reflectance to determine whether
said surface area is a plant; and
initiating a selected activity based on said
analyzing;

   wherein said selected activity comprises applying
at least one herbicide.
The method of Claim 31, wherein the light is  
modulated by a step including setting a phase of one of said

light sources to be offset with respect to a phase of another
of said light sources.
The method of Claim 31, wherein said step of
modulating includes multiple tone modulating.
The method of Claim 31, wherein said step of
modulating includes synchronizing said at least two

substantially monochromatic light sources with said step of
detecting a reflectance.
The method of Claim 31, wherein said step of
analyzing said reflectance and said step of initiating a

selected activity result in the application of herbicide to
said predetermined area if said predetermined area is a

surface area of a plant and result in no herbicide being
applied to said predetermined area if said predetermined area

is an area of bare ground.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
