<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640171</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PISTON AND CYLINDER DEVICES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01B300	F01B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01B	F01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01B3	F01B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to piston-and-cylinder devices having an output member adapted to drive vehicles, generators or other mechanical arrangements. The device may in its simplest form comprise a cylinder (2) including a chamber (14) at least one piston (16) having an exterior cylindrical surface (18), and which is adapted to partake of a motion having a component of movement lengthwise of the cylinder (2) and a rotatable output member (8). There are also provided cam means comprising a first cam part and a second cam part, one of said cam parts being a cam track arrangement (20) formed for example in the piston surface and the other being a cam follower means (26) formed on the inside surface of the cylinder (2) and adapted to engage said track arrangement (20), the construction and operation being such that said cam means (20, 26) operates to impart to the motion of the piston (16) a rotational component of movement and such that rotary motion produced in the output member (8) is derived from said rotary component of movement of the piston motion. Conveniently, a skirt flange (190) may be provided on the piston to act as a sleeve valve.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISHER HUGH EDWARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISHER, HUGH, EDWARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHER HUGH EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHER, HUGH, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 .-i -PISTON AND CYLINDER DEVICESThe invention relates to piston-and-cylinder devices, particularly but not exclusively to devices having an output member adapted to provide drive or propulsion to vehicles, generators or other mechanical arrangements.The invention provides a piston-and-cylinder device comprising a cylinder, said cylinder including a chamber at least partially defined by an interior surface of said cylinder, at least one piston having an exterior cylindrical surface, said piston being adapted to partake of a motion having a component of movement lengthwise of the cylinder and an output member adapted to rotate about a lengthwise extending axis thereof, wherein there are provided cam means comprising a first cam part and a second cam part, one of said cam parts being a cam track arrangement formed in one of said surfaces and the other of said cam parts being a cam follower means formed on the other one of said surfaces and adapted to engage said track arrangement, the construction and operation being such that said cam means operates to impart to the motion of the piston a rotational component of movement and such that rotary motion produced in the output member is derived from said rotary component of movement of the piston motion.Advantageously, the motion of the piston may be initiated and maintained by a source of chemical or 

electrical energy. Preferably, the cam track arrangement may be a sinusoidal cam track formed in the exterior surface of the piston and the cam follower means may comprise at least one cam follower projecting from the interior surface of the cylinder chamber.Conveniently, there may be provided two lobes in the sinusoidal path of the cam-track. However, in many applications of the devices according to the present invention, three or more lobes may be found satisfactory or even preferable.Conveniently, the source of energy may be a liquid fuel of various kinds, petrol, alcohol and other high- or low-octane fuels or may be electric or any other suitable source. In some instances of use turbine or other propeller-type blades may be powered which in turn permit by-pass air to be used possibly in the manner of an aircraft-type engine, with additional fuel injection to provide an arrangement similar to that of an after-burner.In some of the examples to be described below, two or more pistons may be arranged in tandem within a single cylinder chamber, said chamber being divided by the pistons into a plurality of sub-chambers. Advantageously, each sub-chamber may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A piston and cylinder device comprising a cylinder, said cylinder including a chamber at least partially defined by an interior surface of said cylinder, at least one piston having an exterior cylindrical surface, said piston being adapted to partake of a motion having a component of movement lengthwise of the cylinder and an output member adapted to rotate about a lengthwise extending axis thereof, wherein there are provided cam means comprising a first cam part and a second cam part, one of said cam parts being a cam track arrangement formed in one of said surfaces and the other of said cam parts being a cam follower means formed on the other one of said surfaces and adapted to engage said track arrangement, the construction and operation being such that said cam means operates to impart to the motion of the piston a rotational component of movement and such that rotary motion produced in the output member is derived from said rotary component of movement of the piston motion.
2. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the cam track arrangement is a sinusoidal cam track formed in an exterior surface of the piston and the cam follower means comprise at least one cam follower projecting from the interior surface of the chamber. 


3. A device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the cam followers are studs or roller devices.
4. A device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the cam track has two lobes.
5. A device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the cam track has three lobes.
6. A device as claimed in any of the previous claims, wherein two or more pistons are arranged in tandem within a single cylinder chamber, said chamber being divided by the pistons into a plurality of sub-chambers.
7. A device as claimed in claim 6, wherein each sub-chamber is provided with an ignition means so as to operate in a predetermined two- or four-stroke cycle.
8. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output member is arranged to pass axially through the piston to ensure rotation of said output member with the rotary component of movement of the piston movement, axial movement of the output member with the lengthwise component of the piston member movement being minimised or prevented. 


9. A device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the motion of the piston(s) is initiated and maintained by a source of chemical or electrical energy.
10. A device as claimed in claim 9, wherein the source of energy is a liquid fuel.
11. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said piston or pistons are provided with a circular or annular end surface adapted to receive an impulse intended to move the piston in the cylinder chamber, said end surface being provided with radially extending fluted portions comprising an array of surface portions arranged obliquely with respect to a radial plane of the piston.
12. A device as claimed in either one or claims 1 and 11, wherein the output member co-operates and drives a flywheel arrangement.
13. A device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein there are provided two pistons sharing a common combustion chamber.
14. A device as claimed in claim 13, wherein the two pistons are flanked by two further combustion chambers. 


15. A device as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 14, wherein the pistons are provided with axially arranged passages through which pass a continuous shaft, said shaft being provided with keying members, and said pistons being provided with grooves to receive said keying members to prevent relative rotational movement between said shaft and said pistons, said shaft passing through each of said combustion chambers.
16. A device as claimed in claim 6, wherein there is provided an external cylindrical sleeve arrangement defining passageways for water-cooling, oil supply and air and exhaust gas flows, inlets and outlets for said flows being spaced axially and/or radially around the circumference of the cylinder.
17. A device as claimed in claim 16, wherein at least the gas flows are controlled by electromagnetic valves operating in tangentially offset flow inlets/outlets.
18. A device as claimed in either one of claims 1 and 6, wherein at least one end face of said pistons is provided with a cylindrical flange extending axially therefrom in the form of a skirt.
19. A device as claimed in claim 18, wherein the skirt is provided with apertures arranged to coincide with flow 


inlets and outlets in turn at appropriate stages in the operating cycle in the manner of a sleeve valve.
20. A device as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the output member is provided with turbine or similar propeller blades to permit a by-pass air flow, additional fuel injection means being provided to achieve an after-burner arrangement. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
