<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621751</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CUTTING OF SHEETED FOOD MATERIAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A21C1100	A21C1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A21C	A21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A21C11	A21C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for cutting shaped pieces out of a sheeted food material comprises a generally hollow cylindrical rotary member (4) so mounted as to be rotatable about its axis, a plurality of cutting means (15) arranged around the cylindrical outer surface of the rotary member (4), each cutting means (15) including a cutting blade (18) and located on the cylindrical outer surface of the rotary member and so arranged that, on rotation of the rotary member (4) adjacent to a sheet of the sheeted food material, each cutting means (15) cuts out a shaped piece from the sheet, a plurality of ejection means (16), each associated with a different one of the cutting means (15) and each including an ejection element (23) that is reciprocable in a radial direction, radially outward movement of the ejection element (23) effecting positive ejection of a piece cut out by the associated cutting means (15) and radially inward movement of the ejection element (23) permitting the associated cutting means (15) to perform a further cutting operation, and means (31) arranged, in operation, to cause each ejection element (23) to move outwards to effect positive ejection of each piece cut out by the associated cutting means (15).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED BISCUITS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED BISCUITS (UK) LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILL BRIAN DEREK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILL, BRIAN DEREK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the cutting of shaped pieces 
of sheeted food material, for example, sheeted dough, 
especially sheeted biscuit dough, or sheeted confectionery 
material, out of a sheet of the material. It relates 
especially to the cutting out, from a sheet of the 
material, of shaped pieces of biscuit dough that are to be 
baked to form biscuits. Although the invention is not limited to the cutting 
out of pieces of dough in the manufacture of biscuits, the 
following discussion will be limited to that case in the 
interests of simplicity. In the manufacture of biscuits, dough is formed and 
rolled out into a continuous sheet out of which 
appropriately shaped pieces of the raw dough are cut. The 
pieces of raw dough, which are commonly referred to as pre-forms, 
are then baked to form biscuits. When the process is carried out on a commercial scale, 
the cutting out of the pre-forms is preferably done by 
means of rotary cutters. When rotary cutters are used, sheeted dough is 
conveyed beneath a first, forming roller and then beneath a 
second, cutting roller. The forming roller rotates so that 
the circumferential speed at its cylindrical surface 
matches the linear speed of the dough passing beneath, and 
the face of the roller is pressed into the dough sheet to 
emboss a pattern, for example, the name of the biscuit or 
of the manufacturer, or a decorative design, or to form 
holes by the use of docker pins. The sheet of dough passes 
from beneath the first roller and is then conveyed beneath 
the second, cutting roller. The circumferential speed of 
the cutting roller also matches the speed of the dough 
passing beneath it. The cylindrical surface of the second 
roller carries cutters, which comprise cutting blades that  
 
form walled enclosures and are typically arranged in a 
grid made up of columns extending in a direction having a 
component along the length of the roller and rows 
extending around its circumference. The wall of each 
enclosure forms a die that is pressed into the dough 
sheet to cut out the pre-forms of the desired shape. The 
first and second rollers rotate at the same speeds and 
are usually so arranged that the embossed pattern is in 
the centre of each pre-form that is cut. In another arrangement, the docker pins are located 
on the second roller and within the enclosures that are 
formed by the cutter blades. An important disadvantage of some known rotary 
cutters is that they have no mechanism for some freeing 
the pre-forms from the cutters. There is then a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for cutting shaped pieces out of a 
sheeted food material which comprises a generally hollow 

cylindrical rotary member (4) so mounted as to be 
rotatable about its axis, and a plurality of cutting 

means (15), each arranged around the cylindrical outer 
surface of the rotary member (4), each cutting means (15) 

including a cutting blade (18) that encloses a region 
having the shape of a piece to be cut out and being so 

arranged that, on rotation of the rotary member (4) 
adjacent to a sheet of the food material, each cutting 

means (15) cuts out a shaped piece from the sheet, 
characterised in that the apparatus also comprises a 

plurality of ejection means (16), each associated with a 
different one of the cutting means (15) and each 

including an ejection element (23) that is reciprocable 
in a radial direction, radially outward movement of the 

ejection element (23) effecting positive ejection of a 
piece cut out by the associated cutting means (15) and 

radially inward movement of the ejection element (23) 
permitting the associated cutting means (15) to perform a 

further cutting operation, and cam means (31) which is 
within the interior of the rotary member (4) and is 

stationary whilst the apparatus is in operation and which 
is engaged in operation by each ejection means (16) to 

cause the ejection element (23) of the ejection means 
(16) to move radially outward at a given position
 during 
each rotation of the rotary member (4) to effect positive 

ejection of each piece cut out by the associated cutting 
means (15). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein each 
ejection means (16) includes a rotatably mounted cam 

follower (28) for engagement with the cam means (31). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, 
wherein the cutting means (15) are so mounted on the 

rotary member as to be individually removable and 
replaceable.  

 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 
3, wherein the cutting blades (18) are made of a plastics 

material. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 
4, wherein the ejection element (23) of each ejection 

means (16) has an outer surface that extends, save for 
apertures (24) to accommodate any docker pins (22), over 

substantially the entire region enclosed by the cutting 
blade (18) of the cutting means (15). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the 
cutting means (15) incorporates docker pins (22) and the 

ejection element (23) of the associated ejection means 
(16) incorporates apertures (24) arranged to accommodate 

the docker pins (22). 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 
6, wherein each of the cutting means (15) and/or its 

associated ejection element (23) is provided with one or 
more cleaning ports (44) arranged to allow the passage of 

cleaning fluid through, and cleaning of, the cutting 
means (15) and/or its ejection element (23) without 

disassembly of the cutting means (15) or removal of the 
cutting means (15) from the rotary member (4). 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 
7, wherein there is provided means for causing each 

ejection element (23) to move radially inward after it 
has moved radially outward to effect ejection of a piece 

from the associated cutting means (15). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein the 
means for causing each ejection element (23) to move 

inwards is resilient means. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein the 
resilient means is a spring. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 
10, wherein the angular position of the cam means (31) 

about its axis is adjustable so as to alter the angular 
position at which each ejection element (23) is caused by 

the cam means (31) to move radially outwards.  
 
A method of cutting shaped pieces out of a 
sheeted food material, which comprises rotating a rotary 

member (4), which is provided with cutting means (15), in 
contact with a moving sheet of the material and 

positively ejecting the pieces from the cutting means 
(15) by arranging that stationary cam means (31) causes 

ejection elements (23) to move radially outwards in such 
timed relation with the rotation of the rotary member, 

that the piece cut by each cutting means is positively 
ejected before the cutting means (15) executes another 

cutting operation. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein each 
shaped piece cut from the sheet falls back into the 

aperture in the sheeted food material that resulted from 
the piece having been cut out. 
A method as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13, 
wherein the cutting of the shaped pieces of a sheeted 

food material out of a sheet of the material is effected 
using apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 11. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
