<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640231</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTONOMOUS SELECTIVE CUTTING, METHOD AND APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23Q15007	B23Q1504	G05B1942	G05B1942	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23Q	B23Q	G05B	G05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23Q15	B23Q15	G05B19	G05B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Real time in-process data is collected to determine the contour and position of the interface between dissimilar layers of material. A control system (4) is automatically programmed, based on the determined contour and position of the interface, to automatically control the trajectory of a cutter (30) through a conventional motion control system to separate the dissimilar layers of material. The motion control system controls the cutter movement through, for example, a conventional linear motion device including a servomotor (12), lead screw (32), and slidable carriage (10) that holds the cutter (30).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GALEL ZEV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GALEL, ZEV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALEL ZEV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALEL, ZEV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTONOMOUS SELECTIVE CUTTINGMETHOD AND APPARATUSThis is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 08/043,138, filed April 1, 1993, which is a continuation of application Serial No. 07/874,988, filed May 1, 1992, now abandoned.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to cutting generally, and more specifically to autonomously controlling the position of a cutting tool to selectively remove one layer of material from a dissimilar layer of material.Selective cutting generally involves removing an undesired layer of material from a desired layer. In conventional machine tools, including machine tools of the numerical control (NC) and computer numerical control (CNC) type, a cutting tool typically is mounted on a carriage which is moved by a motor driving the carriage through a lead screw. Typically, control signals are supplied to the motor by a motion control system to control the cutting path of the cutting tool. In this way, the tool can automatically machine a rotating workpiece, for example, to a predetermined profile. However, since the cutting path of the predetermined profile must be pre-programmed into the system, it must be known in advance of the cutting. This is a problem in selective cutting applications where the location of the interface between dissimilar layers of material to be separated is not known. 

Accordingly, selective cutting generally has been limited to manual operations. However, in manual operations operator error can result in over extension of the cutter and damage to the desired layer.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention is directed to a selective cutting method and system that avoids the problems and disadvantages of the prior art. This goal is accomplished by providing a system that autonomously scans a particular workpiece to be cut and collects real-time in-process data relating to features of that workpiece. The system processes that data and generates a program to autonomously control the trajectory of a cutter to selectively remove an undesirable layer of material from the workpiece, for example.According to a preferred embodiment, a structure having first and second dissimilar layers of material is provided with one layer disposed on the other. The structure is scanned and the position of points on the first and second layers of material is detected by a laser optics system, for example, and fed into a processor. Based on the detected position of the points, the processor autonomously generates data indicative of the position and contour of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A method for separating dissimilar layers of material comprising: providing a cutter and a structure having first and second dissimilar layers of material; scanning the structure and detecting points representing the surface of the first layer adjacent the second layer; and controlling the position of the cutter based upon the points detected in the scanning step such that the cutter follows a path along the first layer and removes the second layer from the first layer.
2. The method of claim 1 including cutting the second layer while scanning the structure.
3. The method of claim l wherein points beyond said surface are detected and distinguished.
4. The method of claim l wherein the detecting step includes detecting noise, and the method further includes the step of smoothing the detected data to eliminate the noise.
5. The method of claim 1 including rotating the structure and reflecting a beam off an element associated with the structure and which rotates therewith to detect each revolution of the structure. 


 6. The method of claim 1 including the step of providing the structure with a reflective surface, rotating the structure, emitted a light beam in the path of the reflective surface such that the beam is reflected off the reflective surface during a complete revolution of the structure.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the controlling step includes reciprocating the cutter with a mechanism that is driven by a servomotor.
8. A method for separating dissimilar layers of material comprising the steps of: providing a structure having first and second dissimilar layers of material with one being disposed on the other; autonomously generating data indicative of the position and contour of the surface of the first layer adjacent the second layer; and autonomously controlling the position of a cutter, based on the autonomously generated data, to follow the surface of the first layer adjacent the second layer and remove the second layer from the first layer.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the data generating step comprises scanning the structure along the second layer side, sensing features of said structure along the second layer side, and collecting pieces of information indicative of the sensed features. 


 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the sensing step is conducted with a photosensor.
11. The method of claim 9 including the step of autonomously comparing one collected piece of information corresponding to one sensed feature on the workpiece with other collected pieces of information corresponding to sensed features adjacent the one sensed feature and retaining the one collected piece of information if it conforms by a predetermined degree to each of the other collected pieces of information.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the one piece of information is discarded and replaced by an adjacent piece of information if it does not conform by said predetermined degree to each of said other collected pieces of information, unless it conforms by a predetermined degree with a number of pieces of information collected subsequent in time and in close proximity therewith.
13. The method of claim 8 wherein the autonomous data generating step includes scanning the structure along the second layer side, detecting the distance between each point on the structure scanned during the scanning step and a datum point, converting each detected distance into a digital representation, storing the digital representations in a data memory, and determining which digital representations correspond to the distance between said first layer surface and said datum point by comparing the distance values represented 


by digital representations related to scanned points on the structure that are relatively close in proximity to one another.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the determining step includes comparing one digital representation with a group of digital representations each related to a scanned point on the structure that is adjacent to the scanned point that is related to the one digital representation, and retaining the one digital representation if the difference between the distance value represented thereby and the distance value represented by each one of the digital representations in said group does not exceed a predetermined value.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the comparing step includes dumping from the data memory the one digital representation and replacing it with one of the digital representations in said group if said difference exceeds the predetermined value, unless the distance value represented by the one digital representation substantially corresponds to the distance values represented by a predetermined number of digital representations that relate to points scanned later in time and in close proximity to the point related to the one digital representation.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the comparing step, in which one digital representation is compared to other digital representations, is repeated such that each digital 


representation is similarly compared to other digital representations.
17. A method for separating dissimilar layers of material comprising the steps of: providing a structure having first and second dissimilar layers of material with one being disposed on the other; scanning the structure and detecting the position of points on the first and second layers of material; autonomously generating data, based on the detected position of said points, indicative of the position of the surface of the first layer adjacent the second layer; inputting the autonomously generated data into a processor; and autonomously controlling the position of a cutter with the processor, to follow the surface of the first layer adjacent the second layer and remove the second layer from the first layer.
18. A method for cutting a rotating workpiece at a constant depth comprising the steps of: providing a workpiece on a rotatable workpiece holder, and a cutter; scanning the outer peripheral surface of the workpiece and detecting points representing that surface; rotating the workpiece; and autonomously controlling the position of the cutter based upon the points detected in the scanning step such that 


the cutter follows a path parallel to the contour of said surface at a constant depth in said workpiece.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein the providing step includes mounting the workpiece on the workpiece holder such that the peripheral surface of the workpiece is not concentric with the rotational axis of the workpiece holder.
20. A cutting head comprising: a housing; a cutting tip movably mounted to said housing; and a photosensor associated with said housing.
21. The cutting head of claim 20 further including a light emitter associated with said housing.
22. The cutting head of claim 20 including means for moving said cutting tip.
23. The cutting head of claim 22 wherein said moving means includes means for reciprocating said cutting tip.
24. The cutting head of claim 22 wherein said moving means includes a servomotor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
