<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626021</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DYEING CARPET.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06B300	D06B310	D06B900	D06B902	D06B2100	D06B2100	D06P520	D06P520	D06P700	D06P700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06B	D06B	D06B	D06B	D06B	D06B	D06P	D06P	D06P	D06P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06B3	D06B3	D06B9	D06B9	D06B21	D06B21	D06P5	D06P5	D06P7	D06P7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus which utilizes a novel dye solution for dyeing carpet in which the dye solution is heated to a temperature higher than the boiling point of water thus allowing fixation of the dye on the carpet without the need for a steam fixator.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FULLER BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FULLER, BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULLER BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULLER, BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DYEING CARPETBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention This invention relates to the dyeing of carpets and, more particularly, to a method and apparatus for dyeing carpets which, through the use of a dye bath which has a much higher boiling point than water, does not require the steaming of the carpet to set or fix the dye to the carpet. Prior ArtCurrently known and used methods and apparatuses for dyeing carpet require the steaming of the carpet to set or fix the dye to the carpet after the dye has been applied to the carpet. For example, the typical carpet dyeing method and apparatus involves the application of a dye to the pile surface of the carpet, fixing the dye onto the carpet pile by steaming and then subjecting the carpet to various other finishing procedures prior to drying the carpet.Once such conventional carpet dyeing process is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,101,270. This patent discloses a method for dyeing carpet which includes the steps of advancing a continuous textile web through a preshrinking station, moistening the textile web, dyeing the textile web using applicator rolls and/or dye applicators, and then fixing the dye onto the textile web by passage through, for example, a chamber containing steam. This basic method generally forms the base for the other prior art carpet dyeing systems and is well known in the art.Likewise, a second example of a carpet dyei __, process including a steam fixator is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,771,497. This patent discloses a process for the continuous treatment of a textile web material 

involving the application of a dye to the pile surface of the carpet and then initiating the dye fixation onto the pile surface by steaming. Many of the prior art patents such as the two disclosed above involve such a steam fixation process and are distinguishable from each other by various additional, optional processes added onto this base dyeing technique.The patent issued to Walter, U.S. Patent No. 2,387,200, discloses and claims a method for dyeing material which is carried out in a sealed chamber, namely a closed chamber incorporating compressed air and saturated steam. The '200 method is carried out at a temperature substantially above 212°F and under pressure. Therefore, the '200 method incorporates by its nature a steam fixation step as when the material emerges from the dye bath which is heated substantially above 212°F, it encounters compressed air and saturated steam under pressure, which is the equivalent of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I Claim
1. An apparatus for dyeing fabric materials in which steam fixation of the dye onto the fabric materials is unnecessary, comprising: a. a dye bath means containing a dye; b. a heating means which heats the dye to a temperature higher than 212°F at standard temperature and pressure; c. a dyeing means for applying the dye to the fabric materials; d. a removal means for removing excess of the dye from the fabric materials; e. a recovering means for recovering excess of the dye from the fabric materials; and f. a dyeing process halting means for halting the dyeing process and aiding in fixing the dye on the fabric; wherein said dye bath means, said dyeing means, said removal means, said recovering means and said dyeing process halting means are open to the atmosphere.
2. An apparatus for dyeing fabric materials in which steam fixation of the dye onto the fabric materials is unnecessary, comprising: a. a dye bath means containing a dye having a boiling point greater than 212°F; b. a heating means adjacent to said dye bath means which heats the dye within said dye bath means to a temperature greater than 212°F at standard temperature and pressure; c. a dyeing means immersed in the dye within said dye bath means for applying the dye to the fabric materials; d. a removal means for removing excess of the dye from the fabric materials; 


 e. a recovering means for recovering excess of the dye from the fabric materials; f. a preheating means to preheat the fabric materials to a temperature of up to about 220°F, wherein said preheating means is located prior to said dye bath means and adjacent to the fabric materials; and g. a dyeing process halting means for halting the dyeing process and aiding in fixing the dye of the fabric; wherein said dye bath means, said dyeing means, said removal means, said recovering means, said preheating means and said dyeing process halting means are open to the atmosphere.
3. The dyeing apparatus as described in Claim 1, further comprising a dye mixing means, said mixing means comprising means for heating the dye prior to the dye being introduced to the dye bath means and means for introducing the dye to the dye bath means.
4. The dyeing apparatus as described in Claim 3, further comprising removal means for removing excess dye from the fabric materials, said removal means being located downline from said dyeing means.
5. The dyeing apparatus as described in Claim
4, further comprising washing means for washing the fabric materials, said washing means being located downline from said vacuum means.
6. The dyeing apparatus as described in Claim
5, further comprising vacuum means for recovering excess dye from the fabric materials, said vacuum means being located downline from said removal means.
7. The dyeing apparatus as described in Claim
6, further comprising recycle means for recycling said recovered excess dye to said mixing means. 


 8. The dyeing apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said dye is a dye solution comprising dye, dyeing assistants, acid and water said dye being selected from the group consisting of acid dyes; said dyeing assistants being selected from the gorup consisting of alcohols, glycols, glycerols and ionic surfactants, and coconut condensate; and said acid being sulfamic acid.
9. The dyeing apparatus as described in Claim 2, wherein said preheating means is co-extensive with said heating means.
10. The dyeing apparatus as described in Claim 2, wherein said preheating means is separate from said heating means.
11. The dyeing apparatus as described in Claim 2, further comprising a fabric materials preheating zone located prior to said dye bath means, the fabric materials being preheated within said preheating zone by said preheating means.
12. The dyeing apparatus as described in Claim 2, wherein said recovering means is located subsequent to said removal means relative to said dye bath means.
13. The dyeing apparatus as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said dye is a dye solution comprising dye, dyeing assistants, acid and water; said dye being selected from the group consisting of acid dyes; said dyeing assistants being selected from the group consisting of alcohols, glycols, glycerols and ionic surfactants, and coconut condensate; and said acid being sulfamic acid. 


 14. A method for continuously dyeing fabric materials, which method is carried out under atmospheric conditions, comprising the steps of: a. providing a dye solution having a boiling point above about 212°F at standard temperature and pressure; b. providing a fabric material; c. heating said dye solution to a temperature above about 212°F at standard temperature and pressure; d. applying said heated dye solution to said fabric material; and e. fixing said dye to said fabric material without the need for steam fixation. 15. The dyeing method as described in Claim 14, further comprising the step of preheating said fabric material to a temperature up to about the temperature of said heated dye solution prior to step d.
16. The dyeing method as described in Claim 15, wherein said fabric material is heated to a temperature above the boiling point of water, that being 212°F at standard temperature and pressure.
17. The dyeing method as described in Claim 14, further comprising the step of preheating said dye solution prior to step c.
18. The dyeing method as described in Claim 17, wherein said dye solution is heated to a temperature above the boiling point of water, that being 212°F at standard temperature and pressure. 19. The dyeing method as described in Claim 14, further comprising the step of removing excess dye solution from said fabric material subsequent to step d.
20. The dyeing method as described in Claim 19, further comprising the step of recycling said excess dye solution. 


 21. The dyeing method as described in Claim 14, further comprising the step of washing said fabric material subsequent to step d.
22. The dyeing method as described in Claim 14, further comprising the step of neutralizing the pH of said dye solution and said fabric material subsequent to step d.
23. The dyeing method as described in Claim 14, further comprising the step of drying said fabric materials subsequent to step d. 24. A dye solution comprising dye, dyeing assistants, acid and water.
25. A dye solution as described in Claim 24, wherein said dye is selected from the group consisting of acid dyes; said dyeing assistants are selected from the group consisting of alcohols, glycols, glycerols, anionic surfactants, ionic surfactants, and coconut condensate; and said acid being sulfamic acid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
