<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646940</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of forming phosphor screen of color cathode-ray tube and exposure apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J9227	H01J9227	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J9	H01J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An exposure apparatus for exposing a resist film 
coated on the inner surface of a face panel (1) in a 

color cathode-ray tube through a shadow mask (2) with a 
number of apertures apparatus (14) comprises an exposure 

light source (3) having an optical axis coaxial with an 
axis of the face panel, for radiating a light beam onto 

the inner surface of the face panel through the shadow 
mask. A discontinuous lens (20) is arranged between the 

exposure light source and the shadow mask to be 
rotatable about the optical axis. The discontinuous 

lens has first and second regions arranged adjacent to 
one another in the direction of rotation of the discontinuous 

lens. A light beam from the exposure light 
source is guided by means of the first and second 

regions to the shadow mask along different paths. The 
lens is rotated by a drive motor (16) so that the light 

beam from the light source passes through each of the 
apertures along two different paths. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for forming 
a phosphor screen for a color cathode-ray tube and 
an exposure apparatus, and more particularly to a method 
for forming a black matrix between phosphor dots and an 
exposure apparatus. The phosphor screen of a color cathode-ray tube is 
constituted by phosphor dots having three luminescent 
colors and coated on the inner surface of a face panel, 
and a black material (black matrix) embedded between the 
phosphor dots and irrelevant to light emission. In general, a method of manufacturing the phosphor 
screen mainly includes a black matrix forming step and a 
phosphor dot forming step, and employs a printing method 
using a photoresist. Specifically, in the black matrix forming step, a 
polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) containing a photosensitive 
material, which is hardened when an ultraviolet ray is 
applied thereto, is coated on the inner surface of a 
panel to form a photoresist film. Then, an exposure 
light source is set in a position corresponding to the 
position from which an electron beam of each color is to 
be emitted, and a light beam is emitted from the source 
onto the photoresist film through a shadow mask opposed 
to the inner surface of the panel. As a result, 
predetermined portions of the photoresist film corresponding 
to the electron beam apertures in the shadow  
 
mask, i.e., those portions on which phosphor dots are 
formed, are exposed to the light beam. After the exposure 
step, non-exposed portions are removed from the 
photoresist film, thereby forming a resist pattern. 
Subsequently, a black material is coated on the resist 
pattern, and an oxidizer is injected onto the inner surface 
of the panel to decompose the resist. The resist 
and an unnecessary portion of the black material are 
removed by spraying water with high pressure, thereby 
forming a black matrix with holes for forming phosphor 
dots therein. In the phosphor dot forming step, a slurry consisting 
of a photosensitive PVA liquid and phosphor particles 
dispersed therein is coated on the black matrix on 
the panel inner surface, and only those portions of the 
slurry which correspond to the holes of the black matrix 
are exposed to light with the use of a shadow mask, as 
in the above-described exposure step, thereby attaching 
phosphor thereto, and removing the other portions by 
spraying water with high pressure. This step is 
repeated for forming phosphor dots of each color. An exposure apparatus to be used in the above-described 
exposure step generally has a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of producing a phosphor screen for a 
color cathode-ray tube, the method comprising the steps 

of: 

forming a resist film (26) on an inner surface of a 
face panel (1); and 
radiating a light beam onto the resist film through 
a shadow mask (2) having a number of apertures (14) to 

expose, by means of the light passed through the 
apertures, those portions of the resist film in which 

phosphor dots are to be formed; 
 
   characterized in that: 


the exposure step includes: 
radiating a light beam from an exposure light 
source (3) toward the shadow mask (2); and 
rotating, about the optical axis (Z1) of the light 
source, a discontinuous lens medium (20) provided 

between the light source and the shadow mask and having 
a plurality of regions (21, 22) which guide the light 

beam from the light source to the shadow mask along different 
paths, respectively, thereby allowing the light 

beam to pass each of the apertures along at least two 
different paths. 
An exposure apparatus for exposing, through a 
shadow mask with a number of apertures, those portions 

of a resist film coated on the inner surface of a face 
panel in a color cathode-ray tube, in which phosphor 

dots are to be formed, said apparatus comprising:
 
   an exposure light source (3) for having its optical axis arranged 

coaxial with an axis of the face panel (1), for radiating 
a light beam onto the inner surface of the face 

panel through the shadow mask (2);
 
   characterized by further comprising: 


a discontinuous lens medium (20) for being arranged between 
the exposure light source (3) and the shadow mask (2) 

and rotatable about the optical axis, the discontinuous  
 

lens medium having a plurality of regions (21, 22) 
arranged adjacent to one another in the direction of 

rotation of the discontinuous lens medium, for guiding 
the light beam from the exposure light source to the 

shadow mask along different paths; and 
drive means (16, 18, 23) for rotating the discontinuous 
lens medium so as to pass the light beam through 

each of the apertures along at least two different 
paths. 
An exposure apparatus according to claim 2, 
characterized in that the regions (21, 22) of the discontinuous 

lens medium (20) have different thicknesses 
in the direction of the optical axis. 
An exposure apparatus according to claim 3, 
characterized in that the discontinuous lens medium (20) 

is formed in a disk-shape lens and has a first semicircular 
region (21) with a first thickness and a second 

semicircular region (22) with a second thickness. 
An exposure apparatus according to claim 2, 
characterized in that the regions (21, 22) of the discontinuous 

lens medium (20) have refractive indices differing 
from one another. 
An exposure apparatus according to claim 4, 
characterized in that the discontinuous lens medium (20) 

has a first semicircular region (21) with a first 
refractive index and a second semicircular region (22) 

with a second refractive index, and the first and second 
semicircular regions contact each other in a plane (25) 

including the optical axis and form a disk shape. 
An exposure apparatus according to claim 5, 
characterized in that the discontinuous lens medium (20) 

includes a semicircular lens (20a) which constitutes a 
first region (21) and has a predetermined refractive 

index and a plane (25) including the optical axis. 
An exposure apparatus according to claim 2, 
characterized in that the discontinuous lens medium (20) 

has a flat boundary portion (25) including the optical  
 

axis and dividing the regions. 
An exposure apparatus according to claim 2, 
characterized in that the discontinuous lens medium (20) 

has a disk-shape coaxial with the optical axis, and 
first and second regions (21, 22) adjacent to each 

other, the first region having a portion located in the 
central portion of the lens medium which includes the 

optical axis. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
