<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651771</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW VOC FURAN RESINS AND METHOD OF REDUCING VOCs IN FURAN RESINS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G1600	C08G1602	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G16	C08G16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to furan resins having low levels of VOCs. The claimed furan resins are the reaction product of a source of ammonia and a first reaction product, said first reaction product being derived from the reaction between a source of reactable formaldehyde, a formaldehyde scavenger, and an acidic furan resin resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containg molecule having general formula (I) and its saturated analogs thereof having zero to one carbon-carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups. The invention further pertains to a method of decreasing formaldehyde in undesirable volatile organic compounds in furan resins, consisting of the steps of providing an acidic aqueous compatible furan resin, providing a source of reactable formaldehyde, mixing a formaldehyde scavenger with the furan resin in the presence of the source of reactable formaldehyde to form a first mixture, heating the first mixture to a temperature of less than 100  DEG C for a period of from one to ten hours, adding a source of ammonia to the first mixture to form a second mixture, and heating the second mixture to a temperature of less than 100  DEG C for a period of from one to ten hours.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHULLER INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHULLER INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIELMEYER WILLIAM HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR THOMAS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIELMEYER, WILLIAM, HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, THOMAS, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LOW VOC FURAN RESINS AND METHOD OF REDUCING VOCs IN FURAN RESINSField Of The InventionThis invention relates to furan resins having low levels of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) , and methods of making the same.Background Of The InventionThe process of manufacturing glass fiber compositions typically involves spraying large volumes of phenol formaldehyde binders into high volume air streams, and then curing the product in convection ovens that involve high volumes of air. As a result, fiberglass manufacturers have an urgent need to reduce their VOC emissions, particularly with regard to formaldehyde.Attempts at reducing the free formaldehyde content of traditional phenol formaldehyde binders have been unsuccessful because excess formaldehyde is essential to curing and bonding in such systems. Techniques such as scrubbing and incineration require substantial financial expenditures with no guarantee of success.Attempts to convert free formaldehyde into less obnoxious and dangerous chemicals have involved the addition of ammonia or urea. Such additions are 

intended to convert free formaldehyde into hexamethylenetetramine or a mixture of mono and dimethylol ureas (MMU and D U) . Unfortunately, however, urea, hexamethylenetetramine, and mono and dimethylol ureas can all contribute to the production of trimethylamine, which gives cured fiberglass products an undesirable fishy odor.As a result, an alternative to phenol formaldehyde based fiberglass binders has long been sought. Attempts to utilize aqueous compatible furan resin based fiberglass binding compositions have been successful in achieving some reductions in VOC emissions. However, it is desirable to reduce the levels of volatile organic compound in furan resins so as to be as low as possible.Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a furaή resin for use in glass fiber binding compositions which has reduced levels of volatile organic compounds.It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method of reducing volatile organic compounds in furan resins.Summary Of The InventionThe present invention relates to furan resins having low levels of VOCs. The claimed furan resins are the reaction product of a source of ammonia and a first reaction product, said first reaction product being derived from the reaction between a source of reactable 

formaldehyde, a formaldehyde scavenger, and an acidic furan resin resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. An aqueous compatible furan resin having low levels of volatile organic compounds, comprising the reaction product of a source of ammonia and a first reaction product, said first reaction product comprising the reaction product of an acidic furan resin, a source of reactable formaldehyde and a formaldehyde scavenger.
2. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 1 where the acidic furan resin comprises the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula:
, and its saturated analogs thereof having 0 to 1 carbon-carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups.
3. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 2 where X and Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moities selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, 
C
ι
-C
10
 alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, 


nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
4. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 1 where the acidic furan resin has a pH from 3.8 to 6.5.
5. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 1 where the source of reactable formaldehyde is the acidic furan resin.
6. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the source of reactable formaldehyde is added to the acidic furan resin and is selected from the group consisting of formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde, aqueous solutions of formaldehyde, and formaldeyde based hemiformals.
7. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 1 where the source of reactable formaldehyde is added in an amount equal to 1 to 20 pph of the combination of the acidic furan resin solids and the formaldehyde scavenger.
8. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 1 where the formaldehyde scavenger is selected from the group consisting of nitrogen containing organic compounds containing at least one NH group per molecule reactive with formaldehyde.
9. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 8 where the formaldehyde scavenger is selected from the group consisting of ammonia, primary and 


secondary amines, urea, substituted ureas, primary amides, dicyandiamide, guanidines and aminotriazines.
10. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 9 where the formaldehyde scavenger is selected from the group consisting of urea and melamine.
11. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 1 where the formaldehyde scavenger is present in an amount from 1 to 30 pph of the combination of the acidic furan resin solids and the reactable formaldehyde.
12. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 1 where the source of ammonia is present in an amount such that NH
3
 is present in an amount from 1 to 15 % by weight of active binder solids.
13. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 12 where the source of ammonia is NH
4
OH.
14. The aqueous compatible furan resin of claim 5 where the acidic furan resin contains at least 10 % formaldehyde.
15. A method of decreasing formaldehyde and undesireable volatile organic compounds in furan resins, comprising the steps of: providing an acidic furan resin; providing a source of reactable formaldehyde; mixing a formaldehyde scavenger with the acidic furan resin in the presence of the source of reactable formaldehyde to form a first mixture; 


 heating the first mixture to a temperature of less than 100 degrees C for period of from 1 to 10 hours; adding a source of ammonia to the first mixture to form a second mixture; and heating the second mixture to a temperature of less than 100 degree C for a period of from 1 to 10 hours.
16. The method of claim 15 where the step of providing an acidic furan resin comprises providing the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula:
and its saturated analogs thereof having 0 to
1 carbon-carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of providing an aqueous compatible furan resin further comprises providing the reaction product where X and Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moities selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C
x
-C
10
 alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, 



amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
18. The method of claim 15 where the step of providing a source of reactable formaldehyde comprises providing an acidic furan resin.
19. The method of claim 15 where the step of providing a source of reactable formaldehyde comprises adding at least a portion of the source of reactable formaldehyde to the acidic furan resin, said source being selected from the group consisting of formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde, aqueous solutions of formaldehyde, and formaldeyde based hemiformals.
20. The method of claim 15 where the step of mixing a formaldehyde scavenger comprises mixing a formaldehyde scavenger selected from the group consisting of nitrogen containing organic compounds containing at least one NH group per molecule reactive with formaldehyde.
21. The method of claim 20 where the step of mixing comprises mixing a formaldehyde scavenger selected from the group consisting of ammonia, primary and secondary amines, urea, substituted ureas, primary amides, dicyandiamide, guanidines and aminotriazines. 


 22. The method of claim 15 where the step of heating the first mixture further comprises heating the mixture to a temperature between 75 to 95 degree C for a period of from 1 to 5 hours.
23. The method of claim 22 where the step of heating the first mixture comprises heating the mixture for 1 hour at 85 degree C.
24. The method of claim 15 where the step of adding a source of ammonia comprises adding NH„OH.
25. The method of claim 15 where the step of heating the second mixture comprises heating the mixture to a temperature between 75 to 95 degree C for a period of from 1 to 5 hours.
26. The method of claim 15 where the step of adding a source of ammonia further comprises adding a sufficient amount of a source of ammonia such that NH
3
 is present in an amount from 1 to 15 % by weight of resin solids . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
