<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626140</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Moisture-management sock and shoe for creating a moisture managing environment for the feet.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41B900	A41B902	A41B912	A41B1100	A41B1100	A41B1102	A41C300	A41C300	A41D3100	A41D3102	A42C500	A42C502	A43B2300	A43B2326	A61F1300	A61F1300	A61F1315	A61F1315	D04B122	D04B126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41C	A41C	A41D	A41D	A42C	A42C	A43B	A43B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	D04B	D04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41B9	A41B9	A41B9	A41B11	A41B11	A41B11	A41C3	A41C3	A41D31	A41D31	A42C5	A42C5	A43B23	A43B23	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	D04B1	D04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a moisture management sock 
(10) and shoe (50). The sock (10) includes a multi-layer 

moisture-wicking panel (14) extending from a front ankle 
portion (12) of the sock to a front toe portion (13) of 

the sock (10). The moisture wicking panel (14) is 
generally co-extensive with an area of the foot covered 

by the tongue of a shoe (50). First and second single 
layer air circulation channels (15a,15b) are formed in 

the sock (10), and extend along opposing sides of the 
moisture-wicking panel (10) from the front ankle portion 

(13) to the front toe portion of the sock. A 
moisture-management shoe (50) includes a shoe tongue 

(51), a toe box area (52), and a moisture wicking inner 
liner (50) residing adjacent the tongue (51) and the toe 

box area (52) for moving moisture from the foot and 
through the shoe (50) for evaporation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRIER DANIEL L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRIER, DANIEL L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIER DANIEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIER, DANIEL L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to moisture-management socks 
and to moisture management shoes. This invention also 
relates to the creation of a moisture managing 
environment for the foot by providing a sock and shoe 
with moisture-management characteristics. During athletic and other sports activity, the foot 
tends to perspire heavily which can create wetness in the 
shoe and lead to possible fungal and bacterial 
infections, such as Athletes' foot. It is an object of this invention to obviate and/or 
mitigate this disadvantage. According to one aspect of the invention there is 
provided a moisture-management sock knitted of a body 
yarn, comprising: 
(a) a multi-layer moisture-wicking panel 
extending from a front ankle portion of the sock to a 
front toe portion of the sock generally co-extensive with 
an area of the foot covered by the tongue of a shoe, said 
moisture-wicking panel including:  (i) a hydrophobic wicking yarn integrated into 
the knitted structure of the body yarn of the sock to 
reside substantially adjacent to the skin of the wearer; 
and (ii) a hydrophilic moisture-dispersion yarn 
integrated into the knitted structure of the body yarn of 
the sock to reside substantially on an outer surface of 
the sock away from the skin of the wearer to receive and 
disperse moisture wicked away from the skin by the 
hydrophobic wicking yarns; (b) first and second single layer air circulation 
channels formed in the sock and extending along opposing 
sides of said moisture-wicking panel from the front ankle 
portion of the sock, and adapted to cooperate with the 
moisture-wicking panel and a shoe to promote air 
circulation between the sock and the shoe. The embodiments disclosed below provide a 
moisture-management sock knitted of a body yarn, and a 
moisture-management shoe including a inner moisture 
wicking liner. One embodiment of the invention comprises the sock 
including a multi-layer moisture-wicking panel extending 
from a front ankle portion of the sock to a front toe 
portion of the sock. The panel may include hydrophobic  
 
and hydrophilic yarns, and may be generally co-extensive 
with an area of the foot covered by the tongue of a shoe. 
The hydrophobic wicking yarn may be integrated into the 
knitted structure of the body yarn of the sock and 
resides adjacent to the skin of the wearer. The 
hydrophilic moisture-dispersion yarn may be integrated 
into the knitted structure of the body yarn of the sock. 
This yarn may reside substantially on an outer surface of 
the sock, away from the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A moisture-management sock knitted of a body yarn, 
comprising: 


(a) a multi-layer moisture-wicking panel 
extending from a front ankle portion of the sock to a 

front toe portion of the sock generally co-extensive with 
an area of the foot covered by the tongue of a shoe, said 

moisture-wicking panel including: 

(i) a hydrophobic wicking yarn integrated into 
the knitted structure of the body yarn of the sock to 

reside substantially adjacent to the skin of the wearer; 
and 
(ii) a hydrophilic moisture-dispersion yarn 
integrated into the knitted structure of the body yarn of 

the sock to reside substantially on an outer surface of 
the sock away from the skin of the wearer to receive and 

disperse moisture wicked away from the skin by the 
hydrophobic wicking yarns; 
(b) first and second single layer air circulation 
channels formed in the sock and extending along opposing 

sides of said moisture-wicking panel from the front ankle 
portion to the front toe portion of the sock, and adapted 

to cooperate with the moisture-wicking panel and a shoe 
 

to promote air circulation between the sock and the shoe. 
A moisture-management sock according to claim 1, 
wherein said body yarn, hydrophobic wicking yarn, and 

hydrophilic yarn of the moisture wicking panel are 
plaited together; said wicking yarn residing 

substantially adjacent to the skin of the wearer and said 
hydrophilic yarn residing substantially on an outer 

surface of the sock away from the skin of the wearer. 
A moisture-management sock according to claim 2, 
wherein said body yarn, hydrophobic wicking yarn, and 

hydrophilic yarn of said moisture wicking panel are 
terry-knit. 
A moisture-management sock according to claim 1, 2 
or 3 wherein said air circulation channels are 

substantially flat-knit. 
A moisture-management sock according to any 
preceding claim, further comprising a heel portion, a 

sole portion, and a toe portion; said heel, sole and toe 
portions including a hydrophobic wicking yarn integrated 

into the body yarn of said sock for substantially 
residing in skin contact, and for transporting moisture 

away from the skin of the wearer. 
A moisture-management sock according to claim 5, 
wherein the hydrophobic wicking yarn of said heel, sole 

and toe portions and said body yarn are plaited together 
and terried for providing added comfort and protection to 

the foot of the wearer. 
A moisture-management sock according to claim 5 or 

6, wherein said toe portion further includes a 
hydrophilic yarn plaited together with said hydrophobic 

wicking yarn and said body yarn, said hydrophilic yarn 
residing substantially on an outer surface of said toe 

portion away from the skin for receiving and dispersing 
moisture wicked outwardly by said hydrophobic wicking 

yarn. 
A moisture-management sock according to any 
preceding claim, further comprising an elastic yarn 

integrated into said body yarn for radially extending 
about the arch area of the foot of the wearer, and for 

providing a secure fit to hold said moisture wicking 
panel in a relatively stationary position atop the foot 

of the wearer. 
A moisture-management sock according to any 
preceding claim, further comprising an over-toe panel for 

residing substantially above the toes of the wearer, and 
 

adjacent to one end of said wicking panel; said over-toe 
panel including a hydrophobic wicking yarn integrated 

into the body yarn of said sock for substantially 
residing in skin contact and for wicking moisture away 

from the skin of the wearer. 
A moisture-management sock according to claim 9, 
wherein said over-toe panel further includes a 

hydrophilic yarn plaited together with said hydrophobic 
wicking yarn and said body yarn, said hydrophilic yarn 

substantially residing on an outer surface of said 
over-toe panel away from the skin for receiving and 

dispersing moisture wicked outwardly by said hydrophobic 
wicking yarn. 
A moisture-management sock according to any 
preceding claim, further comprising a top calf portion 

including elastic yarns integrated into said body yarn 
for holding the sock up on the leg of the wearer. 
A moisture-management shoe having a shoe tongue, a 
toe box area, and a moisture wicking inner liner residing 

adjacent said tongue and said toe box area for moving 
moisture from the foot and through the shoe for 

evaporation, said moisture wicking liner comprising: 

(a) a first fabric layer constructed of 
 

hydrophobic wicking yarn for residing next to the foot of 
the wearer, and for wicking moisture outwardly away from 

the foot of the wearer; 
(b) a second fabric layer constructed of 
hydrophilic yarn residing adjacent said first fabric 

layer for receiving and dispersing moisture wicked 
outwardly from said first fabric layer; and 
(c) attachment means for attaching said moisture 
wicking liner to an interior surface of said shoe tongue 

and said toe box area. 
A moisture-management shoe according to claim 12, 
wherein said first fabric layer is constructed of an 

integrally knit fabric having hydrophobic yarn on an 
inner fabric face thereof for residing in foot contact, 

and having hydrophilic yarn on an outer fabric face in 
surface contact with said second fabric layer. 
A moisture-management shoe according to claim 12 or 
13, wherein said second fabric layer is constructed of a 

knit fabric having an inner fabric face residing in 
surface contact with said first fabric layer; said inner 

fabric face having a brushed finish to enhance the 
ability of said second fabric layer to receive and 

disperse moisture wicked outwardly from said first fabric 
layer. 
A moisture-management shoe according to claim 12, 
13 or 14, wherein said shoe tongue includes a foam 

padding layer residing adjacent to and in surface contact 
with said second fabric layer of said moisture wicking 

liner, and an exterior fabric layer residing in surface 
contact with said foam padding layer and comprising the 

outermost layer of said shoe tongue. 
A moisture-management shoe according to any of 
claims 12 to 15, wherein said attachment means comprises 

sewing said inner liner to the interior surface of said 
tongue and said toe box area. 
A moisture-management assembly comprising a 
moisture-management sock, as claimed in any of claims 1 

to 11 and a moisture-management shoe as claimed in any of 
claims 12 to 16. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
