<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624930</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Connector having selectively disabled short circuit terminal
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R2900	H01R1370	H01R13639	H01R1364	H01R1370	H01R2900	H01R1364	H01R1371	H01R13639	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R29	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R29	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Terminal receiving chambers are formed within an 
air bag-side housing and are disposed respectively at 

right and left portions of the housing. A female metal 
terminal is fitted in each of these chambers. A short-circuit 

member receiving chamber is formed between the two 
terminal receiving chambers, and a short-circuit member is 

fitted in the chamber. Contact portions that project from 
respective right and left side portions of the short-circuit 

member extend through respective insertion grooves 
formed through respective opposite side walls of the 

receiving chamber and are resiliently contacted with 
respective inner surfaces of the female metal terminals. 

An insulating member projects from a reverse surface of a 
manipulation lever, which is pivotally mounted by pins on 

a mating power source-side housing and is adapted to 
intrude between one of the side portions of the short-circuit 

member and the corresponding female metal terminal 
through an open groove formed in an upper portion of the 

air bag-side housing. With such a construction, it is 
possible to provide a short circuit member that is reduced 

in height and space. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUJI TAKESHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUJI, TAKESHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a connector provided with a
short-circuit member for short-circuiting open metal terminals
and an insulating member for disabling the
short-circuit member.Air bags have been increasingly used for protecting a
passenger against an impact in the event of a car crash or
accident. An operating circuit for such an air bag is formed
by connecting metal terminals connected to an igniter
for a gas-generating agent to metal terminals connected to
a power source via an impact sensor. When the car collides,
the impact sensor sends current to the igniter to ignite
the gas-generating agent to produce a large amount of gas,
thereby inflating the air bag.Although the air bag is required to be positively operated
in the event of a collision, the air bag must be operated
only when a collision occurs. For example, the connection
between the connectors can be released during the
inspection or installation of the air bag at which time the
metal terminals within the air bag-side connector housing
become open. Even in this condition, however, there is a
chance that a magnetic field or an electric field produced
around these open metal terminals induces a voltage to develop
between the open metal terminals so that current
flows into the igniter of the air bag, thus causing erroneous
operation.In order to solve the problem of erroneous inflation of
the air bag, one connector has been proposed in Japanese
Utility Model Unexamined Publication No. 1-77287. More specifically,
a pair of metal terminals connected to an igniter
and a short-circuit member of an electrically-conductive
material that resiliently contacts upper
surfaces of the pair of metal terminals are provided within
an air bag-side connector housing, whereas metal terminals 
connected to a power source and an insulating member adapted
to intrude between the short-circuit member and the upper
surfaces of the metal terminals (with which the
short-circuit member is reslliently contacted) when the two
connector housings are fitted together are provided within
a power source-side connector housing. When the two housings
are not fitted together, the short-circuit member resiliently
contacts the metal terminals within the air
bag-side housing to prevent a potential difference from developing
between the metal terminals, thereby preventing
current from accidentally flowing into the igniter, thus
preventing an erroneous operation. When the housings are
fitted together, the insulating member or plate intrudes
between the short-circuit member and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A connector comprising:

a first connector housing (1) having terminal receiving
chambers (12) for receiving one of respective male and

female metal terminals (13) disposed respectively at right
and left side portions of said first connector housing (1)

and a short-circuit member receiving chamber (14) formed
between said terminal receiving chambers (12);

   and
a second connector housing (2) having an insulating
member (32), said insulating member (32) intruding into

said short-circuit member receiving chamber (14), when said
first and second connector housings are in a fitted condition,

   characterized in that

a short-circuit member (15) of an electrically-conductive
material is received in said short-circuit

member receiving chamber (14), said short circuit member
(15) having contact portions (17) formed respectively at

right and left sides thereof, said contact portions (17)
being resiliently contacted with said respective ones of

said metal terminals (13) when said first and second connector
housings are disengaged; and
said insulating member (32) being provided inside of
said second connector housing (2) for intruding between at

least one of said contact portions (17) of said
short-circuit member (15) and-its corresponding metal terminal

(13) when the first and second housings are in a fitted
condition.
The connector of claim 1, wherein said second connector
housing (2) has a manipulation lever (27) for selectively 

disabling said short circuit member (15) when said
first and second housings are in a fitted condition.
The connector of claim 1 or 2, wherein said short
circuit member (15) includes a pair of side portions (16)

coupled to respective ones of said contact portions (17).
The connector of claim 3, wherein one of said pair
of side portions (16) further includes a slanted portion

(18).
The connector of claim 4, wherein said insulating
member (32) is attached to said manipulation lever (27),

said insulating member (32) being engagable with said
slanted portion (18) to selectively separate at least one

of said side portions (16) and its associated contact portion
(17) apart from its associated terminal (13) to

thereby disable said short-circuit member (15).
The connector of claim 2, wherein said manipulation
lever (27) is pivotably connected to said second connector

housing (2) between a first position for allowing the first
and second housings to achieve said fitted position and a

second position for disabling said short-circuit member
(15).
The connector of claim 6, wherein said manipulation
lever (27) is movable between said first position and said

second position when said housings are in said fitted position.
The connector of anyone of claims 1 to 7, wherein
said insulating member (32) is adapted to be received in a

first opening (33) formed in said first connector housing
(1) and between one of said contact portions (17) and its

associated terminal (13) to selectively disable said short
circuit member (15). 
The connector of claim 8, further comprising a second
opening formed in said second connector housing (2),

wherein said first opening (33) and said second opening are
registered in said fitted condition.
The connector of anyone of claims 2 to 9, wherein
said manipulation lever (27) further comprises a first retaining

pawl (29) and a second retaing pawl, said retaining
pawls straddling said second connector housing (2).
The connector of claim 10, wherein said first retaining
pawl (29) is engagable with a retaining hole (30)

formed in said second connector housing (2), and said second
retaining pawl is engagable with a fitting projection

(4) formed on said first connector housing (1).
The connector of anyone of claims 1 to 12, further
comprising a retaining piece (7) attached to said first

connector housing (1) and resiliently engagable with said
second connector housing (2) to selectively maintain said

fitted condition.
The connector of anyone of claims 2 to 12, wherein
said insulating member (32) being an insulating plate depending

from said manipulation lever (27), said insulating
plate engagable with said slanted portion (18) to disable

said short circuit member (15).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
