<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615461</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IONTOPHORETIC DELIVERY DEVICE AND POWER SUPPLY THEREFOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M3700	A61N130	A61M3700	A61N130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61N	A61M	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M37	A61N1	A61M37	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An iontophoretic drug-delivery device incorporating a power supply which minimizes the cost of the batteries needed by operating the batteries in a series configuration at the start of delivery, when the patient's skin resistance is high, and by switching the batteries into a parallel configuration when skin resistance drops. An automatic switching circuit for achieving this transition is included.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALZA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALZA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADZINSKI JOHN DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAAK RONALD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MC NICHOLS LARRY ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADZINSKI, JOHN, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAAK, RONALD, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MC NICHOLS, LARRY, ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an iontophoretic device for 
transdermally or transmucosally delivering a beneficial agent to a 
patient. More particularly, the invention relates to an electrically 
powered iontophoretic delivery device having an improved power 
supply. In the past, iontophoresis has been defined to be "the 
introduction, by means of electric current, of ions of soluble salts 
into the tissues of the body for therapeutic purposes." 
Iontophoretic devices have been used since the early part of this 
century for delivering agents in ionized form. The iontophoresis process has been found to be useful in the 
transdermal administration of drugs including lidocaine 
hydrochloride, hydrocortisone, fluoride, penicillin, dexamethasone 
sodium phosphate, and many other drugs. Perhaps the most common use 
of iontophoresis is in diagnosing cystic fibrosis by delivering 
pilocarpine salts iontophoretically. The pilocarpine stimulates 
sweat production; the sweat is collected and analyzed for its 
chloride content to detect the presence of the disease. Presently known iontophoretic devices use at least two 
electrodes, positioned in intimate contact with some portion of the 
skin of the body. A first electrode, called the active or donor 
electrode, delivers the ionic substance, medicament, drug precursor 
or drug into the body by iontophoresis. The second electrode, called 
the counter or return electrode, closes an electrical circuit 
including the body, the first electrode and a source of electrical 
energy such as a battery. For example, if the ionic substance to be 
driven into the body is positively charged, the anode will be the  
 
active electrode and the cathode will serve as the counter electrode 
to complete the circuit. If the ionic substance to be delivered is 
negatively charged, the cathode will be the active electrode and the 
anode will be the counter electrode. Alternatively, both the anode and cathode may be used to 
deliver drugs of opposite electrical charge into the body. In this 
situation, both electrodes are active. For example, the anode 
can drive a positively charged ionic substance into the 
body, and the cathode can drive a negatively charged ionic 
substance into the body. More recently, it has been determined that iontophoretic 
delivery devices can also be used to deliver an uncharged drug or 
agent into the body. This is accomplished by a process known as 
electroosmosis. Electroosmosis is the transdermal flux of a liquid 
solvent (eg, the liquid solvent containing the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An iontophoretic delivery system for delivering a 
beneficial agent through an intact body surface of a patient by 

iontophoresis, the system including: a first electrode means (18) 
for containing a beneficial agent to be delivered and for contacting 

a body surface of a patient in agent-transmitting relation therewith, 
a second electrode means (19) for contacting the body surface in ion-transmitting 

relation therewith at a location spaced apart from the 
first electrode means, at least two electrical power sources (36, 38) 

electrically connected to the first and second electrode means (18, 
19), each power source (36, 38) producing an electrical potential 

difference, the system being characterized by
 
   bi-state switch means (30, 32, 34) for said two 

power sources (36, 38) and said first and second electrode means 
(18, 19) for selectively switching between: (1) a first state in 

which said two power sources are connected in series circuit relation 
between said first and second electrode means, and (2) a second state 

in which said two power sources are connected in parallel circuit 
relation between said first and second electrode means. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 1 wherein said 
bi-state switch means comprises a manually operable switch. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 1 wherein at 
least one of said power sources comprises a DC source. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 1 wherein at 
least one of said power sources comprises a lithium battery. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 1 comprising a 
unitary iontophoretic delivery device (20) incorporating said first 

and second electrode means. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 5 wherein said 
unitary iontophoretic delivery device (20) further incorporates said 

two electrical power sources and said bi-state switch means.  
 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 1 
further including switch control means (48, 50, 52), 

for said bi-state 
switch means and said first and second electrode means for: (1) 

sensing an electrical parameter associated with the delivery of 
electrical power from said power sources to said first and second 

electrode means, and (2) comparing the value of said sensed parameter 
with a pre-established value thereof, and (3) causing said bi-state 

switch means to transit between its first and second states in 
response to the results of said comparing of (2). 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 7 wherein said 
bi-state switch means comprises at least one field-effect transistor 

(30', 32', 34'). 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 7 wherein said 
sensed parameter of (1) is a voltage related to the resistance 

between said first and second electrode means. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 7 wherein said 
switch control means comprises a switching transistor (48, 50, 52) 

coupled to one of said first and second electrode means and 
responding to the voltage thereat by causing said bi-state switch 

means to transit from said first to said second state in response to 
said voltage exceeding said pre-established value. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 1 further 
including a constant current regulator (40, 42) for said 

pair of power sources (36', 38') and said first and second 
electrode means. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 11 wherein 
said constant current regulator comprises a junction field-effect 

transistor. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 1, including 
switch control means (48, 50, 52), for said bi-state switch 

means and one of said first and second electrode means, for sensing  
 

the voltage present at said one electrode means and for causing said 
bi-state switch to transit from its first to its second state in 

response to said sensed voltage. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 13 wherein 
said bi-state switch means comprises a plurality of field-effect 

transistors. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 13 wherein 
said switch control means comprises a switching transistor coupled to 

said one of said first and second electrode means and responding to 
the sensed voltage thereat by causing said bi-state switch means to 

transit from said first to said second state in response to said 
voltage exceeding a pre-established value. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 13 further 
including a constant current regulator (40, 42) for said 

fair of power sources (36', 38') and said first and second 
electrode means. 
The iontophoretic delivery system of claim 16 wherein 
said constant current regulator comprises a junction field-effect 

transistor. 
A method of reducing the electrical capacity of a power 
source needed to drive an iontophoretic delivery system in order to 

deliver a beneficial agent through a body surface of a patient by 
iontophoresis, the method including providing at least two electrical 

power sources (36, 38) to drive the delivery system, electrically 
connecting the two power sources to first and second electrode means 

(18, 19), the first electrode means containing a beneficial agent to 
be delivered, placing the first electrode means (18) in agent-transmitting 

relation with a body surface, placing the second 
electrode means (19) in ion-transmitting relation with the body 

surface at a location spaced apart from the first electrode means, 
the method being characterized by:
  
 

   switching the two electrical power sources (36, 38) 
between (1) a first state in which the two power sources are 

connected in series relation between the first and second electrode 
means, and (2) a second state in which the two power sources are 

connected in parallel circuit relation between the first and second 
electrode means. 
The method of claim 18, further comprising: 

sensing an electrical parameter associated with the 
delivery of electrical power from said power sources to said first 

and second electrode means; 
comparing the sensed value of said electrical parameter 
with a preestablished value thereof; and 
causing said switching in response to the results of said 
comparing step. 
The method of claim 19, wherein said sensing step 
comprises sensing of the voltage at one of the first and second 

electrode means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
