<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615510</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR FORMING INDIVIDUAL POUCHES FROM A CONTINUOUS WEB AND PACKAGING A PRODUCT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D3336	B65D3336	B65B906	B65D3010	B31B2300	B31B2300	B65D3020	B65B908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65B	B65D	B31B	B31B	B65D	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D33	B65D33	B65B9	B65D30	B31B23	B31B23	B65D30	B65B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention includes a process and apparatus for producting individual product pouches with a forming machine, particularly a horizontal-type form-fill-seal machine. The subject process and apparatus form pouches from a continuous supply of flexible web material by folding the flexible web material into two side walls and a bottom gusset and performing forming operations on only one of the gusset portion and lower sidewall combinations at one time. Preferably, during such forming operations, a separations element is inserted within the bottom gusset to effectively isolate one of the gusset portion and lower sidewall combinations from the other. The specialized pouches of the present invention are of a substantially lay-flat nature with a spout located along th e top wall, preferably about mid-way. The spout is preferably made by a heat seal. Such pouches are designed for containing a flowable product and permit the controlled dispensing of such a product after storage, preparation, or cooking within the pouches.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARVEY JOSEPH F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSON CURTIS L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINION AARON A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH WARREN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARVEY, JOSEPH, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSON, CURTIS, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINION, AARON, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, WARREN, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is related to the 
features of specialized packaging and the formation of 
individual packages, such as pouches, and the packaging 
of product within the individually formed pouches. 
More particularly, specialized pouches are made in 
accordance with the present invention that are designed 
in relationship to and in order to accommodate the 
specific product to be contained therein. With the advent over recent years of 
specialized packaging for products, where the packaging 
is designed to accommodate the particular product, the 
dispensing of such product, or the cooking of such 
product if the product is a foodstuff, it has become 
increasingly difficult to manufacture such specialized 
packages. Moreover, to include product specific 
features to the packaging, so as to enhance cooking or 
product dispensing, from a continuous web of material 
is even harder. It is, of course, a manufacturing concern to 
produce individual product packages in a most 
economical manner. The conversion of a continuous web 
of material into such individual packages without the 
need for additional components is highly desirable 
toward that goal. However, it is also desirable to 
provide such individual packages with specialized 
features related to the specific product for dispensing 
or cooking which are not only effective, but which 
users of such packages also find convenient.  
 Many forming processes and apparatuses are 
known for converting a web of flexible material into 
individual packages or pouches, which may be made in 
line with filling and final sealing stations. Such 
typical machines are generally classified as either 
horizontal type or vertical type forming machines. 
Moreover, such machines may employ means for 
continuously moving the web material through conversion 
stations of the machine, or may intermittently move the 
web material while controlling the conversion 
operations to occur during rest periods between 
movements. An example of a horizontal forming machine 
with intermittent movement that is used to manufacture 
relatively complex individual food containers from a 
continuous web of material is described in 
US-A-4,361,235 to Gautier. Such process initially includes 
folding the continuous web of material into two side 
walls with a bottom gusset extending therebetween in a 
generally W shape. Thereafter, various heat sealing 
and cutting operations are sequentially performed 
between intermittent movements of the web to produce 
specialized two compartment
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for forming a pouch (12) from 
flexible web material (10) comprising the steps of: 


(a) continuously supplying flexible web material; 
(b) folding the flexible web material into a 
generally W shape in cross-section 

defined by two side walls and a bottom 
gusset, the bottom gusset divided by a 

fold line into gusset portions which lie 
adjacent to lower side wall portions of 

the side walls; 
 
   characterized by: 


(c) performing a forming operation on one of 
the gusset portion and lower side wall 

portion combinations of the folded 
flexible web material without performing 

said forming operation on the other 
gusset portion and lower side wall 

portion combination at the same time; 
and 
(d) forming a plurality of transverse seals 
dividing the folded flexible web 

material into at least one pouch. 
The process of claim 1, further 
including the step of separating the one gusset portion 

and lower side wall portion combination from the other 
prior to performing said forming operation. 
The process of claim 2, wherein said 
separating step comprises inserting a separation 

element within the gusset which extends toward the fold 
line of the gusset. 
The process of claim 3, wherein said 
separation step further comprises plowing the one 

gusset portion and lower side wall portion combination 
away from the other be inserting a plow within the 

gusset.  
 
The process of claim 4, wherein said 
plowing step is performed by relatively moving both of 

the gusset portion and lower side wall portion 
combinations from their folded positions. 
The process of claim 3, wherein said 
forming operation comprises at least partially sealing 

the gusset portion to the lower side wall portion of 
the one gusset portion and lower side wall portion 

combination while the gusset portion and lower side 
wall portion combinations are separated from one 

another by the separation element. 
The process of claim 6, wherein said 
forming operation comprises forming a dispensing spout 

from the one gusset portion and lower side wall portion 
combination by sealing the gusset portion to the lower 

side wall portion of the one gusset portion and lower 
side wall portion combination in the shape of a spout. 
The process of claim 1, wherein said 
forming operation comprises sealing at least a part of 

the gusset portion to a part of the lower side wall 
portion of the one gusset portion and lower side wall 

portion combination, and removing some of the one 
gusset portion and lower side wall portion combination 

that has been sealed together. 
The process of claim 8, wherein said 
sealing takes place during a first separation stage 

where the gusset portion and lower side wall portion 
combinations are separated from one another by 

inserting a separation element within the gusset, and 
said removing of some of the sealed gusset portion and 

lower side wall portion combination takes place during 
a second separation stage which comprises plowing the 

one gusset portion and lower side wall portion  
 

combination away from the other by inserting a plow 
within the gusset. 
The proces of claim 1, wherein said 
forming operation comprises at least partially sealing 

the gusset portion to the lower side wall portion of 
the one gusset portion and lower side wall portion 

combination. 
The process of claim 1, wherein said 
forming operation comprises forming a dispensing spout 

from the one gusset portion and lower side wall portion 
combination. 
The process of claim 11, wherein said 
forming operation further comprises sealing the gusset 

portion to the lower side wall portion of the one 
gusset portion and lower side wall portion combination 

in the shape of a spout. 
The process of claim 1, wherein said 
folding step further comprises folding the flexible web 

material into a generally W shape cross section with 
the gusset portions of the gusset having unequal 

transverse lengths. 
The process of claim 13, wherein the one 
gusset portion and lower side wall portion combination 

is folded to have a shorter transverse length than that 
of the other gusset portion and lower side wall portion 

combination. 
In combination with the process for 
forming a pouch in claim 1, the additional steps of 

filling the at least one pouch with a product through 
an opening located opposed to the bottom gusset and inbetween 

the transverse seals of the formed pouch, and  
 

sealing the opening of the pouch after said filling 
step. 
The process of claim 15, further 
including the step of severing the filled pouches from 

one another after the filling and sealing thereof. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the 
process is performed in-line. 
The process of claim 17, wherein the 
process comprises an intermittent in-line process. 
A form-fill-seal process for making a 
plurality of sealed product containing pouches (12) from a 

sheet of flexible web material (10), said form-fill-seal 
process comprising the steps of: 


(a) continuously supplying flexible web material; 
(b) folding the flexible web material into a generally W-shape 
in cross-section defined by two side 

walls and a bottom gusset, said bottom gusset divided by a fold 
line into gusset portions which lie 

adjacent to lower side wall portions of 
the side walls; 
 
   characterized by: 


(c) performing a forming operation on one of 
the gusset portion and lower side wall 

portion combinations of the folded. 
flexible web material without performing 

said forming opertion on the other 

gusset portion and lower side wall 
portion combination at the same time; 
(d) forming a plurality of transverse seals 
dividing the folded flexible web 

material into a plurality of pouches, 
each pouch having a top opening; 
(e) filling a plurality Of the pouches with 
product through the top openings; and  

 
(f) forming a seal for closing the top 
openings of the filled pouches. 
The form-fill-seal process of claim 19, 
further including the step of severing the filled 

pouches from one another after the filling and sealing 
thereof. 
The form-fill-seal process of claim 20, 
wherein the process is performed in-line. 
The form-fill-seal process of claim 21, 
wherein the process comprises an intermittent in-line 

process. 
An apparatus for forming a plurality of 
pouches (12) from flexible web material (10) comprising: 


(a) means (14) for continuously supplying 
flexible web material (10); 
(b) means for longitudinally advancing the 
flexible web material; 
(c) means (22,30,31,32) for longitudinally folding the 
flexible web material during advancement 

thereof into, in transverse cross-section, 
a generally W-shape defined by two side walls (24), 

a bottom gusset (28) 
and a top opening, the bottom gusset 

divided by a fold line (36) into gusset 
portions which lie adjacent to lower 

side wall portions of the side walls (24); 
 
   characterized by: 


(d) means (42) for performing a forming operation 
on one of the gusset portion (38,40) and lower 

side wall portion (44,46) combinations of the 
folded flexible web material without 

performing said forming operation on the 
other gusset portion and lower side 

portion combination at the same time; 
and  

 
(e) means for forming spaced transverse 
seals along the folded flexible web 

material so as to divide the folded 
flexible web material into at least one 

pouch having a top opening. 
The apparatus of claim 23, further 
including a means for at least partially separating the 

one gusset portion and lower side wall portion 
combination from the other during the forming 

operation. 
The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said 
separating means comprises an element which extends 

within the bottom gusset. 
The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said 
element comprises a plow which urges the gusset portion 

and lower side wall portion combinations away from one 
another. 
The apparatus of claim 26, wherein said 
plow includes a leading portion having a surface which 

contacts one gusset portion of the bottom gusset to 
urge the one gusset portion and lower side wall portion 

combination away from the other. 
The apparatus of claim 26, wherein said 
plow includes a leading portion having two surfaces 

divided from one another, and one surface contacts with 
one of the gusset portions of the bottom gusset while 

the other wurface contacts the other gusset portion to 
urge both of the gusset portion and lower side wall 

portion combinations away from their folded positions. 
The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said 
means for performing a forming operation comprises a 

sealing means for sealing at least a part of the gusset  
 

portion to a part of the lower side portion of the one 
gusset portion and lower side wall portion combination 

while the gusset portion and lower side wall portion 
combinations are separated from one antoher by the 

separation element. 
The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said 
sealing means includes a heated sealing surface which 

defines the shape of a spout that is formed from the 
one gusset portion and lower side wall portion 

combination by heat sealing the gusset portion to the 
lower side wall portion of the one gusset portion and 

lower side wall portion combination in the shape of a 
spout. 
The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said 
means for performing a forming operation comprises a 

sealing means for at least partially sealing the gusset 
portion to the lower side wall portion of the one 

gusset portion and lower side wall portion combination, 
and a cutting means for removing some of the one gusset 

portion and lower side wall portion combination that 
has been sealed together. 
The apparatus of claim 31, further 
including a separating means for separating the gusset 

portion and lower side wall portion combinations, said 
separating means comprising a first separating stage 

wherein a separation element is inserted within the 
gusset at said sealing means, and a second separating 

stage wherein a plow is inserted within the gusset at 
said cutting means. 
The apparatus of claim 32, wherein said 
cutting means comprises a reciprocating cutting die, 

and said plow provides a die backing surface against 
which said cutting die acts.  

 
The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said 
means for performing a forming operation comprises a 

sealing means for at least partially sealing the gusset 
portion to the lower side wall portion of the one 

gusset portion and lower side wall portion combination. 
The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said 
means for performing a forming operation comprises a 

means for forming a dispensing spout from the one 
gusset portion and lower side wall portion combination. 
The apparatus of claim 35, wherein said 
means for forming a dispensing spout comprises a 

reciprocating sealing element including a heated 
sealing surface having the shape of a spout which, when 

contacted with the lower side wall portion of the one 
gusset portion and lower side wall portion combination, 

heat seals the one gusset portion to the lower side 
wall portion in the shape of a spout. 
The apparatus of claim 23, further 
including a means for filling the at least one pouch 

with product after the pouch is formed with a top 
opening by the means for forming spaced transverse 

seals. 
The apparatus of claim 37, further 
including a means for providing a top seal to close the 

top opening after the at least one pouch is filled with 
product. 
The apparatus of claim 38, further 
including a means for severing the filled and sealed 

pouch from the folded flexible web material. 
The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said 
means for longitudinally advancing the flexible web 

material comprises an intermittent drive mechanism. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
