<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0791090</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DENSIFIED CELLULOSE FIBER PADS AND METHOD OF MAKING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1315	A61F1315	D04H154	D04H154	D04H158	D04H160	D04H1300	D04H1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	A61F13	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H13	D04H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A densified web of cellulose fibers has a high absorbent capacity and good wet strength. The web is produced by combining cellulose fibers with a bonding agent, activating the bonding agent, allowing it to contact the cellulose fibers, and thereafter deactivating the bonding agent. The web is thereafter compressed in a cooled state to form a densified web. The web exhibits an absorbent capacity superior to that of prior densified and bonded webs.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEYERHAEUSER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELSTON COLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWARD FRED B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEST HUGH H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELSTON, COLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWARD, FRED, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEST, HUGH, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DENSIFIED CELLULOSE FIBER PADS AND METHOD OF MAKING THE SAMEField of the Invention The present invention relates to cellulose fiber pads, more particularly to cellulose fiber pads in which the fibers have been bonded together and the pads densified, and more particularly to such pads having an increased absorbent capacity and good wet pad integrity relative to prior pads.Background of the InventionCellulose fibers derived from wood pulp are used in a variety of absorbent articles, for example, diapers and feminine hygiene products. It is desirable for the absorbent articles to have a high absorbent capacity for liquid, as well as to have good strength characteristics for durability. Cellulose fibers for pad formation have traditionally been shipped to end users, that is, manufacturers of absorbent articles, in large densified rolls, or less frequently in compressed bale form. The end user fluffs the cellulose fibers, combines them with additives, such as absorbency enhancing polymers or specially engineered fibers, forms them into a pad, and then forms them into an absorbent article for the consumer. While this methodology is effective, it is desirable for some applications to provide absorbent webs that include additives to the manufacturer of the absorbent article in a form that can be incorporated directly into the absorbent article without the intermediate steps of fluffing, additive incorporation, and pad construction.It is desirable to density webs before forming them into a roll to decrease the shipping costs. However, densified webs have insufficient strength for incorporation directly into absorbent structures. Therefore, the strength of the web must be increased, for example, by bonding the fibers together. The prior art suggests the simultaneous heating and compressing of a cellulose fiber web that has been combined with a thermoplastic bonding material to form a densified web with increased integrity. While this densifying technique provides higher bulk density and 

strength compared to densified webs of conventional non-bonded pulp, it has been found that the resulting densified web has a lower capacity for absorbing liquid than the non-densified, or fluffed, material normally incorporated into absorbent structures. It is therefore desirable to provide a densified web of cellulose fibers that has an absorbent capacity superior to prior densified webs, and that has a wet integrity or strength that is substantially higher than non-bonded, densified webs.Summary of the Invention In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A fibrous article comprising: a densified web of cellulose fibers, at least some of said fibers being bonded together by an activatable bonding agent, said densified web having a minimum density at least equal to or greater than 0.1 g/cc, based on the weight of the fiber and bonding material, said densified web having a high absorbent capacity and a good wet pad integrity, said web having been densified after the bonding agent has been deactivated and has bound the fibers together, the densified web having an absorbent capacity for synthetic urine that is significantly greater than the absorbent capacity for synthetic urine exhibited by a comparable web of cellulose fibers bound together by a bonding agent in which the comparable web has been densified to substantially the same degree as said densified web by activating the bonding agent and densifying the comparable web while the bonding agent is active.
2. The article of Claim 1, wherein the density of the web ranges from 0.1 g/cc to 0.7 g/cc.
3. The article of Claim 2, wherein the density of the web ranges from 0.3 g/cc to 0.7 g/cc.
4. The article of Claim 1, wherein the densified web has a wet pad integrity greater than the wet pad integrity of a non-bonded, densified web of cellulose fibers that has been densified to substantially the same degree.
5. The article of Claim 1, wherein said article has an absorbent capacity that is at least about equivalent to a non-bonded, densified web of cellulose fibers.
6. The article of Claim 1, wherein the article further comprises superabsorbent polymer distributed in said web in an amount effective to increase the absorbency of said web. 


 7. The article of Claim 6, wherein the superabsorbent polymer is present in an amount up to about 70% by weight based on the weight of the fiber and polymer.
8. The article of Claim 1, wherein said cellulose fibers are selected from non-cross-linked cellulose fibers, cross-linked cellulose fibers, cellulosic fibers containing a particle binder or a densification/softening agent, and mixtures thereof.
9. The article of Claim 1, wherein the bonding agent comprises a thermoplastic or thermosetting material that is activatable by heating to a temperature above room temperature, when heated will contact the cellulose fibers, when deactivated will bond at least some of the cellulosic fibers together.
10. The article of Claim 9, wherein the thermosetting material is selected from a phenolic resin, polyvinyl acetate, urea formaldehydes, melamine formaldehydes, or acrylics.
11. The article of Claim 9, wherein the thermoplastic material is selected from particles or fibers comprising thermoplastic polymers, cellulosic fibers coated with thermoplastic polymer, and multi-component fibers in which at least one of the components of the fiber comprises a thermoplastic polymer.
12. The article of Claim 11, wherein the thermoplastic polymer is selected from polyester, polyethylene and polypropylene
13. A fibrous article comprising: a densified web of cellulose fibers in which at least some of the cellulose fibers are bonded together by a bonding agent, said web having been densified after the bonding agent has been deactivated and has bound the fibers together, the densified web having an absorbent capacity for synthetic urine that is significantly greater than the absorbent capacity for synthetic urine exhibited by a comparable web of cellulose fibers bound together by a bonding agent in which the 


comparable web has been densified to substantially the same degree as said densified comparable web by activating the bonding agent and densifying the web while the bonding agent is active.
14. The fibrous article of Claim 13, wherein the densified web has a wet pad integrity greater than the wet pad integrity of a non-bonded web of cellulose fibers that have been densified to substantially the same degree.
15. The fibrous article of Claim 13, wherein said cellulose fibers are selected from cross-linked cellulose fibers, non-cross-linked cellulose fibers, cellulosic fibers containing a particle binder or densification/softening agent, and mixtures thereof.
16. The fibrous article of Claim 13, wherein the densified web has an absorbent capacity that is at least about equivalent to the absorbent capacity of a non-bonded, densified web of cellulose fibers.
17. The fibrous article of Claim 13, wherein the densified web has a density equal to or greater than 0.1 g/cc.
18. The article of Claim 17, wherein the densified web has a density ranging from about 0.1 to about 0.7 g/cc.
19. The article of Claim 18, wherein said densified web has a density ranging from about 0.3 to about 0.7 g/cc.
20. The article of Claim 13, wherein said densified web further comprises a superabsorbent polymer distributed through said densified web.
21. The article of Claim 20, wherein the superabsorbent polymer is present in amounts ranging up to about 70% by weight based on the weight of the fiber and polymer. 


 22. The article of Claim 13, wherein the bonding agent comprises a thermoplastic or thermosetting material that is activatable by heating to a temperature above room temperature, that when heated will contact the cellulose fibers, and when deactivated will bond at least some of the cellulose fibers together.
23. The article of Claim 22, wherein the thermoplastic material is selected from particles or fibers comprising a thermoplastic polymer, cellulose fibers coated with a thermoplastic polymer, or multi-component fibers wherein at least one of the fiber components comprises a thermoplastic polymer.
24. The article of Claim 23, wherein said thermoplastic polymer is selected from polyester, polypropylene, and polyethylene.
25. The article of Claim 22, wherein the thermosetting material is selected from phenolic resin, polyvinyl acetate, urea formaldehydes, melamine formaldehydes, or acrylics.
26. An absorbent article for acquiring, distributing, or storing body fluids, the article comprising: an absorbent layer that includes a densified web of cellulose fibers in which at least some of the cellulose fibers are bonded together by a bonding agent, said web having been densified after the bonding agent is deactivated and has bound the fibers together, the densified web having a minimum density equal to or greater than 0.1 g/cc, based on the weight of the cellulose fiber and bonding agent.
27. The fibrous article of Claim 26, wherein the densified web has a wet pad integrity greater than the wet pad integrity of a non-bonded web of cellulose fibers that has been densified to substantially the same degree.
28. The fibrous article of Claim 26, wherein said cellulose fibers are selected from cross-linked cellulose fibers, non-cross-linked cellulose fibers, cellulosic fibers containing a particle binder or densification/softening agent, and mixtures thereof. 


 29. The fibrous article of Claim 26, wherein the densified web has an absorbent capacity that is at least about equivalent to the absorbent capacity of a non-bonded, densified web of cellulose fibers.
30. The fibrous article of Claim 26, wherein the densified web has a density equal to or greater than 0.1 g/cc.
31. The article of Claim 30, wherein the densified web has a density ranging from about 0.1 to about 0.7 g/cc.
32. The article of Claim 31, wherein said densified web has a density ranging from about 0.3 to about 0.7 g/cc.
33. The article of Claim 26, wherein said densified web further comprises a super absorbent polymer distributed through said densified web.
34. The article of Claim 33, wherein the superabsorbent polymer is present in amounts ranging up to about 70% by weight based on the weight of the fibers and the bonding agent.
35. The article of Claim 26, wherein the bonding agent comprises a thermoplastic or thermosetting material that is activatable by heating to a temperature above room temperature, when heated will contact the cellulose fibers, and when deactivated will bond at least some of the cellulose fibers together.
36. The article of Claim 35, wherein the thermoplastic material is selected from particles or fibers comprising a thermoplastic polymer, cellulose fibers coated with a thermoplastic polymer, and multi-component fibers wherein at least one of the fiber components comprises a thermoplastic polymer.
37. The article of Claim 26, wherein said thermoplastic polymer is selected from polyester, polypropylene, and polyethylene. 


 38. The article of Claim 35, wherein the thermosetting material is selected from phenolic resin, polyvinyl acetate, urea formaldehydes, melamine formaldehydes, or acrylics.
39. An absorbent article for acquiring, distributing, and storing bodily fluids, the article comprising: an upper acquisition/distribution layer for receiving body fluid from a source, the acquisition/distribution layer including a densified web of cellulose fibers in which at least some of the cellulose fibers are bonded together by a bonding agent, said web having been densified after the bonding agent is deactivated and has bound the fibers together, the densified web having a minimum density equal to or greater than 0.1 g/cc based on the average weight of the fibers and the bonding agent; and a storage layer for receiving body fluid from the acquisition/distribution layer, the storage layer including a densified web of cellulose fibers in which at least some of the cellulose fibers are bonded to each other by a bonding agent, said web having been densified after the bonding agent is deactivated and has bound the fibers together.
40. The article of Claim 39, wherein the cellulose fibers in the upper acquisition/distribution layers are selected from non-cross-linked cellulose fibers, cross-linked cellulose fibers, and mixtures thereof
41. The article of Claim 39, wherein said acquisition/distribution layer further comprises a superabsorbent polymer for absorbing liquid components of the body fluids.
42. The article of Claim 39, wherein said cellulose fibers in said storage layer are selected from non-cross-linked cellulose fibers, cross-linked cellulose fibers, cellulosic fibers containing a particle binder or densifying/softening agent, and mixtures thereof. 


 43. The article of Claim 39, wherein the cellulose fibers in the storage layer comprise a densified web of fibers in which at least some of the cellulose fibers are bonded to each other by a bonding agent, the web having been densified after the bonding agent is deactivated and has bound the fibers together.
44. The article of Claim 39, wherein the fibers in the storage layer further comprise a superabsorbent polymer for absorbing liquid components of the body fluids.
45. The absorbent article of Claim 39, further comprising a lower distribution layer including a web of cellulose fibers, said cellulose fibers being selected from non-cross-linked fibers, cross-linked fibers, fibers containing a particle binder, and mixtures thereof.
46. The article of Claim 45, wherein the lower distribution layer further comprises a superabsorbent polymer for absorbing liquid components of the body fluids.
47. The article of Claim 39, wherein the bonding material comprises a thermoplastic or thermosetting material that is activatable by heating to a temperature above room temperature, when heated will contact the cellulose fibers, and when deactivated will bond at least some of the cellulose fibers together.
48. The article of Claim 47, wherein the thermoplastic material is selected from particles or fibers comprising a thermoplastic polymer, cellulose fibers coated with a thermoplastic polymer, and multi-component fibers wherein at least one of the fiber components comprises a thermoplastic polymer.
49. The article of Claim 48, wherein said thermoplastic material is selected from polyester, polypropylene, and polyethylene. 


 50. The article of Claim 48, wherein said thermosetting material is selected from phenolic resin, urea formaldehydes, melamine formaldehydes, polyvinyl acetate, or acrylics.
51. A method for producing a densified web of cellulose fibers comprising: forming a web of cellulose fibers containing a bonding agent; activating the bonding agent so that the bonding agent contacts at least some of the cellulose fibers, thereafter deactivating the bonding agent to bind at least some of said cellulose fibers together, and thereafter densifying said web of cellulose fibers to a density of at least 0.1 g/cc.
52. The method of Claim 51, wherein said web is densified to a density between 0.1 g/cc and 0.7 g cc.
53. The method of Claim 52, wherein said web is densified to a density ranging from 0.3 g/cc to about 0.7 g cc.
54. The method of Claim 51, wherein the densified web has a wet pad integrity greater than the wet pad integrity of a non-bonded, densified web of cellulose fibers that has been densified to substantially the same degree.
55. The method of Claim 51, wherein the densified web formed by the method has an absorbent capacity that is at least about equivalent to a non-bonded, densified web of cellulose fibers.
56. The method of Claim 51, further comprising incorporating a superabsorbent polymer into the web of cellulose fibers before activating the bonding agent. 


 57. The method of Claim 56, wherein the superabsorbent polymer is present in an amount up to about 70% by weight based on the weight of the fiber and the bonding agent.
58. The method of Claim 51, wherein the fibers are selected from cross-linked cellulose fibers, non-cross-linked cellulose fibers, cellulosic fibers containing a particle binder, and mixtures thereof.
59. The method of Claim 51, wherein the bonding material comprises a thermoplastic or thermosetting material that is activatable by heating to a temperature above room temperature, when heated will contact at least a portion of the cellulose fibers and when deactivated will bond at least some of the cellulose fibers together.
60. The method of Claim 59, wherein the thermoplastic material is selected from fibers or particles comprising a thermoplastic polymer, cellulose fibers coated with a thermoplastic polymer, and multi-component fibers wherein at least one of said components comprises a thermoplastic polymer.
61. The method of Claim 59, wherein the thermoplastic material is selected from polyester, polyethylene, and polypropylene.
62. The method of Claim 61, wherein the thermosetting material is selected from phenolic resin, urea formaldehydes, melamine formaldehydes, polyvinyl acetate, or acrylics.
63. The product produced by the method of Claims 57 through 62. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
