<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627690</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for creating a synchronized presentation from different types of media presentations.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F906	G06F906	G06F1730	G06F1730	G06F1900	G06F1900	G06Q5000	G06Q5000	G06T1180	G06T1180	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06Q	G06Q	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F9	G06F17	G06F17	G06F19	G06F19	G06Q50	G06Q50	G06T11	G06T11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A presentation made up of plural descriptions is provided. Each description 
specifies the data that is to be played by selected output devices, as well as 

parametrical values for playing the data on the selected output devices. The 
presentation is readied for execution by processing each description and loading 

the specified data into memory. An element containing the parametrical 
values and the location of the data is loaded into a queue. The presentation 

is executed by taking each element in turn from the queue and executing the 
specified data on the selected output devices. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSN WILLIAM J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELCH ROBERT P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSN, WILLIAM J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELCH, ROBERT P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods and systems for creating presentations 
in multitasking data processing systems that operate plural output devices. Data processing systems are utilized in conjunction with output devices, 
such as speakers, video display panels, and slide projectors, to produce multi-media 
presentations for informational, educational and entertainment purposes. 
The data processing system functions as the controller of the output 
devices. The data processing system executes software that contains the instructions 
for operating the output devices. This software prescribes the particular 
output devices that are utilized during the multimedia production, the 
data that is to be played by a particular output device (for example, the specific 
music that is produced by a speaker) and time parameters such as the sequence 
in which the output devices are activated. The prior art suffers from several disadvantages. One such disadvantage 
is the inability to synchronize many varieties of output devices on a generic 
basis. The prior art allows dubbing, wherein certain sequences are recorded 
into a prior recording. Dubbing is only permitted on a media that is capable 
of storing information for more than one media. For example, with the prior 
art, it is difficult to dub an interface generated by a computer and entertainment 
visuals such as stage lights, laser shows, smoke blasts and mechanized 
stunt action with a video and/or sound presentation. It is desired to 
provide the possibility of synchronizing an arbitrary variety of media across 
an arbitrary set of peripherals, wherein overlapping presentation times can be 
implemented. Another disadvantage of the prior art is the inability to manage data from 
a generic multimedia perspective. Current prior art methods build the instructional 
software by copying segments from old instructional software. This  
 
duplication is inefficient and may require extra storage capacity. Furthermore, 
such prior art methods may inadvertently change the old or source software 
when constructing new instructional software. Furtherstill, the prior art constrains 
the amount of a source software that can be copied. Frequently, only 
a particular segment or a portion thereof is required in new instructional software. 
Yet the prior art may require copying plural segments instead of just 
one segment, or an entire segment, instead of a portion of that segment. Thus, 
the selectivity allowed by the prior art leaves something to be desired. It is an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of creating a production from plural multimedia output devices 
connected to a data processing system, comprising the steps of: 


a) providing a presentation that contains plural descriptions, with each 
description specifying data that is to be provided to a selection of said output 

devices, each description specifying parametrical values for playing said respective 
data on said respective selection of output devices; 
b) readying said presentation for execution by processing each description, 
said step of processing each description further comprising loading said respective 

data into memory and loading an element corresponding to said description 
into a queue in a predetermined order, said element comprising said 

parametrical values in the location of said data in said memory; 
c) executing said presentation by taking each of said elements in turn 
from said queue and executing said specified data on said selection of output 

devices in accordance with said parametrical values. 
The method of claim 1 wherein: 

a) said step of providing said presentation further comprises the step of 
ordering said descriptions in said list in said predetermined order; 
b) said step of readying said presentation for execution further comprises 
the step of processing each description in said predetermined order. 
The method of claim 2 wherein: 

a) said step of providing said presentation further comprises the step of 
providing synchronizing information which provides that specific plural descriptions 

are synchronized so as to be executed at the same time; 
b) said step of readying said presentation for execution further comprises 
the step of determining from said synchronizing information which descriptions 

are synchronized and linking together in said queue those elements 
that correspond to said synchronized descriptions; and 
c) said step of executing said presentation further comprises the step of 
executing said linked elements together. 
The method of claim 3 wherein said step of providing synchronizing information 
further comprises the steps of providing said synchronizing information 

as one of the parametrical values of said synchronized descriptions and 
providing with each synchronized description the number of said synchronized 

descriptions that are synchronized. 
The method of claim 4 wherein: 

a) said step of providing said presentation further comprises the step of 
providing a synchronized description that is out of order in said presentation; 
b) said step of readying said presentation for execution further comprises 
the step of storing and linking together said elements corresponding to said 

synchronized descriptions in temporary storage until all of said elements corresponding 
to said synchronized descriptions, as determined by the number of 

synchronized descriptions, have been linked together and then loading said 
linked elements together in said queue. 
The method of claim 1 wherein: 

a) said step of providing said presentation further comprises the step of 
providing synchronizing information which provides that specific plural descriptions 

are synchronized so as to be executed at the same time; 
b) said step of readying said presentation for execution further comprises 
the step of determining from said synchronizing information which descriptions 

are synchronized and linking together in said queue those elements 
that correspond to said synchronized descriptions; and 
c) said step of executing said presentation further comprises the step of 
executing said linked elements together. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing a presentation further 
comprises the step of specifying for one of the parametrical values of each 

description a specified time that said respective data is to be provided to said 
selection of output devices. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing a presentation further 
comprises the step of specifying for one of the parametrical values of each 

description a qualified source of said data. 
The method of claim 8, wherein said step of providing a presentation further 
comprises the step of specifying for one of the parametrical values of each 

description an offset of said qualified source representing the starting part in 
said qualified source for said respective data. 
The method of claim 9, wherein said step of providing a presentation further 
comprises the step of specifying for one of the parametrical values of each 

description a length from said offset representative of the amount of said respective 
data. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing a presentation further 
comprises the step of specifying for one of the parametrical values of each 

description a repetition count representing the number of times said respective 

data is to be played. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing a presentation further 
comprises the step of specifying for one of the parametrical values of each 

description a function for playing said data on said output devices. 
A system for creating a production from plural multimedia output devices 
connected to a data processing system, comprising: 


a) means for providing a presentation that contains plural descriptions, 
with each description specifying data that is to be provided to a selection of 

said output devices, each description specifying parametrical values for playing 
said respective data on said respective selection of output devices; 
b) means for readying said presentation for execution by processing each 
description, said means for processing each description further comprising 

means for loading said respective data into memory and for loading an element 
corresponding to said description into a queue in a predetermined order, said 

 
element comprising said parametrical values in the location of said data in said 

memory; 
c) means for executing said presentation by taking each of said elements 
in turn from said queue and executing said specified data on said selection of 

output devices in accordance with said parametrical values. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
