<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636310</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Doubled haploids.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01H100	A01H100	A01H102	A01H102	A01H104	A01H104	C12N1529	C12N1529	C12N1582	C12N1582	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01H	A01H	A01H	A01H	A01H	A01H	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01H1	A01H1	A01H1	A01H1	A01H1	A01H1	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides, 
inter alia
, the use in the screening of haploid or doubled 
haploid plants or seeds of at least one dominant gene selected from the group consisting of 

conditional lethal genes, screenable marker genes and selectable marker genes. Preferably the 
haploids are induced by haploid inducing genes, such as "indeterminate gametophyte". The 

invention still further provides haploid plants comprising said at least one dominant gene, and 
a process for the production thereof, together with plants which result from said use and said 

process. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDOZ AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDOZ AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDOZ LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDOZ-ERFINDUNGEN VERWALTUNGSGESELLSCHAFT M.B.H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSEMARK NILS OLOF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TIMMERMAN BENEDIKT RAYMOND VIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSEMARK, NILS OLOF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TIMMERMAN, BENEDIKT RAYMOND VICTOR LENA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to plant breeding. More particularly, the invention relates to the 
production of haploids and doubled haploids (whether at the whole plant or seed level) - 
preferably induced by a haploid inducing gene -and to the selection and/or screening therefor. The mutant gene "indeterminate gametophyte" (ig), when present in the female parent results 
in offspring with a high proportion of defective seeds and a greatly enhanced frequency of 
haploids of both maternal and paternal origin. The ratio of maternal to paternal types is about 
1:2. In crosses of maize plants with igig females to four standard inbreds it has been shown 
that the frequency of androgenesis ranges from about 0.5 to 2 percent with one androgenetic 
plant in 10 being diploid. However, the influence of the paternal donor is much stronger than 
hitherto thought. Thus, the average frequency of androgenesis due to ig has been shown to 
be as little as only 0.03%, with some genotypes perhaps reaching 1.5%. Recently, it has been 
suggested that placing the ig gene in an early maturing maize genotype, such as the inbred line 
Co220, should make the production of haploids easier whilst maintaining a similar or higher 
level of haploid induction. Even so, use of this procedure for large scale production of 
haploids in practical plant breeding requires an efficient marker system that permits 
discrimination between haploids and spontaneously doubled haploids of paternal origin on the 
one hand, and sexual diploids and maternal haploids and doubled haploids on the other hand. The most reliable marker system hitherto used, at least in respect of maize, is a Purple Embryo 
Marker stock (PEM) of the genotype bplACRnj:cuduprPwr, 
originally developed to detect 
maternal haploids, but used also in connection with ig-induced haploid detection. The critical 
gene in this system is the R-allele. Rnj:cudu, which in combination with the dominant pigment-conditioning 
genes A and C causes red or purple pigmentation of the aleurone, primarily on 
the crown portion of the kernel, and a deep purple pigmentation in the embryo. Any 
colorless-seed maize stock can function as the haploid donor parent provided it is not 
homozygous RR and the lack of color is not due to a dominant pigment inhibitor. For the 
detection of maternal haploids the PEM stock is used as the pollinator whilst for the detection 
of ig-induced androgenetic haploids a PEM-ig stock is used as the seed parent in crosses with 
the donor line or breeders stock. With
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Use as a marker in the selection of haploids or doubled haploids of at least one of a 
dominant selectable marker gene, a dominant screenable marker gene or a dominant 

conditional lethal gene. 
Use according to claim 1 wherein the selectable gene confers resistance or tolerance to 
a herbicide or antibiotic, the screenable gene encodes a protein capable of cleaving a 

chromogenic or fluorogenic substrate, and the conditional lethal gene confers sensitivity to a 
chemical. 
Use according to the preceding claim, wherein the herbicide is selected from the group 
consisting of glufosinate or glyphosate. 
Use according to claim 2, wherein the said chemical is selected from the group 
consisting of chlorate, naphthaleneacetamide and indole-3-acetamide. 
Use according to any preceding claim, wherein the lethal gene encodes indoleacetamide 
hydrolase (IaaH) or nitrate reductase (NR), the selectable gene encodes phosphinotricin acetyl 

transferase (PAT), glyphosate oxido-reductase (GOX) or EPSPS, and the screenable gene 
encodes Beta-glucuronidase. 
Use according to any preceding claim, wherein the haploids are induced by haploid 
inducing genes. 
Use according to the preceding claim, wherein the haploid inducing genes include the 
gene "indeterminate gametophyte" (ig). 
Use according to any preceding claim, wherein the plants are maize. 
Haploid-inducing plants comprising at least one of a dominant conditional lethal gene, 
dominant screenable marker gene or a dominant selectable gene. 
Plants according to the preceding claim, having a genotype selected from the group 
consisting of: IgigIaaHIaaH, IgigNiaNia, IgigIaaH-, IgigNia-, igigIaaHIaaH, igigNiaNia, 

IgigPatPat, IgigGusGus, IgigPat-, IgigGus-, igigPatPat, and igigGusGus. 
Androgenetic and gynogenetic haploids and doubled haploids having the genotypes Ig 
and IgIg, and being selected by a process including the use as a marker of a dominant 

conditional lethal gene, a dominant selectable marker gene or a dominant screenable marker 
gene. 
Plants according to any one of claims 9-11, which are maize. 
A process for selecting haploids induced by the indeterminate gametophyte haploid-inducing 
gene comprising the steps of: 


i. Transforming a plant heterozygous for a haploid-inducing gene with a dominant 
conditional lethal gene; 
ii. Selfing the plants resulting from step (i); 
iii. Eliminating male sterile plants from the plants resulting from step (ii); 
iv. Selfing the plants remaining from step (iii); 
v. Discarding plants resulting from step (iv) which are homozygous dominant for 
the haploid-inducing gene; 
vi. Selecting progeny remaining after step (v) which contain the conditional lethal 
gene; 
vii. Selfing the plants selected from step (vi); 
viii. Selecting progeny resulting from step (vii) which are homozygous dominant for 
the conditional lethal gene; 
ix. Crossing the plants resulting from step (viii) and selecting plants which are 
homozygous dominant for the conditional lethal gene and homozygous recessive 

for the haploid-inducing gene; 
x. Pollinating the plants resulting from step (ix) with normal diploid plants; and - 
xi. Selecting androgenetic haploids and doubled haploids from the plants resulting 
from step (x). 
A process for selecting haploids induced by the indeterminate gametophyte haploid-inducing 
gene comprising the steps of: 


i. Transforming a plant heterozygous for a haploid-inducing gene with a dominant 

selectable or screenable marker gene; 
ii. Selfing the plants resulting from step (i); 
iii. Eliminating male sterile plants from the plants resulting from step (ii); 
iv. Selfing the plants remaining from step (iii); 
v. Discarding plants resulting from step (iv) which are homozygous dominant for 
the haploid-inducing gene; 
vi. Selecting progeny remaining after step (v) which contain the selectable or 
screenable marker gene; 
vii. Selfing the plants selected from step (vi); 
viii. Selecting progeny resulting from step (vii) which are homozygous dominant for 
the selectable or screenable marker gene; 
ix. Crossing the plants resulting from step (viii) and selecting plants which are 
homozygous dominant for the selectable or screenable marker gene and 

homozygous recessive for the haploid-inducing gene; 
x. Pollinating the plants resulting from step (ix) with normal diploid plants; and - 
xi. Screening or selecting androgenetic haploids and doubled haploids from the 
plants resulting from step (x). 
A process according to either of claims 13 or 14, wherein gynogenetic haploids are 
capable of being selected by introduction of the dominant gene of step (i) into the pollinator 

line carrying the haploid inducing trait. 
A process according to the preceding claim, wherein the pollinator line has a genotype 
capable of inducing gynogenetic haploids at a frequency of greater than about 0.1%. 
A process according to claim 16 wherein the frequency is about 0.5%. 
A process according to any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein the dominant conditional 
lethal gene is introduced into the pollinator line carrying the haploid inducing gene. 
A process for selecting gynogentic haploids comprising a dominant selectable or 
screenable marker gene or dominant conditional lethal gene comprising the following steps: 


a. Cross a selected, close-bred "gynogenetic haploid inducer genotype" as female with a 
genotype homozygous for the selectable or screenable marker gene or conditional lethal 

gene as the pollen parent, or alternatively transform said haploid inducer genotype with 
a selewctable or screenable marker gene or conditional gene and select stable 

transformants; 
b. Backcross plants resulting from step (a) to the "gynogenetic haploid inducer genotype". 
c. Eliminate plants lacking the selectable or screenable marker gene in the offsprings 
resulting from step (b). 
d. Self a number of the plants retained after step (c). 
e. Eliminate plants lacking the selectable or screenable marker gene or conditional lethal 
gene among progenies resulting from step (d). 
f. Cross a number of normal, non-inducer, non-marker plants as females with a 
corresponding number of plants retained after step (e) as pollen parents. Produce selfed 

seed from all pollen parents. 
g. Use crosses resulting from step (f) to screen pollen parents for homozygosity of the 
selectable or screenable marker gene or conditional lethal gene as well as for 

"gynogenetic haploid inducing ability". 
h. Select the desired haploidy inducer stock from remnant selfed seed from pollen parents 
in step (f), which combine homozygosity for the selectable or screenable marker gene 

with satisfactory "gynogenetic haploid inducer ability". 
A process according to any one of claims 13 to 19, wherein the plants are maize. 
Haploid plants, and parts and seeds thereof which result from the use, according to any 
one of claims 1-8. 
Haploid plants, and parts and seeds thereof which result from the process, according to 
any one of claims 13 - 20. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
