<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639810</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Processing system and method of operation.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F930	G06F930	G06F938	G06F938	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A processing system and method of operation are provided. At least 
one execution unit (20) processes information of a register (30) in 

response to an instruction specifying the register (30). Each of 
multiple control units (42) selectively allocates a respective one of 

multiple buffers (26) to store the information in response to the 
instruction. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGDEN AUBREY DEENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDERSCHAAF NEIL RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGDEN, AUBREY DEENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDERSCHAAF, NEIL RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to a system and method for 
processing information. A superscalar processing system includes multiple execution units 
for simultaneously executing multiple instructions. In some processing 
systems, instructions are executable out-of-order relative to their 
programmed sequence within the instruction stream. Accordingly, 
instructions' results are not necessarily available in-order of the 
instructions' programmed sequence. Nevertheless, some of these 
processing systems are designed to write instructions' results back to 
architectural registers in-order of the instructions' programmed 
sequence. For this reason, some processing systems include rename buffers for 
intermediately storing instructions' results until a suitable moment for 
writing the intermediately stored results back to architectural 
registers. Previous techniques have been developed for controlling a 
processing system's rename buffers to accommodate data dependencies 
between the executed instructions. Nevertheless, shortcomings of such 
previous techniques include relatively slow speed, high complexity, and 
large physical size of systems implementing the techniques. With slow 
speed, high complexity, and large physical size, such systems are poorly 
suited for use in advanced integrated circuit microprocessors. In accordance with the present invention there is now provided a 
processing system, including: at least one execution unit for processing 
information of a register in response to an instruction specifying said 
register; a plurality of buffers coupled to said execution unit for 
storing said information; and a plurality of control units coupled to 
said execution unit, each for selectively allocating a respective one of 
said buffers to store said information in response to said instruction. Viewing the present invention from another aspect, there is now 
provided a method of operating a processing system, including the steps 
of: processing information of a register with at least one execution 
unit in response to an instruction specifying said register; and 
selectively allocating, with each of a plurality of control units, a  
 
respective one of a plurality of buffers to store said information in 
response to said instruction. In preferred embodiments of the present invention, at least one 
execution unit processes information of a register in response to an 
instruction specifying the register. Each of multiple control units 
selectively allocates a respective one of multiple
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A processing system, including: 
   at least one execution unit (20) for processing information of a 

register (30) in response to an instruction specifying said register 
(30); 

   a plurality of buffers (26) coupled to said execution unit (20) for 
storing said information; and 

   a plurality of control units (42) coupled to said execution unit 
(20), each for selectively allocating a respective one of said buffers 

(26) to store said information in response to said instruction. 
A system as claimed in Claim 1 wherein each said control unit 
indicates to said execution unit whether said information is to be read 

from said respective buffer. 
A system as claimed in Claim 1 wherein each said control unit 
indicates to said execution unit whether said information is to be stored 

in said respective buffer. 
A system as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said instruction follows an 
additional instruction in a programmed sequence. 
A system as claimed in Claim 4 wherein said additional instruction 
specifies said register. 
A system as claimed in Claim 5 wherein said instruction and said 
additional instruction specify said register as a destination register. 
A system as claimed in Claim 6 wherein a first control unit 
allocates its respective buffer to store said information in response to 

said instruction, a second control unit allocates its respective buffer 
to store said information in response to said additional instruction, 

such that said control units indicate which of said buffers is most 
recently allocated to store said information. 
A system as claimed in Claim 7 wherein said instruction is 
dispatched to said execution unit no later than dispatch of said 

additional instruction, such that said first control unit indicates its 
respective buffer is most recently allocated to store said information. 
A system as claimed in Claim 5 wherein said instruction specifies 
said register as a source register, and said additional instruction 

specifies said register as a destination register. 
A system as claimed in Claim 9 wherein a particular control unit 
allocates its respective buffer to store said information in response to 

said additional instruction, such that said particular control unit 
indicates to said execution unit to read said information from its 

respective buffer. 
A system as claimed in Claim 10 wherein said instruction is 
dispatched to said execution unit no later than dispatch of said 

additional instruction. 
A system as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said control units are 
cascadably connected to one another. 
A method of operating a processing system, including the steps of: 
   processing information of a register with at least one execution 

unit in response to an instruction specifying said register; and 
   selectively allocating, with each of a plurality of control units, 

a respective one of a plurality of buffers to store said information in 
response to said instruction. 
A method as claimed in Claim 13, including the step of indicating, 
with each said control unit, to said execution unit whether said 

information is to be read from said respective buffer. 
A method as claimed in Claim 13, including the step of indicating, 
with each said control unit, to said execution unit whether said 

information is to be stored in said respective buffer. 
A method as claimed in Claim 13 wherein said processing step 
includes the step of processing said information in response to said 

instruction, said instruction following an additional instruction in a 
programmed sequence, and said instruction and said additional instruction 

specifying said register as a destination register. 
A method as claimed in Claim 16 wherein said selectively allocating 
step comprises the steps of: 

   allocating, with a first control unit, its respective buffer to 
store said information in response to said instruction; and 

   allocating, with a second control unit, its respective buffer to 
store said information in response to said additional instruction, such 

that said control units indicate which of said buffers is most recently 
allocated to store said information. 
A method as claimed in Claim 17 and further comprising the step of 
dispatching said instruction to said execution unit no later than 

dispatch of said additional instruction, such that said first control 
unit indicates its respective buffer is most recently allocated to store 

said information. 
A method as claimed in Claim 16 wherein said processing step 
comprises the step of processing said information in response to said 

instruction, said instruction following an additional instruction in a 
programmed sequence, said instruction specifying said register as a 

source register, and said additional instruction specifying said register 
as a destination register. 
A method as claimed in Claim 19 wherein said selectively allocating 
step comprises the step of allocating, with a particular control unit, 

its respective buffer to store said information in response to said 
additional instruction, such that said particular control unit indicates 

to said execution unit to read said information from its respective 
buffer. 
A method as claimed in Claim 20 and further comprising the step of 
dispatching said instruction to said execution unit no later than 

dispatch of said additional instruction. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
