<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625891</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-PHASE BIOERODIBLE IMPLANT/CARRIER AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURING AND USING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F228	A61F208	A61L2700	A61F228	A61F202	A61L3100	A61F208	A61L2700	A61L3114	A61F230	A61F202	A61L3114	A61F200	A61L3100	A61F230	A61F200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61L	A61F	A61F	A61L	A61F	A61L	A61L	A61F	A61F	A61L	A61F	A61L	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61L27	A61F2	A61F2	A61L31	A61F2	A61L27	A61L31	A61F2	A61F2	A61L31	A61F2	A61L31	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A carrier and method of manufacturing and using the same is provided for receiving supporting replenished tissue growing into a diseased or damaged area within a physiological system. The carrier can be implanted in the interface region between tissue having different mechanical properties to support the growth and regeneration of differing types of tissue within the region. The carrier includes bioerodible polymeric material having differing mechanical properties such as porosity, stiffness and compressibility.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV TEXAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOARD OF REGENTS THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATHANASIOU KYPRIACOS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOYAN BARBARA D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATHANASIOU, KYPRIACOS, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOYAN, BARBARA, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
THIS INVENTION relates to a multi-phase bioerodible 
or biodegradable implant/carrier (carrier) and a method for 
manufacturing the carrier. The carrier may be used in a 
physiological system to receive, induce and support 
subdermal tissue. Devices used for treating and repairing damaged or 
defective tissue are well-known in the art. Whenever 
damage to tissue occurs, the tissue must be supported in a 
fairly stable condition as it is being regrown. Some 
structural types of tissue such as bone can be regrown 
naturally provided the trauma area is not significantly 
disrupted during the healing process. Outer supports such 
as a cast or sling can be used to secure the trauma area. 
Inner supports such as rods or pins may also be used in 
severe cases. If the damaged tissue region has low cellular 
density or lacks vasculature, as in articular cartilage, 
the healing process can sometimes last several months, 
years or may not occur whatsoever. If inner support pins 
are used, they require surgical implantation and, after 
several months or years, the pins often need to be 
surgically removed. Surgically implanting and removing 
support pins presents undue shock or trauma to the 
patient's system. Moreover, once the internal supports are 
removed, a hole or void is left in the region which must 
then be naturally filled with growing tissue to fully 
complete the healing process. In the interim, the hole or  
 
void may leave the tissue prone to subsequent damage or 
breakage. EP-A-0277678 discloses a graft for use in 
reconstructive surgery to repair damaged tissue. The graft 
comprises a porous matrix of an organic polymeric material 
with a bi-porous structure. The graft is of substantially 
uniform properties throughout its extent, but the graft is 
provided with two different types of pores. Thus, in one preferred example, the structure 
comprises pores having a pore size of 15-250 microns 
dispersed in a porous matrix which has pores of the size of 
10-60 microns. Thus the relatively larger pores are 
dispersed substantially uniformly within a uniform matrix 
which has smaller pores. The graft of this prior proposal is said to be 
produced in a specific form, for example a meniscus form or 
a blood vessel form, and is thus intended for use at a 
position adjacent to one type of body tissue. WO-A-8700059 relates to a surgical resorbable 
device for the internal fixation of bone fractures, 
osteotomies and arthrodesis. The described device 
comprises a component which has a layered composite 
structu
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An implantable tissue support system(10) comprising 
a two-phase structure, the two-phase structure comprising 

first and second adjacent phases, the first phase (14) 
comprising a first bioerodible polymeric material, and the 

second phase(12) comprising a second bioerodible polymeric 
material, the first and second polymeric materials having 

dissimilar stiffness properties, characterised in that the 
first phase (14) comprises a first layer, the second 

phase(12) comprises a second layer, and the second layer is 
located on top of the first layer, the first material and 

the second material being adapted to be implanted during 
use into a physiological system at an interface region 

between and in contact respectively with a first type of 
tissue and a second type of tissue(26,28) and the first and 

second types of tissue having dissimilar stiffness 
properties, and the first and second polymeric materials 

having stiffness properties which are substantially 
comparable to the stiffness properties of the first and 

second types of tissue respectively. 
The system as recited in Claim 1 wherein the first 
phase(14) has stiffness properties substantially comparable 

to the stiffness properties of bone(28). 
The system as recited in any one of the above 
Claims wherein the second phase(12) has stiffness 

properties substantially comparable to the stiffness 
properties of cartilage(26). 
The system as recited in any one of the above 
Claims wherein access sites for receiving growth of tissue  

 
are present within at least one of the materials and 

comprise passages(20) extending into the material. 
The system as recited in any one of the above 
Claims, wherein access sites for receiving growth of tissue 

are present within at least one of the materials and 
comprise pores(16,18) in the material. 
The system as recited in Claim 6 wherein the pore 
size is about 50-200 micrometers. 
The system as recited in any one of the above 
Claims wherein the first and second polymeric 

materials(12,14) each have compressibility properties 
substantially comparable to the compressibility properties 

of the first and second types of tissue, respectively. 
The system(10) as recited in any one of the above 
Claims wherein the two-phase structure(10) is substantially 

cylinder-shaped. 
The system as recited in any of the above Claims 
wherein the first and second polymeric materials each have 

porosity properties substantially comparable to the 
porosity properties of the first and second types of 

tissue(26,28) respectively. 
The system of any one of the above Claims wherein 
each of said polymeric materials comprises a degradation 

agent which is adapted to enhance degradation of the 
polymeric material during use. 
The system of any one of the above Claims wherein 
each of the polymeric materials comprises a growth factor  

 
or therapeutic agent to induce, promote or support tissue 

ingrowth and repair. 
A method for manufacturing a bioerodible tissue 
implant device comprising the initial step of preparing a 

polymer into a liquid form having a selected viscosity and 
characterised in that the method comprises the further 

steps of extracting substantial amounts of liquid from the 
liquid form under a selected vacuum pressure for a selected 

period of time to produce a modified polymer having pores 
formed by the extracted liquid, placing the modified 

polymer into a mould and applying a selected compression 
for a selected period of time to the polymer and selecting 

the viscosity, vacuum pressure, compression and time 
periods to achieve stiffness properties in the moulded 

polymer(14) substantially comparable to stiffness 
properties of a selected tissue type. 
The method of Claim 12 further comprising preparing 
a second polymer into a second liquid form having a second 

selected viscosity, extracting substantial amounts of 
liquid from the second liquid form under a second selected 

vacuum pressure for a second selected period of time to 
produce a second modified polymer having pores formed by 

the extracted liquid, placing the second modified polymer 
into the mould atop the first compressed modified polymer 

of Claim 12 and applying a second selected compression for 
a second selected period of time to the second polymer, 

selecting the second viscosity, vacuum pressure, 
compression and time periods to achieve stiffness 

properties of the second moulded polymer(12) different from 
the corresponding stiffness properties of the first moulded 

polymer(14) of Claim 12 and substantially comparable to 
stiffness properties of a second, different tissue type.  

 
The method of Claim 12, further comprising the step 
of selecting the viscosity, vacuum pressure, compression 

and time periods to achieve compressibility properties in 
the first and second moulded polymers(14,12) which are 

substantially comparable to compressibility properties of 
the first and second tissue types(28,26) respectively. 
The method of any one of Claims 12-14, further 
comprising the step of selecting the viscosity, vacuum 

pressure, compression and time periods to achieve porosity 
properties in the first and second moulded polymers(14,12) 

which are substantially comparable to porosity properties 
of the first and second tissue types(28,26) respectively. 
The method of any one of Claims 12-15 wherein the 
second moulded polymer(12) has stiffness properties 

substantially similar to cartilage(26). 
The method of any one of Claims 12-16 wherein the 
first moulded polymer(14) has stiffness properties 

substantially similar to bone(28). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
