<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632611</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spread spectrum communication system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04J1302	H04J1302	H04J1300	H04J1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04J13	H04J13	H04J13	H04J13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spread process is performed with a spread code 
assigned to each user and a spread code assigned 

according to an attribute and the resultant signal is 
modulated on the transmitter side. On the receiver 

side, a transmitted signal, modulated in the above 
manner, is subjected to an inverse spread process with 

the attribute-oriented spread code from a reception 
spread code generator, the resultant signal is 

subjected to an inverse spread process with the user-specific 
spread code from the reception spread code 

generator, and those signals undergone the inverse 
spread processes are demodulated by data demodulators 

to extract desired information together with a desired 
signal corresponding to a wide band service. It is 

therefore possible to simplify the management of the 
individual users and individual services and facilitate 

the system design. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO COMPUTER CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO COMPUTER CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAKE MASAYASU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAKE, MASAYASU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a spread spectrum
communication system and, more particularly, to a spread
spectrum communication system which uses communication
signals modulated based on the spread spectrum.A spread spectrum communication system permits a
plurality of users to perform communication while sharing
one wide frequency band on the time and spatial
basis, has a large system capacity per bandwidth and is
resistive to interference. Thus such communication system
is receiving attention as a solution to the existing
excessive concentration of electric waves. In such a
spread spectrum communication system, a specific spread
code is assigned to each user to discriminate signals
for that user and spreading is carried out by
using the spread code on the transmitter side. Inverse
spreading (despreading) is conducted on the receiver side by
using a copy of the spread code used in the spread
spectrum.FIG. 1 shows an example of a modulating circuit on
the transmitter side in the spread spectrum communication
system. A transmission signal and a spread code,
which is specific to the user who uses a concerned
terminal and generated from a spread code generator 1,
are supplied to a mixer 2. The mixer 2 performs
a spread process on the transmission signal with
the spread code, and sends the resultant signal to 
a modulator 3. The modulator 3 executes spread-modulation
to produce a carrier frequency signal and
sends it to a power amplifier 4. The power amplifier 4
amplifies the carrier frequency signal to a proper level
and sends the amplified signal to an antenna 5.FIG. 2 shows an example of a demodulating circuit
on the receiver side in this spread spectrum communication
system. A carrier frequency signal, which is
received by an antenna 11 and amplified by a radio
frequency amplifier 12, and a local oscillation signal
output from a first local oscillator 13 are supplied to
a first mixer 14 which mixes both signals to produce a
first intermediate frequency signal. The first intermediate
frequency signal is put through a first bandpass
filter 15 to become a first intermediate frequency
signal of the desired band. This first intermediate
frequency signal is sent to a second mixer 16. The
second mixer 16 also receives a local spread signal that
is obtained by mixing a local oscillation signal output
from a second local oscillator 17 and a spread code
output from a spread code generator 18, which specifies
the receiving user, by a local mixer 19. The second
mixer 16 performs a mixing process (inverse spread)
o
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spread spectrum communication system comprising a transmission station and a
receiving station,

the transmission station having:

first spreading code output means (32) for outputting a first spreading code
assigned to discriminate each user of the communication system, said first

spreading code being a user code different from other spreading codes;
second spreading code output means (33) for outputting a second spreading code
assigned according to a service attribute of the communication system;
spreading means (35) for spreading an information signal with said first and second
spreading codes; and
transmission means (36, 37) for transmitting said information signal spread by said
spreading means;
the receiving station having:

first despreading means (49) for despreading said information signal transmitted
from said transmission station with said second spreading code;
second despreading means (55) for despreading said information signal despread
by said first despreading means with said first spreading code; and
demodulation means (57) for demodulating said signals despread by said second
despreading means
The system according to claim 1, wherein said service attribute is assigned
according to a kind of a transmission service provided by the communication

system.
The system according to claim 1, wherein the service attribute is assigned
according to a kind of information to be transmitted.
The system according to claim 1, wherein the service attribute is assigned

according to a band width required by an information being transmitted.
The system according to claim 1, wherein the service attribute is determined such
that a certain group of users belonging to respective common organizations can be

identified.
The system according to claim 1, wherein the service attribute is determined such
that a certain group of users placed in respective common locations can be

identified.
The system according to one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the second spreading code
has a chip rate which is higher than that of said first spreading code.
The system according to one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the second spreading code
has a chip rate which is an integral multiple of that of said first spreading code.
The system according to one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the first spreading code has
a chip rate which is higher than the bit rate of the information signal.
The system according to one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the first spreading code has
a chip rate which is an integral multiple of the bit rate of said information signal.
A transmission station for use in a spread spectrum communication system,
comprising: 


first spreading code output means (32) for outputting a first spreading code
assigned to discriminate each user of the communication system, said first

spreading code being a user code different from other spreading codes;
second spreading code output means (33) for outputting a second spreading code
assigned according to a service attribute of the communication system;
spreading means (35) for spreading an information signal with said first and second
spreading codes; and
transmission means (36, 37) for transmitting said information signal spread by said
spreading means.
The transmission station according to claim 11, wherein said communication
system is arranged according to one of claims 2 to 10.
The transmission station according to claim 11 or 12, wherein the first spreading
code output means (32) is means for selectively outputting a desired spreading

code from a plurality of first spreading codes, and the second spreading code
output means (33) is means for selectively outputting a desired spreading code

from a plurality of second spreading codes.
The transmission station according to one of claims 11 to 13, further comprising
means for inhibiting spreading of said information signal based on said first

spreading code, whereby said information signal is spread with only said second
spreading code.
The transmission station according to one of claims 11 to 13, further comprising
means for transmitting notifying information having a bit rate which is identical to a

chip rate of said first spreading code under a condition wherein said first spreading
code is inhibited to be output. 
A receiving station for use in a spread spectrum communication system,
comprising:


despreading means (49, 55) for despreading an information signal with a second
spreading code assigned according to a service attribute of the communication

system, and for despreading with a first spreading code said information signal
obtained through despreading with said second spreading code, said first

spreading code being a user code different from other spreading codes and being
assigned to discriminate each user of the communication system; and
demodulation means (57) for demodulating said information signal despread by
said despreading means.
The receiving station according to claim 16, wherein said communication system is
arranged according to one of claims 2 to 10.
The receiving station according to claim 16 or 17, further comprising filter means for
filtering the information signal despread by said despreading means, said filter

means comprising a plurality of bandpass filters, wherein said receiving station
comprises means for selecting a bandpass filter of said plurality of bandpass filters.
The receiving station according to claim 18, wherein selection is based on a
notifying signal transmitted by said transmitting station before transmission of said

information signal.
The receiving station according to one of claims 16 to 19, further comprising means
(51) for demodulating said information signal obtained through despreading with

said second spreading code.
The receiving station according to one of claims 16 to 20, further comprising means
for outputting selectively plural kinds of said second spreading codes, and

despreading said information signal transmitted from said transmitting station
based on a second spreading code output from said outputting means. 
The system according to one of claims 1 to 10, wherein said transmission station is
arranged according to one of claims 13 to 15.
The system according to one of claims 1 to 10 or 22, wherein said receiving station
is arranged according to one of claims 18 to 21.
A communication method employing two kinds of spreading codes in a spread
spectrum of information signals, the method comprising the steps of:


setting one of said two kinds of spreading codes as a user identification spreading
code for identifying respective users of the communication system independently,

and setting the other of said two kinds of spreading codes as a service identification
spreading code for identifying a communication service;
spread-modulating said information signals by employing said two kinds of
spreading codes in a transmission station, and then transmitting the spread-modulated

information signals from said transmission station; and
despreading said spread-modulated information signals in a receiving station by
employing said service identification spreading code, and thereafter despreading

the despread information signals by employing said user identification spreading
code so as to result in said information signals.
The method according to claim 24, wherein the communication system is arranged
according to one of claims 1 to 10 or 22 or 23.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
