<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658240</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A DOOR ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E06B382	E06B382	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E06B3	E06B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A door (10) includes a front panel (18) and a back panel (24). The front panel and back panel are secured together by connecting members (42 and 44) which are connected by weld (82). Panels (18 and 24) include sides (32 and 38) that are dimensioned to maintain cover strip (90) therebetween. Cover strip (90) conceals the welds (82) that result in a smooth finish for the side of door (10). Panels (18 and 24) are also joined by connecting members (92, 104, 120 and 122) and welds (116 and 144). A channel member (118) is maintained between connecting members (92 and 104) to conceal weld (116). Support members (154 and 160) are also provided to panels (18 and 24).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REESE JOHN DAVID JR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REESE TIMOTHY T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REESE, JOHN DAVID, JR.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REESE, TIMOTHY T.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGUS WILLIAM S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMELTZER DONALD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGUS, WILLIAM, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMELTZER, DONALD, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A DOOR ASSEMBLYBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe subject invention relates to hollow metal doors and. more particularly, metal doors that are of improved design so as to limit the need for detail finishing of welding deformations while maintaining structural integrity of the doors. This design also provides a door with relatively high attenuation of sound but relatively low weight.Description of the Prior ArtMany types of doors have been designed and manufactured in the prior art. Some of these designs were intended, in whole or in part, to limit the degree of finish work that was required to produce a door with a commercially acceptable appearance. The designs varied depending, in part, on die materials from which the door was constructed.In the case of hollow metal doors, the doors were often constructed of two opposing panels that were fastened together by means of rivets or welds or the like. Usually, there was also some internal reinforcement that was welded to the inside of the door panels to improve the rigidity and other properties of the door or to meet certain industry standards or certification requirements.One problem with the riveted or welded designs was that the riveting or welding process would often cause local deformation of the door panels that would degrade the appearance of the finished door. To overcome this, the door manufacturer was required to hand-finish the deformed areas by filling and sanding or by other similar methods for finishing the surface of the 

door panels. In some instances, as for example with brushed stainless steel, these conventional finishing methods could not be used and more elaborate refinishing measures were required. These finishing processes significantly increased the time and cost for manufacturing the door. Accordingly, there was a need in the prior art for a door construction that would avoid disfigurement of the door panels during construction and thereby limit the need for hand finishing of hollow metal doors.Also in the prior art. there were numerous door designs that were intended to have especially effective sound attenuaϋσn properties. Such door designs were developed for applications such as security areas and sound recording studios. Generally, these designs taught that to improve sound attenuation properties, it was necessary to increase the mass of the door. Examples are shown in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,273.297 and 3.319.738 which disclose the use of a lead sheath inside the door to increase sound attenuation of the door.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A door assembly comprising a front panel having an interior surface; a back panel having an interior surface, said back panel being spaced apart from said front panel witii the interior surface of said back panel opposing the interior surface of said front panel: a front connecting member tiiat includes as base segment and an extension segment that is connected to the base segment, the base segment of said front connecting member being in contact with the interior surface of said front panel and secured to die interior surface of said front panel: a back connecting member that includes a base segment and an extension segment that is connected to die base segment, die base segment of said back connecting member being in contact with the interior surface of said back panel and secured to die interior surface of said back panel, die extension segment of said back connecting member being located opposite from the extension segment of the front connecting member: means for securing the extension segment of said front connecting member to the extension segment of said back connecting member; and a cover that is maintained between the base segment of said front connecting member and die base segment of said back connecting member.
2. The door assembly of Claim 1 wherein the base segment of said front connecting member is secured to die interior surface of said front panel by an adhesive and wherein the base segment of said back connecting member is secured to the interim surface of said back panel by an adhesive.
3. The door assembly of Claim 1 further comprising: at least one front support member that is connected to die inner face of said front panel by an adhesive: and 


 at least one back support member that is connected to the inner face of said back panel by an adhesive.
4. The door assembly of Claim 3 wherein the front support member has a distal edge that is located remotely from die internal surface of said front panel and wherein the back support member has a distal edge tiiat is located remotely from the internal surface of said back panel, said distal edge of die front support member being secured to d e distal edge of the back support member by an adhesive material.
5. The door assembly of Claim 3 further including at least one internal brace, said internal brace comprising: a first support member that is fastened to the interior surface of the front panel by an adhesive and, said first support member having a portion that extends away from the interior surface of die front panel; a second support member that is fastened to die interior surface of the back panel by an adhesive: and an attenuator strip of porous material, said attenuator strip being connected to the interior projecting portions of the first and second support members.
6. A door assembly comprising: a front panel having a face and at least one side that is integrally connected to die face, said front panel having an interior surface such that the interior surface of the front panel face cooperates with the interior surface of the front panel edge to define an angle therebetween; a back panel having a face and at least one side tiiat is integrally connected to the face, said back panel having an interior surface such tiiat die inteπor surface of the back panel face cooperates with the interior surface of d e back panel edge to define an angle therebetween; 


 a front connecting member that includes a base segment and an extension segment that is connected to the base segment, the base segment of said front connecting member being in contact with the interior surface of the front panel face and secured to said front panel face: a back connecting member that includes a base segment and an extension segment that is connected to die base segment, the base segment of said back connecting member being in contact with the inteπor surface of the back panel face and secured to said back panel, die extension segment of the back connecting member being located opposite from d e extension segment of the front connecting member: means for securing the extension segment of said front connecting member to the extension segment of said back connecting member; and a cover that is maintained between the edge of said front panel and die edge of said back panel.
7. The apparatus of Claim 6 wherein the base segment of said front connecting member includes a flange portion tiiat is integrally connected to die front extension segment and a front support member that is secured to die flange portion of the base segment, said front support member also being secured to the interior surface of the front panel, and wherein the base segment of said back connecting member includes a flange portion that is integrally connected to the back extension segment and a back support member that is secured to the flange portion of the base segment, said back support member also being secured to the interior surface of the back panel.
8. The apparatus of Claim 7 wherein the distal end of said front extension segment comprises a front flange and wherein the distal end of said back extension segment comprises a back flange, said front flange being in contact with said back flange. 


 9. The apparatus of Claim 7 wherein the side of the front panel has a distal edge tiiat is formed in a flange and wherein the side of the back panel has a distal edge tiiat is also formed in a flange, with the flange of said front edge being spaced apart from the flange of said back edge to form a gap therebetween, the width of said gap being smaller than the width of said cover strip such that the cover strip is compressively maintained between the front edge flange and die back edge flange.
10. The door assembly comprising: a front panel having a face and at least one side that is integrally connected to the face, said front panel having an interior surface and an exterior surface that is oppositely disposed from said interior surface, the interior surface of the front panel face cooperating with the interior surface of the front panel side to define an angle therebetween: a back panel having a face and at least one side that Is integrally connected to die face, said back panel having an interior surface and an exterior surface that is oppositely disposed from said interior surface, the interior surface of the back panel face cooperating with the interior surface of the back panel side to define an angle therebetween: a front connecting member that is located substantially parallel to the front panel side, said front connecting member including a base segment and an extension segment that is connected to base segment, the base segment of said front connecting member being in contact with the interior surface of the front panel face and secured to said front panel face by an adhesive material; a back connecting member that is located substantially parallel to the back panel side, said back connecting member including a base segment and an extension segment tiiat is connected to the base segment, the base 


segment of said back connecting member being in contact witii the interior surface of the back panel face and secured to said back panel by an adhesive material, the extension se.gment of the back connecting member being aligned with die extension segment of the front connecting member: means for securing the extension segment of said front connecting member to the extension segment of said back connecting member: and a cover that is maintained between the edge of said front panel and die edge of said back panel. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
