<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622001</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMAGE INPUT DEVICE HAVING OPTICAL DEFLECTION ELEMENTS FOR CAPTURING MULTIPLE SUB-IMAGES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2610	G02B2610	G06T340	G06T340	H04N1195	H04N1195	H04N1387	H04N1387	H04N302	H04N308	H04N5225	H04N5225	H04N5232	H04N5232	H04N5262	H04N5262	H04N5335	H04N5335	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B26	G02B26	G06T3	G06T3	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N3	H04N3	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image input device (10) is provided in which an optical deflector (32) is positioned to divide the image of an object into a plurality of sub-images and to deflect the sub-images to an image sensor via an imaging lens (20). The images sensed by the image sensor are stored in a memory (90) and combined by an image processor (70) to form a composite image of the object. The optical deflector may have a plurality of optical elements (35), the number of which may be the same as the number of sub-images.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUSSMAN MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUSSMAN, MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSSMAN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBB ROBERT H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSSMAN, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBB, ROBERT, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMAGE INPUT DEVICE HAVING OPTICAL DEFLECTION ELEMENTS FOR CAPTURING MULTIPLE SUB-IMAGES Background of the InventionThe present invention relates to an imaging system for selectively providing either a low resolution real-time image or a high resolution scanned image. More particularly, the invention relates to a camera-like imaging system in which high resolution digital capture of an image is provided by combining a series of sequentially obtained sub-images.It is known to increase the resolution of a video camera either by increasing the number of pixels in the image sensor or by increasing the number of image sensors. Either approach typically increases the cost of the camera.An alternative method of increasing resolution uses just one image sensor, but uses that image sensor to capture only a portion (sub-image) of the desired image. A series of sub-images called "tiles" are sequentially captured and stored in the memory of an image processor. The image processor combines ("stitches") the tiles together to form a composite ("mosaic") image. Tiling systems, however, present a number of problems involving the capture of the sub-images. The sub-images should fit together tightly, avoiding both overlap of tiles or gaps between tiles. A high degree of repeatability in the tile 

 capture process is desirable, because repeatable (characterizable) errors can be corrected. Because of the complexity involved in acquiring the tiles, known tiling systems have been limited to highly sophisticated and costly applications, such as satellite imaging of the earth. The present invention uses tiling to provide a low cost scanner for commercial applications. A low cost tiling system, incorporated as part of a scanning camera, could find application, for example, as an aid to the visually impaired, as the imaging component of a face-up copying system for books, as an x-ray film scanner, as a variable resolution desktop scanner, as a microfilm copying system or as a video teleconferencing input device.It would be desirable to provide a scanning camera with both a real-time mode and a high resolution mode.It would also be desirable to provide a scanning camera with a highly repeatable, low cost tiling system.It would further be desirable to provide a tiling mechanism with minimal settling time.It would still further be desirable to provide a scanning camera with zoom and prescan capabilities.Summary of the InventionIt is an object of the present invention to provide a scanning camera with both a real-time mode and a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An image input device for providing a composite image of an object, the composite image comprising a plurality of sub-images, the system comprising: an image sensor for receiving one of the plurality of sub-images and for providing electrical signals representative of the sub-image; a lens for focusing the sub-image onto the image sensor; a variable optical deflection means having a plurality of optical settings, each corresponding to one of the plurality of sub-images, for deflecting one of the plurality of sub-images onto the lens, the variable optical deflection means being disposed between the object and the lens; and control means for moving the optical deflection means so that each of the sub-images that comprise the composite image is sequentially deflected onto the image sensor via the lens, such that when each sub-image is deflected onto the lens, that sub-image fills the lens completely.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising memory means coupled to the image sensor for storing the electrical signals representative of the sub-images.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising processing means for combining the electrical signals representative of the sub-images stored in memory to provide an electrical representation of the composite image. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the variable optical deflection means comprises a mirror galvanometer.
5. The apparatus in claim 1 wherein the variable optical deflection means has a further optical setting in which an additional image is deflected onto the image sensor, the image sensor providing a real¬ time imaging capability.
6. An optical imaging system, comprising: an image sensor having a fixed number of pixels for receiving an optical sub-image and for providing an electrical representation of the received sub-image; moveable tiling means having a plurality of image deflectors for optically dividing the image of an object into a plurality of sub-images and for deflecting each sub-image to the image sensor; positioning means coupled to the tiling means, for sequentially positioning each image deflector to deflect its corresponding sub-image to the image sensor in a predetermined sequence; image processing means, coupled to the image sensor and the tiling means, for receiving the electrical representation of each sub-image from the image sensor and combining the sub-images to form a composite image comprising a number of pixels greater than the fixed number of pixels in the image sensor, the image processing means correcting for image distortion produced by individual image deflectors.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising an imaging lens positioned between the image 


 sensor and the tiling means for focusing the sub-image from the tiling means onto the image sensor.
8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the tiling means comprises a disk of mirrors.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the tiling means comprises a disk of prisms.
10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the tiling means comprises a linear array of mirrors.
11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the tiling means comprises a linear array of prisms.
12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the tiling means further comprises a focusing means and a motor-driven lens between the focusing means and the imaging lens for deflecting an image of the entire object to the image sensor, so that a prescan function may be performed.
13. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the image processing means comprises a memory means for storing an electrical representation of each sub-image and a processor for combining the sub-images to form the composite image.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising frame grabber means coupled to the image sensor and the processor, for buffering frames between the image sensor and the processor. 


 15. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the tiling means further comprises a focus correction means for each of the image deflectors.
16. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the positioning means comprises a stepping motor.
17. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the image sensor comprises a charge-coupled device.
18. An image input device for providing a composite image of an object, the composite image comprising a plurality of sub-images, the system comprising: an image sensor for receiving one of the plurality of sub-images and for providing electrical signals representative of the sub-image; a lens for focusing the sub-image onto the image sensor; a rotatable disk having a plurality of optical elements each of which may be rotated to come between the object and the lens, each optical element corresponding to one of the plurality of sub-images, for deflecting one of the plurality of sub-images onto the lens, such that when each sub-image is deflected onto the lens, that sub-image fills the lens completely; and control means for rotating the rotatable disk so that each of the sub-images that comprise the composite image is sequentially deflected onto the image sensor via the lens.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising memory means coupled to the image sensor for 


storing the electrical signals representative of the sub-images.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising processing means for combining the electrical signals representative of the sub-images stored in memory to provide an electrical representation of the composite image.
21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the image sensor comprises a charge coupled device.
22. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising means for illuminating the object.
23. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising optical zoom means located in the optical path between the lens and the.rotatable disk.
24. A scanning video camera comprising: a base for supporting an object to be imaged; a monochromatic illuminating means for illuminating the object; means for optically dividing an image of the object into a plurality of image tiles; an optical imaging means for providing an electrical output representative of a received image; an optical deflection means for deflecting the image of one of the plurality of tiles comprising the object image onto the imaging means; control means for causing the optical deflection means to scan sequentially the plurality of tiles; and 


 processing means coupled to the optical imaging means and the control means for combining a plurality of images received by the imaging means into a composite image, the processing means correcting for image distortion.
25. The apparatus in claim 24 wherein the optical deflection means further comprises means for deflecting an additional image onto the optical imaging means, the optical imaging means providing a real-time imaging capability.
26. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the processing means performs electronic image warping to correct for angle-of-view distortion.
27. An image input device for providing a composite image of an object, the composite image comprising a plurality of sub-images, the system comprising: an image sensor for receiving one of the plurality of sub-images and for providing electrical signals representative of the sub-image; a lens for focusing the sub-image onto the image sensor; a movable linear array of optical elements each of which may be positioned to come between the object and the lens, each optical element corresponding to one of the plurality of sub-images, for deflecting one of the plurality of sub-images onto the lens, such that when each sub-image is deflected onto the lens, that sub-image fills the lens completely; and control means for positioning the optical deflection means so that each of the sub-images 


 that comprise the composite image is sequentially deflected onto the image sensor via the lens.
28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the linear array comprises an array of prisms.
29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the linear array comprises an array of mirrors.
30. An image input device for providing a composite image of an object, the composite image comprising a plurality of sub-images, the system comprising: an image sensor for receiving one of the plurality of sub-images and for providing electrical signals representative of the sub-image; a lens for focusing the sub-image onto the image sensor; a moveable optical deflection means having a plurality of optical elements, each corresponding to one of the plurality of sub-images, for deflecting one of the plurality of sub-images onto the lens; control means for moving the optical deflection means so that each of the sub-images that comprise the composite image is sequentially deflected onto the image sensor via the lens; and a plurality of focus correction means located in the optical path between the lens and the optical deflection means, wherein each focus correction means is associated with one of the optical elements for correcting for the variations in the distance between the object and the lens. 


 31. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein each of the optical elements comprises a holographic deflecting element that incorporates a corrective lens.
32. A scanning digital video camera for providing a video representation of an object image, the camera comprising: an array of photosensitive elements, for providing an electrical representation of a received image; a lens for focusing an image onto the photosensitive array; tiling means for dividing the image of an object into a plurality of image tiles, the tiling means comprising a moveable set of fixed optical deflection elements, each element corresponding to an image tile; means for positioning the tiling means so that each of the plurality of image tiles is sequentially deflected to the lens, such that the tiles overlap; a memory coupled to the photosensitive array for storing the electrical representation of each received image; control means coupled to the positioning means and the memory means, for causing the positioning means to step sequentially through each of the plurality of image tiles and for causing the memory means to store the electrical representation of each image tile; and processing means for combining the image tile representations stored in memory to produce an electrical representation of the object image.
33. An optical imaging system, comprising: 


 an image sensor having a fixed number of pixels for receiving an optical sub-image and for providing an electrical representation of the received sub-image; moveable tiling means having a plurality of image deflectors for optically dividing the image of an object into a plurality of sub-images and for deflecting each sub-image to the image sensor; positioning means coupled to the tiling means, for sequentially positioning each image deflector to deflect its corresponding sub-image to the image sensor in a predetermined sequence; image processing means, coupled to the image sensor and the tiling means, for receiving the electrical representation of each sub-image from the image sensor and combining the sub-images to form a composite image comprising a number of pixels greater than the fixed number of pixels in the image sensor, wherein the tiling means comprises a disk of offset plano-convex lens pairs.
34. An optical imaging system, comprising: an image sensor having a fixed number of pixels for receiving an optical sub-image and for providing an electrical representation of the received sub-image; moveable tiling means having a plurality of image deflectors for optically dividing the image of an object into a plurality of sub-images and for deflecting each sub-image to the image sensor; positioning means coupled to the tiling means, for sequentially positioning each image deflector to deflect its corresponding sub-image to the image sensor in a predetermined sequence; 


 image processing means, coupled to the image sensor and the tiling means, for receiving the electrical representation of each sub-image from the image sensor and combining the sub-images to form a composite image comprising a number of pixels greater than the fixed number of pixels in the image sensor, wherein the tiling means comprises a linear array of offset plano-convex lens pairs.
35. An image input device for providing a composite image of an object, the composite image comprising a plurality of image tiles, the system comprising: an image sensor for receiving one of the plurality of image tiles and for providing electrical signals representative of the image tiles, the image sensor having a fixed number of pixels; a lens for focusing the image tiles onto the image sensor; a variable optical deflection means having a plurality of optical settings, each corresponding to one of the plurality of image tiles, for deflecting one of the plurality of image tiles onto the lens, the variable optical deflection means deflecting the image tiles so that the image tiles overlap; control means for moving the optical deflection means so that each of the image tiles is sequentially deflected onto the image sensor via the lens; and means for combining the image tiles to form a composite image comprising a number of pixels greater than the fixed number of pixels in the image sensor, wherein the overlap of the image tiles allows 


the means for combining to form the composite image without gaps.
36. An image input device for providing a composite image of an object, the composite image comprising a plurality of sub-images, the system comprising: an image sensor for receiving one of the plurality of sub-images and for providing electrical signals representative of the sub-image; a lens for focusing the sub-image onto the image sensor; a moveable optical deflection means having a plurality of optical elements, each corresponding to one of the plurality of sub-images, for deflecting one of the plurality of sub-images onto the lens; and control means for moving the optical deflection means so that each of the sub-images that comprise the composite image is sequentially deflected onto the image sensor via the lens, wherein the optical deflection means comprises a holographic optical disk, such that the plurality of optical elements comprise holographic elements. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
