<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647431</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surgical suturing apparatus with loading mechanism
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1704	A61B1704	A61B1706	A61B1728	A61B1706	A61B1728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention contemplates a surgical apparatus for 
manipulating a surgical incision member and an associated 

loading mechanism for replacing the surgical incision 
member. The surgical apparatus comprises an elongated body 

portion, first and second jaw elements extending from the 
body portion, securing means for securing the surgical 

incision member, releasing means cooperating with the 
securing means for releasing the surgical incision member 

and locking means cooperating with the securing means for 
preventing at least one of the jaw elements from moving. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to surgical
instrumentation and, more particularly, to a suturing apparatus
adapted for use in endoscopic or laparoscopic surgical
procedures. Such apparatus is disclosed in GB-A-2260704, on
which the pre-characterising part of claim 1 is based.Endoscopic or laparoscopic procedures are characterized
by the use of an elongated cannula structure having a relatively
small diameter with a proximal and distal end. The distal end is
passed through the surrounding tissue into the body cavity
wherein the surgical procedure or examination is to be effected,
thus providing a conduit for the insertion of surgical
instrumentation. A plurality of cannula structures may be used
to allow operation of a variety of instruments simultaneously
during a given procedure. For example, one cannula may provide a
conduit for an endoscope for vision and illumination within the
operative cavity while the other cannulas may provide conduits
for control of specialized surgical instruments designed for
performing specific procedural functions.Many surgical procedures call for placing stitches
through tissue, a procedure traditionally accomplished by hand.
Laparoscopic suturing presents a particularly challenging task,
because it must be accomplished through a port that typically
averages between five and ten millimeters. One instrument for
facilitating laparoscopic suturing is discussed in the above-mentioned
GB-A-2260704, published April
28, 1993.Although the suturing device described in GB-A-2260704
can be used to place laparoscopic sutures, once the suture is 
used up, or if a new needle is required, the suturing device must
be manually re-loaded, which can be very time-consuming. As it
is generally considered desirable to place 2 or 3 lines of
stitching when performing an anastomosis to provide
reinforcement, the laparoscopic suturing device as described in
the British application mentioned above requires manual reloading
one or more times. It would be advantageous to provide a
laparoscopic suturing instrument to permit quick and efficient
reloading of a new needle and suture. A laparoscopic suturing
device would also provide an advantage if the jaws could be
prevented from moving when the needle is not secured in either
jaw, so as to prevent the needle from accidentally dislodging in
the body cavity.Accordingly, the present invention aims to provide a
surgical suturing apparatus which overcomes the drawbacks
associated with prior art suturing devices, which is adapted for
use in endoscopic and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Surgical apparatus (1) for manipulating a surgical incision
member comprising:


an elongate body portion (3);
first and second jaw elements (4, 5) extending in a
plane from said body portion, at least one of said jaw

elements being movable between an open and closed position;
a surgical incision member (14) co-operating with both
of said jaw elements;
securing means (16, 29) for securing a portion of said
surgical incision member in each of said jaw elements;
a handle (2) for controlling said jaw elements, said
handle being movable in the plane in which the jaw elements

extend; and 
characterised by
:

a locking mechanism (28, 65) for preventing said at
least one jaw element from moving to an open position unless

said surgical incision member is secured in one of said jaw
elements.
Surgical apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
securing means is movable between a first and second

position and said locking mechanism is activated when said
securing means is in said second position.
Surgical apparatus according to claims 1 or 2, further
comprising override means (38, 39) for permitting said at

least one jaw element to open when said portion of said
surgical incision member is not secured in either of said

jaw elements. 
Surgical apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising a loading device mechanism (45) comprising:


a body portion;
holding means (44) for holding a portion of the surgical
incision member (14); and
positioning means (42, 43) for positioning said jaw elements so
as to receive said portion of said surgical incision member.
Surgical apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein said surgical incision

member comprises a needle (14) pointed at two ends, both ends
configured and dimensioned to co-operate with said securing

means.
Surgical apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein said securing means comprises a slidable

blade (16, 29) configured and dimensioned to co-operate with said
surgical incision member (14).
Surgical apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein said handle (2) is rotatably attached to said

elongate body portion (3).
Surgical apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein each of said jaw elements (4, 5) has a first recess (15) to

receive said surgical incision member (14) for co-operating
therewith.
Surgical apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
further comprising releasing means (23) co-operating with said

securing means for releasing said portion of said surgical
incision member secured by said securing means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
