<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636240</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANGLE DETECTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01D530	G01D526	G01B1126	G01S1706	G01S1700	G01S1746	G01B1126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01D	G01D	G01B	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01D5	G01D5	G01B11	G01S17	G01S17	G01S17	G01B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAYLOR HOBSON LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAYLOR HOBSON LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEE CHUNG WAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEE, CHUNG, WAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present application relates to the detection of 
the angle of a beam of light. Systems for detecting the angle of a beam of light 
are used, for example, in devices for detecting the 
alignment of two parts of an apparatus or for 
detecting the flatness of an optical table or other 
table by measuring the relative alignment between 
different portions of the table. Similarly, they 
may be used for measuring the flatness of an 
optical slideway or of a machine bed. In such systems, a beam of light is shone onto the 
surface the alignment of which is to be detected, 
and the angle of the reflected beam is detected. 
The angle of the reflected beam will provide a 
measure of the angle of the surface from which it 
is reflected. In practice, the beam is normally 
reflected not from the surface itself but from a 
mirror placed on the surface, in order to ensure a 
high quality specular reflection. In a known system for measuring the angle of a 
light beam, a parallel-sided light beam is directed 
to an object and the reflected return beam is 
captured by a lens. The angle of the reflected 
return beam is determined by placing a 
multi-element photodetector spaced from the lens by 
the focal length thereof. The reflected return 
beam will be parallel-sided, and as is well known, 
a parallel-sided beam is focussed by a lens to a 
spot at a position one focal length from the lens, 
the position of the spot in the focal plane being  
 
determined by the angle of incidence of the 
parallel-sided beam. Accordingly, this arrangement 
creates a spot of light on the multi-element 
photodetector at a position corresponding to the 
angle of the reflected return beam. The position 
of the spot can be detected from the output of the 
photodetector. While the arrangement described above is highly 
accurate in theory, it is in practice limited by 
the quality of the optical elements used, and also 
by the characteristics of the multi-element 
photodetector. If the gemoetry is set up in a 
theoretically perfect arrangement, the entirety of 
the light from the reflected return beam is 
focussed on to a single element. The resolution 
with which the system can detect the angle of the 
light beam will depend on the pitch of the elements 
in the detector. In order to provide a good 
quality output signal, the elements must be able to 
withstand the light power of the fully focussed 
beam, and preferably will not saturate at this 
light intensity. In practice, the apparatus may be 
set up so that the light beam is not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for detecting the angle of a light beam 
within a measurement range of angles, the system 

comprising: 

photodetector means (11); 
at least one mask (23,25) having a transmissivity 
pattern in which transmissivity through the mask (23,25) 

varies periodically with distance along it and through 
which the said beam of light passes to project a pattern 

onto the photodetector means (11); 
analysing means (15,17,19) for receiving a signal 
read out from the photodetector means (11) and analysing 

the signal to obtain a measure of the angle of the light 
beam, 
 
   characterised in that analysing means (15,17,19) 

analyses the signal for a phase property in the pattern 
of light, 


and in that the photodetector means (11) comprises 
an array of photodetector cells, 
the cells of the array being at a pitch shorter than 
half the shortest wavelength of the pattern of light for 

any angle of the light beam in the measurement range, and 
the array having a length longer than twice the longest 

wavelength of the pattern of light for any angle of the 
light beam in the measurement range. 
A system according to claim 1 in which the said beam  
 

of light passes through first and second masks (23,25) 
to project a composite pattern on the photodetector means 

(11). 
A system according to claim 2 in which the phase 
property comprises the phase of the transmissivity 

pattern of the first mask (23) relative to the 
transmissivity pattern of the second mask (25) in the 

said composite pattern. 
A system according to claim 1 in which the said beam 
of light passes through a said mask (23) and projects an 

unmixed pattern of it on the photodetector means (11). 
A system according to claim 4 in which the phase 
property comprises the phase of the transmissivity 

pattern of the said mask (23), in the pattern of light 
on the array of photodetector cells, relative to the said 

array. 
A system for detecting the angle of a light beam 
within a measurement range of angles, in which system the 

beam is passed through first and second spaced apart 
masks (23,25) before falling on detector means (11) to 

form a pattern of light on the detector means (11), the 
first and second masks (23,25) each having a respective 

pattern of transmissivity which varies periodically with  
 

distance along the mask, characterised in that a phase 
property of the output of the detector means (11) is 

analysed to obtain a measure of the angle of the light 
beam, and in that the detector means (11) comprises an 

array of photodetector cells at a pitch shorter than half 
the shortest wavelength of the pattern of light for any 

angle of the light beam in the measurement range, and the 
length of the array being longer than twice the longest 

wavelength of the pattern of light for any angle of the 
light beam in the measurement range. 
A system according to claim 6 in which a composite 
image of the first and second masks (23,25) is formed on 

the detector means (11), and the output of the detector 
means (11) is processed to determine the relative phase 

between the image of the first mask (23) in the composite 
image and the image of the second mask (25) in the 

composite image. 
A system according to claim 7 in which the said 
images comprise shadows of the masks. 
A system for detecting the angle of a light beam 
within a measurement range of angles, in which system the 

beam passes through a mask (23), having a pattern of 
transmissivity which varies periodically with distance 

along the mask, before falling on a detector means (11)  
 

to form a pattern of light on the detector means (11), 
characterised in that a phase property of the output of 

the detector means (11) is analysed to obtain a measure 
of the angle of the light beam, and in that the detector 

means (11) comprises an array of photodetector cells at 
a pitch shorter than half the shortest wavelength of the 

pattern of light for any angle of the light beam in the 
measurement range, and the length of the array being 

longer than twice the longest wavelength of the pattern 
of light for any angle of the light beam in the 

measurement range. 
A system according to claim 9 in which an image of 
the mask (23) is formed on the detector means (11) and 

the output of the detector means is processed to 
determine the phase of the image relative to the detector 

means. 
A system according to claim 10 in which the image 
of the mask comprises a shadow thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
