<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614301</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Message packet transmitter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1256	H04L1256	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A message packet transmitter for transmitting a packet of 
electronic data signals onto a communication network without 

interruption. A first-in, first-out electronic memory has a 
transmit state in which an electronic data signal stored therein 

is output. The electronic memory has an idle state in which 
electronic data signals stored therein are not output. A 

message packet-in-transit identification circuit generates a 
packet-in-transit signal after the electronic memory outputs the 

first electronic data signal in a message packet. A 
no-packet-in-transit signal is generated after the electronic 

memory outputs the last electronic data signal in 
the message packet. A state controller maintains the electronic 

memory in the transmit state when the electronic memory stores 
at least a portion of a message packet, when the state 

controller receives a packet-in-transit signal, and when the 
state controller receives an interrupt-pending signal. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FITCH BLAKE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIAMPAPA MARK EDWIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOSEPH DOUGLAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FITCH, BLAKE G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIAMPAPA, MARK EDWIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOSEPH, DOUGLAS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to electronic message packet transmitters, 
such as for transmitting a packet of electronic data signals 
onto a communication network. In a packet-switched communication network, a path from a 
message source to a message destination is generated in the 
network for each message packet being transmitted. Each segment 
of the communication path (connecting adjacent switches in the 
communication network) is opened by the transmission of the 
first data signal in the packet onto the segment. Each 
communication path segment is closed by the receipt of the last 
data signal in the packet by a device at the receiving end of 
the segment. When a segment of the communication path for a 
message packet is open, no other message can travel over that 
path segment. When the message transmitter stalls after transmitting only a 
portion of the data signals in a message packet onto the 
communication network, the data signals on the network continue 
to travel through the network to the message destination, 
thereby opening additional communication path segments. However, since the last data signal in the packet has not yet 
been transmitted onto the communication network, none of the 
opened path segments are closed. Consequently, the number of 
path segments opened by the message packet can become large (for 
example, larger than the number of data signals in the message 
packet). Moreover, since the path segments opened by the 
message packet cannot be used by other messages, communication 
network utilization can be seriously degraded. In the worst  
 
case, a deadlock may arise between two or more partially 
transmitted messages, preventing their complete transmission. It is an object of the invention to provide an electronic 
message transmitter which transmits complete message packets 
without stalling after a portion of the message packet is 
transmitted onto the communication network. It is another object of the invention to provide an electronic 
message transmitter which will not start to transmit a message 
packet onto a communication network while an interrupt is 
pending. A message packet transmitter according to the present invention, 
comprises a first-in, first-out electronic memory for storing a 
plurality of electronic data signals forming at least a portion 
of at least one message packet. Each message packet comprises a 
first electronic data signal and a last electronic data signal. 
The electronic memory has a message data input for receiving 
electronic data signals,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A message packet transmitter comprising: 
a first-in, first-out electronic memory for storing a 

plurality of electronic data signals forming at least a 
portion of at least one message packet, each message packet 

comprising a first electronic data signal and a last 
electronic data signal, said electronic memory having a 

message data input for receiving electronic data signals, 
and having a message data output for outputting electronic 

data signals, said electronic memory having a transmit 
state in which an electronic data signal stored therein is 

output at the message data output, said electronic memory 
having an idle state in which electronic data signals 

stored therein are not output at the message data output; 
message packet-in-transit identification circuit for 

generating a packet-in-transit signal after the electronic 
memory outputs the first electronic data signal in a 

message packet, said packet-in-transit identification 
circuit generating a no-packet-in-transit signal after the 

electronic memory outputs the last electronic data signal 
in the message pac
ket; and a state controller having an 
interrupt input for receiving an interrupt-pending signal 

and having a transmit-status input for receiving a 
packet-in-transit signal, said state controller maintaining 

the electronic memory in the transmit state when the 
electronic memory stores at least a portion of a message 

packet, the transmit-status input of the state controller 
receives a packet-in-transit signal, and the interrupt 

input of the state controller receives an interrupt-pending 
signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized in that:

 
the first-in, first-out electronic memory generates a 

packet-in-memory signal when the first-in, first-out 
electronic memory contains at least a portion of at least 

one message packet; and 
the state controller has a memory-content-status input for 

receiving a packet-in-memory signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in claim 2, 
characterized in that the state controller switches the 

electronic memory from the idle state to the transmit state 
when the memory-content-status input of the state 

controller receives a packet-in-memory signal, the 
transmit-status input of the state controller receives a 

packet-in-transit signal, and the interrupt input of the 
state controller receives an interrupt-pending signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized in that the state controller maintains the 

electronic memory in the transmit state when the 
memory-content-status input of the state controller 

receives a packet-in-memory signal, the transmit-status 
input of the state controller receives a packet-in-transit 

signal, and the interrupt input of the state controller 
receives a no-interrupt-pending signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in claim 4, 
characterized in that the state controller switches the 

electronic memory from the transmit state to the idle state 
when the transmit-status input of the state controller 

receives a no-packet-in-transit signal, and the interrupt 
input of the state controller receives an interrupt-pending 

signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in claim 5, 
characterized in that the state controller switches the 

electronic memory from the transmit state to the idle state 
 

when the transmit-status input of the state controller 
receives a no-packet-in-transit signal, and the interrupt 

input of the state controller receives a 
no-interrupt-pending signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in claim 6, 
characterized in that the state controller maintains the 

electronic memory in the idle state when the electronic 
memory is in the idle state, the transmit-status input of 

the state controller receives a no-packet-in-transit 
signal, and the interrupt input of the state controller 

receives an interrupt-pending signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in claim 7, 
characterized in that the state controller switches the 

electronic memory from the idle state to the transmit state 
when the memory-content-status input of the state 

controller receives a packet-in-memory signal, and the 
interrupt input of the state controller receives a 

no-interrupt-pending signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in Claim 8, further 
comprising: 

a data source having a first state for providing a series 
of electronic data signals to the message data input of the 

electronic memory, and having a second state for not 
providing electronic data signals to the message data input 

of the electronic memory; and 
characterized in that the state controller switches the 

data source from the first state to the second state when 
the interrupt input of the state controller receives an 

interrupt-pending signal and the transmit-status input of 
the state controller receives a no-packet-in-transit 

signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in claim 9, 
characterized in that the state controller maintains the 

data source in the first state when the data source is in 
the first state and the transmit-status input of the state 

controller receives a packet-in-transit signal and the 
interrupt input of the state controller receives an 

interrupt signal. 
A message packet transmitter as claimed in claim 10, 
characterized in that: 

the first electronic data signal in each message packet 
comprises a length signal representing the number of 

electronic data signals in the message packet; and 
the message packet-in-transit identification circuit 

comprises a packet-in-transit counter for generating a 
packet-in-transit signal representing the number of 

electronic data signals in the message packet which have 
not been output by the electronic memory. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
