<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610621</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL LOGIC CIRCUIT AND METHOD HAVING PULL-DOWN AND PULL-UP DEVICES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K17687	H03K17687	H03K1901	H03K19017	H03K190944	H03K190944	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K17	H03K17	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital logic circuit is provided which eliminates 
excessive power consumption while providing high speed 

transitions between logic states. The digital logic 
circuit includes a pull-down device coupled to an input 

line. The digital logic circuit further comprises a weak 
pull-up device and a strong pull-up device coupled to the 

pull-down device at a node. A means for providing a 
signal on an output line of the programmable logic device 

is coupled to the pull-down device and the pull-up 
devices. The weak pull-up device holds the node high if 

the pull-down device is in an off state. However, if the 
pull-down device is in an on state, the strong pull-up 

device is also turned on, thereby providing a stable 
intermediate voltage on the node. A feedback path from 

the output line controls the state of the strong pull-up 
device. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN BAI YEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN, BAI YEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to integrated circuits, 
such as a CMOS NOR gate circuit. Digital logic circuits, including CMOS NOR gate 
circuits, are well known in the art. Referring to Figure 
1, a CMOS NOR gate 100 typically uses P-channel MOS 
transistors 104 and 105 as pull-up devices and N-channel 
MOS transistors 106 and 107 as pull-down services. For 
example, if the input signals on lines 101 and 102 are low, 
the output signal on line 103 is high because of the low 
impedance connection to voltage source Vcc through turned-on 
P-channel transistors 104 and 105, and the high 
impedance connection to ground through turned-off N-channel 
transistors 106 and 107. In contrast, if the input signal 
on lines 101 and 102 is high, the path to voltage source 
Vcc is blocked and NOR gate 100 provides a low impedance 
connection to ground, thereby providing a low signal on 
line 103. The output line 103 of NOR gate 100 is typically 
connected to a CMOS buffer (not shown) which functions as 
a driver for NOR gate 100. Note that an inverter (also not 
shown) coupled to line 103 transforms NOR gate 100 into an 
OR gate. Thus, a NOR gate circuit is used to implement 
both OR or NOR logic functions. In digital logic circuits, both high speed and low 
power consumption are desired. Although NOR gate 100 
provides low power consumption, its speed of switching 
voltages on line 103 is relatively slow. NOR gate 200, 
shown in Figure 2, increases the speed of switching on line 
203 by providing a strong pull-up transistor 204 for low to 
high voltage transistor and providing two strong pull-down 
transistors 206 and 207 for high to low voltage 
transitions. However, if pull-up transistor 204 is too  
 
strong, then NOR gate 200 consumes a significant amount of 
power when either transistors 206 and 207 are conducting 
thereby creating an unstable, intermediate voltage level on 
line 203. Consequently, any driver coupled to line 203 
also burns power. Furthermore, if input signals on lines 
201 and 202 are at an intermediate level, NOR gate 200 
operates at low efficiency because transistors 206 and 207 
are turned on or off weakly, thereby also providing an 
unstable signal on line 203. The present invention provides a digital logic circuit 
having at least one input line and at least one output line 
comprising, at least one pull-down device coupled to said 
at least one input line; a plurality of pull-up devices 
coupled to said at least one pull-down device, wherein one 
of said plurality of pull-up devices is a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital logic circuit having at least one 
input line and at least one output line comprising: 

   at least one pull-down device coupled to said at 
least one input line; 

   a plurality of pull-up devices coupled to said 
at least one pull-down device, wherein one of said 

plurality of pull-up devices is a weak pull-up device 
and wherein another of said plurality of pull-up 

devices is a strong pull-up device; and 
   means for providing a signal on said at least 

one output line, said means for providing coupled to 
said at least one pull-down device and said plurality 

of pull-up devices. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 1 wherein 
said at least one pull-down device comprises a first N-channel 

transistor. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 2 wherein 
said plurality of pull-up devices comprise a first and a 

second P-channel transistor. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 3 wherein the 
sources of said strong and weak pull-up devices are 

coupled to a first voltage source. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 4 wherein 
said means for providing a signal is coupled to said first 

voltage source and a second voltage source. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 5 wherein 
said means for providing a signal is coupled to the drain 

of said at least one pull-down device at a first node and 
 

the source of said at least one pull-down device at a 
second node. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 6 wherein the 
gate of said weak pull-up device is coupled to said second 

voltage source and the drain of said weak pull-up device 
is coupled to the drain of said at least one pull-down 

device. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 7 wherein 
said means for providing a signal comprises an inverter. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 8 wherein 
said means for providing a signal further comprises: 

   a second P-channel transistor, wherein the 
source of said second P-channel transistor is coupled 

to said first voltage source, the gate of said second 
P-channel transistor is coupled to the drain of said 

first P-channel transistor, and the drain of said 
second P-channel transistor is coupled to the input 

line of said inverter. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 9 wherein 
said means for providing a signal further comprises: 

   a second N-channel transistor, wherein the drain 
of said second N-channel transistor is coupled to the 

drain of said second P-channel transistor, the gate 
of said second N-channel transistor is coupled to the 

drain of said at least one pull-down device, and the 
source of said second N-channel transistor is coupled 

to the source of said at least one pull-down device. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 10 wherein 
said means for providing a signal further comprises: 

   a third N-channel transistor, wherein the drain 
of said third N-channel transistor is coupled to said 

 
source of said second N-channel transistor, the gate 

of said third N-channel transistor is coupled to said 
drain of said at least one pull-down device, and the 

source of said third N-channel transistor is coupled 
to said second voltage source. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 11 wherein 
said at least one pull-down device comprises a plurality 

of N-channel devices and said at least one input line 
comprises a plurality of input lines coupled to the gates 

of said plurality of N-channel devices. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 10 wherein if 
said second P-channel transistor is conducting, then said 

second N-channel transistor is not conducting and said 
first and second nodes are clamped at substantially equal 

voltages. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 12 further 
comprising a feedback circuit from said output line to 

said second P-channel transistor. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 14 wherein 
said feedback circuit includes a second inverter coupled 

to said output line. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 15 wherein 
said feedback circuit further includes a third P-channel 

transistor and a fourth N-channel transistor, wherein the 
gates of said third P-channel transistor and said fourth 

N-channel transistor are coupled to said second inverter, 
the source of said third P-channel transistor is coupled 

to said first voltage source, the drain of said third P-channel 
transistor is coupled to the drain of said N-channel 

transistor, and the source of said N-channel 
transistor is coupled to a third voltage source. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 16 wherein 
said drains of said third P-channel transistor and said 

fourth N-channel transistor are coupled to said gate of 
said second P-channel transistor. 
The digital logic circuit of Claim 17 wherein 
said third voltage source is variable. 
A method of providing a logic function 
comprising the steps of: 

   providing an input signal to a pull-down device; 
   coupling a weak pull-up device and a strong 

pull-up device to said pull-down device at a node; 
and 

   providing an output signal in response to a 
voltage on said node; 

   wherein if said pull-down device is off, said 
weak pull-up device pulls up said voltage on said 

node to a predetermined high level, and 
   wherein if sai
d pull-down device is on, said 
strong pull-up device pulls up said voltage on said 

node to a predetermined intermediate level. 
The method of Claim 19 further including the 
steps of providing a feedback signal in response to said 

output signal to control the state of said strong pull-up 
device. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
