<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651731</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GLASS FIBER BINDING COMPOSITIONS, PROCESS OF MAKING GLASS FIBER BINDING COMPOSITIONS AND PROCESS OF BINDING GLASS FIBERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03C2524	C03C2526	C04B2600	C04B2610	C04B2632	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03C	C03C	C04B	C04B	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03C25	C03C25	C04B26	C04B26	C04B26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a glass fiber binding composition having an effective binding amount of an aqueous compatible furan resin mixed with sufficient water to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % nonvolatile. The aqueous compatible furan resin is the reaction product of a source of ammonia and a first reaction product, the first reaction product being derived from the reaction of an acidic furan resin, a source of reactable formaldehyde, and a formaldehyde scavenger. The invention further pertains to a process of binding glass fibers at junctions of the fibers comprising the steps of providing glass fibers, applying an effect binding amount of the binding composition of the invention to the glass fibers such that the binder is present at a portion of the junctions, and curing the resin at the junctions of the glass fibers. Finally, the invention also discloses glass fiber compositions comprising a plurality of glass fibers having a plurality of junctions where two or more fibers meet, and an effective binding amount of the binding composition of the invention.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHULLER INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHULLER INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIELMEYER WILLIAM HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR THOMAS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIELMEYER, WILLIAM, HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, THOMAS, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
G SS FIBER BINDING COMPOSITIONS, PROCESS OF MAKING GLASS FIBER BINDING COMPOSITIONS AND PROCESS OF BINDING GLASS FIBERSCross-Reference To Related ApplicationThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No. 886,668, filed May 19, 1992, and entitled Glass Fiber Binding Compositions, Process Of Binding Glass Fibers, And Glass Fiber Compositions".Field Of The InventionThis application relates to aqueous compatible furan binder compositions for glass fibers, a process of making a glass fiber binding composition utilizing an aqueous compatible furan resin, a process for binding glass fibers, and also to glass fiber compositions utilizing the binders.Background Of The InventionFiber glass comes in many shapes and sizes and can be used for a variety of applications. A general discussion of fiber glass technology is provided in "Fiber Glass" by J. Gilbert Mohr and William P. Rowe, Van Nostran Reinhold Co., New York 1978 which is herein incorporated by reference.As discussed in "Fiber Glass", glass fibers are generally mass produced in two types: bulk or blown fiber for insulation and allied applications, and continuous-filament, or reinforcing fibers. In either 

form raw fiber glass is abrasive and easily fragmentized. Damage to the individual glass fibers can occur as a result of the self-abrasive motion of one fiber passing over or interacting with another fiber. The resulting surface defects cause reductions in overall mechanical strength.Consequently, binders have been developed to prevent these problems. A typical binder may prevent the destructive effects of self-abrasion without in- hibiting the overall flexibility of the finished glass fiber product. Extremely good resistance and resilience to conditions of elevated humidity and heat are beneficial in view of the wide variety of end use applications for glass fiber/binder compositions.One of the most important performance prop¬ erties is a consequence of the practical realities of the glass fiber manufacturing business. Cured glass fi¬ ber/binder compositions are normally very bulky and voluminous. Batts and rolls used as insulation in buildings have densities ranging from 0.5 to 1.0 pound per cubic foot (pcf) and generally require binder contents of 3 to 7% by weight. Since it is prohibitively expensive to ship such materials in an uncompressed state, the batts and rolls are bundled and compressed in packages to 8 to 25% of their manufactured thickness. During the shipping process these packages are normally subjected to conditions of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. A glass fiber binding composition comprising: an effective binding amount of an aqueous compatible furan resin comprising the reaction product of a source of ammonia and a first reaction product, said first reaction product comprising the reaction product of an acidic furan resin, a source of reactable formaldehyde and a formaldehyde scavenger; and a sufficient amount of water to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % N.V..
2. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the acidic furan resin comprises the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula:
and its saturated a Jnalogs the.reof having 0 to 1 carbon-carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups .
3. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 2 where X and Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moities selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C
1
-C
10
 alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides,, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, 


aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
4. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the acidic furan resin has a pH from 3.8 to 6.5.
5. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the source of reactable formaldehyde is the acidic furan resin.
6. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the source of reactable formaldehyde is added to the acidic furan resin and is selected from the group consisting of formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde, aqueous solutions of formaldehyde, and formaldeyde based hemiformals.
7. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 6 where the source of reactable formaldehyde is added in an amount equal to 1 to 20 pph of the combination of the acidic furan resin solids and the formaldehyde scavenger.
8. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the formaldehyde scavenger is selected from the group consisting of nitrogen containing organic compounds containing at least one NH group per molecule reactive with formaldehyde. 


 9. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 8 where the formaldehyde scavenger is selected from the group consisting of ammonia, primary and secondary amines, urea, substituted ureas, primary amides, dicyandiamide, guanidines and aminotriazines.
10. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 9 where the formaldehyde scavenger is selected from the group consisting of urea and melamine.
11. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the formaldehyde scavenger is present in an amount from 1 to 30 pph of the combination of the acidic furan resin solids and the reactable formaldehyde.
12. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 where the source of ammonia is present in an amount such that NH
3
 is present in an amount from 1 to 15 % by weight of active binder solids.
13. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 12 where the source of ammonia is NH
4
OH.
14. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 further comprising an effective amount of a catalyst for curing the furan resin.
15. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 14 comprising a catalyst selected from the group consisting of inorganic and organic acids and salts thereof, acid anahydrides, metal halides, and mixtures thereof . 



 16. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 15 where an effective amount of the catalyst is from 1 to 20 % by weight of the composition.
17. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 16 where the catalyst is maleic acid and ammonium sulfate.
18. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 1 which has between 5 to 40 % N.V. and a viscosity of between 1.1 to 400 cPs.
19. The glass fiber binding composition of claim 5 where the acidic furan resin contains at least 10 % formaldehyde.
20. A glass fiber binding composition, made by the process comprising the steps of: providing an effective binding amount of an acidic aqueous compatible furan resin; providing a source of reactable formaldehyde; mixing a formaldehyde scavenger with the furan resin in the presence of the source of reactable formaldehyde to form a first mixture; heating the first mixture to a temperature of less than 100 degrees C for period of from 1 to 10 hours; adding a source of ammonia to the first mixture to form a second mixture; heating the second mixture to a temperature of less than 100 degree C for a period of from 1 to 10 hours; and adding sufficient water to form a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % nonvolatile. 


 21. A method of making a glass fiber binding composition, comprising the steps of: providing an effective binding amount of an acidic furan resin; providing a source of reactable formaldehyde; mixing a formaldehyde scavenger with the furan resin in the presence of the source of reactable formaldehyde to form a first mixture; heating the first mixture to a temperature of less than 100 degrees C for period of from 1 to 10 hours,- adding a source of ammonia to the first mixture to form a second mixture; heating the second mixture to a temperature of less than 100 degree C for a period of from 1 to 10 hours; and adding sufficient water to form a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % nonvolatile. 
(
22. The method of claim 21 where the step of providing a furan resin comprises providing the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula:
-
and its saturated analogs thereof having 0 to
1 carbon-carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups. 


 aqueous compatible furan resin further comprises providing the reaction product where X and Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moities selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C^C^ alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
23. The method of claim 21 where the step of providing a source of reactable formaldehyde comprises providing an acidic furan resin.
24. The method of claim 21 where the step of providing a source of reactable formaldehyde comprises adding at least a portion of the source of reactable formaldehyde to the acidic furan resin, said source being selected from the group consisting of formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde, aqueous solutions of formaldehyde, and formaldeyde based hemiformals.
25. The method of claim 21 where the step of mixing a formaldehyde scavenger comprises mixing a formaldehyde scavenger selected from the group consisting of nitrogen containing organic compounds containing at least one NH group per molecule reactive with formaldehyde.
26. The method of claim 25 where the step of mixing comprises mixing a formaldehyde scavenger 


selected from the group consisting of ammonia, primary and secondary amines, urea, substituted ureas, primary amides, dicyandiamide, guanidines and aminotriazines.
27. The method of claim 21 where the step of heating the first mixture further comprises heating the mixture to a temperature between 75 to 95 degree C for a period of from 1 to 5 hours.
28. The method of claim 27 where the step of heating the first mixture comprises heating the mixture for 1 hour at 85 degree C.
29. The method of claim 21 where the step of adding a source of ammonia comprises adding NH
4
OH.
30. The method of claim 29 where the step of heating the second mixture comprises heating the mixture to a temperature between 75 to 95 degree C for a period of from 1 to 5 hours.
31. The method of claim 21 where the step of adding a source of ammonia further comprises adding a sufficient amount of a source of ammonia such that NH
3
 is present in an amount from 1 to 15 % by weight of resin solids.
32. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of adding an effective amount of a catalyst.
33. The method of claim 32 further comprising the step of adding an effective amount of a catalyst selected from the group consisting of inorganic and organic acids and salts thereof, acid anahydrides, metal halides, and mixtures thereof. 


 34. The method of claim 33 further comprising adding 1 to 20 % maleic acid and ammonium sulfate by weight of the composition.
35. A process of binding glass fibers comprising the steps of: providing glass fibers having a plurality of junctions; providing a glass fiber binding composition comprising: an effective binding amount of an aqueous compatible furan resin comprising the reaction product of a source of ammonia and a first reaction product, said first reaction product comprising the reaction product of an acidic furan resin, a source of reactable formaldehyde and a formaldehyde scavenger; and a sufficient amount of water to result in a binding composition having from 0.5 to 80 % N.V. ; _ applying an effective amount of the binding composition to the newly formed glass fibers such that binder is present at a portion of the junctions,- and curing the binder.
36. The method of claim 35 where the step of providing a glass fiber binding composition further comprises providing a binding composition having an aqueous compatible furan resin comprising the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula:

 and its saturated analogs thereof having 0 to 1 carbon-carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups.
37. The method of claim 36 wherein the step of providing a binding composition further comprises providing a binding composition having an aqueous compatible furan resin comprising the reaction product where X and Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moities selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C
1
-C
10
 alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
38. The method of claim 35 wherein the step of providing a glass fiber binding composition further comprises providing a binding composition where the source of ammonia is present in an amount such that NH
3
 is present in an amount from 1 to 15 % by weight of resin solids.
39. The method of claim 35 wherein the step of providing a glass fiber binding composition further comprises providing a binding compsition having an effective amount of a catalyst for curing the furan resin. 


 40. The method of claim 38 further comprising the step of providing a glass fiber binding composition comprising an effective amount of a catalyst for curing the furan resin selected from the group consisting of inorganic and organic acids and salts thereof, acid anahydrides, metal halides, and mixtures thereof.
41. The method of claim 35 where the step of applying an effective amount of the binding composition to the glass fibers further comprises applying from 1 to 25 % L.O.I..
42. The method of claim 35 where the step of providing glass fibers having a plurality of junctions further comprises providing newly formed glass fibers having a plurality of junctions.
43. The method of claim 35 where the step of curing the binder further comprises subjecting the glass fibers and applied binder to temperatures equal to or greater than 95 degrees C.
44. A glass fiber composition, comprising: a plurality of glass fibers having a plurality of junctions where two or more fibers meet; and an effective binding amount of the glass fiber binding composition of claim 1, the binding composition applied to at least a portion of the junctions of the glass fibers.
45. The glass fiber composition of claim 44 wherein the glass fiber binding composition has been cured. 


 46. The glass fiber composition of claim 44 where an effective binding amount of the glass fiber binding composition comprises from 1 to 25 % L.O.I..
47. The glass fiber composition of claim 44 wherein the acidic furan resin comprises the reaction product resulting from the polymerization reaction wherein at least one reagent is selected from the group consisting of the furan containing molecule having the general formula:
and its saturated analogs thereof having 0 to
1 carbon-carbon double bonds, wherein X and Y are independently comprised of organic molecular groups.
48. The glass fiber composition of claim 47 where X and Y are independently comprised of molecular groups comprising one or more functional moities selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C
x
-C
10
 alkyl groups, polysubstituted vinyl radicals, polysubstituted aromatic groups, ketones, anhydrides, polysubstituted furfuryl, hydroxyls, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, esters, ethers, amines, amides, imines, imides, alkynes, alkyl halides, aromatic halides, olefinic halides, ethers, thiols, sulfides, nitriles, nitro groups, sulfones, sulfonic acids, carbofunctional siloxanes, and mixtures thereof.
49. The glass fiber composition of claim 44 wherein the furan containing binder is in the B stage. 


 50. The glass fiber composition of claim 44 wherein the furan containing binder is in the C stage.
51. The glass fiber composition of claim 45 wherein the binder has been cured at temperatures greater than or equal to 95 degrees C for at least five minutes. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
