<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651971</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Detection of apnea and obstruction of the airway in the respiratory system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5087	A61F556	A61M1600	A61B508	A61M1600	A61F556	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61F	A61M	A61B	A61M	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61F5	A61M16	A61B5	A61M16	A61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and apparatus for determining the occurrence of an apnea, patency 
and/or partial obstruction of the airway are disclosed. Respiratory air flow from a 

patient is measured to give an air flow signal. The determination of an apnea is 
performed by calculating the variance of the air flow signal over a moving time window 

and comparing the variance with a threshold value. One determination of partial 
obstruction of the airway is performed by detecting the inspiratory part of the air flow 

signal, scaling it to unity duration and area and calculating an index value of the 
amplitude of the scaled signal over a mid-portion. Alternatively, the index value is a 

measure of the flatness of the air flow signal over the mid-portion. One determination 
of patency of the airway is performed by applying an oscillatory pressure waveform of 

known frequency to a patient's airway, calculating the magnitude of the component of 
said air flow signal at the known frequency induced by the oscillatory pressure 

waveform and comparing the calculated magnitude with a threshold value. 
Alternatively, the air flow signal is analysed to detect the presence of a component due 

to cardiogenic activity. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the detection of the occurrence of an apnea (i.e. the
complete cessation of breathing) and to the determination of airway patency. The
condition of patency of the airway is the converse of a total obstruction of the airway.
The invention relates in particular to the detection of partial obstruction of the airway (i.e.
obstructed breathing). The detection and monitoring of apneas, airway patency and
obstruction is advantageous in the diagnosis and treatment of respiratory conditions that
have adverse effects on a person's wellbeing.The expression "airway" as used herein is to be understood as the anatomical
portion of the respiratory system between the nares and the bronchii, including the
trachea. The expression "respiration" is to be understood as the continually repeating
events of inspiration (inhaling) followed by expiration (exhaling).In the Sleep Apnea syndrome a person stops breathing during sleep. Cessation
of airflow for more than 10 seconds is called an "apnea". Apneas lead to decreased
blood oxygenation and thus to disruption of sleep. Apneas are traditionally (but
confusingly) categorized as either central, where there is no respiratory effort, or
obstructive, where there is respiratory effort. With some central apneas, the airway is
patent, and the subject is merely not attempting to breathe. Conversely, with other
central apneas and all obstructive apneas, the airway is not patent (i.e. occluded). The
occlusion is usually at the level of the tongue or soft palate.The airway may also be partially obstructed (i.e. narrowed or partially patent).
This also leads to decreased ventilation (hypopnea), decreased blood oxygenation and
disturbed sleep.The dangers of obstructed breathing during sleep are well known in relation to
the Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) syndrome. Apnea, hypopnea and heavy snoring
are recognised as causes of sleep disruption and risk factors in certain types of heart
disease. More recently it has been found that increased upper airway resistance (Upper
Airway Resistance syndrome) during sleep without snoring or sleep apnea also can
cause sleep fragmentation and daytime sleepiness. It is possible there is an evolution
from upper airway resistance syndrome to sleep apnea, accompanied by a worsening of
clinical symptoms and damage to the cardiovascular system.The common form of treatment of these syndromes is the administering of
Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP). The procedure for administering CPAP
treatment has been well documented in both
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for detecting partial obstruction of the airway of a patient, the apparatus
comprising:


(a) air flow measurement means (50, 56) for deriving a patient respiratory air flow signal;
and
(b) processing means (54, 62) coupled to said air flow measurement means (50, 56) to
receive said air flow signal, and having a plurality of processing elements comprising:


(i) a sampling element (54) for sampling said airflow signal at multiple times during a
breath; and
(ii) a detection element (92) for identifying the inspiratory samples from said sampling
element;
characterized by
 the apparatus further comprising:
(iii) a computational element (94, 96, 98, 100) to calculate a measure of partial obstruction
which is a ratio of the mean of a mid-portion of said inspiratory samples to the mean of

said inspiratory samples.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said computational element (94, 96, 98, 100)
determines a second measure of partial obstruction as the root mean square deviation of a

mid-portion of the inspiratory values to the mean of said inspiratory values.
The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said computational element (94, 96, 98, 100) scales
the inspiratory samples so that the inspiratory samples represent an inspiratory flow versus

time curve having unit duration and unit area.
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said computational element (94, 96, 98, 100) rejects
inspiratory samples deviating by more than a threshold value.
The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said computational element (94, 96, 98, 100) further
compares said measure to a threshold value and said second measure to a threshold value. 
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said computational element (94, 96, 98, 100)
determines the existence of partial obstruction if either of said measure or said second

measure is less than its compared to threshold.
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said computational element (94, 96, 98, 100)
determines the absence of partial obstruction if neither of said measure or said second

measure is less than its compared to threshold.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further for determining the
occurrence of an apnea, and wherein said computational element (125, 126) is further

adapted to determine the variance of said measured air flow, and said data processing
means (54, 62) further includes a comparing element (127) adapted to compare said

variance with a predetermined threshold value, and if said variance falls below said
threshold value then it is determined that an apnea is occurring.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein said computational element (125, 126) is
adapted to determine said variance as a moving average over a time window.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further for determining
patency of said airway, said data processing means (54, 62) further including detection

means (132, 134, 136) adapted to detect the presence of cardiogenic components in said air
flow to determine that said airway is patent.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further for controlling the
administration of CPAP apparatus, the apparatus further comprising:


a mask (30) to be worn by a patient to provide breathable gas at a pressure elevated
above atmospheric pressure continuously to a patient's airway;
a conduit (32) coupled to said mask (30);
a controllable turbine (34, 38) coupled to said conduit to supply at its outlet said
pressurized breathable gas to said mask via said conduit;
control means (40) to control turbine outlet pressure in response to a control signal;
and wherein said respiratory airflow signal is derived from said mask (30), said
conduit (32) or said turbine (34, 38), and said data processing means (54, 62) is adapted to 

generate said control signal such that, if said deviation exceeds a threshold, then the control
signal causes CPAP pressure to be decreased, and if said deviation is less than a threshold,

then the control signal causes CPAP pressure to be increased.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein the data processing means (54, 62) includes
a detector (172) that is adapted to determine the loudness of snoring, and if the loudness of

snoring exceeds a threshold the data processing means (54, 62) causes the control signal to
adjust the CPAP pressure as a function of both the measure of partial obstruction and the

loudness of snoring.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein if either the measure of obstruction exceeds
said deviation threshold or the measure of loudness of snoring exceeds said snoring

threshold, the data processing means (54, 62) causes the control signal to increase the
CPAP pressure, but to decrease it otherwise.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the extent of the increase of CPAP pressure
is determined by the data processing means (54, 62) to be: the extent by which the

measured degree of airway obstruction exceeds the obstruction threshold plus a second
amount proportional to the extent by which the measured degree of snoring exceeds the

snoring threshold.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein the snoring threshold is an increasing
function of a least one of the current pressure applied by the CPAP apparatus and the

extent of any leak from the CPAP apparatus.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
