<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643530</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Picture compression apparatus, picture reproducing apparatus and picture drawing apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N141	G06T100	H04N730	G06T900	H04N164	H04N730	H04N164	H04N141	H03M730	H03M730	G06T100	G06T900	H04N726	H04N726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G06T	H04N	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H03M	H03M	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	G06T1	H04N7	G06T9	H04N1	H04N7	H04N1	H04N1	H03M7	H03M7	G06T1	G06T9	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Digital image data are compressed in a first iteration 
of orthogonally transforming a predetermined amount of the 

original image data, such as index data for a sprite pattern, and 
quantizing the transform coefficients. Then the quantized data 

are locally decoded, and the decoded data are compared with the 
original image data. If there are no errors, that is, the 

decoded data matches the original image data, the quantized data 
are variable length encoded to form compressed data for output, 

such as recording on a CD-ROM recording medium. If there are 
errors, then a next iteration is performed, in which the original 

image data are bit shifted and then orthogonally transformed, the 
transform coefficients are quantized, and the quantized data are 

locally decoded. As before, the decoded data are compared with 
the original image data. If there are no errors, the quantized 

data are variable length encoded to form compressed data for 
output. If there are errors, then the original image data are 

further bit shifted in a next iteration, and the above described 
processing is repeated until there are no errors. The recorded 

compressed data are reproduced, variable length decoded, 

dequantized, inverse orthogonally transformed, inverse bit 
shifted, and used as picture data for display on a television. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUOKI MASAKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUOKI, MASAKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to picture compression
apparatus, a picture reproducing apparatus and a picture drawing
apparatus, and, more particularly, is directed to compressed
picture data obtained by dividing original picture data into
blocks each composed of a pre-set number of pixels and processed
by transform coding, quantization and encoding on a block-by-block
basis.The following five patent applications are related to the present
application: EP-A-0 598 613; EP-A-0 599 579; EP-A-0 620 532; EP-A-0 632
407 and EP-A-0 633 533.In certain conventional television game apparatus, two-dimensional
picture data are mapped to a rectangular picture area 
(referred to herein as a "splite", sometimes also called a
"sprite"). The splites are combined like the tiles of a mosaic
on a display screen to produce an image. In such systems, images
can only be produced as combinations of two-dimensional images
produced from splite patterns which have been stored in advance.The system of forming or drawing a picture using such
splite pattern is referred to as a pseudo color system, and
typically involves storing plural splite patterns in a memory.
The conventional television game equipment requires a large
memory to store the splite patterns which are reproduced upon
starting a video game.Each splite pattern comprises a matrix of pixels
arranged in an 8 by 8 array. Each pixel has a color value which
is represented by index data, for example, an 8 bit word, as
shown in Fig. 1A. The index data is used as an address for a
color lookup table (CLUT). Thus, each splite pattern is formed
as an 8 x 8 array of index data.As shown in Fig. 1B, the CLUT comprises 256 entries,
corresponding to the address space of the 8 bit index data, with
each entry representing three color values, such as data for red
(R), green (G) and blue (B). Use of the index data for each
splite pattern, instead of the three color values, reduces the
number of bits needed to represent the pixels in a splite
pattern. Use of the CLUT reduces the number of memory accesses 
needed when drawing a picture, so that a drawing operation may be
performed at higher speed.Typically, the index data of the splite patterns are
compressed by a discrete cosine transform circuit, a quantization
circuit and a variable length encoding circuit for storage in the
memory. This renders it possible to store a large number of
splite patterns without providing a memory having a large storage
capacity.When drawing a picture, such as when the television
game is begun, the compressed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A picture compression apparatus comprising:

comparison means (3) for comparing original picture data with
decoded picture data to produce a control signal;
bit shifting means (2) for bit shifting said original picture
data in accordance with said control signal, until said control signal indicates that said decoded picture data matches said original picture data;
transform means (5) for orthogonally transforming the bit shifted
original picture data to produce coefficient data;
quantizing means (6) for quantizing said coefficient data to
produce quantized data; and
decoding means (8) for decoding said quantized data to produce
said decoded picture data.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said decoding means is
operative to decode said quantized data in accordance with said control

signal.
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said decoding means includes
dequantizer means (21) for dequantizing said quantized data to produce

recovered coefficient data, inverse transform means (22) for inverse
orthogonally transforming said recovered coefficient data to produce

bit shifted picture data, and inverse bit shifting means (24) for
inverse bit shifting said bit shifted picture data in accordance with

said control signal to produce said decoded picture data.
The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said decoding means further
includes rounding means (23) for adding a value based on said control

signal to said bit shifted picture data to produce rounded data, and
wherein said inverse shifting means is operative to inverse bit shift

said rounded data to produce said decoded picture data.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said transform
means is operative to orthogonally transform said shifted original

picture data as a function of an orthogonal transform matrix, and said
decoding means is operative to decode said quantized data as a function

of said orthogonal transform matrix.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, further comprising coding 
means (7) for variable length coding said quantized data to produce

compressed picture data.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said original
picture data represents a sprite pattern.
A picture reproducing apparatus comprising:

dequantizer means (42) for dequantizing quantized data to produce
recovered coefficient data;
inverse transform means (43) for inverse orthogonally
transforming said recovered coefficient data to produce bit shifted

picture data; and
inverse bit shifting means (45) for inverse bit shifting said bit
shifted picture data as a function of a control signal accompanying

said quantized data to produce decoded picture data.
The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising rounding means (44)
for adding a value based on said control signal to said bit shifted

picture data to produce rounded data, and wherein said inverse bit
shifting means is operative to inverse bit shift said rounded data to

produce said decoded picture data.
The apparatus of claim 8 or 9, further comprising decoder means
(41) for variable length decoding compressed picture data to produce

said quantized data.
The apparatus of any of claims 8 to 10, wherein said decoded
picture data represents a sprite pattern.
The apparatus claim 11, wherein said decoded picture data is
index data, and further comprising a memory (1) for storing color data

(CLUT) at respective addresses and for reading out the color data
stored at addresses indicated by said index data.
A picture drawing apparatus comprising:

reproducing means (35) for reproducing compressed picture data
and bit shift data from a recording medium;
decoding means (33) including dequantizer means for dequantizing
said compressed data to produce recovered coefficient data, inverse 

transform means for inverse orthogonally transforming said recovered
coefficient data to produce bit shifted picture data, and inverse bit

shifting means for inverse bit shifting said bit shifted picture data
as a function of said bit shift data to produce decoded picture data;

and
drawing means (36) for forming said decoded picture data into
picture data for display by display means.
The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising memory means (32)
for storing the reproduced compressed picture data and bit shift data,

and control means (34) for controlling writing of said reproduced
compressed picture data and bit shift data from said reproducing means

to said memory means and for controlling reading of the stored
compressed picture data and bit shift data from said memory means to

said decoding means.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said memory means is also
operative to store said decoded picture data, and said control means is

also operative to control writing of said decoded picture data from
said decoding means to said memory means and reading of the stored

decoded picture data from said memory means to said drawing means.
The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising memory means for
storing the decoded picture data, and control means for controlling

writing of said decoded picture data from said decoding means to said
memory means and for controlling reading of the stored decoded picture

data from said memory means to said drawing means.
The apparatus of any of claims 13 to 16, wherein said decoding
means also includes rounding means for adding a value based on said bit

shift data to said bit shifted picture data to produce rounded data,
and wherein said inverse bit shifting means is operative to inverse bit

shift said rounded data to produce said decoded picture data.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
