<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649201</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Amplitude detection scheme for optical transmitter control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S310	H04B1006	H01S310	H04B10142	H04B10152	H04B1006	H04B10152	H04B1004	H04B1014	H01S50683	H01S500	H04B10142	H04B1004	H04B1014	H04B10155	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H04B	H01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H01S	H01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S3	H04B10	H01S3	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H01S5	H01S5	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An amplitude control scheme for a high bit rate digital optical 
transmitter is disclosed. The data to be transmitted by the laser is pulse-width 

modulated by a low frequency signal (MOD). The pulse-width modulated signal is 
applied to the laser via a laser driver (14) and to a mark density reference generator 

(15). The magnitude of the low frequency components from the mark density 
reference generator is a signal (ARS) indicative of the desired amplitude of the laser 

light pulses. A back-face photodiode (20) converts a portion of the laser light into an 
electrical signal, the magnitude of the low frequency portion thereof being a signal 

(ACS) indicative of the actual amplitude of the laser light pulses. The actual 
amplitude of the 
laser light pulses is compared to the desired amplitude and the laser 
driver output amplitude may then adjusted to compensate for variations in the laser 

performance. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSCH FRIDOLIN LUDWIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN TON VAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSCH, FRIDOLIN LUDWIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN, TON VAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to digital lightwave 
transmitters and to methods for monitoring and controlling 
the amplitude of a digital laser light output signal. A continuing concern in the field of laser-based optical transmitters is 
the change in laser characteristics with temperature and aging. The change in laser 
characteristics manifests itself as a combination of a shift in the laser threshold, (the 
current at which the laser begins lasing), and the L-I slope (the light output L vs. 
current I characteristic). As a result, special operating strategies for controlling the 
laser bias and modulation currents have been developed. In most cases, a 
photodiode is mounted in the same package as the laser and a portion of the light 
exiting the rear face of the laser is captured by the photodiode and used to monitor 
the laser performance. In particular, a feedback loop comparing the photodiode 
current to a reference signal maintains the average light output at a desired level by 
automatically adjusting the bias current. The reference signal is referred to here as a 
"mark density" reference signal, representing the average density over time of pulses 
which the laser converts into light. During initial use, and as long as only the laser threshold exhibits 
changes as a function of aging, the above photodiode monitor arrangement is 
suitable. However, when the laser L-I slope begins to change as a function of age, 
the light amplitude (and with it, the critical extinction ratio of ON-light to OFF-light) 
will change. Thus, a need remains for a means of controlling both the average light 
output and the light amplitude. Further, prior art arrangements work only with lasers having an 
exceptionally linear L-I slope, irrespective of temperature or aging. Typical lasers, 
however, have non-linear L-I slope which may render this approach unusable. Thus, a need remains for a more robust arrangement for monitoring both 
average light and light amplitude in an optical transmitter that is usable with non-ideal 
lasers.  
 The present invention seeks to provide control of the laser modulation 
over the lifetime of the optical transmitter. According to one aspect of this invention there is provided a digital 
lightwave transmitter as claimed in claim 1. According to another aspect of this invention there is provided a method 
as claimed in claim 6. The invention will now be described with reference to the 
accompanying drawings, in which: 
FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary laser transmitter embodying the present 
in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital lightwave transmitter comprising 

a laser diode (16) responsive to both a digital modulation signal and a 
bias signal for forming an optical digital output signal therefrom; 
a monitor photodetector (20) coupled to the back-face of the laser diode 
for coupling a portion of the optical digital output signal and deriving an electrical 

control signal I
MON
 therefrom; 
means (14) for driving the laser diode with the digital modulation 
signal; and 
 
   CHARACTERIZED BY: 


a low frequency oscillator (32), for producing a modulating signal at a 
predetermined low frequency; 
a pulse width modulator (30) responsive to both an input digital data 
signal and the low frequency modulating signal for providing as an output a pulse 

width modulated digital data signal, wherein the pulse width modulated digital data 
signal is applied as an input to the means for driving the laser diode; 
means (15, 34) for extracting the AC component of the pulse width 
modulated digital signal and multiplying the AC component with the low frequency 

modulating signal to form a light amplitude reference signal (ARS); 
means (40) for extracting the AC component of the monitor photodiode 
output signal and multiplying the AC component with the low frequency modulating 

signal to form a light amplitude control signal (ACS) indicative of the amplitude of 
the digital output signal; and 
means (42) for comparing the light amplitude reference signal to the 
light amplitude control signal and providing an output control signal indicative of 

any difference between the light amplitude signals, wherein the output control signal 
is applied as an input to the driving means to adjust the amplitude of the pulse width 

modulated digital data signal applied as an input thereto. 
A transmitter as claimed in claim 1 comprising means (22) for 
comparing the DC component of the pulse width modulated digital signal to the DC 

component of the monitor signal and for providing as an output a control signal to 
the bias signal, indicative of any difference in the values of the DC inputs. 
A transmitter as claimed in claim 2 wherein a first low frequency 
amplifier (36) is used to amplify the AC component of the pulse width modulated  

 
digital data signal, and a second low frequency amplifier (38) is used to amplify the 

AC component of the monitor signal. 
A transmitter as claimed in claim 3 wherein the low frequency 
oscillator provides as an output a square wave low frequency signal. 
A transmitter as claimed in claim 3 wherein the low frequency 
oscillator provides as an output a sine wave low frequency signal. 
A method for monitoring and controlling the amplitude of a digital 
laser light output signal from a digital laser transmitter having a laser (16) responsive 

to a laser driver (14) and a back-face photodetector (20) for converting at least part 
of the light from the laser into a monitor signal, CHARACTERIZED BY THE 

STEPS OF: 

pulse width modulating a high bit rate digital data input signal with a 
low frequency modulation signal to form a pulse width modulated data signal which 

is coupled to the laser driver; 
extracting the low frequency AC component of the monitor signal to 
form a laser amplitude control signal (ACS); 
extracting the low frequency AC component of the pulse width 
modulated data signal to form a reference signal (ARS); and 
comparing said laser amplitude control signal to the reference signal and 
providing as an output an amplitude error signal (E) indicative of any difference in 

value between the laser control and reference signals; 
wherein the laser driver includes a control input for varying the drive to 
the laser and the control input is responsive to the amplitude error signal. 
A method as claimed in claim 6 comprising the steps of:
 
   comparing the DC component of the pulse width modulated digital data 

signal to the DC component of the monitor signal, and providing an amplitude 
control signal, indicative of the difference therebetween, as a bias control signal 

(I
bias
) to the laser. 
A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the extracting step forming 
the laser amplitude control signal comprises  

 

filtering the monitor signal to pass the low frequency AC component 
thereof; and 
demodulating the low frequency AC component; 
wherein the demodulated low frequency AC component is the amplitude 
control signal. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the extracting step forming 
the reference signal comprises 


measuring the mark density of the pulse width modulated data signal to 
form a mark density signal (MDS
AC
); 
filtering the mark density signal to pass the low frequency AC 
component thereof; and 
demodulating the low frequency AC component; 
wherein the demodulated low frequency AC component is the reference 
signal. 
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the low frequency 
modulation signal is a square wave. 
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the low frequency 
modulation signal is a sine wave. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
