<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655940</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SEPARATING PARTICULATE MATERIAL FROM COMBUSTIBLE GASES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D4642	B01D4624	C10K100	B01D4624	C10K102	B01D4642	B01D4600	B01D4600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C10K	B01D	C10K	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D46	B01D46	C10K1	B01D46	C10K1	B01D46	B01D46	B01D46	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Filter assemblies, such as ceramic or super alloy filter tubes, for combustible gases laden with particles, are safely cleaned by providing a back pressure pulse of a clean combustible gas. The clean combustible gas, such as methane, ethane, propane, or butane, and may either be stored in an accumulator or tank as gas, or may be stored in liquid form and flashed into a gas before use. The pulsing gas may pass through a venturi, intermittent or periodic control of the valve to supply the back pressure gas through the venturi being provided. The cleaned combustible gas mixes with the clean combustible gas and passes through the filter assembly to a use station, such as a combustor where the gases are burned.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOSTER WHEELER ENERGIA OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOSTER WHEELER ENERGIA OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PROVOL STEVEN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PROVOL, STEVEN, J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for
separating particulate material from combustible
gases. The present invention also relates especially to
the utilization of a combustible gas filtering
apparatus comprising gas-permeable filter elements
and means for periodically cleaning the filter
elements.In the gasification of coal, oil, biomass, or
other fossil fuels, or in other applications which
utilize or produce other reactive gases under
atmospheric or pressurized conditions, filtration of
the generated synthetic gas is often required prior
to use of the gas for combustion, chemical
manufacturing, or other applications.Modern gasification methods, especially, have
resulted in a need for particle separators capable
of efficiently and reliably separating particulate
material from gases, usually high-temperature,
high-pressure product gases. In fluidized bed
gasification processes fine dust such as fine solid
bed material, fly ash, unreacted fuel, and even
reactive absorbent (i.e., for sulphur capture), is
entrained with the exhausted high-temperature, 
high-pressure product gases from the gasification
chamber. The solids have to be separated from the
gases and are usually recirculated back into the
gasification chamber.In modern combined cycle power plants, where
hot gases are expanded in gas turbines, efficient
cleaning systems for the gases are essential for
reliable operation of the gas turbines, since even
very fine particulate matter in the gases cause
severe erosion and fouling of the turbine blades.The present-day concern with air pollution has,
on the other hand, also created a demand for
efficient dust collecting apparatus for increased
capacity. Filtration can be used to collect
entrained particles, aerosols, or other solids or
liquids contained in the gases, to produce a cleaner
product gas.Different types of barrier filters are used to
achieve the needed reliable separation of solid
particulate matter from gases. In recent years gas
permeable ceramic or super alloy filters have become
a legitimate alternative to conventional separators
(such as conventional baghouses, which are mainly
used for cleaning gases of more moderate
temperatures). Ceramic and super alloy filters make
it possible to separate particulate matter from
high-temperature, high-pressure combustible gases.
These filter separators made of porous super alloys
or ceramics can be built into substantially-compact
and simple systems as they endure very high 
temperature conditions and do not need to be
protected by cooling
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of cleaning combustible gas with a filter,
and keeping the filter clean, comprising the steps of:


(a) passing, at first pressure, combustible gas laden
with particles through the filter, and particles

collecting on a dirty surface of the filter, while
cleaned combustible gas exits through a clean surface

of the filter;
(b) periodically or intermittently forcing back-pulsing
gas at a second pressure, higher than the first

pressure, through the filter clean surface to dislodge
particles collected on the dirty surface of the filter;

and
(c) while or after practising step (b) combining the
back-pulsing gas with the cleaned combustible gas and

passing the mixture thereof towards a use station

characterized in that

said back-pulsing gas is clean combustible short chain
hydrocarbon gas.
A method as recited in claim 1 wherein step (b) is
practised utilizing clean combustible gas selected from

the group consisting essentially of methane, ethane,
propane and butane.
A method as recited in claim 1 comprising the
further step of (d) flashing a liquid stored under

pressure into the clean combustible gas, and then
practising step (b) with that gas.
A method as recited in claim 3 wherein step (d) is
practiced by flashing into gas a liquid selected from

the group consisting essentially of liquified petroleum
gas, liquefied methane, ethane, propane and butane. 
A method as recited in claim 1 wherein step (b) is
practiced by directing clean combustible gas through a

venturi, and then through the filter.
A method as recited in claim 5 wherein step (b) is
practiced utilizing gas accumulated in a tank by

periodically or intermittently automatically opening a
valve connected between the tank and the venturi.
A method as recited in claim 6 comprising the
further step of compressing clean combustible gas and

then feeding it into the tank.
A method as recited in claim 1 comprising a
further step of burning the combined cleaned

combustible gas and clean combustible gas in the use
station.
A method as recited in claim 1 wherein steps (a) and
(b) are practiced so that the second pressure is at

least about two times as great as the first pressure.
A method as recited in claim 1 wherein step (b) is
practiced using clean combustible gas in the amount of

approximately 1-20 % of the volume of combustible gas
laden with particles.
A method as recited in claim 1 wherein steps (a)
and (b) are practiced by passing the combustible gas

laden with particles, and the clean combustible gas,
through ceramic filter tubes.
A method as recited in claim 1 herein steps (a)
and (b) are practiced by passing the combustible gas

laden with particles, and the clean combustible gas,
through super alloy filter tubes. 
Apparatus for filtering dirty, particle laden

combustible gas over long periods of time comprising: a
main vessel (12,112) having a dirty combustible gas inlet (14) and a

cleaned combustible gas outlet (20),

a plurality of filter elements (22,122) disposed in said vessel
and operatively communicating on a first surface thereof with the

inlet (14) and a second surface thereof with said outlet (20),

means for periodically or intermittently pulsing clean
back-pulsing gas through said first surface of said

filter elements to clean them,

said pulsing means comprising a nozzle (40,140) disposed in said
vessel,

chracterized by

a super-atmospheric pressure holding vessel (46,54), containing clean
combustible pressurized gas in the form of a short-chain

hydrocarbon gas, arranged exterior of said vessel, and a
valve (44,144) between said nozzle and said holding vessel.
Apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein said
pulsing means further comprises a venturi (38) disposed

within said vessel in operative association with said
nozzle (40).
Apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein said main
vessel (12) is vertically disposed, and wherein said nozzle (40)

is also vertically disposed, clean combustible gas
being discharged from said nozzle initially passing

upwardly through said venturi (38).
Apparatus as recited in claim 15 further comprising
a plurality of hoppers (32) disposed interiorly of said

vessel below said filter elements, for collecting
particles separated from the dirty combustible gas. 
Apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein said holding vessel (46)
comprises an accumulator operatively connected to a

compressor (50).
Apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein said
filter elements (22) are selected from the group consisting

of ceramic tubes and super alloy tubes.
Apparatus as recited in claim 13
further comprising means (56,57) for flashing liquified gas

into clean combustible back-pulsing gas prior to
passage through said filter elements.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
