<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658930</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Varying the thickness of the surface silicon layer in a silicon-on-insulator substrate.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2102	H01L21265	H01L2170	H01L2176	H01L21762	H01L2712	H01L2712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A preferred embodiment of this invention is a silicon-on-insulator 
structure comprising a semiconductor substrate (e.g. Si 
36
), a buried 
insulator layer (e.g. SiO
2
34
) overlaying the substrate, wherein the buried 
layer is buried at two or more predetermined depths, and a surface silicon 

layer (e.g Si 
32
) overlaying the buried insulator, wherein the surface silicon 
layer has two or more predetermined thicknesses. Generally, by patterning 

and etching a screening material (e.g. SiO
2
30
) prior to ion implantation, 
preselected areas of the substrate with less or no screen material are formed 

with a thicker surface silicon layer, while other areas with more screen 
material are formed with a thinner surface silicon layer. The areas of 

different surface silicon thickness can be used to implement devices with 
different characteristics based on those thicknesses, within the same 

integrated circuit. Generally, relatively thinner regions can be used for 
faster speed devices and relatively thicker regions can be used for greater 

current carrying capability. The novel technique of depositing, patterning 
and etching a layer of screening material before implantation can also be 

used to create a substrate with both bulk and SOI substrate regions, with 
different portions of a circuit built in each region. Generally, such a 

substrate can be used to create integrated circuits that have high voltage 
isolation between different blocks of the circuit. The SOI/bulk substrate can 

also be used to fabricate integrated circuits which contain low voltage logic 
and which also regulate large amounts of current at high voltage. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOYNER KEITH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOYNER, KEITH A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to integrated circuits, and more 
particularly to varying the thickness of the surface silicon layer in a silicon-on-insulator 
substrate. Ion implantation is an alternative method to diffusion for injecting 
impurities into a semiconductor layer. Ion implantation is typically a process 
in which ions that have been accelerated by several kilovolts are made to 
penetrate a solid surface such as silicon, and, unlike the ions in a typical 
diffusion process, can be made to do this at room temperature. Ion 
implantation generally produces the maximum concentration of implanted 
material beneath the surface of the wafer. Because the implanted dopants 
are generally not in the proper lattice position and are mostly electrically 
inactive, a high temperature annealing process is often used which repairs 
crystal damage and electrically activates the dopants. Implantation of oxygen into silicon is generally a preferred process for 
building silicon-on-insulator (SOI) substrates which can be used, for 
example, in very large scale integration (VLSI) devices. This separation by 
implantation of oxygen (SIMOX) process generally involves three steps: 
A) A standard silicon wafer is cleaned in a clean room ambient to 
substantially remove any received contaminants.  B) Oxygen is implanted under the surface of the wafer at relatively 
high energy (e.g. 2X10¹⁸/cm² of oxygen atoms at 200 keV).  C) The wafer is annealed at high temperature (e.g. greater than about 
1300°C for 6 hours) to substantially repair implant damage and form the 
buried oxide layer.   SIMOX wafers are of interest because they can generally be used to 
provide one or more of the following advantages over bulk silicon wafers: 
A) better radiation hardness B) higher speed performance C) higher temperature operation D) lower power devices E) lower cost process for some applications F) easier implementation of submicrometer design rules. Recent improvements in the quality of SIMOX wafers, along with the 
advent of readily available processing equipment, have helped to stimulate 
an increased interest in SIMOX technology. "The Status of SIMOX 
Technology" by Michael A. Guerra, Solid State Technology, November 1990, 
pp. 75-78, discusses SIMOX technology and advances in the field. Various methods for reducing defects in SIMOX wafers have been 
investigated in the past decade. One method, in which the implantation is 
performed through a protective screen oxide (e.g. SiO₂) to reduce 
contamination and channeling effects,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming a modified semiconductor substrate, said method 
comprising: 


a) forming a screen layer having a predetermined pattern on a top 
surface of a silicon substrate, thereby creating one or more 

exposed regions of said silicon substrate and one or more 
unexposed regions of said silicon substrate; 
b) implanting ions into said exposed and unexposed regions of said 
silicon substrate, wherein said ions implanted into said 

unexposed regions travel through and are impeded by said 
screen layer, thereby causing said ions implanted in said 

unexposed regions to be closer to said top surface of said silicon 
substrate than said ions implanted in said exposed regions; 
c) annealing said substrate to form a substantially well-defined 
buried insulator layer overlaying said silicon substrate, and to 

form a surface silicon layer overlaying said buried insulator 
layer, wherein the portion of said surface silicon layer formed 

under said screen layer is thinner than the portion of said 
surface silicon layer formed in said exposed region of said silicon 

substrate; 
d) removing any remaining portions of said screen layer; 
e) etching said surface silicon layer to substantially expose the 
portion of said buried insulator layer underlying said thinner 

portion of said surface silicon layer; and 
f) etching said exposed buried insulator to substantially expose 
 

the portion of said silicon substrate underlying said exposed 
buried insulator, whereby both bulk silicon surface regions and 

SOI surface regions are formed on the same substrate. 
The method according to claim 1, wherein said portion of said surface 
silicon layer formed under said screen layer is substantially thinner 

than said portion of said surface silicon layer formed in said exposed 
region of said silicon substrate. 
A method of forming a modified semiconductor substrate, said method 
comprising: 


a) forming a screen layer on a top surface of a silicon substrate; 
b) modifying said screen layer to form areas with relatively thicker 
screens and areas with relatively thinner screens; 
c) implanting ions into said silicon substrate, wherein said ions 
are implanted to a lesser depth under said thicker screen areas 

and to a greater depth in said thinner screen areas; 
d) annealing said substrate to form a substantially well-defined 
buried insulator layer overlaying said silicon substrate, and to 

form a surface silicon layer overlaying said buried insulator 
layer, wherein the portion of said surface silicon layer formed 

under said thicker screen areas is thinner than the portion of 
said surface silicon layer formed under said thinner screen 

areas; and 
e) removing any remaining portions of said screen layer, whereby 
the different surface silicon thicknesses can be used to 

 
implement microelectronic devices with varying characteristics 

based on those thicknesses. 
The method according to claim 3, wherein said screen layer is modified 
using a taper etch, thereby forming said surface silicon layer with a 

continuously varying thickness across said substrate. 
The method according to claim 3, wherein said screen layer is modified 
by etching said screen layer to levels of varying depth, whereby said 

surface silicon layer is formed with levels of varying thickness. 
The method according to any of claims 3 to 5, said method further 
comprising forming one or more first active microelectronic devices on 

said thinner portion of said surface silicon layer and forming one or 
more second active microelectronic devices on said thicker portion of 

said surface silicon layer. 
The method according to any of claims 3 to 6, wherein said thicker 

screens comprise a first screen material and said thinner screens 
comprise a second screen material, wherein said second screen 

material is different from said first screen material. 
The method according to any preceding claim, wherein said ions are 
oxygen ions. 
The method according to any preceding claim, wherein said screen 
 

layer is substantially sputtered off during ion implantation, and is not 
removed after said substrate anneal. 
The method according to any preceding claim, said method further 
comprising etching said screen layer to more than one thickness before 

said ion implantation, whereby said surface silicon layer is formed 
with more than one thickness. 
The method according to any preceding claim, said method further 
comprising forming one or more first active microelectronic devices on 

said bulk silicon surface regions and forming one or more second active 
microelectronic devices on said SOI surface regions. 
The method according to any preceding claim, wherein said bulk 
silicon surface regions and said SOI surface regions are substantially 

planar. 
The method according to any preceding claim, wherein said screen 
layer is selected from the group consisting of: SiO₂, Si₃N₄, Si, 

photoresist, and combinations thereof. 
The method according to any preceding claim, wherein said buried 
insulator layer is selected from the group consisting of: SiO₂, Si₃N₄, 

and combinations thereof. 
The method according to any preceding claim, wherein said screen 
 

layer comprises two or more screen materials. 
A silicon-on-insulator structure formed by the method of any preceding 
claim. 
silicon-on-insulator structure comprising: 
a silicon substrate; 

a buried insulator layer overlaying said substrate, wherein said buried 
layer is buried at two or more predetermined depths; 

a surface silicon layer overlaying said buried insulator, wherein said 
surface silicon layer has two or more predetermined thicknesses; 

one or more first active microelectronic devices formed on a first area 
of said surface silicon layer wherein said surface silicon layer has a 

first thickness; and 
one or more second active microelectronic devices formed on a second 

area of said surface silicon layer wherein said surface silicon layer has 
a second thickness. 
An integrated electronic device including a silicon-on-insulator 
structure as claimed in claim 16 or 17. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
