<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652410</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A multifunction refrigerator.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47J4700	A47J4706	F25D1706	F25D1706	F25D1708	F25D1708	F25D1900	F25D1900	F25D2114	F25D2114	F25D2300	F25D2300	F25D2304	F25D2304	F25D2312	F25D2312	F25D3100	F25D3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47J	A47J	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47J47	A47J47	F25D17	F25D17	F25D17	F25D17	F25D19	F25D19	F25D21	F25D21	F25D23	F25D23	F25D23	F25D23	F25D23	F25D23	F25D31	F25D31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multifunction refrigerator for transmitting a cool air into 
cereals custody room and kimchi custody room, comprises a 

evaporator 700 for generating a cool air from a wall face of the 
refrigerator and a first partition 400 for conducting the cool 

air generated from said evaporator 700 into a cold storage room 
100 and cereal custody room 200, and dividing the refrigerator 

into two parts of the cold storage room 100 and the cereals 
custody room 200. And, this refrigerator may comprise a 

evaporator 700 for generating a cool air from a wall face of a 
refrigerator and a second partition 500 for transmitting 

compulsorily a cool air generated from the evaporator 700 and 
thereby maintaining kimchi custody room 300 at low temperature, 

and inhalation fan for inhaling a cool air. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLD STAR CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDSTAR CO. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM KYEONG-TAEK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM, KYEONG-TAEK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a refrigerator, more particularly 
to the refrigerator having cereals and/or kimchi custody function 
and making it possible to transmit a cool air to the inside of 
cereals and kimchi custody rooms. Fig. 1 is a view showing a conventional multifunction rice 
barrel. The multifunction rice barrel comprises a window 2 for 
seeing the amount of a remaining rice in rice barrel 1, a 
withdrawal box 4 withdrawing rice in rice barrel for a multistage 
custody room 5 for taking custody various kinds of foods and an 
door 6 for operating and closing said the multistage custody room 
5. This conventional multifunction rice barrel can take custody 
rice and other various kinds of foods. However, since the 
temperature in the rice barrel 1 is not constant , there is a 
problem that rice and other foods on taking custody, can be 
degenerated. Further, since this conventional rice barrel needs special 
kimchi barrel or earthenware for taking custody kimchi and user 
should purchase and establish these goods separately, it has 
problems extravagant, difficult to take custody foods for a long 
term and occupying a wide space.  Accordingly, the object of the present invention is to 
provide a multifunction refrigerator needing a small space for 
establishing and including kimchi custody room, cereals room and 
cold storage room. Other object of the present invention is to provide a 
multifunction refrigerator for taking custody kimchi for a long 
term. Further object of the present invention is to provide a 
multifunction refrigerator for taking custody cereals such as 
rice etc. for a long term. To accomplish these objects, the multifunction refrigerator 
according to the present invention comprises a evaporator for 
generating a cool air from a wall face of a refrigerator and a 
first partition for conducting the cool air generated from said 
evaporator into a cold-storage room and a cereal custody room, 
and dividing the refrigerator into two parts of the cold-storage 
room and the cereals custody room. And, this refrigerator may 
comprise a evaporator for generating a cool air from a wall face 
of a refrigerator and a second partition for transmitting 
compulsorily a cool air generated from said evaporator and 
thereby maintaining kimchi custody room at low temperature, and 
inhalation fan for inhaling a cool air.  Fig. 1is a perspective view showing a rice barrel in accordance 
with an embodiment of the convention art. Fig. 2is a front view showing a multifunction refrigerator in 
accordan
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multifunction refrigerator comprising : 

(a) a cold storage room ; 
(b) cereals custody room ; 
(c) a generating means for generating a cool air from a wall 
face of a refrigerator ; and 
(d) a conducting meas for inducting the cool air generated 
from said the generating means into said the cold storage roomand 

the cereals custody room. 
The refrigerator according to claim 1, wherein the generating 
means is a evaporator established on a upper plate of the cold 

storage room. 
The refrigerator according to claim 2, wherein the evaporator 
is established to be attached on the upper plate of the cold 

storage room by two faced tape. 
The refrigerator according to claim 1, wherein said the 
conducting means includes a first partition for dividing the 

cold storage room and the cereals custody room and a second 
partition connected to said evaporator, having a good thermal 

conductivity, wherein the cool air generated from said evaporator 
is conducted into the cereals custody room through the first and 

second partition. 
A multifunction refrigerator comprising : 
(a) a cold storage room ; 
(b) a kimchi custody room ; 
(c) a generating means for generating a cool air from a wall 
face of a refrigerator ; and 
(d) a transmitting means for transmitting compulsorily the 
cool air generated from said the generating means and thereby 

maintaining kimchi custody room at low temperature. 
The refrigerator according to claim 5, wherein the 
transmitting means includes a transmitting hole formed at a 

position of the second partition separating the barrel into two 
parts of the cold storage room and the kimchi custody room, and 

a inhalation fan for inhaling a cool air through the transmitting 
hole and transmitting the inhaled cool air into the kimchi 

custody room. 
The refrigerator according to claim 1, wherein the cereals 
custody room comprises a rice custody room for taking custody 

rice, a miscellaneous cereals room for taking custody a 
miscellaneous cereals, an discharging means for discharging the 

rice and the miscellaneous cereals and a container for containing 
the rice and the miscellaneous cereals being discharged from said 

the discharging means. 
The refrigerator according to claim 7, wherein the discharging 

means comprises a outlets formed at the rice custody room and the 
miscellaneous custody room respectively, a horizontal moving 

plate for dropping selectively the rice or the miscellaneous 
cereals being discharged from said the outlet, a moving member 

for moving the rice or the miscellaneous cereals being droppedand 
 

a outlet for dropping the rice or the miscellaneous cereals moved 
from the moving member into the container. 
The refrigerator according to claim 1, wherein the 
refrigerator includes a withdrawal means for withdrawing the 

cereals custody room from the refrigerator. 
The refrigerator according to claim 9, wherein the withdrawal 
means comprises a guiding rail formed at the withdrawal means 

comprises a guiding rail formed at the cereals custody room and 
a supporter for supporting and guiding said upper and lower 

portions of guiding rail. 
The refrigerator according to claim 1, wherein the 
refrigerator includes a humidity control part for maintaining a 

constant humidity. 
The refrigerator according to claim 11, wherein the humidity 
control part comprises a water outlet pipe for inducing the 

frosted water therein, a first evaporator part for supply the 
evaporated moisture into the cereals custody room when the water 

collected through the outlet pipe is evaporated, and a second 
evaporator part for evaporating a oversupplied water from the 

first evaporator part and discharging the evaporated water 
outside. 
The refrigerator according to claim 12, wherein said the 
first evaporator part comprises a first evaporator dish for 

containing the defrosted water being collected along the water 
outlet pipe, a permeating membrane for permeating the moisture 

being evaporated from said the first evaporation dish and a cover 
for inducing the moisture passing the permeating membrane into 

the cereals custody room. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
