<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655931</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRONICALLY MONITORED ANGIOPLASTY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2510	A61M2510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronically monitored angioplasty system (10) is provided with a verifier circuit (60, 72) to verify the operation of conversion circuitry (28, 28', 28'') for converting an electrical pressure signal from a pressure transducer (22) to a displayed numerical value on a digital read-out (32). The verifier circuit is selectively activated to offset the displayed numerical value by a predetermined amount and upon deactivation the displayed numerical value returns to the pressure sensed by the pressure transducer in the balloon (16). In one embodiment, a reference signal to the conversion circuitry is selectively offset by a signal corresponding to the predetermined amount and in another embodiment the electrical pressure signal itself is selectively offset by a reference signal corresponding to the predetermined amount. In another aspect of the system, an audible balloon deflation indicator circuit (140) sounds a pleasant signal that the balloon is fully deflated so the doctor need not divert attention from the patient.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDEX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDEX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELONG RUSSELL I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICHOLSON WARREN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PFOUTS MARK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELONG, RUSSELL, I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICHOLSON, WARREN, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PFOUTS, MARK, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
ELECTRONICALLY MONITORED ANGIOPLASTY SYSTEMFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to angioplasty systems and more particularly, to electronically monitored angioplasty systems. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONAngioplasty systems are well known. A typical system includes a syringe coupled to a balloon catheter to be placed in a patient's blocked artery or the like. The balloon is inserted into an artery or vein and manipulated by a physician through the vascular system until the balloon is in the vicinity of the blockage. Fluid is then forced from the syringe into the balloon to inflate the balloon and compress the material blocking the artery against the walls of the artery to unblock the blood vessel. The balloon is then deflated and removed from the patient.It has long been appreciated that to avoid injury to the patient the angioplasty balloon should not be inflated for too long a period of time or to too great a pressure. To monitor the pressure in the balloon, electronic monitors have been used with angioplasty systems that digitally display the pressure, 

typically in atmospheres, within the balloon as sensed by an electronic pressure transducer placed in fluid communication with the balloon. The electronic pressure transducer generates an electrical pressure signal corresponding to the pressure in the balloon. The electrical pressure signal is coupled over wires to conversion circuitry in the electronic monitor which typically compares the electric pressure signal to a reference value with the difference therebetween being representative of the actual pressure in the balloon.The conversion circuitry converts that difference into a numerical value for display on the digital numerical read-out.One drawback with such conventional electronic angioplasty systems is the inability to verify that the conversion circuitry is working properly and thus that the displayed pressure is correct. While systems for blood pressure transducers have been developed to test the reliability of the wires to the monitor and of the pressure transducer itself in its operating environment, such as that disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,760,730, systems to verify operation of the monitor's conversion circuitry is typically not usable in the operating environment of the angioplasty system. Such testing is inconvenient and removes the monitor from use for possibly a significant period of time. For example, to verify the operation of the conversion circuitry, the 

entire monitor usually must be sent to an electronics lab for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A balloon catheter pressure monitor comprising an angioplasty syringe (12) with an outlet (20) connectable to a balloon catheter (18) having a balloon (16) to be inflated and deflated, pressure transducer means (22) mounted in fluid communication with the syringe outlet (20) for generating an electrical pressure signal corresponding to the pressure in the balloon (16), conversion circuit means (28, 28', 28") coupled to said pressure transducer means (22) for converting said electrical pressure signal to a numerical pressure value, said conversion circuit means including a read-out (32) for displaying the numerical pressure value, characterized in that verifier circuit means (60, 72) are coupled to the conversion circuit means (28, 28', 28") for selectively causing said conversion circuit means to offset the numerical pressure value by a predetermined amount whereby observing a change in the displayed numerical value on said read-out (32) corresponding to said predetermined amount verifies operation of said conversion circuit means (28, 28' , 28") .
2. The monitor of claim 1 further comprising a module (30) housing said conversion circuit means (28, 28', 28") and said verifier circuit means (60, 72), and an electrical cable (26) interconnecting said module (30) to said pressure transducer means (22) whereby said module (30) is separate from said syringe (12) . 


3. An electronic monitor for a balloon catheter pressure system having an angioplasty syringe (12) with an outlet (20) connectable to a balloon catheter (18) terminating in a balloon (16) to be inflated and deflated and a pressure transducer (22) for generating an electrical pressure signal corresponding to the pressure in the balloon (16) , the monitor comprising conversion circuit means (28, 28', 28") coupled to the pressure transducer (22) for converting the electrical pressure signal to a numerical pressure value, said conversion circuit means including a read-out (32) for displaying the numerical pressure value, characterized in that verifier circuit means (60, 72) are coupled to the conversion circuit means (28, 28', 28") for selectively causing said conversion circuit means to offset the numerical pressure value by a predetermined amount whereby observing a change in the displayed numerical value on said read-out (32) corresponding to said predetermined amount verifies operation of said conversion circuit means (28, 28', 28").
4. The monitor of claim 3 wherein said conversion circuit means (28, 28', 28") and said verifier circuit means (60, 72) are housed in a module (30) , and further comprising an electrical cable (26) interconnecting said module (30) to said pressure transducer (22) whereby the electrical pressure signal is coupled to said conversion 


circuit-means (28, 28', 28") housed in said module separate from said syringe (12) .
5. The monitor of any of claims 1-4 further characterized by reference signal means (60,72) for providing a first and a second reference signal, and switching means (48) having a first position for coupling said first reference signal to said conversion circuit means (28, 28' 28") and a second position for coupling said second reference signal to said conversion circuit means, said numerical pressure value being correlated to said electrical pressure signal and said reference signal provided by said reference signal means such that said numerical pressure value corresponds to said pressure in the balloon (16) in response to said switching means (48) being in said first position and said numerical pressure value corresponds to said pressure in the balloon offset by said predetermined amount in response to said switching means (48) being in said second position.
6. The monitor of claim 5 further comprising a first differential means (64, 74) for providing a differential pressure signal, said differential pressure signal being coupled to said conversion circuit means (28, 28', 28") and being further characterized in that said switching means (48) is coupled to said differential means (64, 74), said differential pressure 


signal correlates to said electrical pressure signal and said reference signal from said reference signal means (60, 72) such that said differential pressure signal corresponds to said pressure in the balloon (16) in response to said switching means (48) being in said first position and said differential pressure signal corresponds to electrical pressure signal offset by said predetermined amount in response to said switching means (48) being in said second position.
7. The monitor of claim 6 wherein said pressure signal from said pressure transducer means (22) has first and second components, said first differential means (64, 74) being coupled to said first pressure signal component, and second differential means (76) for providing a differential pressure component signal, said differential pressure component signal being coupled to said first differential means (64, 74), said second differential means (76) being coupled to said second pressure signal component generated by said pressure transducer (22) and to said reference signal from said reference signal means (60, 72) , and wherein said differential pressure component signal relates to said second pressure signal component and said reference signal such that said differential pressure component signal corresponds to said second pressure signal component coupled to said second differential means in response to said switching means (48) being in said 


first position and said differential pressure component signal corresponds to said second pressure signal component coupled to said second differential means offset by said predetermined amount in response to said switching means (48) being in said second position whereby said differential pressure signal from said first differential means is selectively varied to offset the numerical pressure value by said predetermined amount to verify operation of said conversion circuit means (28, 28' 28").
8. The monitor of any of claims 5-7 wherein said second reference signal corresponds to approximately 10 atmospheres of pressure.
9. A method for verifying operation of a balloon catheter pressure monitor having an angioplasty syringe (12) connected to a balloon catheter (18) terminating in a balloon (16) to be inflated and deflated, comprising mounting a pressure transducer (22) in fluid communication with the syringe (12) , generating an electrical pressure signal corresponding to the pressure in the balloon (16) from the pressure transducer (22) , converting in conversion circuitry (28, 28', 28") the electrical pressure signal to a numerical pressure value, displaying the numerical pressure value on a read-out (32) , and characterized by verifying the operation of the conversion circuitry by selectively 


offsetting the numerical pressure value by a predetermined amount whereby observing a change in the displayed numerical pressure value on said read-out (32) corresponding to said predetermined amount verifies said conversion circuitry (28, 28' 28").
10. The method of claim 9, said verifying step further characterized by providing a first and a second reference signal, said second reference signal corresponding to said predetermined amount, and selectively coupling one of said provided reference signals to the conversion circuitry (28, 28', 28") so that the displayed numerical value displayed on said read-out (32) selectively corresponds to one of the pressure in the balloon (16) and the pressure in the balloon offset by the predetermined amount.
11. The method of claim 9, said verifying step further characterized by providing a first and a second reference signal, said second reference signal corresponding to said predetermined amount, selectively coupling one of said reference signals to a differential means (64, 74), coupling the electrical pressure signal to the differential means (64, 74) so that said differential means generates a differential signal corresponding to the difference between the electrical pressure signal and the reference signal selectively coupled to said differential means (64, 74), and 


coupling the differential signal to the conversion circuitry (28, 28' 28") so that the displayed numerical value displayed on said read-out (32) selectively corresponds to one of the pressure in the balloon (16) and the pressure in the balloon offset by the predetermined amount.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising generating first and second electrical pressure signal components from the transducer, coupling one of the electrical pressure signal components to a first differential means (64, 74) and the other electrical pressure signal component to a second differential means (76) , providing a first and a second reference signal, said second reference signal corresponding to said predetermined amount, selectively coupling one of said reference signals to the first differential means (64, 74) , and coupling a differential signal from said first differential means (64, 74) to the second differential means (76) and a second differential signal from the second differential means (76) to the conversion circuitry (28, 28' 28") so that the displayed numerical value displayed on said read-out (32) selectively corresponds to one of the pressure in the balloon (16) and the pressure in the balloon offset by the predetermined amount. 


13. The method of any of claims 10-12, said second reference signal being provided as a voltage corre¬ sponding to approximately 10 atmospheres of pressure.
14. A monitoring method for a balloon catheter pressure monitor that generates a pressure signal from a pressure transducer (22) in fluid communication with a balloon catheter (18) connected to an angioplasty syringe comprising generating a threshold signal, comparing the pressure signal to the generated threshold signal, and characterized by emitting a pleasant audible indicator after the pressure signal exceeds and then falls below the threshold voltage so that a physician may be informed that a balloon inflation procedure has been completed without averting attention from a patient.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising generating a first voltage corresponding to an ambient pressure in the vicinity of the balloon inflation procedure, generating a second voltage corresponding to a predetermined pressure amount, and summing the first and the second voltages together to generate the threshold voltage.
16. The method of claim 14 or 15 further comprising emitting the audible indicator for a predetermined amount of time. 


17. The method of claim 16 further comprising emitting the audible indicator as a series of pleasant sounding beeps during the predetermined time. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
