<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0161940</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RADIO DIRECTION FINDING FOR LOCATING LIGHTENING GROUND STRIKES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S504	G01S308	G01S504	G01S302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S5	G01S3	G01S5	G01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radio direction finding station for locating lightening 
strikes has three vertical antenna loops (10, 11, 12) in an 

equiangular trigonal arrangement. The vertical loops are 
positioned to minimise magnetic coupling between them and 

with a fourth horizontal loop (14). Filters (25-28) pass only 
signals from the loops with frequencies below about 2.6 kHz 

to eliminate most horizontally polarised components of the 
received radio waves. 
The signal from the horizontal loop represents any re­
sidual horizontally polarised component and is used in a 

central control station to correct for residual polarisation er­
ror in the measured bearings. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRICITY ASSOCIATION SERVICES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCOTT, LAURA JANET
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

 RADIO DIRECTION FINDING FOR LOCATING
 LIGHTENING GROUND STRIKES
 The present invention relates to the location of lightening ground strikes.


 Lightening strikes to ground cause considerable damage to electrical installations and to other property. It is therefore of interest to electricity supply authorities and others to know of the location of such strikes, their strength and to be able to plot movement of electrical storms.


Lightening strikes are powerful emitters of radio frequency energy and radio direction finding techniques are used to locate the strike positions.


These techniques are of limited accuracy and it is the purpose of the present invention to provide a much improved strike locating system.


 Lightening radio emission has a peak source energy in the 5 to 6 kHz frequency region with a total band width extending from a few Hz to hundreds of
MHz. Lightening radio direction finders have traditionally operated in the 9 to 20 kHz part of the spectrum as such frequencies propagate with minimum attenuation to great distances.


 Because of the constraints imposed by the very long wavelength at such frequencies, the only practical direction finding aerials which can be used are vertical loops usually of a square metre or more in area. Commonly, two such loops are used, arranged orthogonally so that the horizontal magnetic (H) field of a vertically polarised (E) field wave will produce differing voltages proportional to the cosine of the angle of the wave direction with respect to the plane of each loop. Dividing one voltage by the other then  gives the tangent of the wave bearing angle with respect to the plane of one of the loops.


 Whilst it is widely used this simple approach is prone to two fundamental errors. These are (a) that the loops also have directivity in the vertical (elevation) as well as the horizontal (azimuth) directions and that (b) when a wave is incident close to the normal to the plane of a loop the induced voltage in that loop is small relative to that in the other loop and subject to noise and measurement errors. Thus there are effectively four dead zones of   + S0,    normal to the planes of the loops, in which the system cannot be used.


 Limitation (a) is the most serious as it has long been known that due to the way in which the radio frequency is generated by a lightening strike and to ionospheric reflections there are present at a direction finding antenna horizontally polarised down caning waves and that these are the cause of azimuth bearing errors of up
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:



 1. Lightening strike direction finding apparatus comprising antenna means responsive to vertically polarised radiation to provide radio frequency signals indicative of the bearing of the source of the radiation and filter means to discriminate against signals from the antenna means at frequencies above a predetermined frequency selected to correspond to the earth-ionsphere waveguide cut off frequency for horizontally polarised radiation.



 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the predetermined frequency is in the range from 1.5 kHz to 2.6 kHz.



 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein the filter means has a pass band for signals from the antenna means at frequencies in the range 1.4 kHz to 2.6 kHz.



 4. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the antenna means comprises three or more loop antenna arranged in vertical planes, with at least two loops in planes at angles other than orthogonal with any third loop.



 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein there are three loop antennas in vertical planes which are equi-angularly distributed.



 6. Apparatus as claimed in either of claims 4 and 5 wherein the loop antennas are mutually positioned relative to one another to minimise magnetic coupling between any two of the loops.  



 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein each loop is positioned with its vertical plane substantially tangential to each of the magnetic fields produced by currents in each of the other loops.



 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the vertical plane of each loop is tangential with each said field at a point of contact which is displaced from the centre of the loop towards the loop producing the respective field.



 9. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 8, including a processing unit and means feeding signals from each of the loop antennas to the processing unit.



   10.    Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein the processing unit is physically located at a predetermined distance from the antenna means to minimise magnetic field disturbance at the antenna means and there is a respective aerial amplifier for amplifying the radio frequency   sigpal    from each loop antenna and cable means for   feeding    the amplified r.f.



signals from the antenna means to the processing unit.



 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the predetermined distance between the antenna means and the processing unit is at least   SO    metres.



   12.    Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 9, 10 and II wherein the processing unit includes threshold detectors for detecting when the amplified radio frequency signal from any loop antenna exceeds a predetermined threshold level and a control unit responsive to the threshold detectors to initiate  processing the radio frequency signals   from      ai      1t#e#    loop antennas.



 13. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 9 to 12 wherein the processing unit includes means to provide digital signals representing the amplitude of the radio frequency signals from the vertical loop antennas and means for calculating from said digitised amplitudes the bearing of the source of radiation relative to the antenna means, said processing unit including a dc electricity supply.



 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13 and including a modem unit physically located at a predetermined separation from the antenna means and arranged   fofr    sending data over a data communication channel to a remote central control station, and a local data link between the processing unit and the modem unit for transmission of said bearing data from the processing unit to the modem unit for onward transmission to the central control station, the modem unit including a source of mains ac supply and means for generating a dc supply from the mains ac supply, and a supply line interconnecting the modem unit with the processing unit for transmitting said dc supply to the processing unit.



 15. Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 where said predetermined separation is at least a half kilometre.



 16. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 9 to 15 wherein there are three equi-angularly distributed loop antennas and said processing unit is arranged to calculate the algebraic sum of the signal magnitudes from each of said vertical loops to provide  an error indication.



 17. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 16 and including a further loop antenna in a non vertical plane to provide a radio frequency signal indicative of the strength of any horizontally polarised component in the radiation from the source.



 18. Apparatus as claimed in claim 17 wherein said non vertical loop antenna is in a horizontal plane.



   19. Apparatus    as claimed in claim 18 wherein said horizontal loop antenna is located relative to said vertical loop antennas to minimise magnetic coupling with any of said vertical loop antennas.



 20. Apparatus for locating a source of radiation and incorporating at least two direction finding apparatus as claimed in any of claims 17 to 19 and further including a central control station arranged to receive bearing data from said at least two direction finding apparatus   ani    to calculate therefrom the position of the source of the radiation and the range of the source from the antenna means of each said direction finding apparatus, the central control station further receiving data from the direction finding apparatus representing the relative magnitude of any horizontally polarised component in the radiation from the source as detected by said further loop antenna and being arranged to compensate for errors in the calculated bearing resulting from said horizontally polarised component.




 21. Apparatus as claimed in claim 18 or 19 wherein the processing unit is arranged to rectify the  radio frequency signal output from the   horlzontal¯lo'oW    antenna synchronously relative to the phases of the radio frequency output signals of each of the vertical loop antennas, whereby to preserve the relative polarity of the signal from the horizontal loop antenna.



 22. Apparatus as claimed in claim 21 wherein the processing unit is arranged to derive a value corresponding to the ratio of the amplitude of the signal from the horizontal loop antenna with the vector sum of the signals from the vertical loop antennas.

 


   23t    Apparatus for locating the position of a source of   radiation    and including at least two direction finding apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, and further including a central control station linked to said at least two direction finding apparatus and arranged to receive therefrom data defining the bearings of the source relative to the antenna means of the direction finding apparatus, and to calculate therefrom the position of the source.



 24. Apparatus as claimed in claim 23 and arranged to treat bearing data arriving from said at least two direction finding apparatus in a predetermined window time as bearing data relating to the same radiation source.

 


 25. Apparatus as claimed in claim 24 wherein said window time is less than 10 mS.



 26. Apparatus as claimed in claim 25 wherein said window time is less than 5 mS. 

 27. Radio direction finding antenna apparatus having three or more loop antennas arranged in vertical planes, wherein there are always at least two loops in planes at angles other than orthogonal with any third   loop.   



 28 Radio direction finding apparatus having a plurality of loop antennas in angularly spaced vertical planes for providing radio frequency signals indicative of the bearing of vertically polarised radiation from a source of radiation, and a further loop antenna in a non vertical plane to provide a radio frequency signal indicative of the strength of any horizontal component in the radiation from the source, 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
