<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645381</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Plural stage drying and purification of propylene oxide
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07D30100	C07D30300	C07D30132	C07D30304	B01D314	B01D340	B01D334	B01D314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07D301	C07D303	C07D301	C07D303	B01D3	B01D3	B01D3	B01D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Crude propylene oxide is purified by a distillation 
process wherein it is (a) extractively distilled in a 

first column using a C₂ to C₆ alkylene glycol extractive 
distillation agent to form a first overhead fraction 

comprising propylene oxide, C₅ to C₇ hydrocarbons, 
methanol, water and oxygen-containing impurities, (b) 

wherein the first overhead fraction is separated in a 
plurality of intermediate distillation columns to provide 

an intermediate propylene oxide overhead fraction 
consisting essentially of propylene oxide and water, and 

(c) the intermediate propylene oxide overhead fraction is 
charged to a final distillation column using a C₂ to C₆ 

alkylene glycol extractive distillation agent to form a 
final overhead fraction consisting essentially of 

propylene oxide. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUNTSMAN SPEC CHEM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUNTSMAN SPECIALTY CHEMICALS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR MARK ELLIOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, MARK ELLIOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the plural stage drying and 
purification of propylene oxide. More particularly, this 
invention relates to a plural stage distillation process for 
removing contaminating quantities of impurities, including 
water, from propylene oxide. Still more particularly, this 
invention relates to a plural stage distillation process for 
the purification of impure propylene oxide contaminated with 
impurities such as water, propylene, propane, acetaldehyde, 
methyl formate, propionaldehyde, hexenes, acetone, hexanes, 
methanol, t-butyl alcohol, pentane, isopentane, pentenes, 
isopropyl alcohol and t-butyl formate. The impure propylene 
oxide is distilled by a plural stage process using a C2 to C6 
alkylene glycol extractive distillation agent in a first 
drying stage and a terminal drying stage and a C7 to C10 
alkane hydrocarbon extractive distillation agent for intermediate 
purification stages. It is known to use alkane hydrocarbons containing 6 to 18 
carbon atoms as extractive distillation agents in the purification 
of propylene oxide. See, for example, Binning et al.  
 
U. S. Patent No. 3,338,800, Jubin U. S. Patent No. 3,464,897, 
Jubin U. S. Patent No. 3,607,669 and Schmidt U. S. Patent No. 
3,843,488. Jubin U. S. Patent No. 3,464,897 shows that an 
alkane such as octane is effective for the removal of 6 carbon 
atom alkane impurities such as 2-methyl pentane, 4-methyl 
pentene-1, 2-methyl pentene-1 and 2-methyl pentene-2. Schmidt 
U. S. Patent No. 3,843,488 shows that alkanes containing from 
8 to 20 carbon atoms, and preferably from 8 to 10 carbon 
atoms, such as n-octane, is effective for removing hydrocarbon 
impurities containing 5 to 7 carbon atoms from propylene 
oxide. It is also known to use alkylene glycols containing from 
2 to 6 carbon atoms as extractive distillation agents in the 
purification of propylene oxide. See, for example, Washall 
U. S. Patent No. 3,578,568, Kageyama et al. U. S. Patent No. 
3,838,020, Shih et al. U. S. Patent No. 5,000,825, Marquis 
et al. U. S. Patent No. 5,139,622, and Marquis et al. U. S. 
Patent No. 5,160,587. Thus, Washall U. S. Patent No. 
3,578,568 discloses the use of ethylene glycol and propylene 
glycol as extractive agents for the purification of propylene 
oxide. Kageyama et al. U. S. Patent No. 3,838,020 discloses 
the use of butylene glycols for this purpose. Shih et al. 
U. S. Patent No. 5,000,825 discloses the use of glycols 
containing 2 to 4 carbon atoms such as ethylene glycol, 
propane diol, butane diol, etc. Marquis
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the purification of crude propylene oxide 
contaminated with minor amounts of water, C
5
 and C
6
 
hydrocarbons and oxygen-containing impurities which 

comprises the steps of: 

extractively distilling said crude propylene oxide in 
the presence of a C
2
 to C
6
 alkylene glycol extractive 
distillation agent in a first extractive distillation zone 

under extractive distillation conditions selected to 
provide a first lighter distillation fraction comprising 

propylene oxide, water and said hydrocarbon and oxygen-containing 
impurities and a first heavier distillation 

fraction comprising said extractive distillation agent and 
a portion of the water present in the crude propylene 

oxide; 
distilling said first lighter distillation fraction in 
a second distillation column, a third extractive 

distillation column and a fourth extractive distillation 
column in the presence of a C
8
-C
10
 alkane hydrocarbon 
extractive distillation agent to remove said hydrocarbon 

and oxygen-containing impurities and to provide a fourth 
distillation fraction consisting essentially of propylene 

oxide and a minor amount of water; and 
extractively distilling said fourth fraction in a 
fifth distillation column in the presence of a C
2
-C
6
 
alkylene glycol extractive distillation agent under 

distillation conditions selected to provide a final fifth 
lighter distillation fraction consisting essentially of 

dehydrated propylene oxide and a final fifth heavier 
distillation fraction comprising said extractive 

distillation agent, water and a minor amount of propylene 
oxide. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the heavier 
final fifth distillation fraction is recycled to said first  

 
extractive distillation column. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the 
distillation conditions in the first distillation column 

include a bottoms temperature of 150°C - 200°C, a bottoms 
pressure of 140 - 345 kPa, a temperature adjacent to the 

top of the first distillation column of 26°C - 50°C, a 
pressure adjacent to the top of the column of 105 - 174 kPa 

and a ratio of crude propylene oxide to said C
2
-C
6
 alkylene 
glycol of 2 - 7, and wherein the distillation conditions in 

said fifth distillation column include a temperature 
adjacent the bottom of said fifth distillation column of 

90°C- 105°C, a pressure adjacent the bottom of said fifth 
distillation column of 140 - 345 kPa, a temperature 

adjacent the top of said distillation column of 30°C - 50°C, 
a pressure adjacent the top of said fifth distillation 

column of 105 - 175 kPa and a ratio of said second heavier 
distillation fraction to said C
2
-C
6
 alkylene glycol 
extraction agent of 4 to 6. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 for separating 
contaminated quantities of hexenes, hexanes, pentenes, 

pentanes, water and oxygen-containing impurities from 
impure propylene oxide which comprises: 


extractively distilling the impure propylene oxide in 
the first distillation column to form a first overhead 

fraction comprising propylene oxide, water, hexenes, 
hexanes, pentenes, pentanes, water, methanol and oxygen-containing 

impurities boiling above propylene oxide; 
fractionating the first overhead fraction in a second 
distillation column to obtain a second overhead fraction 

comprising essentially all of the pentanes and pentenes and 
most of the oxygen-containing impurities boiling above 

propylene oxide and a partially purified second propylene 
oxide bottoms fraction comprising propylene oxide, water, 

hexenes and hexanes:  
 
extractively distilling the partially purified second 
bottoms fraction in a third distillation column using a C
8
 
to C
10
 alkane hydrocarbon extractive distillation agent to 
provide a further purified bottoms third fraction 

comprising substantially all of the propylene oxide, 
water, hexenes and hexanes charged to the third 

distillation column; 
extractively distilling the further purified third 
bottoms fraction in a fourth distillation column using a 

C
8
 to C
10
 alkane hydrocarbon extractive distillation agent 
to provide an additionally purified fourth propylene oxide 

overhead fraction consisting essentially of water and 
propylene oxide free of said contaminants; and 
extractively distilling the fourth propylene oxide 
overhead fraction in a fifth terminal distillation column 

using a C
2
 to C
6
 alkylene glycol extractive distillation 
agent a fifth overhead fraction consisting to form 

essentially of propylene oxide. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 for the purification 
of crude propylene oxide contaminated with impurities 

including water, propylene, propane, acetaldehyde, methyl 
formate, propionaldehyde, hexenes, hexanes, acetone, 

methanol, t-butyl alcohol, pentane, isopentane, pentenes, 
isopropyl alcohol and t-butyl formate which comprises the 

steps of: 

charging said crude propylene oxide feedstock to a 
first extractive distillation column; 
charging a C
2
 to C
6
 alkylene glycol extractive 
distillation agent to said first extractive distillation 

column at a feed point above the point of introduction of 
said impure propylene oxide;  

 
fractionating said crude propylene oxide in said 
first extractive distillation column under distillation 

conditions selected to provide a first lighter distillation 
fraction containing propylene oxide, propylene, propane, 

acetaldehyde, methyl formate, hexenes, hexanes, pentenes and 
pentanes, methanol and water and a first heavier distillation 

fraction containing substantially all of the propionaldehyde, 
acetone, t-butyl alcohol, t-butyl formate, isopropyl alcohol, 

the remainder of the methanol and water and substantially all 
of the extractive distillation agent; 
charging a second feedstock comprising said first 
lighter distillation fraction to a second distillation column; 
fractionating said second feedstock in said second 
distillation column under distillation conditions selected to 

provide a second lighter distillation fraction containing 
water, all of the propylene, propane, acetaldehyde, pentanes 

and pentenes, and a residual amount of propylene oxide, and a 
second heavier partially purified distillation fraction 

comprising propylene oxide, water, hexenes and hexanes; 
charging a third feedstock comprising said second 
heavier distillation fraction to a third extractive distillation 

column; 
charging a C
8
 to C
10
 alkane hydrocarbon extractive 
distillation agent to said third extractive distillation 

column at a feed point above the point of introduction of said 
third feedstock;  

 
fractionating said third feedstock in said third 
extractive distillation column under distillation conditions 

selected to provide a third further purified lighter distillation 
fraction containing water and substantially all of the 

acetaldehyde, methyl formate and methanol and residual 
quantities of propylene oxide and octane, and a third heavier 

distillation fraction containing water, substantially all of 
the propylene oxide and extractive distillation agent charged 

to said third distillation column and substantially all of the 
hexenes and hexanes charged to said third distillation column; 
charging a fourth feedstock comprising said third 
heavier distillation fraction to a fourth extractive distillation 

column; 
charging a C
8
 to C
10
 alkane hydrocarbon extractive 
distillation agent to said fourth extractive distillation 

column at a feed point above the point of introduction of said 
third feedstock; 
fractionating said fourth feedstock in said fourth 
extractive distillation column under distillation conditions 

selected to provide a fourth lighter additionally purified 
intermediate distillation fraction consisting essentially of 

propylene oxide and water and a fourth heavier distillation 
fraction containing substantially all of the extractive 

distillation agent, hexenes and hexanes charged to said third 
distillation column, and also residual quantities of propylene 

oxide;  
 
charging a fifth intermediate feedstock comprising 
said fourth lighter distillation fraction to a fifth 

extractive distillation column, charging a C
2
 to C
6
 
alkylene glycol extractive distillation agent to said 

fifth extractive distillation column at a feed point above 
the point of introduction of said fourth feedstock; and 
fractionating said fifth feedstock in said fifth 
extractive distillation column under extractive 

distillation conditions selected to provide a fifth 
lighter distillation fraction consisting essentially of 

propylene oxide and a fifth heavier distillation fraction 
comprising water, extractive distillation agents and 

residual quantities of propylene oxide, and recycling said 
fifth heavier distillation fraction to said first 

distillation column. 
A method as claimed in Claim 5, wherein the seventh 
feedstock comprising said third lighter distillation 

fraction and said fourth heavier distillation fraction is 
charged to a seventh distillation column; and
 
   wherein said seventh feedstock is fractionated in 

said seventh distillation column under distillation 
conditions selected to provide a seventh lighter 

distillation fraction containing water and substantially 
all of the acetaldehyde, methyl formate, propylene oxide, 

hexenes and methanol and a minor portion of the C
8
 to C
10
 
alkane hydrocarbon charged to the seventh distillation 

column and a seventh heavier distillation fraction 
containing substantially all of the C
8
 to C
10
 alkane 
extractive distillation agent charged to the third and 

fourth distillation columns, and wherein said seventh 
heavier distillation fraction is recycled to said third 

and fourth distillation columns as said third and fourth 
extractive distillation agents. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
