<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651951</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for producing blended cigarette filler
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A24B318	A24B300	A24B714	A24B700	A24B1300	A24B308	A24B1300	A24B312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A24B	A24B	A24B	A24B	A24B	A24B	A24B	A24B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A24B3	A24B3	A24B7	A24B7	A24B13	A24B3	A24B13	A24B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of producing blended cigarette filler is provided. 
Each component of the blend is processed individually through the 

cutting step for filling value enhancement. The individual cut 
components are then blended and the blended cut filler treated further, 

such as with final flavorings. Processing components individually 
allows each component to be treated under conditions optimized for 

that component, resulting in a blend that can produce cigarettes with 
lower weight at the same volume and firmness, fewer loose ends, and 

more uniform delivery and taste. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK STEPHEN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRATTOLILLO ANTONIO P A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLAND TOMMY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLINS ROBERT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOD CLIFTON A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK, STEPHEN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRATTOLILLO, ANTONIO P.A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLAND, TOMMY C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLINS, ROBERT S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOD, CLIFTON A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the production of blended
cigarette filler. More particularly, this invention relates to the
production of different blended cigarette fillers in a way that is more
flexible with respect to changing from one blend to the other, and that
improves the process yield and filling power, and controls the
subjective character, of the resulting blended cigarette filler.The many cigarette brands currently available are
differentiated in part by the blend of tobaccos used in the cigarette
filler for each brand. These blended cigarette fillers include a number
of different tobacco components, including, but not limited to, bright
(or Virginia) tobacco, burley tobacco, and oriental tobacco, as well as a
number of pre-processed and reprocessed tobacco components such as
expanded tobacco, expanded stems, or one or more of a number of types
of reconstituted or non-reconstituted tobacco. Each blend may also be
distinguished by the conditions under which the components were
processed, as well as by the various flavorings, or "casings", applied to 
the blend, both to the individual components before blending and to the
total blend.Further, even within each type of tobacco component, there
are various grades of tobacco. For example, leaves in certain positions
on the tobacco plant are of different quality. Leaves of lower quality
include flyings, sandy lugs and tips in burley tobacco, sandy leaves,
primings and tips in bright tobacco, and third and fourth class and tips
in oriental tobacco. Tobacco blends are further distinguished by the
amounts of these components of
different quality.The production of blended cigarette filler from these
various components is sometimes referred to as the "primary
processing" stage of cigarette manufacture. Known primary processing
methods are designed to produce large quantities of a relatively small
number of blends, and are not well-suited to contemporary demands for
a relatively large number of blends.For example, one known primary processing method is as
follows:First, the various types of tobacco are separately vacuum
conditioned to destroy insects and to add heat and moisture. Second, a
number of the component tobaccos may be further processed in a
conditioning cylinder, in which the leaf is opened up and "pads" of
tobacco (agglomerations of strip and leaves) are eliminated, by
tumbling and the application of steam and water. This stage may also
include the use of a number of air separators to help eliminate pads. In
addition, various types of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method (20) of preparing blended cigarette filler
including a plurality of filler components comprising the steps of:


for each component, treating (21) the component under treatment conditions
optimized for that component, and cutting (21) the component to produce a cut filler component; and then
blending a plurality of cut filler components to produce
blended cigarette filler.
A method (20) according to claim 1 wherein at least one
of the filler components comprises a sheet material.
A method (20) according to claim 2 wherein the sheet
material comprises tobacco.
A method (20) according to claim 2 or 3 wherein the
tobacco sheet material comprises tobacco leaf.
A method (20) according to claim 2 or 3 wherein the
tobacco sheet material comprises reconstituted tobacco sheet.
A method (20) according to any preceding claim wherein
the treating step (21) comprises at least one of:


expanding the component; and
casing the component.
A method (20) according to claim 6 wherein the expanding
step is carried out under conditions optimized for the component.
A method (20) according to claim 7 wherein the expansion
conditions are optimized to maximize expansion of the component.
A method (20) according to claim 7 wherein the expansion
conditions are optimized to maximize filling power of the

component. 
A method (20) according to claim 7 wherein the expansion
conditions are optimized to maximize survivability of the

component.
A method (20) according to claim 6 wherein the casing
step comprises applying a casing optimized for the component.
A method (20) according to any preceding claim wherein
the step of cutting the component comprises cutting the component

under cutting conditions optimized for the component.
A method (20) according to claim 12 wherein the optimized
cutting conditions include a cutting width optimized for the

component.
A method (20) according to claim 12 or 13 wherein the
cutting width is optimized to maximize filling power of the

component.
A method (20) according to claim 12 or 13 wherein the
cutting conditions are optimized to maximize survivability of the

cigarette filler.
A method (20) according to claim 12 or 13 wherein the
cutting conditions are optimized to minimize formation of fines

during the cutting step.
A method (20) according to claim 13, 14, 15 or 16 wherein
the cutting width is wider for a lower quality component of a

particular type than for a higher quality component of that type.
A method (20) according to any of claims 12 to 17 wherein
the cutting width is between 1 mm and 2.6 mm (between 25 cuts per

inch and 10 cuts per inch) for flyings, sandy lugs or tips from
burley tobacco;


sandy leaves, primings, or tips from bright tobacco; or
third or fourth class or tips from oriental tobacco.
A method (20) according to claim 18 wherein the cutting
width is about 1.8 mm (about 14 cuts per inch). 
A method (20) according to any of claims 12 to 17 wherein
the cutting width is between 0.85 mm and 0.95 mm (between 30 cuts

per inch and 26 cuts per inch) for:

good lugs or cutters from burley or bright tobacco;
first or second class oriental tobacco; or
reconstituted tobacco components.
A method (20) according to claim 20 wherein the cutting
width is about 0.9 mm (about 28 cuts per inch).
A method (20) according to any of claims 12 to 17 wherein
the cutting width is between 0.65 mm and 0.85 mm (between 39 cuts

per inch and 30 cuts per inch) for:

leaf of burley tobacco;
leafy tips of burley tobacco;
leaf of bright tobacco; or
leafy tips of bright tobacco.
A method (20) according to claim 22 wherein the cutting
width is about 0.75 mm (about 34 cuts per inch).
A method (20) according to any of claims 12 to 17 wherein
the cutting width is between 0.15 mm and 0.25 mm (between 169 cuts

per inch and 102 cuts per inch) for flue-cured tobacco stems.
A method (20) according to claim 24 wherein the cutting
width is about 0.2 mm (about 127 cuts per inch).
A method (20) according to any of claims 12 to 17 wherein
the cutting width is between 0.2 mm and 0.3 mm (between 127 cuts

per inch and 85 cuts per inch) for:

air-cured tobacco stems; or
fire-cured tobacco stems.
A method (20) according to claim 26 wherein the cutting
width is about 0.25 mm (about 101 cuts per inch).
A method (20) according to any preceding claim wherein
the step of treating one component under treatment conditions

optimized for the component comprises heating and/or moisturizing 
of the component prior to cutting.
A method (20) according to claim 28 wherein the heating
step comprises heating the component at near equilibrium moisture

conditions and the cutting step comprises maintaining the near
equilibrium moisture condition of the component during cutting.
A method (20) according to claim 28 or 29 wherein the
heating step comprises heating the component to a temperature

between 54°C (130°F) and 77°C (170°F).
A method (20) according to claim 30 wherein the heating
step comprises heating the component to 66°C (150°F).
A method (20) according to any of claims 28 to 31 wherein
the heating step comprises maintaining the component at a moisture

content of from 13% O.V. to 18% O.V.
A method (20) according to any of claims 28 to 32 wherein
the heating step comprises subjecting the component to microwave

radiation.
A method (20) according to any of claims 28 to 32 wherein
the heating step comprises subjecting the component to steam.
A method (20) according to claim 34 wherein the heating
step comprises subjecting the component to superheated steam.
The method of claim 1 wherein said treatment conditions
are optimized to maximize filling power of said cigarette filler.
A method (20) according to any preceding claim further
comprising storing each cut filler component after the cutting

step; and wherein the blending step is performed substantially on
demand when the blended cigarette filler is required to produce

cigarettes, the stored cut filler component being used in the
blending step.
A method (20) according to claim 37 wherein the cutting
step and the treatment step are performed substantially 

continually to produce the cut filler components for storage and
the blending step is performed at intervals as required.
A method (20) according to claim 38 wherein the intervals
are regular.
A method (20) according to claim 38 wherein the intervals
are irregular.
A method (20) according to any preceding claim further
comprising adding at least one additional filler component.
A method (20) according to claim 41 wherein the
additional component is pre-treated.
A method (20) according to any preceding claim further
comprising treating the blended cigarette filler.
A method (20) according to claim 41 or 42 and to claim
43 wherein the blended cigarette filler is treated before addition

of the additional component.
A method (20) according to claim 41 or 42 and to claim
43 wherein the blended cigarette filler is treated after addition

of the additional component.
A method (20) according to claim 43, 44 or 45 wherein the
step of treating the blended cigarette filler comprises casing the

blended cigarette filler.
A method (20) according to claim 46 wherein the casing
is optimized for the blend.
A method (20) according to claim 46 or 47 wherein the
casing is applied close in time to use of the blended cigarette

filler in cigarette production, minimizing evaporation of volatile
fractions of the casing.
A method (20) according to any preceding claim wherein
the treatment conditions are optimized to maximize survivability 

of the cigarette filler.
A method (20) according to any preceding claim wherein
the treatment conditions are optimized to minimize formation of

fines in the cigarette filler. 
A method (20) according to any preceding claim of
preparing blended cigarette filler having improved filling power,

the blended cigarette filler including a plurality of filler

components comprising the steps of:

for each component, treating the component to improve the
filling power of the component under treatment conditions

optimized for the component, and cutting the component to produce
a cut filler component; and then
blending a plurality of said cut filler components to
produce blended cigarette filler.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
