<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652081</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tool extension attachment
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01G300	A01G3025	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01G	A01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01G3	A01G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tool extension attachment particularly for electrically 
powered tools comprises a main spar (10) carrying at its 

forward end a cradle (12) on which a tool such as a hedge 
trimmer (14) can be detachably mounted and having towards 

intermediate its ends a handle (20) on or adjacent which 
an on/off switch (22) is provided. A control arm (16) 

coupled by control rods (18) or levers or cables to the 
cradle, enables the tool to be adjusted in pan and tilt. 

A counterweight (28) is mounted at or near the rear end of 
the spar 10. The positions of the handle (20) and 

counterweight (28) are adjustable as in the weight of the 
counterweight to accommodate different tool weights. A 

shoulder strap 30 or a shoulder pad/harness 53 is provided 
to allow the weight of the equipment to be at least in 

part transferred to the shoulder of a user. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAILEY PETER J D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAILEY, PETER J.D.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAILEY PETER J D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAILEY, PETER J.D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an attachment according to the pre-characterising portion
of claim 1 for a tool, (typically a power tool) to extend the
normal range of operation to an increased distance from the user, especially in height.
Such an attachment is known from US-A-4207675.
The invention is of particular application to a power pruning saw or more especially a
hedge trimmer, but is not limited to such devices which are mentioned by way of example
only.In use of a domestic or an industrial hedge trimmer, the range of operation is normally
limited to a height of the order of the height of a operator. Where trimming of a high
hedge is required, ladders or steps have to be employed to enable the operator to access
the higher parts of the hedge. Sometimes, as when a hedge is sited on top of a bank, the
erection of some form of scaffolding is necessary. The same problem can arise with a
power pruner or saw for cutting the overhead branches of trees, and with any powered
tools such as drills, buffing and sanding tools, paint spraying apparatus, grinding tools and
the like.US-A-4,760,646, DE-A-3904964 and CH-A-196896 disclose prior art embodiments
of tool extension attachments which attempt to
allow for trimming of high branches and the like. US-A-4,207,675 provides an extension
handle for an electrically powered hand tool.It is an object of this invention to provide a solution to the aforesaid problem, whereby
the use of ladders, steps or scaffolding is rendered unnecessary when using powered tools
such as when using a hedge trimmer for trimming or cutting up to a certain level above
the normal maximum possible height. According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a power tool extension
attachment comprising a main spar, a cradle pivotally mounted at a forward end of the
main spar for detachably holding the tool, handle means joined to the spar at a position
intermediate the ends thereof, control means on or adjacent the handle means for
controlling operation of the power tool, control arm means mounted for movement relative to the
main spar and force transfer means interconnecting the control arm means and the tool
cradle, characterised in that the control arm means is pivotally mounted so that at least the
angle of tilt of the axis of the tool is adjustable relative to the axis of the main spar by
pivotal movement of the control arm means relative to the spar.Preferably, the cradle and the control arm are pivotally mounted relative to the main spar
and interconnected so that not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims for the following Contracting States : DE, FR, NL
A power tool extension attachment comprising a main spar (10, 10'), a cradle (12) pivotally
mounted at a forward end of the main spar for detachably holding the tool (14), handle

means (20, 57) joined to the spar at a position intermediate the ends thereof, control
means (22, 62) on or adjacent the handle means for controlling operation of the power tool,

control arm means (16; 57, 57') mounted for movement relative to the main spar and
force transfer means (18) interconnecting the control arm means and the tool cradle,

characterised in that the control arm means is pivotally mounted so that at least the angle
of tilt of the axis of the tool is adjustable relative to the axis of the main spar by pivotal

movement of the control arm means relative to the spar.
An attachment according to claim 1, in which the force transfer means comprises a
control rod (18; 18).
An attachment according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein tilt of the tool cradle is
controlled by pivotal forward and backward movement of the control arm means relative

to the length of the main spar.
An attachment according to claim 1, or claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the cradle and
the control arm means are pivotally mounted relative to the main spar and interconnected

so that not only the tilt but also the pan of the tool is adjustable.
An attachment according to claim 4, wherein pan of the tool cradle is controlled by
rotation of the control arm means about the main spar.
An attachment according to claim 4 or claim 5, wherein tilt and pan control as
aforesaid is enabled by use of two force transfer means interconnecting the control arm

means and the cradle. 
An attachment according to claim 6, in which the two force transfer means comprise
a pair of parallel connecting rods.
An attachment according to any of claims 1 to 7, in which the tool is electrically
powered and electric current therefor is supplied for the control means through a cable,

part of which is coiled to accommodate expansion and reduction in length when the tool
is adjusted in position.
An attachment according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein behind the handle means,
the main spar is adapted to carry a counterweight.
An attachment according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein support means is provided
for transferring at least some of the weight of the equipment to the shoulder of the user.
An attachment according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the control arm means
comprises two control arms (57, 57') which extend laterally on opposite sides of the main

spar and downward extensions thereof comprise the handle means (57, 57') and hand grips
(38, 38') are provided thereon to enable the handle means to be gripped by the user using

both hands, in use.
An attachment according to claim 11, in which the control arms and force transfer
means are so arranged that differential fore and aft movement of the control arms (57,

57') causes the tool to pan, whilst equal fore and aft movement of the control arms (57,
57') adjusts said angle of tilt.
A kit of parts of a power tool extension attachment according to any of the preceding claims.
comprising a main spar which can be assembled from two or more spar lengths, means

for assembly of a tool cradle and for mounting said cradle to a forward end of the main
spar, handle means mounted on or mountable on the main spar intermediate the ends

thereof, said handle incorporating a control means for controlling operation of a power tool
carried by the cradle, and either comprising or having pivotally mounted near thereto

control arm means pivotally moveable relative to the spar and at least one force transfer 
means interconnectable between the control arm means and the cradle to enable at least

the tilt of a tool carried thereon to be adjusted.
Claims for the following Contracting State : GB
A power tool extension attachment comprising a main spar, (10, 10') a cradle (12) pivotally
mounted at a forward end of the main spar for detachably holding the tool (14), handle

means (20, 57) joined to the spar at a position intermediate the ends thereof, control
means (22, 62) on or adjacent the handle means for controlling operation of the power tool,

control arm means (16; 57, 57') mounted for movement relative to the main spar and
force transfer means (18) interconnecting the control arm means and the tool cradle,

characterised in that the control arm means is pivotally mounted so that at least the angle of
tilt of the axis of the tool is adjustable relative to the axis of the main spar by pivotal

movement of the control arm means relative to the spar, the control arm means comprising
two control arms which extend laterally on opposite sides of the main spar and downward

extensions thereof comprise the handle means (57, 57') and hand grips (38, 38') being
provided thereon to enable the handle means to be gripped by the user using both hands,

in use.
An attachment according to claim 1, wherein the cradle and the control arm means
are pivotally mounted relative to the main spar and interconnected so that not only the tilt

but also the pan of the tool is adjustable.
An attachment according to claim 2, in which the control arms and force transfer
means are so arranged that differential fore and aft movement of the control arms (57,

57') causes the tool to pan, whilst equal fore and aft movement of the control arms (57,
57') adjusts said angle of tilt.
An attachment according to claim 2 or 3, wherein tilt and pan control as aforesaid is 
enabled by use of two force transfer means interconnecting the control arm means and the

cradle.
An attachment according to claim 4, in which the force transfer means comprise a
pair of connecting rods.
An attachment according to any of claims 1 to 5, in which the tool is electrically
powered and electric current therefor is supplied for the control means through a cable,

part of which is coiled to accommodate expansion and reduction in length when the tool
is adjusted in position.
An attachment according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein, behind the handle means,
the main spar is adapted to carry a counterweight.
An attachment according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein support means is provided
for transferring at least some of the weight of the equipment to the shoulder of the user.
A kit of parts of a power tool extension attachment according to any of the preceding claims,
comprising a main spar which can be assembled from two or more spar lengths, means

for assembly of a tool cradle and for mounting said cradle to a forward end of the main
spar, handle means mounted on or mountable on the main spar intermediate the ends

thereof, said handle incorporating a control means for controlling operation of a power tool
carried by the cradle, and either comprising or having pivotally mounted near thereto

control arm means pivotally moveable relative to the spar and at least one force transfer
means interconnectable between the control arm means and the cradle to enable at least

the tilt of a tool carried thereon to be adjusted.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
