<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658230</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FENCE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01F1504	E01D1900	E01F1502	E01D1910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01F	E01D	E01F	E01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01F15	E01D19	E01F15	E01D19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A post (2) for use in a post and rail crash barrier (1) comprising a lower end (3) to be secured to a base (4), a front face (6) to which one or more rails (8) may be secured and two side faces, the rear face and/or at least one of the side faces (9, 10) being formed at a position intermediate its length with a horizontally extending first notch (16) having upper and lower surfaces (18, 19). When the lower end is restrained, an impact load transmitted to the front face (6) causes the post (2) to distort in a region including the notch (16) so that the surfaces (18, 19) close towards one another prior to any fracture at or adjacent the front face of the post or at or adjacent its restrained lower end (3).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCAN ALUMINIUM LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCAN ALUMINIUM UK LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGREGOR IAIN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON PETER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGREGOR, IAIN, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON, PETER, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to fences and more particularly to 
crash barriers for location alongside a vehicle carrying 
bridge or road. Many proposals have been made and crash barriers are in 
extensive use in many countries. GB patent 1209191 shows a 
construction in aluminium alloy which has been widely used. 
In the arrangement of GB 1209191 a series of upright posts are 
joined by several horizontal rails. The posts are designed to 
be frangible and to fail upon vehicle impact in order to 
absorb as much of the impact energy as possible. The failure 
zone in this case is at or near a welded joint between the 
post and a base plate and it has not proved possible to 
predict accurately the impact load that will cause failure. 
This is because there can be significant differences in the 
strength characteristics of the welds from post to post and 
also adjacent to the welds there is a heat affected zone which 
again may vary the strength characteristics of one post 
compared with another. Thus it has been found that the posts of GB 1209191 tend to 
tear away their base weld upon rotation, upon impact, through 
about 2° but that the impact load to achieve this varies from 
post to post by up to 30%. Applicants are aware of one previous proposal to provide more 
accurate and reproducible post distortion. This is in a 
Japanese product (GB 2032496 A) where the rear wall of each 
post is formed with a shallow inward curve extending from the 
base of the post to a position nearly halfway of its height. 
This arrangement undoubtedly ensures that upon impact the post  
 
will crumple firstly at the curve. However the vertical 
extent of the curve and the uncertainty of its large radius of 
curvature ensures that there will still be variations in 
distortion of different posts subjected to the same impact 
load. In the arrangement of GB 1209191 the rails are formed with a 
rearwardly facing re-entrant slot to receive the heads of four 
bolts secured through holes in the flat front faces of the 
posts. With this arrangement, the restraint to "windmilling" 
is dependent only upon the four bolts. Additionally GB 1209191 provides for sheets of wire mesh to be 
provided as infill between the rails. However different rail 
sections having extruded slots are used to receive differently 
sized sheets of mesh. During accident damage repair it is 
necessary to partly dismantle the rail structure to slide out 
the mesh and replace it. Thus it is the object of the present invention to provide an 
improved crash barrier of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A post (2) for use in a post and rail crash barrier (1) 
comprising a lower end (12) to be secured to a base (3), a 

front face (6) to which one or more rails (8) may be secured 
a rear face (7) and two side faces (9 and 10), characterised 

in that the rear face or the rear face and at least one of the 
side faces is formed at a position intermediate its length 

with a horizontally extending first notch or cut-out (13, 16, 
17) having upper and lower surfaces (18, 19) so that, when the 

lower end is restrained, an impact load transmitted to the 
front face causes the post to distort in a region including 

the notch so that the surfaces close towards one another prior 
to any fracture at or adjacent the front face of the post or 

at or adjacent its restrained lower end. 
A post according to claim 1 in which the distortion 
continues until the surfaces close together. 
A post according to claim 1 in which the distortion 
continues until the surfaces close on to an intermediate 

member (41). 
A post according to claim 2 or claim 3 in which the 
impact load required to distort the post after the surfaces 

have closed together or against an intermediate member is not 
less than that required to commence closure of the surfaces. 
A post according to claim 2 or claim 3 in which one or 
more additional notches are provided above the first notch, 

all the notches being of such size and shape that upon 
application of the impact load their upper and lower faces 

close together in vertical succession.  
 
A post according to any one of the preceding claims which 
is a hollow extrusion from an aluminium alloy and is generally 

rectangular in cross-section, with two sidewalls and front and 
rear faces and having a web (11) extending across the post 

between the side walls at a position spaced from the front and 
rear faces. 
A post according to any one of the preceding claims in 
which the upper end of the rear face is tapered upwardly 

towards the front face. 
A post according to any one of the preceding claims in 
which the or each notch is -V- shaped. 
A post according to any one of claims 1 to 7 in which the 
or each notch (13) is parallel sided with a flat base incorporating 

subsidiary notches (16, 17). 
A post according to any one of claims 1 to 9 in which 
means are provided to encourage the post to distort evenly 

across its width after being subject to an impact load. 
A post according to claim 10 in which a -U- shaped guide 
(37) embraces the rear face and extends along the side walls 

of the post in the region of the notch. 
A post according to claim 10 in which a guide (41) is 
disposed in contact with a surface of the notch in the rear 

face and has parts extending both inside and outside the rear 
face in spaced relationship to the other surface of the notch 

in the rear face. 
A post according to any one of claims 10 to 12 in which  
 

at least two notches are separated by at least one web (100) 
joining parts of the post immediately above and below the 

notches. 
A post according to claim 13 in which the web deforms 
plastically prior to the surfaces of the notches closing 

together. 
A crash barrier (1) comprising a series of posts (2) according to 
any one of claims 1 to 14 arranged generally vertically in 

spaced apart relation, the posts being secured to base plates (3) 
mounted on plinths (4) firmly anchored in the ground (5), each 

post being joined by one or more rails (8) extending transversely 
across the front faces of the posts. 
A crash barrier according to claim 15 in which the rails 
are secured to spacers (67) welded to the front face of each 

post. 
A crash barrier according to claim 16 in which formations 
(69, 69a) engaging between the rails and the spacers are 

provided to prevent rotation of the rails relative to the 
posts. 
A crash barrier according to claim 15 in which the 
spacers extend beyond each side face of the posts and the 

rails are bolted only to the spacers. 
A crash barrier according to any one of claims 16 to 18 
in which each rail has a re-entrant slot (50) formed in its 

rear face to receive the heads of bolts with the intermediary 
of an elongated member (71) disposed beneath the bolt heads 

and bearing against the inner surface of the rear face of the  
 

rail with the outer surface of this rear face in close contact 
with the spacer. 
A crash barrier according to claim 19 in which the member (71a) 
is of "top hat" cross sectional shape (71a). 
A crash barrier according to claim 19 in which the member 
(71) is -U- shaped having a base wall (72) and side walls (73) which 

closely embrace the bolt heads, the member being approximately 
the same length as the spacer. 
A crash barrier according to any one of claims 15 to 21 
in which the rails are formed with front faces (61) having 

longitudinal upper and lower re-entrant slots (63) to receive nose 
pieces (64) for carrying a screen of wire mesh or other 

material. 
A crash barrier according to claim 22 in which the nose 
piece in the uppermost rail is a clip fit therein and extends 

continuously therealong having a downwardly opening slot (66) to 
receive the upper edge of the screen material. 
A crash barrier according to claim 23 in which a 
multiplicity of bracket-like nose pieces (75) is disposed in 

a lower rail to support the lower edges of the screens. 
A crash barrier according to claim 22 in which the nose 
piece on each rail is slidable in the slots and comprises a 

hook (92) to engage with horizontal components of wire mesh 
screens. 
A crash barrier according to claim 25 in which a 
continuous trim is secured to the hook or hooks of the  

 
uppermost rail and has a part (64c) to hold the upper end of the 

screen against the rail. 
A crash barrier according to any one of claims 15 to 21 
in which the rails are formed with at least one outwardly 

projecting member (63b) to receive clips for carrying a screen 
of wire mesh or other material. 
A crash barrier according to any one of claims 15 to 26 
in which the post is secured to a base plate of an aluminium 

alloy extrusion. 
A crash barrier according to claim 28 in which the base 
plate has a flat lower face (21), side flanges (23) and a 

central platform (24) raised above the upper faces (25) of the 
flanges, the side edges of the platform being bounded by 

upwardly extending longitudinal ribs (26) and shoulders (27) 
being formed to extend outwardly of the ribs intermediate the 

levels of the platform and the faces. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
