<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650320</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SOLAR HEATED BUILDING DESIGNS FOR CLOUDY WINTERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24J240	A01G924	F24J200	A01G924	F24J250	A01G920	A01G920	F24J240	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24J	A01G	F24J	A01G	F24J	A01G	A01G	F24J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24J2	A01G9	F24J2	A01G9	F24J2	A01G9	A01G9	F24J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A building (20) including high efficiency transparent insulation (30) and optical shutter solar collector (22) (HETIOSSC) to effectively control heat loss and gain in a passively-solar climate control system. HETIOSSC includes a layer of protective glazing (26), a transparent insulation (30), an optical shutter (36), an optional solar radiation absorbing material (37) and optional heat storage elements. When the building and its heat storage are too warm, the optical shutter layer becomes opaque to prevent overheating. During cloudy and cold days, HETIOSSC still has a solar transmission and insulation efficiency great enough to collect sufficient sunlight for heating. Location of HETIOSSC on the roof, rather than the walls, does not alter shape and orientation of a building.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHAHROUDI DAY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHAHROUDI, DAY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAHROUDI DAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAHROUDI, DAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application, Serial
Number 07/670,783, filed on March 19, 1991, corresponding to WO-A-9
216 702 and representing a state of the art under Art. 54(3)EPC and disclosing 
a solar heated building having a solar
collector (22),the collector is formed from at least one
panel comprising:a layer of transparent glazing (26);a layer of transparent insulation (30) with a
thermal conductivity of less than 1·6W/m2/°K (0.3
BTU/sq. ft./°F/hr);a layer of optical shutter (36) located on one
side of said transparent insulation (30), the optical
shutter (36) having a maximum solar transmission three
or more times greater in its transmissive state than in
its opaque state; anda layer of solar radiation absorbing material (40)
with an adsorption of the solar energy spectrum of 70%
or greater;This application is also related by subject matter to
a paper entitled "Weather Panel Development And
Architecture," to be delivered by Day Chahroudi on May 26,
1992, at the Transparent Insulation Technology Conference
given at Freiburg, Germany, sponsored by the Fraunhofer
Institute; and to a disclosure entitled "Solar Heated
Building Designs For Cloudy Winters," dated May 19, 1992,
also authored by Day Chahroudi. Both, the aforementioned
paper and the disclosure, are incorporated herein by
reference in their entirety, and copies thereof are
attached to this application.The present invention is directed to an improved
design for solar-heated buildings. In particular, the
present invention relates to improved designs for solar-heated
buildings that offer improved ease of building
design and construction, lower cost, and better performance
over existing passive solar heating designs, particularly
in climates with cloudy winters.A number of known systems have been used to collect,
hold and release solar energy. Existing solar collectors
typically collect solar heat during one to ten days per
month of sunny winter weather. These existing solar
systems store the collected heat only on sunny days and
release heat during cloudy weather. A large proportion of
the world's population lives where winters are cloudy.
Previously, solar architects have responded with a design 
strategy of collecting solar heat during the one to ten
days per month of sunny winter weather, and then storing
this heat and releasing it during cloudy weather. This
design suffers from several disadvantages. For example,
this design necessitates that a full size backup fossil
fuel heater be used when heat storage gives out during the
lo
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A solar heated building having a solar
collector (22), wherein


more than half of the solar collector area is
provided by a roof collector forming part of the roof

of the building (20), the solar collector (22) having a
maximum solar energy admittance of 30% or greater, and in

that:
the roof collector is formed from at least one
panel comprising:
a layer of transparent glazing (26);
a layer of transparent insulation (30) with a
thermal conductivity of less than 1·6W/m
2
/°K (0.3
BTU/sq. ft./°F/hr);
a layer of optical shutter (36) located on one
side of said transparent insulation (30), the optical

shutter (36) having a maximum solar transmission three
or more times greater in its transmissive state than in

its opaque state; and
a layer of solar radiation absorbing material (40)
with an adsorption of the solar energy spectrum of 70%

or greater;

the building comprising further
one or more heat storage elements (42) which store
at least 70% as much heat as is necessary to heat the

building overnight on the average day of the coldest
month of the year where the building is located.
A building as in claim 1, wherein said optical
shutter (36) becomes substantially opaque primarily by

reflecting solar radiation; and is interposed between
said transparent insulation (30) and said absorbing

layer.
A building as in claim 1, wherein said
optical shutter (36) becomes substantially opaque

primarily by absorbing solar radiation; and is 
interposed between said transparent glazing (26) and

said transparent insulation (30).
A building as in claim 1, wherein said
optical shutter (36) becomes substantially opaque to

solar radiation above a first predetermined
temperature.
A building as in claim 1, where said optical
shutter (36) becomes substantially opaque to solar

radiation in response to a first applied voltage or
current and which becomes substantially transparent to

solar radiation in response to a second applied voltage
or current of opposite polarity to that of the first.
A building as in claim 1, wherein said
transparent
 insulation (30) includes one or more low
emissivity layers (32).
A building as in claim 1, wherein said
transparent insulation (30) includes one or more low

emissivity layers (32) and one or more convection
baffles (34) which are substantially transparent to

both solar and thermal radiation.
A building as in claim 1, wherein said
transparent insulation (30) includes one or more low

emissivity layer (32) and one or more layers of vacuum
in between or adjacent to said low emissivity layers.
A building as in claim 1, wherein said
transparent insulation (30) includes one or more layers

of honeycomb material which is:

oriented with its openings approximately
perpendicular to the surface of said building's roof or

floors;
substantially non-absorbing of solar radiation;
substantially specular in its transmission and
reflection of solar radiation;
substantially absorbing of thermal radiation.
A building as in claim 1, wherein said
transparent insulation (30) is made from one or more 

layers of aerogel.
A building as in claim 1, wherein a layer of
interior finish (54) is below and in proximity to said

absorbing material.
A building as in claim 11, wherein a layer of
interior finish (54) is below and in proximity to said

heat storage element (42).
A building as in claim 1, wherein part of
said heat storage elements is a layer below and in

proximity to said layers of transparent insulation (30)
and optical shutter (36).
A building as in claim 13, wherein part of
said heat storage elements is water.
A building as in claim 13, wherein part of
said heat storage elements is a phase change material.
A building as in claim 1, wherein part of
said heat storage elements is contained in the floor

(50) below said roof.
A building as in claim 1, where in part of said
heat storage elements is the interior walls, ceilings, floors

and other objects already located for other
purposes within the insulation envelope of said

building.
A building as in claim 17, wherein part of
said heat storage elements is provided by objects

already located for other purposes between said roof
(22) and the floor (50) below said roof.
A building as in claim 1, wherein heat is
transported from part of said heat storage elements to

part of the interior of the building by means of air
circulated by fans (76) through ducts (80).
A building as in claim 19, wherein, for the
purpose of not transporting humidity along with said

transported heat:

an air to air heat exchanger (74) is interposed
between said heat storage element and part of said

building's interior; 
separate fans (77A, 77B) drive the air circulation
loops on either side of said heat exchanger (74).
A building as in claim 1, wherein heat is
transported from said heat storage elements to parts of

said building's interior by means of water circulated
by pumps (86) through pipes (90, 92).
A building as in claim 1, wherein heat is
transported from said beat storage elements to parts of

said building's interior by means of thermal radiation.
A building as in claim 1, wherein the top
storey or attic of said building is a greenhouse.
A building as in claim 1, including solar
still comprising:


an evaporator of impure water interior to said
building from said solar collector;
a condenser and collector of distilled water
comprised of:
part of the interior surface of said solar
collector;
and/or an air to air heat exchanger.
A building as in claim 24, where said
evaporator includes plants in a greenhouse in the top

storey or attic of said building.
A building as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein the roof is inclined at an angle of

30°, so that snow collected on the roof can slide off
the roof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
