<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620990</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sectional table for special use
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L902	A47B2100	B01L900	A47B3700	A47B2100	A47B3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	A47B	B01L	A47B	A47B	A47B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L9	A47B21	B01L9	A47B37	A47B21	A47B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a sectional table for 
special use, in particular for use as a work table in so-called 

clean rooms, in which, for example, products have 
to be assembled from high-precision or electronic parts. 

It must be possible to set up and disassemble the table 
quickly without having to make use of special tools. 
The table has for each table section two identical 
vertical stands (1) in the form of an inverted U, 

each of the legs being provided with a large number of 
horizontal threaded bushes (38) running lengthwise and 

fixed in an airtight manner therein, for detachably 
fixing leaf supports (2) between them, for the purpose of 

supporting one or more table leaves (7), and for 
detachably fixing a partition (3) between corresponding 

legs of each stand. 
Each stand is shut off in an airtight manner at 
the underside of the legs and forms an air buffer. Each 

of the legs has two connection points (15) for connecting 
to a supply system for purified compressed air and connecting 

to the through air line on the partition. Each 
partition also has a power supply strip for the electrical 

mains supply. 
All conducting structural parts are earthed, and 
the quality of the conduction to earth is indicated 

optically. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GELDER PENNINGS METAAL B V VAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VAN GELDER-PENNINGS METAAL B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENNINGS PETRUS JOHANNES MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN GELDER MARTINUS CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENNINGS, PETRUS JOHANNES MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN GELDER, MARTINUS CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a sectional table for 
special use, in particular for use as a work table in so-called 
clean rooms, each table section comprising 
vertical stands, which support at least one worktop. For a general introduction, terms and definitions 
for clean rooms and clean air devices, is referred to 
British Standard BS 5295, Parts 0 to 4. According to the 
number of particles per unit volume, a classification is 
made into ten classes of purity for a room suitable for 
industrial, medical and pharmaceutical purposes. A worktable of the above kind is known from DE-A-91 
12 637. This worktable has means for guiding cables but 
can not be altered in a simple way in order to be used 
for other purposes. EP-A-0 237 969 shows a worktable for clean rooms, 
said table having a worktop, which is supported in a 
conventional way by vertical stands. The worktop being 
provided with vertical holes for passing clean air. When faced with designing a table at which 
personnel in protective clothing have to assemble, for 
example, products from high-precision or electronic parts 
in clean room conditions, one must ensure that in every 
case all conducting and metal parts of the table are 
earthed, so that any static charge occurring (which can, 
of course, cause dust concentrations) is immediately conducted 
to earth. Furthermore, one of the power sources 
preferably used in a clean room is very highly purified 
compressed air, which is, of course, prepared outside the 
room and brought into the room through an appropriate 
network of lines. Since, in addition, a production line 
in such a room is not always intended for the same 
product, but has to be altered in order to switch over to 
another product and another production method, it is also 
a practical requirement that the table should be simple 
to set up, extend, disassemble and alter.  
 The object of the invention is to provide a table 
which in all respects meets the requirements set for 
clean rooms. Another object of the invention is to 
provide a table which is easy and quick to place and move 
if necessary. A further object of the invention is to 
provide a table which can be altered in a simple way 
according to the circumstances in the workroom. Yet another object of the invention is to provide 
a sectional table for special use which can be extended 
very easily and quickly on either side by means of 
corresponding tables. Yet a further object of the invention is to 
provide a sectional table for special use which can be 
connected
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Sectional table for special use, in particular 
for use as a work table in so-called clean rooms each 

table section comprising vertical stands (1), which 
support at least one worktop (7), 
characterized in that
 each 
table section has two identical vertical stands (1) in 

the form of an inverted U which are placed at right angles 
to the lengthwise direction of the table, and each of the 

legs of the U-shaped stands having a plurality of horizontal threaded bushes 
(38), said bushes (38) extending in the lengthwise direction 

of said table through the respective legs at various 
heights and being fixed therein in an airtight manner, worktop 

supports (2) being detachably fixed to said bushes to the 
sides of the two vertical stands (1), one or more worktops (7) being 

supported on said worktop supports (2), at least one partition 
(3) being detachably fixed between two corresponding 

legs of the two vertical stands (1) and under the at least one worktop (7). 
Sectional table according to Claim 1, 
characterized 
in that
 the identical stands (1) are made up of 
stainless steel tubular material of rectangular cross-section, 

the two legs of the inverted U-shaped stand each 
being shut off in an airtight manner at the underside by 

a plate (32), so that each stand (1) bounds an airtight 
space. 
Sectional table according to Claim 2, 
characterized 
in that
 the abovementioned space has in one of the 
legs, below table height, a connection point (15) at each 

side for connecting to a supply system for purified 
compressed air or for connecting to the next table 

section, and in that the partition (3) fixed detachably 
between two corresponding legs of two successive stands 

(1) is provided with a through air line which is connected 
at each end between the two connection points (15) 

to the stands, which through air line is provided approximately 
in the centre of at least one connection point 

(17) for pneumatic hand tools. 
Sectional table according to Claim 3, 
characterized 
in that
 at least one suspension point (22) for  
 

pneumatic hand tools is provided under each table. 
Sectional table according to Claim 1, 
characterized 
in that
 each worktop (7) is made up of layered 
plywood material without further impregnation, and is 

provided with a wear-resistant top layer, beneath which 
there is a conducting layer which in operation is 

earthed. 
Sectional table according to Claim 2, 
characterized 
in that
 below the plate (32) which shuts off a leg 
of a stand (1) in an airtight manner there is a second 

plate (33) provided with a tapped hole (34), into which 
a draw bolt fits, with the aid of wh
ich bolt the two 
bottom ends of the U-shaped stand (1) are fixed on a 

horizontal supporting bar (35) resting on two adjusting 
feet (12). 
Sectional table according to Claims 1 and 5, 

characterized in that
 each worktop (7) is provided on the 
underside thereof with inlaid plastic channels in which 

a number of conducting red copper strips which are 
earthed are fitted, and of which at least the strip near 

the table edge is provided with wristband connection 
facilities. 
Sectional table according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, 
characterized in that
 the worktop 
supports (2) are detachably fixed in the threaded bushes 

(38) by means of star-head bolts (19), and are provided 
with several, for example three, fixing holes disposed 

vertically below one another at equal intervals. 
Sectional table according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, 
characterized in that
 mutually parallel 
horizontal top sides of two successive stands (1) can 

serve as supports for an interposed lighting frame (10) 
for lamps (11) which serve to illuminate the worktop (7). 
Sectional table according to Claims 1 and 10, 

characterized in that
 the partition (3) is equipped with 
a horizontally disposed power supply strip, which is 

inserted into a profiled groove, and is provided with a 
number of earthed sockets for electrical mains supply, 

and also one or more switches for operation of the  
 

lighting (11). 
Sectional table according to Claim 1, 
characterized 
in that
 all threaded bushes (38) not being used are 
sealed off in a dustproof manner with cover caps (16) on 

either side of the stands (1). 
Sectional table according to Claim 1, 
characterized 
in that
 each worktop (7) is provided on the top with 
one or more cable bushings (13) which can be sealed off. 
Sectional table according to Claim 10, 
characterized 
in that
 the power connection cable for the lighting 
(11) from the switch on the power supply strip (4) is 

guided through a special bushing tube (14) in one of the 
legs of a stand (1). 
Sectional table according to Claim 1, 
characterized 
in that
 the threaded bushes (38) fixed in an air-tight 
manner in the stands (1) serve partly for the 

detachable fixing of one or more extension surfaces (9) 
between the stands (1) above the worktops (7). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
