<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0989831</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WIRE-TUBULAR HYBRID STENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61F290	A61F282	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Radially-expandable stents are provided with improved longitudinal flexibility and stability, improved torsional flexibility and stability, improved trackability and conformability, and improved hoop strength. The stents combine the advantages typically associated with wire stents with those typically associated longitudinal stability. The stents include a plurality of cylindrical sections successively arranged along a longitudinal axis of the stent, a plurality of W-shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections, each of the W-shaped elements having a center section and two outside legs, the plurality of W-shaped elements in each of the cylindrical sections opening in alternating directions along the longitudinal axis of the stent, wherein the W-shaped elements in adjacent cylindrical sections alternate between pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis and pairs of W-shaped elements that open away from each other along the longitudinal axis when moving about the circumference of the adjacent cylindrical sections; and a plurality of tie members connecting adjacent cylindrical sections along the longitudinal axis of the stent, the tie members connecting center sections of the pairs of W-shaped elements that open towards each other along the longitudinal axis in each pair of adjacent cylindrical sections. Methods of implanting the stents in body lumens are also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to intravascular stent implants for maintaining
vascular patency in humans and animals and more particularly to a stent having a
plurality of radially expandable sections interconnected along the longitudinal length
of the stent.Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is used to increase
the lumen diameter of a coronary artery partially or totally obstructed by a build-up of
cholesterol fats or atherosclerotic plaque. Typically a first guidewire of about 0.95
mm (.038 inches) in diameter is steered through the vascular system to the site of
therapy. A guiding catheter, for example, can then be advanced over the first
guidewire to a point just proximal of the stenosis. The first guidewire is then
removed. A balloon catheter on a smaller 0.35 mm (.014 inch) diameter second
guidewire is advanced within the guiding catheter to a point just proximal of the
stenosis. The second guidewire is advanced into the stenosis, followed by the
balloon on the distal end of the catheter. The balloon is inflated causing the site of
the stenosis to widen.Dilatation of the occlusion, however, can form flaps, fissures and dissections
which threaten reclosure of the dilated vessel or even perforations in the vessel wall.
Implantation of a metal stent can provide support for such flaps and dissections and
thereby prevent reclosure of the vessel or provide a patch repair for a perforated vessel
wall until corrective surgery can be performed. It has also been shown that the use of
intravascular stents can measurably decrease the incidence of restenosis after
angioplasty thereby reducing the likelihood that a secondary angioplasty procedure or
a surgical bypass operation will be necessary.An implanted prosthesis such as a stent can preclude additional procedures and
maintain vascular patency by mechanically supporting dilated vessels to prevent
vessel reclosure. Stents can also be used to repair aneurysms, to support artificial 
vessels as liners of vessels or to repair dissections. Stents are suited to the treatment
of any body lumen, including the vas deferens, ducts of the gallbladder, prostate
gland, trachea, bronchus and liver. The body lumens range in diameter from small
coronary vessels of 3 mm or less to 28 mm in the aortic vessel. The invention applies
to acute and chronic closure or reclosure of body lumens.A typical stent is a cylindrically shaped wire formed device intended to act as
a permanent prosthesis. A typical stent ranges from 5 mm to 50 mm in length. A
stent is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radially expandable stent (10) for implantation
within a body vessel, comprising:


a plurality of cylindrical sections (20)
successively arranged along a longitudinal axis (14) of

the stent;
a plurality of W-shaped elements (30) in each of
the cylindrical sections, each of the W-shaped elements

(30) comprising a centre section (36a,36b) and two
outside legs (32a,32b,34a,34b), the plurality of W-shaped

elements (30) in each of the cylindrical sections
opening in alternating directions along the longitudinal

axis of the stent, wherein the W-shaped elements (30) in
adjacent cylindrical sections alternate between pairs of

W-shaped elements (30) that open towards each other
along the longitudinal axis and pairs of W-shaped

elements (30) that open away from each other along the
longitudinal axis when moving about the circumference of

the adjacent cylindrical sections; and
a plurality of tie members (50) connecting adjacent
cylindrical sections (20) along the longitudinal axis of

the stent, the tie members connecting centre sections of
the pairs of W-shaped elements (30) that open towards

each other along the longitudinal axis in each pair of
adjacent cylindrical sections; 
characterized in that
 the
centre section (36a,36b) of each of the W-shaped

elements (30) is shorter in the longitudinal direction
than the outside legs (32a,32b,34a,34b) of the W-shaped

element (30).
A stent according to claim 1, wherein the centre
section (36a,36b) of each of the W-shaped elements (30)

has a longitudinal length that is about half of the
longitudinal length of the outside legs

(32a,32b,34a,34b) of the W-shaped element (30). 
A stent according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the
stent (10) comprises first, second and third cylindrical

sections (20) arranged along the longitudinal axis (14)
in that order, and further wherein the tie members (50)

connecting the centre sections of the pairs of W-shaped
elements (30) that open towards each other in the first

and second cylindrical sections are offset about the
circumference of the stent from the tie members (50)

connecting the centres of the pairs of W-shaped elements
that open towards each other in the second and third

cylindrical sections.
A stent according to any preceding claim, wherein
the centre section (36a,36b) of each of the W-shaped

elements (30) is connected to the outside legs
(32a,32b,34a,34b) of the W-shaped element with rounded

bends.
A stent according to any preceding claim, wherein
the cylindrical sections (20) are in-phase with each

other, that is, the connecting tie-members are generally
aligned with the longitudinal axis of the stent.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
