<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619220</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bicycle chain wheel assembly and a crank arm for use with the chain wheel assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62M910	B62M300	B62M300	B62M900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62M	B62M	B62M	B62M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62M9	B62M3	B62M3	B62M9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A chain wheel assembly for a bicycle includes a large chain wheel (5), 
a small 

chain wheel (6), and a crank arm (1) for supporting the chain wheels. 
The crank arm (1) 

has an arm body (1a), a boss (3) for connecting the crank arm (1) to a 
crank axle (9) of the 

bicycle, and wheel mounting extensions (10) extending radially outwardly 
from the 

boss (3). The small chain wheel (6) is connected to the crank arm (1) 
through a first 

connecting device (11,12) provided on the wheel mounting extensions (10). 
The large chain 

wheel (5) is connected to the small chain wheel (6) through a second 
connecting device (13) 

arranged radially outwardly of the first connecting device (11,12). The 
large chain 

wheel (5) is connected to the crank arm (1) only through the second 
connecting device (13) and small chain wheel (6). 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMANO KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMANO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANNI MASAHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANNI, MASAHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a chain wheel assembly for a bicycle having 
at least one large chain wheel, at least one small chain wheel, and a crank arm 
for driving the chain wheels, and to the crank arm for use with this chain wheel 
assembly. In a conventional chain wheel assembly, as shown in Fig. 13, a crank arm 1 
includes a wheel mount 10 having a connecting portion 10a for connecting a 
large chain wheel 5. Thus, the large chain wheel 5 is connected directly to the 
crank arm 1. 
Such an assembly is known from EP-A-0 508 328. With the above conventional structure, where the large chain wheel has an 
increased inside diameter to be lightweight, the wheel mount of the crank arm 
must extend to a large extent from a boss of the crank arm connected to a crank 
axle. Consequently, when such crank arms are manufactured by casting, 
unacceptable products often occur for lack of molten metal reaching corners of 
dies to form the wheel mount. In the case of forging, a large quantity of 
material is needed to obtain large crank arms. This results in an increased 
material cost, and a troublesome manufacturing process with an additional 
operation to cut the forged crank arms to shape. An object of the present invention is to provide a chain wheel assembly for a  
 
bicycle which may be formed lightweight, with excellent appearance and strength, 
and with a high degree of precision and facility. Another object of the invention is to provide a crank arm which may 
advantageously be used with this chain wheel assembly. The above objects are fulfilled, according to the present invention, by a 
chain wheel assembly for a bicycle according to claim 1, wherein the 
small chain wheel is connected through a first connecting device to wheel 
mounting extensions of the crank arm, and the large chain wheel is connected 
through a second connecting device only to the small chain wheel, i.e. the large 
chain wheel is connected to the crank arm only through the second connecting 
device and small chain wheel. The other object of the invention is fulfilled by 
a bicycle crank arm according to claim 10, which comprises five wheel 
mounting extensions extending radially outwardly from a boss and defining 
outermost end surfaces describing an imaginary circle having a diameter up to 95mm. The present invention has the following functions and effects. In the above chain wheel assembly for a bicycle in which the large chain 
wheel is connected to the crank arm through the small chain wheel, the wheel 
mounting extensions
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A chain wheel assembly for a bicycle comprising: 

a large chain wheel (5); 
a small chain wheel (6); 
a crank arm (1) for supporting said large chain wheel and said small chain 
wheel, said crank arm having: 


an arm body (1a); 
a boss (3) for connecting said crank arm to a crank axle (9) of said bicycle; and 
wheel mounting extensions (10) extending radially outwardly from said boss 
and including first connecting means (11, 12, 14) for connecting said small chain wheel 

to said boss; 
second connecting means (13) arranged radially outwardly of said first connecting 
means for connecting said large chain wheel to said small chain wheel, said 

large chain wheel being connected only to said small chain wheel through said 
second connecting means. 
A chain wheel assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein said large chain 
wheel includes coupling legs (5b) for connection to said small chain wheel, said 

coupling legs defining first end surfaces (B) facing radially inwardly, said wheel 
mounting extensions defining second end surfaces (A) facing radially outwardly, 

said first end surfaces and said second end surfaces being in contact with each 
other. 
A chain wheel assembly as defined in claim 2, wherein outer lateral surfaces (X) 
of said wheel mounting extensions are smoothly continuous with outer lateral 

surfaces (Y) of said coupling legs adjacent positions of contact between said first  
 

end surfaces and said second end surfaces. 
A chain wheel assembly as defined in claim 2, wherein side surfaces (W) of said 
wheel mounting extensions, as seen in a direction along a rotational axis of said 

large chain wheel and said small chain wheel, are smoothly continuous with 
side surfaces (V) of said coupling legs adjacent positions of contact between said 

first end surfaces and said second end surfaces. 
A chain wheel assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein said large chain 
wheel includes coupling legs for connection to said small chain wheel, said 

coupling legs defining first end surfaces (B) facing radially inwardly, said wheel 
mounting extensions defining second end surfaces facing radially outwardly (A), 

said first end surfaces and said second end surfaces being arranged adjacent and 
out of contact with each other. 
A chain wheel assembly as defined in claim 1 wherein said small chain 
wheel is an intermediate speed chain wheel, said chain wheel assembly further 

comprising a low speed chain wheel (7) smaller than said intermediate speed chain 
wheel, said intermediate chain wheel and said low speed chain wheel being 

connected tight together to said wheel mounting extensions. 
A chain wheel assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein said first connecting 
means are pins (11) projecting inwardly from said wheel mounting extensions and 

defining bottomed thread holes (11a) opening only to inward surfaces of said wheel 
mounting extensions.  

 
A chain wheel assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein said first connecting 
means are pins (14) projecting inwardly from said wheel mounting extensions and 

having heads caulked to connect said small chain wheel as engaged therewith to 
said wheel mounting extensions. 
A chain wheel assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein five of said wheel 
mounting extensions (10) extend integrally with said boss and radially from an axis 

of said boss, said wheel mounting extensions defining end surfaces describing 
an imaginary circle having a diameter up to 95mm. 
A crank arm (1) for a bicycle comprising: 

an arm body (1a) including an end boss (3) for connection to a crank axle; and 
five wheel mounting extensions (10) extending integrally with said end boss and 
radially outwardly from an axis (Z) of said boss, said wheel mounting extensions 

including wheel connecting means (11, 12, 14) disposed radially outwardly of positions 

where the wheel mounting extensions are connected to said boss; 
said wheel mounting extensions defining outermost end surfaces describing an imaginary 
circle having a diameter up to 95mm. 
A crank arm as defined in claim 10, wherein at least said arm body (1a) and said 
wheel mounting extensions (10) are of an aluminum alloy formed by forging. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
