<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653151</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPUTER KEYBOARD WITH ELECTROSTATIC DISCHARGE FEATURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05F302	H01H1302	G06F302	H01H1302	G06F302	H05F302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05F	H01H	G06F	H01H	G06F	H05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05F3	H01H13	G06F3	H01H13	G06F3	H05F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A computer keyboard according to a preferred construction has multiple non-conductive keys and at least one conductive key mounted in a keyboard housing. The conductive key includes a molded plastic key body having conductive material embedded therein. Conductive plugs are electrically coupled and mounted to the conductive key body. An electrostatic discharge pad is provided on a switch assembly positioned beneath the keys of the keyboard. The discharge pad is coupled to ground through a path resistor. When the conductive key body is depressed to an activated position, the plugs engage the electrostatic discharge pads so that electrostatic charges of the user progressively dissipate to ground through the key body, plug, discharge pad, and path resistor. At least one of the path resistor or the plug has a resistance greater than the resistance of the conductive key body. In this manner, electrostatic charge is routinely dissipated from a computer user while insuring that the user is not shocked when he/she initially touches and operates the conductive key.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEY TRONIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEY TRONIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATSON NATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENGLISH GEORGE P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATSON, NATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENGLISH, GEORGE, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to keyboards and more particularly, to computer 
keyboards with an electrostatic discharge feature. In recent years, there has been increasing awareness of potential adverse 
health effects caused by prolonged use of computers. For instance, visual display 
monitors emit electromagnetic waves which cause a build up of electrostatic 
charge on a computer operator's body. This accumulated charge may adversely 
affect the operator's health. There is concern that those who work daily with 
visual display monitors may face an occupational health hazard due to the 
emissions of the electromagnetic waves from the display. One technique for reducing computer-related health risks is to periodically 
remove accumulated electrostatic charge from the computer operator. U.S. Patent 
No. 4,586,106 proposes the use of a static dissipative touch device which a 
computer operator touches prior to using a computer. The disclosed purpose 
for dissipating charge is to prevent damage to the electronic equipment caused 
by static discharge. This patent discloses positioning a long narrow touch pad 
on the front side of a computer keyboard apart from the keys. This touch pad 
is grounded. Prior to using the computer, the user is required to make contact 
with the touch pad so that any electrostatic charge may be dissipated to ground 
through this pad. In practice, the technique is cumbersome for it requires the 
user to consciously contact this touch pad prior to placing his/her hands on the 
keyboard keys. Additionally, this device provides only a one time static discharge 
prior to operation of the computer. The touch device described in the above-referenced 
patent fails to dissipate electrostatic charge on a routine basis. From IBM-Technical Disclosure Bulletin 
there is known a device to discharge a 
keyboard operator by contact with a 
spacebar which is molded of a conductive 
plastic. The path to ground is either 
through a spacebar, a ground clip attached 
to the spacebar, and a ground wire running 
from the ground clip to a keyboard baseplate, 
or through the spacebar, a stabilizer 
bail, a ground strap and the keyboard 
baseplate. Moreover, from Research disclosure, no 313, 
May 1990, Emsworth, GB, page 414, 
XP 000114878, there is further known a 
method for providing electrostatic discharge on 
keyboards. A conductive path from the 
operator to ground is provided by molding 
the keybutton cap from a conductive polymer 
which contacts a conductive foam or rubber 
gasket when the keybutton is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computer keyboard comprising: 

a housing (12); 
multiple non-conductive keys (14,16,18,20,22,24) operatively mounted in the housing, individual 
non-conductive keys having a non-conductive key body which is movable between 

an extended ready position and a depressed activated position and means for 
biasing the non-conductive key body to the ready position; 
at least one conductive key (22) operatively mounted in the housing, the 
conductive key including a conductive key body (42) which is movable between an 

extended ready position and a depressed activated position and means (48) for biasing 
the conductive key body to the ready position; 
a switch assembly (46) mounted in the housing beneath the non-conductive and 
conductive keys, the switch assembly having contacts for engagement by 

corresponding ones of the non-conductive and conductive keys when individual 
non-conductive and conductive key bodies are depressed to their activated 

positions, the switch assembly having an electrostatic discharge pad (62) provided 
thereon which is coupled to ground; 
a conductive plug (56,58) having one end electrically coupled-and mounted to the 
conductive key body of the conductive key and the other end adjacent to, but 

spaced from, the electrostatic discharge pad, the other end of the conductive 
plug engaging the electrostatic discharge pad when the conductive key body is 

depressed; and 
the keyboard (10) being configured to dissipate electrostatic charge from a 
keyboard user to ground through the conductive key body, the plug, and the 

electrostatic discharge pad when the conductive key body is depressed. 
A keyboard according to claim 1 wherein the plug is formed of a 
conductive thermoplastic elastomer. 
A keyboard according to claim 1 wherein the plug is formed of an 
elastomer and impregnated with a conductive material. 
A keyboard according to claim 1 wherein the plug has a resistance 
from approximately 10 to 500 megohms.  

 
A keyboard according to claim 1 wherein the plug has a resistance 
from approximately 200 to 300 megohms. 
A keyboard according to claim 1 wherein the conductive key body 
is formed of molded plastic embedded with conductive material. 
A keyboard according to claim 1 further comprising multiple non-conductive 
keys and at least one conductive key arranged in a selected pattern 

in the housing, individual multiple non-conductive keys having a first width, and 
the conductive key having a second width greater than the first width. 
A keyboard according to claim 1 wherein the keyboard has 
"alphanumeric" keys, "function" keys, a "spacebar" key, and an "enter" key, and 

wherein the non-conductive keys are selected from the "alphanumeric" keys and 
the "function" keys, and wherein the conductive key is selected from one of t
he 
"spacebar" key and the "enter" key. 
A keyboard according to claim 1 wherein: 

the conductive key body is formed of molded plastic embedded with a 
conductive material; and 
the plug is formed of a conductive thermoplastic elastomer, the conductive 
material in the key body conducting electrostatic charge to the plug. 
A keyboard according to claim 1 wherein the conductive key body 
has a resistance of less than one megohm and the plug has a resistance from 

approximately 10 to 500 megohms. 
A keyboard according to claim 1 wherein: 

the switch assembly further comprises a path resistor coupled between the 
electrostatic discharge pad and ground; 
the conductive key body has a resistance of less than one megohm; and 
at least one of the plug and the path resistor has a resistance from 
approximately 10 to 500 megohms. 
A key for a computer keyboard, comprising: 

a conductive key body (42) of selected resistance movable between an extended 
ready position and a depressed activated position; 
means (48) for biasing the key body in the ready position; 
a conductive plug (56,58) electrically coupled and mounted to the conductive key 
body; 
an electrostatic discharge pad (62) positioned adjacent the conductive plug, the 
plug electrically engaging the discharge pad when the key body is depressed to 

the activated position; 
a path resistor coupled between the discharge pad and ground; 
at least one of the path resistor and the plug having a resistance greater 
than the resistance of the key body. 
A key according to claim 12 wherein the key body comprises 
a molded plastic embedded with conductive material. 
A key according to claim 12 wherein the key body resistance 
is less than one megohm and the plug resistance is from approximately 10 to 

500 megohms. 
A key according to claim 12 wherein the key body resistance 
is less than one megohm and the resistance of the path resistor is from 

approximately 10 to 500 megohms. 
A key according to claim 12 wherein the key body resistance 
is less than one megohm and the resistances of both the path resistor and the 

plug are from approximately 10 to 500 megohms. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
