<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651680</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65F114	B65F114	B09B100	B09B100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65F	B65F	B09B	B09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65F1	B65F1	B09B1	B09B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Waste disposal facility, which has a number of containers (2) arranged together, especially in stacks, and containers for such a facility (1). The containers (2) in the waste disposal facility (1) are transport containers; in each of these containers is a control unit (4, 23) for detecting the presence of free liquid or moisture in the container; the control unit is connected to an indicator device (6) situated outside the container. The containers (2) are lined with corrosion-proof material in the form of a leakproof flooring (22) which covers the floor (2a) of the container (2) plus adjoining region of the container wall (2b) or in the form of a leakproof inner lining (25) which covers at least the floor (2a) and walls (2b) of the container. Preferably, the control unit includes a drainage layer (23) near the base of the container.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENTSORGUNGSTECHNIK ABFALLBESEI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUEBL FRIEDRICH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENTSORGUNGSTECHNIK, ABFALLBESEITIGUNGS- UND VERWERTUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUEBL, FRIEDRICH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUEBL FRIEDRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUEBL, FRIEDRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A waste disposal facility for receiving wastes and
comprising a plurality of transport containers (2) provided with

a lining of corrosion-resistant material and a monitoring means
(6) for detecting liquid discharge emanating from the dumped

material, the transport containers being positioned adjacently
one another, in particular stacked, characterised in that in

each one of the adjacent transport containers (2), a monitoring
means (4, 5, 23, 24) is arranged to detect the presence of free

liquid or moisture in the container, which monitoring means is
connected with an externally provided indicating means (9), that

the lining of the transport containers is designed in the form
of a leakproof bottom tub (22) covering the bottom (2a) of the

container (2) and an adjoining zone of the container side walls
(2b), or in the form of at least one leakproof inner skin (25)

covering at least the bottom (2a) and the side walls (2b) of the
respective container, and that the containers (2) are arranged

in a layer or are superposed in non-nesting manner and the
connections from the containers to the indicating means (8, 9)

and/or to drainage ducts (4, 5) are designed to be detachable so
that each individual container (2) is removable without

adversely affecting functioning of the entire facility (1).
A waste disposal facility according to claim 1,
characterised in that the monitoring means comprises a drainage

layer (23, 24) provided in the container interior in the bottom
region of the container.
A waste disposal facility according to claim 2,
characterised in that the drainage layer (23, 24) is provided

with a drainage duct (4) leading from this drainage layer to the
outside and/or with a liquid or moisture sensor arranged in or

at the drainage layer, respectively, a signalling line leading
from this liquid or moisture sensor to the outside.
A waste disposal facility according to claim 2 or 3,
characterised in that in some of the containers (2) of the 

facility (1) the drainage layer (24, 24a) extends upwardly along
the side walls (2b) of the respective container (2).
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 2
to 4, characterised in that at least in some of the containers

(2) of the facility (1), at least in the region of the container
bottom (2a), a further drainage layer (28) is arranged to follow

upon the drainage layer (24) and an inner skin covering the same
towards the interior of the container, which further drainage

layer (28) is provided with a drainage duct (29) leading to the
outside.
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 5, characterised in that in at least some of the containers

(2) of the facility (1), in the upper part of the containers
(2), a gas outlet (31) leading to the outside is provided which

preferably originates from a gas drainage (30) provided in the
container (2).
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 6, characterised in that the indicator means comprises

monitoring vessels (6) for collecting liquids and/or gases
arriving from the interior of the container through drainage

ducts, which monitoring vessels enable checking for the presence
of such liquids and/or gases visually and/or by means of sensors

(9) reacting to such media, and that optionally suction means
are provided to aid the flow of the liquids and/or gases into

the monitoring containers (6).
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 7, characterised in that at least in some of the containers

(2), the monitoring means (4, 6) is equipped with sensors (9)
sensing the electric resistance of a measured distance affected

by liquids or moisture, respectively.
A waste disposal facility according to claim 7,
characterised in that a tub is provided as the monitoring

vessel, drainage ducts (5) from a plurality of containers (2)
leading to this tub. 
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 9, characterised in that for at least some of the containers

(2) of the facility (1), a leakproof bottom covering (21a) is
provided underneath the containers that preferably are supported

on pedestals provided on the ground, which leakproof bottom
covering optionally forms the bottom of a tub (22).
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 10, charaterised in that the containers (2) are cuboid

transport containers of the type termed "ISO-containers"
intended for transportation by road, rail and ship.
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 11, characterised in that the containers (2) are made of

metal, in particular steel, and are externally provided with a
jacket (34) to protect them from environmental influences, in

particular moisture or the like, the jacket preferably being
made of synthetic material, yet optionally also of concrete,

wood or steel.
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 12, characterised in that in at least some of the containers

(2) of the facility (1), separate drainage and/or degassing
zones (28, 30) in direct connection with the stored waste are

provided within the containers (2) and have separate drain ducts
(29, 31) towards the outside, via which the waste can be

dewatered and degassed, thus enabling a conditioning of the
waste for its final storage.
A waste disposal facility according to claim 13,
characterised in that filler, e.g. cement, silicone, concrete,

bitumen, is present between the wastes, which filler has been
introduced or pressed through the drain ducts into the drainage

and degassing zones, respectively, after drainage and/or
degassing has been effected.
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 14, characterised in that the transport containers (2) are 

free-standing.
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 14, characterised in that the containers (2) are insulated

against influences from the ground (3) and are covered by soil
and that drainage and monitoring ducts (4, 5) originating from

the containers (2) are led out of this cover and that preferably

plants are grown on the covering soil (13).
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 16, characterised in that the containers (2) are adjacently

arranged in rows along travel ways (10), such as, e.g.,
freeways, roadways and railway tracks, and optionally partly

superposed as noise control means and/or as a sight barrier or
antidazzle device, respectively, and as barriers.
A waste disposal facility according to claim 17,
characterised in that the sides of the containers (2) facing the

vehicle-passed area are made to be sound-absorbing, e.g. by
application of a texture or by growing plants thereon.
A waste disposal facility according to claim 17 or 18,
characterised in that the sides of the containers (2) facing the

lanes (10) are provided with guard rails.
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims
16 to 19, characterised in that the containers are set up

adjacently in rows and covered on one or on both sides by soil
or bulk material (13, 13a, 13b), which preferably is overgrown

by plants, to form a noise control dam, each one of the
monitoring and drainage systems (4, 5, 6) being led to an

accessible site at the outside at the basis of the dam (16).
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 16, characterised in that the containers (2) are set up to

form a boundary around a bulk material dumping area (17).
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 16, characterised in that the containers (2) are adjacently 

arranged in rows to form walls or dams (16) used as a boundary
of a contaminated area.
A waste disposal facility according to any one of claims 1
to 22, characterised in that on at least some of the containers

(2), a weather-resistant and corrosion-resistant receptacle (32)
is externally provided to receive records on the container

contents and on chemical analyses of the latter.
A container for a waste disposal plant, which container is
provided with a lining of corrosion-resistant material,

characterised in that the container (2) is a transport container
made of metal, preferably a so-called "ISO container", and that

a monitoring means (4, 23, 24) detecting the presence of free
liquid or moisture, respectively, in the container is arranged

within the container (2).
A container according to claim 24, characterised in that
the monitoring means comprises a drainage layer (23, 24)

provided in the interior of the container in the bottom region
of the container (2).
A container according to claim 24 or 25, characterised in
that the container (2) is provided with a jacket (34) at its

outer side to protect it from environmental influences, in
particular moisture or the like, the jacket preferably being

made of synthetic material, yet optionally also of concrete,
wood or steel.
A container according to any one of claims 24 to 26,
characterised in that on its outer side the container (2) is

provided with a weather-resistant and corrosion-resistant
receptacle (32) to receive records on the container contents.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
