<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610780</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Article palletizer/depalletizer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G4751	B65G6000	B65G5711	B65G5902	B65G6000	B65G5700	B65G5702	B65G5703	B65G5902	B65G4751	B65G5900	B65G5714	B65G5700	B65G5900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G47	B65G60	B65G57	B65G59	B65G60	B65G57	B65G57	B65G57	B65G59	B65G47	B65G59	B65G57	B65G57	B65G59	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An article palletizer and/or depalletizer is 
disclosed. During palletizing operations, articles on an 

article conveyor are diverted from the article conveyor at a 
first location (29) and moved along a first path toward a discharge 

end where a sweep unit (64) urges and leads the diverted articles 
onto a pallet by groups for storage with a retainer (71) precluding 

article travel beyond the pallet. During depalletizing 
operations, stored articles are urged and led from the pallet 

by groups by the sweep unit (64) and a retainer unit (71) along a second 
path separate from the first path to thus establish a 

flow-thru configuration with the articles being led to a 
second location of the article conveyor downstream from the 

first location where the articles are inserted onto the 
article conveyor. The system and method are particularly 

useful for storing cans diverted from a high speed can 
production and/or handling line, and for later supplying 

stored cans, when needed, to the line. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDCO INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDCO INDUSTRIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMKOWSKI DONALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDERMEER RICHARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMKOWSKI, DONALD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDERMEER, RICHARD H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an article palletizer
and/or depalletizer.It is oftentimes necessary to convey articles, such
as cans, between different locations and/or to store the
articles between stages of operation. Palletizers are well
known for use in storing articles, such as cans, and it is
well known that groups of such articles can be stored on a
pallet by layers, or tiers (see, for example, U.S. Patent Nos.
4,759,673, 4,834,605 and 4,934,508).It also well known that tiers of articles can be
urged onto a pallet using a sweep arrangement (see, for
example, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,934,713 and 4,978,275), and that
a sheet transfer unit can be utilized to place sheets between
each tier of articles on the pallet (see, for example, U.S.
Patent Nos. 4,759,673 and 4,809,965).It is likewise well known that articles on a pallet
can be urged from the pallet by a movable arm pushing the
articles from the pallet (see, for example, U.S. Patent No.
3,389,810), and it is also known that groups of articles can
be led and urged from a pallet by a cooperating pair of arms
(see, for example, U.S. Patent No. 3,543,949).It is also oftentimes necessary that articles, or
containers, moving along a conveying line be diverted from the
line during operation and accumulated or stored until later
needed on the line. This has been found to be necessary, for
example, in conjunction with lines conveying containers, such
as cans, in order to accumulate and store the containers
during the course of container line operations, such as, for
example, container manufacture, labeling, and/or filling.
Without such an accumulating or storing capability, the
associated upstream and/or downstream production equipment
would have to be frequently stopped, and then later restarted,
due to jams, or the like, occurring on the line. Accumulating tables have heretofore been utilized
for accumulating and storing articles, such as cans, and such
tables have heretofore been operationally connected with a
production or handling line such that the articles either
travel along the same path toward and away from the
accumulating table or travel along one path to the table and
along a different path from the table. Accumulating tables,
however, have been found to require considerable floor space
and/or have quite limited capacity.With requirements for increased line speeds while
maintaining product quality, it has become more important that
frequent stops, or even slow-downs, of article production
and/or handling equipment be minimized. Thus, it has become
even
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A palletizing/depalletizing device (17) for moving articles by groups onto
a pallet from a main line during palletizing operations and from a pallet onto the

main line at a downstream position during depalletizing operations with each
said group of articles having a leading portion and a trailing portion, said device

including sweep means (64) having movable article urging means (63,67,68)
engagable with the trailing portion of each group of articles to be moved relative

to said pallet, retainer means (71) having movable article retaining means (81)
engagable with the leading portion of each said group of articles to be moved

relative to said pallet, and actuating means (84) connected with said sweep
means and said retainer means for causing movement of said article urging

means,

said article urging means engaging said trailing portion of each said group
of articles and thereafter urging each said group of articles onto said

pallet during said palletizing operations,
and
said actuating means also causing movement of said article retaining
means whereby said article retaining means engages said leading portion

of said group of articles at said pallet to preclude movement of said
articles from said pallet during said palletizing operations,

characterized by
said article urging means engaging said trailing portion of each said group
of articles and thereafter urging each said group of articles also

from said pallet during said
depalletizing operations, and
said article retaining means engaging said leading portion
of said group of articles at said pallet also

to lead each
said group of articles from said pallet as said group of articles is moved

from said pallet by said article urging means during said depalletizing
operations.
The device of claim 1 wherein said article urging means includes a sweep
arm (63) positioned adjacent to said trailing portion of said group of articles

when in a home position prior to engagement with said trailing portion of each
said group of articles with said sweep arm being moved from the home position

into engagement with said trailing portion of said group of articles and thereafter
being further moved to urge said engaged group of articles onto said pallet

during said palletizing operations and from said pallet during said depalletizing
operations. 
The device of claim 2 wherein said sweep means includes at least a
second sweep arm (67) and drive means (69) connected with said sweep arms so

that said sweep arms are driven in a closed loop path and spaced with respect to
one another along said closed loop path to alternately be brought to said home

position and later moved therefrom to successively engage the trailing portion of
each said group of articles successively positioned at said pallet sweep area.
The device of claim 3 wherein said sweep means includes first, second and
third sweep arms (63,67,68).
The device of any of claims 1 through 4 wherein said article retaining
means includes a retainer arm (81) positioned at said pallet during palletizing

operations to preclude article movement from said pallet and positioned adjacent

to said pallet during depalletizing operations to thereby be adjacent to said
leading portion of each said group of articles when in a home position with said

retainer arm being moved in a first direction from the home position into
engagement with said leading portion of said group of articles and thereafter

being moved in a second direction opposite to said first direction to lead said
engaged group of articles from said pallet as said group of articles are urged from

said pallet by said article urging means.
The device of claim 5 wherein said retainer means includes movable
carriage means (71) having said retainer arm mounted thereon so that said

retainer arm is movable in opposite directions substantially parallel to the
direction of movement of said group of articles when urged from said pallet by

said article urging means during said depalletizing operations.
The device of claim 6 wherein said retainer means includes drive means
(75) having connector means (77) mounted thereon with said connector means

being driven in a single direction about a closed loop path during said
depalletizing operations, said retainer means also including connecting means

(79) extending between said connector means and said carriage means whereby
said carriage means is driven in opposite directions by said drive means when

said connector means is driven through said closed loop path. 
The device of any of claims 1 through 7 wherein both said sweep means
and said retainer means include drive means (69,77) for establishing movement

about closed loop paths with said closed loop path established for said sweep
means providing a travel distance equal to that of said closed loop path

established for said retainer means multiplied by the number of sweep arms of
said sweep means.
The device of any of claims 1 through 8 wherein said device includes
sheet transfer means (53) for placing a sheet over each group of articles urged

onto said pallet during palletizing operations and for removing each sheet after
removal of the preceding group of articles from said pallet during depalletizing

operations.
The device of any of claims 1 through 9 wherein said device includes first
conveying means (21) for receiving articles diverted from a main conveyor line at

a first location and conveying said diverted articles toward said pallet, and
second conveying means for receiving articles from said pallet and conveying

articles from said pallet to said main conveyor line at a second location.
The device of any of claims 1 through 10 wherein said device includes
article storage means capable of receiving the pallet and storing articles on said

pallet.
The device of claim 11 wherein said first conveying means includes a
receiving end portion (33) open to said main conveyor line at said first location

and a discharge end portion (37) open to said article storage means, and wherein
said second conveying means includes a receiving end portion (41) open to said

article storage means at a location spaced from said discharge end portion of said
first conveying means and a discharge end portion (45) open to said main

conveyor line at said second location.
The device of claim 12 wherein said article storage means has first and
second sides, wherein said discharge end portion of said first conveying means

opens to said first side of said article storage means, and wherein said receiving
end portion of said second conveying means opens to said second side of said

article storage means. 
The device of claim 13 wherein said first and second sides of said article
storage means are at opposite sides of said article storage means, and wherein

said articles urged to said article storage means from said first conveying means
follow a path (39) primarily in substantially the same direction (43) as articles

urged from said article storage means onto said second conveying means to thus
establish a flow-thru system.
The device of any of claims 10 through 14 wherein said palletizing /
depalletizing device includes gate means (61) for passing articles by groups.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
