<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616681</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXTENDED RIGID FRAME RECEIVER SLEEVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F41C2300	F41C2316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F41C	F41C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F41C23	F41C23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An extended rigid interface frame with upper and lower rails (122, 123, 22, 23) joined to a firearm receiver (12, 13) and extending forward above the firearm's barrel (16) to a head assembly (80) replacing the firearm's normal front sight. A weaver type interface return portion (90) is provided below the barrel from the head assembly (80) to the receiver (12, 13). A yoke (110) braces the extended rigid frame receiver sleeve (4) of the present invention to the forward portion of the firearm's receiver (12, 13). The distal end (135) of the extended rigid frame receiver sleeve (4) terminates in the front sight housing which connects the upper and lower rails (122, 123, 22, 23) and provides a housing for advanced laser and sensor components, and the standard front sight bead. The front sight housing is self supported by the connection of the upper and lower rails (122, 123, 22, 23) running back to the yoke (110) and secured to the top of the receiver (12, 13).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SWAN RICHARD EMERSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SWAN, RICHARD, EMERSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWAN RICHARD EMERSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWAN, RICHARD, EMERSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Extended Rigid Frame Receiver SleeveBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to integration means, and more particularly to a device, added to a firearm and extending from the firearm's upper receiver over the firearm's barrel to the firearm's normal front sight position, for incorporating firearm ancillary eguipment.As the field of combat and commercial weaponry expands, numerous add-on enhancements have become available for attachment to standard firearms thereby significantly upgrading the capability of the firearm. Various methods and means have been developed for interfacing the various add-on enhancements to firearms. The Swan/Weaver rail described in U.S. Patent No. 4,845,871, discloses a quickly detachable interface means for modular enhancements. Applicant's copending application, 07/763,966, filed 09/23/91, incorporated herein by reference, discloses a universal receiver sleeve having an upper interface portion with standard, universal dimensions regardless of the firearm and having a lower interface portion specific to a particular firearm.The above types of devices have a basic limitation because of their interface only to the firearm receiver's short 

length. Most standard firearms have a front, barrel mounted, "iron" sight for aiming. The front sight can interfere with the various enhancements interconnected to the receiver sleeve. Most standard firearms are also hand-held with two hands. The first hand generally holds the barrel portion of the firearm while the second hand holds the stock/pistol grip for activation of the firearm trigger. The first hand can also interfere with the various aiming enhancements interconnected to the receiver sleeve, and can deflect the point of aim due to hand pressure. Hand guards connected to the barrel can cause discomfort to the first hand due to overheated barrels in rapid fire. Unwanted heavy barrels are used to help retard barrel deflection and for heat retardation.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION- In view of the foregoing disadvantages inherent in the known types of devices now present in the prior art, the present invention provides an improved receiver sleeving system. As such, the general purpose of the present invention, which will be described subsequently in greater detail, is to provide a new and improved interface means for firearms which will eliminate interference from the firearm's front sight or the user's hands while providing various capabilities for mounting and integrating optics, lasers and 

sensors .To attain this, the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 I claim:
1. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve for interfacing integrated and modular enhancements to a firearm having forward and rearward portions, said firearm having minimally a receiver with a stock and barrel attached thereto, said barrel defining the forward portion of the firearm and said stock defining the rearward portion of the firearm, said firearm longitudinal axis being defined as horizontal and running from said stock through said receiver to said barrel, said receiver being comprised of an upper receiver and a lower receiver, said upper receiver having a forward portion, a top and a rearward portion, said barrel being joined to the forward portion of the upper receiver, comprising:
a forward interface portion having sides, a front and a rear; and
a rearward interface portion having sides comprised of:
a fixed receiver interface sleeve element joined to the top of the upper receiver and having a front joined to the rear of said forward interface portion; and 


 a slidable sleeve element slidably mounted on said fixed receiver interface sleeve element.
2. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 1, wherein said fixed receiver interface sleeve element is comprised of:
a bottom section attached to said firearm receiver and having a longitudinal axis extending in spaced, parallel relation to the longitudinal axis of said firearm, said bottom section having a longitudinal, horizontally positioned base portion along its length, said base portion having two long side edges and a first longitudinal rail extending downward from said base portion adjacent one of the long side edges and a second Longitudinal rail extending downward from said base portion adjacent the other of the long side edges, wherein said second rail is in spaced parallel relationship to said first rail and a longitudinal channel is formed between said first and second rails, said channel being fitted over a portion of the firearm receiver; and 


 a top section attached to said bottom section and having a longitudinal axis extending in spaced, parallel relation to the longitudinal axis of said firearm, said top interface section having a longitudinal, horizontally positioned base portion along its length, said base portion having two long side edges, and a first longitudinal rail extending upward from said base portion adjacent one of the long side edges and a second longitudinal rail extending upward from said base portion adjacent the other of the long side edges, wherein said second rail is in spaced parallel relationship to said first rail and a longitudinal channel is formed between said first and second rails.
3. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 2, wherein said slidable sleeve element is comprised of:
a bottom section slidably joined to said fixed receiver interface sleeve element and having a longitudinal axis extending in spaced, parallel relation to the longitudinal axis of said firearm, said bottom section having a longitudinal, horizontally positioned base 



 portion along its length, said base portion having two long side edges and a first longitudinal rail extending downward from said base portion adjacent one of the long side edges and a second longitudinal rail extending downward from said base portion adjacent the other of the long side edges, wherein said second rail is in spaced parallel relationship to said first rail and a longitudinal channel is formed between said first and second rails, said channel being fitted over a portion of the fixed receiver interface sleeve element; and
a top section joined to said bottom section and having a longitudinal axis extending in spaced, parallel relation to the longitudinal axis of said firearm, said top interface section having a longitudinal, horizontally positioned base portion along its length, said base portion having two long side edges, and a first longitudinal rail extending upward from said base portion adjacent one of the long side edges and a second longitudinal rail extending upward from said base portion adjacent the other of the long side edges, wherein said second rail is in spaced parallel relationship to said first rail and a 


 longitudinal channel is formed between said first and second rails.
4. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 3, wherein said forward interface portion is comprised of:
a head assembly having two sides, a top and a bottom;
a forward upper sleeve element extending from the rearward interface portion above the barrel to the head assembly and forming a junction between said forward upper sleeve element and the front of the fixed receiver interface sleeve element;
a yoke engaging the front of the receiver and said junction; and
a weaver type interface return element extending from the head assembly below the barrel to the yoke.
5. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 4, wherein:
neither the head assembly nor any part of the forward interface portion touches the barrel. 


 6. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 5, wherein:
attachment of the yoke to the forward portion of the receiver and attachment of the sleeve rearward portion receiver interface sleeve element to the top of the upper receiver provide the support for the entire extended rigid frame receiver sleeve.
7. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 6, wherein said forward upper sleeve element is comprised of:
a top section having a longitudinal axis extending in spaced, parallel relation to the longitudinal axis of said firearm, said top section having a longitudinal, horizontally positioned base portion along its length, said base portion having two long side edges, and a first longitudinal rail extending upward from said base portion adjacent one of the long side
^
 edges and a second longitudinal rail extending upward from said base portion adjacent the other of the long side edges, wherein said second rail is in spaced parallel relationship to said first rail and a longitudinal channel is formed between said first 


 and second rails; and
a bottom section joined to said top section and having a longitudinal axis extending in spaced, parallel relation to the Longitudinal axis of said firearm, said bottom section having a longitudinal, horizontally positioned base portion along its length, said base portion having two long side edges and a first longitudinal rail extending downward from said base portion adjacent one of the long side edges and a second longitudinal rail extending downward from said base portion adjacent the other of the long side edges, wherein said second rail is in spaced parallel relationship to said first rail and a longitudinal channel is formed between said first and second rails, said rails having lower surfaces interconnected by means of a longitudinal element thereby forming an enclosed cavity.
8. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 7, wherein:
said forward upper sleeve element bottom section rails and longitudinal element each have a series 


 of apertures formed therein.
9. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 8, wherein:
said head assembly has a generally rectangular shape with a rear face, front face, generally rectangular central opening, upper interface channel, lower interface channel, and a longitudinal axis vertically positioned transverse to the horizontal longitudinal axis of the firearm.
10. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 9, wherein:
the head assembly upper interface channel has a cross section corresponding to an external cross section of the forward upper sleeve element bottom section; and
the forward portion upper sleeve element terminates in the head assembly upper interface channel. 


 11. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 10, wherein the weaver type interface return element is comprised of:
a top section having a generally rectangular shaped cross section, a flat top, flat base, two longitudinal sides and a longitudinal channel horizontally positioned along the length of each said longitudinal side;
a top section angled engagement surface extending from each edge of the base the full length of the top section and extending inwardly and downwardly; and
a bottom section having a top portion, two long sides and a flat bottom, each of the two long sides having external angled engagement surfaces which extend the full length of the bottom section, wherein the surfaces each have a middle longitudinal section, upper longitudinal section, and lower longitudinal section, said upper section surface planes being directed outwardly and downwardly at a forty-five degree angle from the top section angled engagement surfaces, said middle section surface planes being directed vertically downwardly from said upper section 


 surface planes in planes perpendicular to the horizontal plane of the flat bottom, and said lower section surface planes being directed inwardly and downwardly at a forty-five degree angle from the vertical planes of the middle sections to the flat bottom.
12. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 11, wherein:
said head assembly lower interface channel has a T- shaped cross section corresponding to the cross section of the weaver type interface return element top section.
13. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 12, wherein:
the weaver type interface return element top section engages the head assembly lower interface channel. 


 14. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 13, wherein:
said yoke has a generally rectangular shape with a rear face, forward face, central opening, upper interface channel, lower interface channel, and a longitudinal axis vertically positioned transverse to the horizontal longitudinal axis of the firearm.
15. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 14, wherein:
the yoke upper interface channel has a cross section corresponding in shape to the cross section of the forward portion upper sleeve element bottom section; and
the junction between the forward upper sleeve element and the rearward portion receiver interface sleeve element is positioned within said yoke upper interface channel. 


 16. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 15, wherein:
the yoke assembly lower interface channel has a T- shaped cross section corresponding in shape to the cross section of the weaver type interface return element top section; and
the weaver type interface return element top section terminates in the yoke assembly lower interface channel.
17. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 16, further comprising:
two hand guards mounted onto the forward interface portion interface, said hand guards being attached to the yoke and head assembly and adapted to rotate radially upward away from the weaver type interface return element, each said hand guard having a forward and a rear end terminating in a hinge, each said forward hinge being rotatably pinned to the rear face of the head assembly and each said rear hinge being rotatably pinned to the forward face of the yoke. 


 18. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 17, wherein:
the forward upper sleeve element has a front face; and
an electrical output cavity formed in said front face.
19. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 18, further comprising:
a battery compartment located on one side of the head assembly.
20. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 19, further comprising:
a cavity activation switch mounted on the head assembly side.
21. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 20, further comprising:
a front sight mounted on the forward portion upper sleeve element top section at the head assembly. 


 22. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 21, further comprising:
a plurality of zeroing screws attached through said head assembly to said firearm barrel.
23. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 22, wherein said plurality of zeroing screws are comprised of:
four screws, two providing horizontal adjustment and one providing bottom vertical adjustment and one providing top vertical adjustment, said horizontal screws penetrating the sides of the head assembly and radially abutting said barrel, said bottom vertical screw penetrating the weaver interface, through the head assembly lower interface channel and radially abutting against said barrel, and said top vertical screw penetrating the forward portion upper sleeve element attached to the head assembly upper interface channel, through the head assembly upper interface channel and radially abutting said barrel. 


 24. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 21, wherein:
the forward interface portion and fixed receiver interface sleeve element are cast as a one piece component.
25. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 21, wherein:
said yoke has battery storage means contained therein.
26. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 25, wherein:
each said handguard hinge is secured to the handguard via a clip and screw.
27. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 26, further comprising:
electrical outlet plugs interconnected to said battery compartments and positioned along the sides of said forward interface portion and said rearward interface portion. 


 28. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 27, further comprising:
a rear sight aperture positioned at the rear of the sight plain.
29. An extended rigid frame receiver sleeve as recited in claim 22, wherein said zeroing screws are comprised of:
conventional type rear sight windage and elevational controls. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
