<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651120</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Exit device having a deadbolt as its securing member.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B6510	E05B6510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B65	E05B65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This exit device has a press bar (14) and an 
elongated deadbolt (18) adapted to be mounted horizontally 

adjacent the free end of the door and a pivoted retractor 
blade (20) inward of the door. The blade is pivoted by 

the press bar and engages with its nose a projecting 
surface (38) on the deadbolt and retracts the deadbolt. 

The blade also has a keeper contact surface (32a) which, 
as the door closes, is contacted by the keeper and the 

blade is pivoted inward to retract the deadbolt. The 
retractor blade also serves as an anti-friction bearing 

having a peripheral portion which rolls against the 
deadbolt and counters against the inward force on the 

deadbolt opposing to the opening force on the door. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YALE SECURITY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YALE SECURITY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SURKO WALTER E JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SURKO, WALTER E., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an exit device having a 
press bar on the inside of a door. When the press bar is 
pushed, it retracts the securing means so that the door 
can be opened. US state and federal codes have required that exit 
doors for public buildings be equipped with waist-high 
exit devices so that occupants exiting a building can 
press a panic bar or press bar to actuate the latchbolt of 
the door. Such pressing - as opposed to turning a handle 
or knob - is natural, particularly with persons escaping a 
building in a panic situation. Devices of this sort are known, an example being 
disclosed in US Patent No. 4,796,931 to George E. Heid. 
The Heid patent describes the linkages between the press 
bar and a latchbolt which is pivotally mounted adjacent 
the open end of the door. Such structures have been designed to function 
under extreme conditions, the stampede of panicking 
adults towards the exit in  
 
a smoke-filled auditorium, for instance. A herd of such persons 
arriving at a closed door can exert a great outward force on the 
door and the exit device. (A standard exit device test by Underwriters 
Laboratories replicates a horizontal outward force of 250 
pounds against a closed door to test the exit device installed 
thereon. A further test during the application of the 250 pound 
force described above, requires that the press bar operate at a 
force of less than 50 lbs. This press bar force augments the 250 
pound force mentioned above so that the total outward force on 
the latch can be up to 300 pounds.) To counter this enormous 
force in the opening direction, designers of exit devices have 
avoided the preferred more-secure reciprocating deadbolt with its 
high lateral friction and have adopted pivoted latchbolts. Such 
latchbolts have strike-engaging latching surfaces which are 
curved, thereby easing the resistance to retraction in the keeper 
as the door and exit device are pressed outward. In other words, while rectangular or square deadbolts, as 
known in the lock industry, offer better strength and security, 
they require a substantial force to slide them to retracted position 
under the above extreme conditions because of the large perpendicularly 
forces acting on the bearing surfaces. Because 
failure of an exit device to open could be catastrophic, the preference 
for square or rectangular deadbolt-type locking members 
has been cast aside for the easier-opening pivoted latchbolt  
 
described above. As a result, doors equipped with pivoted latch-bolts 
have been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An exit device comprising: 

a) frame means including a base plate (22) and side 
plates (24,26) secured to and extending up on either side 

of the base plate, 
b) a pin (28) secured to and extending between the 
side plates above and parallel to the base plate, 
c) a deadbolt (18) between the pin and base plate 
slidable longitudinally with respect to the base plate 

from a forward extended position to a rearward retracted 
position having on its side remote from the base plate a 

forwardly facing abutment surface (38), 
d) means confining the deadbolt against lateral 
movement, 
e) a retractor blade (32) pivotally mounted on the 
pin for movement from a forward extended position to a 

rearward retracted position and having on its periphery a 
nose (40) adapted to engage the abutment surface, a 

deadbolt pressure surface (42) extending forward along the 
periphery from the nose and adapted as the blade pivots 

and the deadbolt slides to roll progressively along a 
surface on the deadbolt facing the pin, and a strike-plate-engaging 

surface extending toward the pin from a 
point on the periphery of the blade forward of the 

pressure surface, 
f) a manually operated push bar assembly (14) 
operatively connected to the retractor blade so that when 

the bar is pushed, the retractor blade pivots rearward as 
its nose engages the deadbolt abutment surface and 

retracts the deadbolt, 
g) spring means (136) urging the deadbolt toward 
forward extended position, 

   whereby the deadbolt may be retracted either as the 
strike-plate-engaging surface progressively engages a 

strike plate or by pressing the push bar. 
An exit device as claimed in claim 1 including: 

a) a deadlocking plunger operating parallel and 
adjacent the deadbolt, 
b) stop means on the deadbolt, 
c) deadlock effecting means mounted on the frame 
means and adapted to be moved from a blocking to a 

clearing position with respect to the blocking means on 
the deadbolt, 
d) deadlock cancelling means including first 
actuator means on the deadlocking plunger for moving the 

deadlocking means from blocking to clearing position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 2 wherein the stop 
means is a projection extending transversely out from the deadbolt 

and the deadlocking effecting means comprises an arm pivotally 
secured on the frame means and having a blocking surface 

adapted in the blocking position of the deadlock effecting means 
to be diposed in the way of the projection in the retraction of 

the deadbolt, the arm being biased toward the blocking position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the 
deadlock cancelling means also includes second actuator means 

comprising an extension on the pushbar assembly which engages the 
deadlock effecting means to move it to clearing position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 2 wherein the first 
actuator means on the deadlock plunger is a cam surface which 

moves the deadlock effecting means to clearing position and holds 
it in clearing position when the deadlock plunger is extended. 
An exit device for a door comprising frame means, a 
deadbolt, in the frame means, retractor/bearing means pivotally 

mounted on the frame means adjacent the deadbolt and having a 
peripheral surface adapted to roll on a surface of the deadbolt 

opposite the direction in which the door opens, engagement means 
on the retractor/bearing means and the deadbolt whereby the 

pivoting of the retractor/bearing means causes retraction of the 
deadbolt, press bar means mounted on the frame means and linking 

means connecting the press bar means and the retractor/bearing 
 

means whereby pushing the press bar will pivot the retractor/ 
bearing means. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the 
retractor/bearing means is formed with an inclined keeper-engaging 

surface which is adapted to be engaged by a keeper as the door is 
closed to retract the deadbolt. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 7 wherein the engagement 
means is a non-longitudinal surface facing the free end of 

the door and a retracting surface on the retractor/bearing means 
adapted to engage the non-longitudinal surface to retract the 

deadbolt and the retractor/bearing means has a bearing surface 
remote from the pivot adapted to engage and roll along the deadbolt 

and support it from a direction oposite the direction the 
door opens. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 8 including: 

a. a deadlocking plunger operating parallel and adjacent 
the deadbolt, 
b. stop means on the deadbolt, 
c. deadlock effecting means mounted on the frame means 
and adapted to be moved from a blocking to a 

clearing position with respect to the blocking means 
on the deadbolt, 
d. deadlock cancelling means including first actuator 
means on the deadlocking plunger for moving the 

 
deadlocking effecting means from blocking to 

clearing position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 9 wherein the 
blocking means is a projection extending transversely out from 

the deadbolt and the deadlocking effecting means comprises an arm 
pivotally secured on the frame means and having a blocking surface 

adapted in the blocking position of the deadlock effecting 
means to be diposed in the way of the projection in the retraction 

of the deadbolt, the arm being biased toward the blocking 
position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the deadlock 
cancelling means also includes second actuator means 

comprising an extension on the linking means which engages the 
deadlock effecting means to move it to clearing position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 9 wherein the first 
actuator means on the deadlocking plunger is a cam surface which 

moves the deadlock effecting means to clearing position and holds 
it in clearing position when the deadlatch is extended. 
An exit device comprising: 

a. frame means adapted to be surface-mounted on a 
pivoted door, 
b. press bar means mounted on the frame means adapted 
to be operated by pressing it in the direction the 

door opens, 
c. an elongated deadbolt in the frame means adapted to 
be mounted horizontally adjacent the free end of the 

door for longitudinal movement from extended to 
retracted position, and 
d. linking means connecting the press bar and the deadbolt 
whereby pressing the press bar will move the deadbolt from 

extended to retracted position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the deadbolt 
has a non-longitudinal surface facing the free end of the 

door and the linking means includes a retractor/bearing member 
pivotally mounted in the frame means adjacent the deadbolt and 

having a retracting surface adapted to engage the non-longitudinal 
surface to retract the deadbolt and having a bearing surface 

remote from the pivot adapted to engage and roll along the deadbolt 
and support it from a direction opposite the direction the 

door opens. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 14 wherein the 
retractor/bearing member has remote from its pivotal mounting a 

projecting nose which engages the non-longitudinal surface and a 
keeper-engaging surface spaced therefrom and the bearing surface 

is disposed intermediate the projecting nose and the keeper-engaging 
surface. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 15 including: 

a. a deadlocking plunger operating parallel and adjacent 
the deadbolt, 
b. stop means on the deadbolt, 
c. deadlock effecting means mounted on the frame means 
and adapted to be moved from a blocking to a 

clearing position with respect to the blocking means 
on the deadbolt, 
d. deadlock cancelling means including first actuator 
means on the deadllocking plunger for moving the 

deadlocking effecting means from blocking to 
clearing position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 16 wherein the stop 
means is a projection extending transversely out from the deadbolt 

and the deadlocking effecting means comprises an arm pivotally 
secured on the frame and having a blocking surface adapted 

in the blocking position of the deadlock effecting means to be 
diposed in the way of the projection in the retraction of the 

deadbolt, the arm being biased toward the blocking position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 17 wherein the deadlock 
cancelling means also includes second actuator means 

comprising an extension on the push bar assembly which engages 
the deadlock effecting means to move it to clearing position. 
An exit device as claimed in Claim 16 wherein the first 
actuator means on the deadlock plunger is a cam surface which 

moves the deadlock effecting means to clearing position and holds 
it in clearing position when the deadlock plunger is extended. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
