<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638201</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROMECHANICAL TIMER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H3700	H01H3716	H01H4300	H01H4330	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H37	H01H37	H01H43	H01H43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electromechanical timer (101) comprises a pair of switch contacts (109, 111), a rotary cam (115) determining the condition of the switch contacts, a snap-acting bimetal (124) arranged to move cyclically during operation of the timer, and first and second spring coils (129, 130) wound on the cam shaft (117) and arranged to unidirectionally couple the bimetal movements to the cam shaft so as to rotatably reset the cam and reset the switch contacts. The timer can be used with an electric toaster in which case the bimetal can be caused to cycle by being intermittently exposed to heat from the toaster by means of a shutter moved by the bimetal, and the rate of cycling of the bimetal can be adjusted to determine the time-out period of the timer by provision of a further shutter adjustably screening the bimetal from the heat of the toaster.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTTER CONTROLS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTTER CONTROLS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLETCHER KEITH HARDWICK GARDEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WISE TOM DALE VIEW EARL STERND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLETCHER, KEITH 13 HARDWICK GARDENS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WISE, TOM 4 DALE VIEW EARL STERNDALE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Electromechanical timer* - Field of the Invention: i This invention concerns improvements relating to^ 5 electrical apparatuses and controls therefor, and more particularly relates to a timer which is particularly well adapted for use in domestic electrical appliances and the like.Background of the Invention;10 Some domestic electrical appliances, tumble driers for example, are provided with timers arranged to interrupt the power supply to an electrically powered part of the appliance, a heating element for example, after a set time period has elapsed. In some15 appliances, an electronic clock circuit is provided within the appliance and is arranged to switch of the power supply once the. clock has counted over the set time period. such electronic timers require a separate DC power supply and are relatively expensive20 and, furthermore, are not well suited for use in conditions of high temperature and high humidity as may be experienced in domestic appliances.In thermostatically controlled appliances, once the appliance has reached a working temperature, the25 operation of the appliance is controlled by a substantially regular cyclical ON/OFF switching of the appliance power supply, and in DE-A-3703884 it is proposed to count these switching cycles electronically to effect a desired timer function.30 This system only works correctly when the appliance.__. has attained substantial equilibrium conditions where\ the cycle time does not vary substantially from cycleΛ to cycle, and furthermore is subject to the 

disadvantages of electronic timers that are outlined above.International Patent Application No. PCT/GB 91/00425 (Publication No. WO 91/15026) discloses an electromechanical timing apparatus which incorporates a thermostatic bimetal arranged sequentially to deflect on heating and then return to its original position as it cools. The cyclical movement of the bimetal as it heats and cools is transmitted via a rack and pawl to a linearly displaceable actuating member arranged so that, after a given number of cycles, the cumulative displacement of the actuating member causes it to act on a power supply switch. In addition, the timing apparatus includes means for enabling the selection of different timing periods as a function of the original position of the displaceable actuating member.The operation of the timing apparatus proposed in WO 91/15026 is unlikely to be unduly affected by use in conditions of high temperature and high humidity, unlike the device proposed in DE-A-3703884, but the device is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. An electromechanical timer comprising a cam that can be rotated to set the condition of a pair of switch contacts, a bimetallic actuator arranged to move in cyclical fashion, and means coupling the bimetal movement unidirectionally to the cam such that the bimetal operation turns the cam so as to reset the switch contacts after a time period determined by the degree of initial rotation of the cam.
2. An electromechanical timer for controlling the period of time that electrical power is supplied to a load, the timer comprising switch means to be positioned in the power supply circuit to the load, a bimetallic element arranged to move cyclically when power is supplied via the switch means to the load, a rotary cam determining the condition of the switch means, cam positioning means for rotating the cam to set the condition of the switch means, and means for transmitting the cyclical movement of the bimetallic element unidirectionally to the cam so that, in operation of the timer, once the cam has been rotated to set the condition of the switch means the cyclical movement of the bimetallic element is transmitted to and causes unidirectional rotation of the cam in a direction to reset the same and thereby cause the switch means to reset after a certain period of time corresponding to the degree of initial rotational displacement of the cam.
3. A timer as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the cam is attached to a shaft and unidirectionally-acting shaft rotating means is provided for transmitting the cyclical movement of- the bimetallic element to the 


cam.
4. A timer as claimed in claim 3 wherein said unidirectionally-acting shaft rotating means comprises a rotary racking arrangement driven by the bimetal movements.
5. A timer as claimed in claim 3 wherein said means for unidirectionally transmitting the movement of the bimetallic element to the cam comprises first means coupling the bimetallic element to the cam shaft so that said first means is moved alternately in opposite directions by the cyclical movement of the bimetallic element but only rotates the shaft when moving in one of these directions, and second means coupled to the shaft to allow rotation of said shaft in said one direction but to inhibit rotation of the shaft in the opposite direction.
6. A timer as claimed in claim 5 wherein said first and second means comprise spring coils wound around the cam shaft and arranged either to tighten onto and bind with the shaft or to loosen and permit relative movement between the coil and the shaft depending upon the direction of the movement of the bimetallic element.
7. A timer as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the cam is rotatable to a range of positions at which the switch means is set, the cam thereby requiring different amounts of rotation in order to reset the switch means and the timer thereby providing in use a selectably variable time period during which power is supplied to the load. 


8. A timer as claimed in any of the preceding claims and further comprising a heater for intermittently heating said bimetallic element in order to cause it to cycle.
9. A timer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 wherein the bimetallic element is arranged to be exposed intermittently to heat from a heat source so as to cause it to cycle.
10. A timer as claimed in claim 9 wherein a shutter is provided in the timer for determining the exposure of the bimetallic element to heat from the heat source, and means are provided for moving the shutter so as intermittently to expose the bimetallic element to the heat.
lϊ. A timer as claimed in claim 10 wherein the movements of the shutter are arranged to be dependent upon the movements of the bimetallic element.
12. A timer as claimed in claim 9 or 10 or 11 wherein means are provided for enabling the amount of heat from the heat source to be adjusted thereby to adjust the rate of cycling of the bimetallic element.
13. A timer as claimed in claim 12 wherein an adjustable shutter is provided between the heat source and the bimetallic element for adjusting the amount of heat that can access the bimetallic element.
14. An electromechanical timer comprising a pair of switch contacts, actuating means for determining the condition of said switch contacts, a bimetal arranged to cycle between hot and cold conditions in operation 


of the timer, means coupling the cyclical movement of the bimetal to said actuating means for causing the same to reset the switch contacts, and means enabling the rate of cycling of the bimetal to be adjusted for determining the period timed by the timer.
15. A timer as claimed in claim 14 wherein the bimetal is arranged to be exposed to heat from a heat source for causing it to cycle, and adjustable shutter means are provided for determining the amount of heat from the heat source that can access the bimetal and thereby determining the rate of cycling of the bimetal.
16. A timer as claimed in claim 14 or 15 wherein the bimetal is arranged to cycle by virtue of being exposed intermittently to heat from a heat source, shutter means being provided for shielding the bimetal from the heat source and the bimetal being coupled to the shutter means so that the movements of the bimetal cause the shutter means to move so as intermittently to expose the bimetal to the heat from the heat source.
17. An electromechanical timer comprising a pair of switch contacts, actuating means for determining the condition of said switch contacts, a bimetal arranged to cycle between hot and cold conditions in operation of the timer, and means coupling the cyclical movement of the bimetal to said actuating means for causing the same to reset the switch contacts, shutter means being provided for determining the exposure of the bimetal to heat from a heat source and the bimetal movement being coupled to the shutter so that heat is intermittently supplied to the bimetal so as to cause 


it to cycle.
18. A timer in which a bimetal is coupled to a rotary cam so that, in operation of the timer, reciprocal cyclical movement of the bimetal is converted into unidirectional movement of the cam for determining the period timed by the timer.
19. A timer in which a bimetal is coupled to an actuator so that, in operation of the timer, reciprocal cyclical movement of the bimetal is converted into movement of the actuator for determining the period timed by the timer, and wherein means are provided for enabling the rate of cyclical movement of the bimetal to be adjusted for adjusting the period timed by the timer.
20. A timer in which, in operation, the movements of a cyclically operating bimetal determine the period timed by the timer, and wherein the cycling of the bimetal is caused by intermittently exposing the bimetal to a heat source by use of shutter means driven by the bimetal itself.
21. A timer is claimed in claim 18 or 19 or 20 and incorporating switch means controlled by the timer for determining the supply of electrical current to a load.
22. An electrical appliance incorporating a timer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 17 and 21 and wherein the switch means in the timer is arranged to determine the operation of the appliance.
23. An electrical appliance as claimed in claim 22 


except that the switch means forms part of the appliance, and the timer has no switch means determining the operation of the appliance and rather is arranged so that the cam in the timer determines the operation of the switch means in the appliance.
24. An electrical appliance incorporating a timer as claimed in claim 18 or 19 or 20, the appliance further incorporating switch means arranged to be controlled by the timer for determining the operation of the appliance.
25. An electrical appliance as claimed in claim 24, the appliance being a toaster incorporating a bread release mechanism arranged to operate switch means in the toaster for determining the operation of the--. toaster, and the timer being mechanically coupled to the bread release mechanism for determining the operation of the same. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
