<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617990</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System for collecting and calculating bridge results.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F100	A63F118	A63F900	A63F900	A63F924	A63F924	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F1	A63F1	A63F9	A63F9	A63F9	A63F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for collecting and calculating bridge results, 
or for transmitting other information, originating from 

different options, to a computer, wherein the choice which 
determines the information is made by placing one or several 

chip(s) in a holder in a specific position. In this 
connection, each possibility or combination of possibilities 

for placing indicates a different choice. By means of a 
reading apparatus, the choices made can be read in, by means 

of coding the chip, in a computer for the further processing 
of the read-in information. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDAP NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. NEDERLANDSCHE APPARATENFABRIEK NEDAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGEN ESCH JOHANNES HARM LUKAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGEN ESCH, JOHANNES HARM LUKAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to collecting, reading in quickly 
and calculating automatically results of, for instance, bridge 
matches. For the automatic processing of the results of bridge 
matches, the "contracts" arising from the biddings and the 
corresponding results of all games played by a number or group 
of pairs should be recorded and read in in for instance a 
computer, after which the result for that group of pairs can 
be calculated. An accepted method for this is filling in a scorecard per 
game, on which scorecard the contract, the result and the 
total number of points of the score, as well as the number of 
the pair played against, are filled in. After a match, it is 
calculated from the total number of points scored which pair 
has played best and is the winner. In many clubs the game is played in competition once a 
week, and usually the calculation of the results afterwards is 
a very time-consuming business. This is caused by the fact that all written results, on 
average about 168 results per group, have to be processed. The object of the present invention is to provide a 
solution to this, enabling a very quick calculation of the 
result after the games have been played in different rounds. 
To realized this, in accordance with the invention, the 
results are not written on a scorecard but indicated by means 
of chips which are placed in a holder. The chips and the holder are shaped such that the chips 
can be placed in a holder in a number of different positions 
which are readily distinguishable from one another. Each 
position corresponds to a predetermined choice or score. In a 
practical embodiment, the chips may be octogonal, so that per 
chip, if used on two sides, 16 different choices are possible. 
To indicate a bridge score, three chips per game played are 
slid into the holder belonging to a game, according to the 
contract which is bid and the corresponding result.  After all games have been played, via a reading apparatus 
connected to a processing unit, such as a computer, it can be 
established per game, by means of light sensors and a univocal 
hole pattern in each chip placed, which contracts are bid and 
which results have accordingly been achieved per pair. Of course, instead of a hole pattern, any other form of 
coding could be used as well, such as, for instance, 
reflecting surfaces arranged on or in the chips. The above will be further explained hereinafter with 
reference to the accompanying drawings. In these drawings: 
Fig. 1 shows, by way of example, a table
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for collecting information originating from 
different options and transmitting it to a processing unit, in 

particular suitable for collecting, transmitting and 
calculating the results of bridge games, characterized by a 

holder capable of receiving one or more chips, said chips 
being provided with a code and capable of being placed in the 

holder in a plurality of possible positions, each position or 
combination of positions representing a different choice; and 

by a reading device capable of cooperating with the holder for 
reading out the position of the chips in the holder. 
A system according to claim 1, characterized by a 
processor connected to the reading device. 
A system according to claim 1 or 2, characterized by a 
display device for displaying the read-out information or 

information derived therefrom. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the reading device comprises a 

microprocessor. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the chips are provided with a fixed hole 

pattern capable of representing different information by 
placing a chip in different positions. 
A system according to claim 5, characterized in that the 
reading device comprises a plurality of pairs of cooperating 

detector elements capable of detecting the presence of a hole 
or the absence thereof in a chip located in a holder disposed 

opposite the detector elements. 
A system according to claim 6, characterized in that the 
pairs of detector elements always consist of one light-emitting 

element and one light-sensitive element. 
A system according to claim 7, characterized in that the 
detector elements emit or receive infrared light. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the holder comprises a code and that the 

reading device comprises means for detecting the code of the 
holder so as to determine the correct read-out position of the 

holder relative to the reading device. 
A system according to claim 9, characterized in that the 
holder is provided with at least two elongated openings, 

shifted slightly relative to each other, and that the reading 
device comprises corresponding detector elements, the correct 

reading position of the holder being determined by the 
simultaneous occurrence of detection signals from the detector 

elements cooperating with two different elongated openings. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the chips are octogonal discs, usable on 

two sides, each provided with the same hole pattern. 
A system according to any one of claims 1-4, 
characterized in that the chips comprise reflecting surfaces 

serving as a code, the reading device comprising corresponding 
detector elements with emit light or receive reflected light. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the holder is capable of receiving a 

plurality of rows of chips and comprises a code indicating the 
row number, said code 
being detectable by the reading device. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the reading device is provided with a 

slot comprising, in opposite walls, pairs of detector 
elements, the holder having dimensions such that, for reading 

out the information, it can be slid through the slot. 
A system according to any one of claims 8-14, 
characterized in that the holder comprises an non-transparent 

yet infrared light-transmitting cover. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the chips are placed in the holder in 

the manner of roof tiles. 
A system for collecting and calculating bridge results 
according to any one or several of the preceding claims, 

 
characterized in that for recording the contract to be played 

and the corresponding result, three chips are used, the first 
chip indicating the number of tricks which are bid and the 

table position of the bidder, the second chip indicating the 
suit which is bid and a possible "double" or "redouble", and 

the third chip indicating the result gained. 
A method for collecting information originating from 
different options and transmitting it to a processing unit, in 

particular suitable for collecting, transmitting and 
calculating bridge results, characterized in that the options 

are determined by chips provided with a code, capable of being 
placed in a holder in different positions and locations for 

determining said information, whereupon the position and the 
location of the chips in the holder are read out by means of a 

reading device and the read-out information is fed to a 
processor. 
A method according to claim 18 or 19, characterized in 
that polygonal chips are used, each provided with a fixed hole 

code, identical for all chips, and capable of being placed in 
the holder in different positions. 
A method according to claim 18, characterized in that a 
holder is used accommodating a plurality of rows of chips and 

comprising means for distinguishing the rows. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
