<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619791</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIQUID FUEL OVERFLOW PREVENTION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63B2700	B63B2724	B67D532	B67D532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63B	B63B	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63B27	B63B27	B67D5	B67D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARINE POWER 
&
 CONTROL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARINE POWER AND CONTROL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAUB JAMES B SR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAUB, JAMES, B., SR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LIQUID FUEL OVERFLOW PREVENTION SYSTEM Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to overflow prevention systems and more particularly to an overflow prevention system for a liquid fuel barge or other vessel.Background ArtRecent increases in environmental concerns regarding oil and gasoline spills in our waterways and oceans have necessitated a new look at traditional methods of loading petroleum products onto floating conveyances. Originally, little regard was given to general safety or to potential environmental risks. Cargos of various petroleum distillates, such as gasoline were pumped aboard barges whose compartment hatches were left open. The bargeman observed the rising level of the product by peering down through open compartment hatches. This method was extremely dangerous. It not only exposed the bargeman to potential health risks because of the exposure to fumes, but it exposed the waterways to the potential hazards of overflowing and explosions.New government mandates curbing these antiquated practices have recently been enacted. Petroleum products in general, and gasoline products in particular, can no longer be jumped aboard barges with open hatches. Utilization of totally closed tank filling systems is now required. The access hatches must be tightly secured during product loading and noxious fumes or vapors must be pumped out during the loading process by means of vapor collection manifolds. The recovered vapors must be piped ashore and processed through various methods to remove the hydrocarbons before the gases can be vented to the atmosphere.Liquid levels must now be automatically sensed during loading by means of floats, sonar, or other devices. As a back-up, the observation of the product as it rises in the storage compartments may be viewed through sight glasses, but the compartments must remain tightly sealed. Also, there must be adequate valves and other devices to 

 avert spills of the product to the seas or waterways and alarms with manual and automatic shutdown capability of pumping facilities.The compartments for the holding of petroleum products are laid out symmetrically with respect to the keel of the vessel. Therefore, in most cases, the compartments are positioned longitudinally along the length of the ship in two rows, a line of compartments on the port side of the ship and another line of compartments on the starboard side of the ship. To maintain trim, the compartments must be loaded in a predetermined sequence.In order to prevent overfill/overflow while
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A liquid fuel overflow protection system for a facility, said facility comprising a plurality of compart¬ ments for holding said fuel, characterized in that said system comprises:
(a) at least one sensor at each one of said plurality of compartments for indicating the level of fuel in each of said compartments;
(b) at least one warning lamp at each of said plurality of compartments which operates when the level of fuel in a compartment reaches a predetermined level; and
(c) central display and control equipment connected to said at least one sensor, said display and control equipment comprising;
(i) means for testing and diagnosing problems in said system;
(ii) means for displaying the operating status of said at least one warning lamp at each of said plurality of compartments on a display panel;
(iii) means for applying power and removing power from said system.
2. The system of Claim 1 characterized in that said at least one sensor comprises a float with a set of contacts which open, causing the electrical circuit to close when said float rises to a predetermined level.
3. The system of Claim 2 characterized in that said at least one warning lamp comprises an electrical light which is energized when said contacts are opened.
4. The system of Claim 3 characterized in that said system further includes an annunciator which sounds when said contacts of said float are opened.
5. The system of Claim 4 characterized in that said system further includes a means to cut off the flow of said fuel when said float rises to said predetermined level. 


 6. The system of Claim 5 characterized in that said float comprises a second set of normally closed contacts and said means to cut off said fuel flow comprises wiring said second set of contacts in each compartment in series and connecting said wiring to control connections to the pumps of a pumping station which is pumping said fuel into said compartments.
7. The system of Claim 6 characterized in that said second set of normally closed contacts are opened when said float rises to said predetermined level thereby breaking said control connections to said pumps and cutting off the flow of said fuel.
8. The system of Claim 7 characterized in that said first set of contacts are connected to said central display and control equipment and opening of first recited set of contacts energizes an associated lamp at said central display and control equipment.
9. The system of Claim 8 characterized in that said central display and control equipment is connected to said at least one warning lamp and energizes said at least one warning lamp at each of said .compartments when said first set of contacts are opened.
10. The system of Claim 1 characterized in that said at least one sensor comprises a first and a second sensor located at each of said plurality of compartments.
11. The system of Claim 10 characterized in that said first sensor comprises a first float and said second sensor comprises a second float.
12. The system of Claim 11 characterized in that said first float comprises a first set of normally closed contacts which open when said first float rises to a first level and wherein said second float comprises two sets of contacts, a second set of normally closed contacts which open when said second float rises to a second level, and a third set of normally closed contacts which open when said second float rises to said second level. 


 13. The system of Claim 12 characterized in that said at least one warning lamp comprises a first and a second warning lamp at each of said compartments and the opening of said first set of normally closed contacts lights said first warning lamp at each of said compartments and the opening of said second set of normally closed contacts of said second float lights said second warning lamp at each of said compartments.
14. The system of Claim 13 characterized in that said first warning lamp is of a different color than said second warning lamp.
15. The system of Claim 14 characterized in that said first warning lamp is amber and wherein said second warning lamp is red.
16. The system of Claim 15 characterized in that said system further comprises an annunciator which sounds a first tone when said first float rises to said first level and a second tone, which is distinguishable from said first tone, when said second float rises to said second level.
17. The system of Claim 16 characterized in that said display and control equipment comprises a display with third and fourth lamps for each of said plurality of compartments which are lighted when said first float rises to said first level and said second float rises to said second level respectively.
18. The system of Claim 17 characterized in that said third and fourth lamps are positioned in an array on said display which corresponds to the locations of said plurality of compartments on said vessel.
19. The system of Claim 18 characterized in that said system further comprises miniature displays which, with said first and second warning lights, are positioned in an array which corresponds to the locations of said plurality of compartments in said vessel.
20. The system of Claim 1 characterized in that said central display and control equipment further comprises dual processors. 


 21. The system of Claim 20 characterized in that said central display and control equipment comprises a means for detecting the operating condition of each of said dual processors and means for switching the full operation of said system to one of said dual processors when the other processor is not operating.
22. The system of Claim 21 characterized in that said system further comprises back-up power means.
23. The system of Claim 22 characterized in that said system further comprises means to detect the failure of the power source of said facility and means for automatically switching to said back-up power means for powering said dual processors when said failure is detected.
24. The system of Claim 23 characterized in that said system further includes an audible alarm at each of said plurality of compartments which is sounded when the level of fuel in a respective compartment reaches said predetermined level.
25. The system of Claim 24 characterized in that said means for testing and diagnosing problems further comprises means for manually operating said at least one sensor to operate said at least one warning lamp and to sound said audible alarm.
26. The system of Claim 25 characterized in that said means for testing and diagnosing problems comprises a self-diagnostic test routine for said dual processors.
27. The system of Claim 26 characterized in that said at least one sensor comprises a first and a second sensor located at each of said plurality of compartments.
.28. The system of Claim 27 characterized in that said first sensor comprises a first float and said second sensor comprises a second float. 


 29. The system of Claim 28 characterized in that said first float comprises a first set of normally open contacts which close when said first float rises to a first level and wherein said second float comprises two sets of contacts, a second set of normally open contacts which close when said second float rises to a second level, and a third set of normally closed contacts which open when said second float rises to said second level.
30. The system of Claim 29 characterized in that said at least one warning lamp comprises a first and a second warning lamp at each of said compartments and opening of said first set of normally closed contacts lights said first warning lamp at each of said compartments and the opening of the second set of normally closed contacts of said second float lights said second warning lamp.
31. The system of Claim 30 characterized in that said first warning lamp is of a different color than said second warning lamp.
32. The system of Claim 31 characterized in that said first warning lamp is amber and wherein said warning lamp is red.
33. The system of Claim 32 characterized in that said system further comprises an annunciator which sounds a first tone when said first float rises to said first level and a second tone, which is distinguishable from said first tone, when said second float rises to said second level.
34. The system of Claim 33 characterized in that said central display and control equipment comprises a display with a third and fourth lamp for each of said plurality of compartments which are lighted when said first float rises to said first level and said second float rises to said second level respectively.
35. The system of Claim 34 characterized in that third and fourth lamps are positioned in an array on said display which corresponds to the locations of said plurality of compartments on said vessel. 


 36. The system of Claim 35 characterized in that said system further comprises miniature displays which, with said first and second warning lights, are positioned in an array which corresponds to the locations of said plurality of compartments in said vessel.
37. A liquid fuel overflow protection system for a facility, said facility comprising a plurality of compart¬ ments for holding said fuel, characterized in that said system comprises:
(a) a first and second sensor at each one of said plurality of compartments for indicating the level of fuel in each of said compartments;
(b) a first and a second warning lamp at each of said plurality of compartments, means to light said first warning lamp when the level of fuel in a compartment reaches a first predetermined level and means to light said second warning lamp when the level of fuel in said compartment reaches a second predetermined level; and
(c) central display and control equipment connected to said first and second sensors, said display and control equipment comprising; (i) means for testing and diagnosing problems in said system; (ii) means for displaying the operating status of said lamps at each of said plurality of compartments on a display panel; and (iii) means for applying power and removing power from said system.
38. The system of Claim 37 characterized in that said system further comprises an audible alarm
y
which operates in response to signals from said sensors at each of said plurality of compartments. 


 39. The system of Claim 38 characterized in that said first sensor comprises a first float and said second sensor comprises a second float.
40. The system of Claim 39 characterized in that said first float comprises a first set of normally closed contacts which open when said first float rises to a first level and wherein said second float comprises two sets of contacts, a second set of normally closed contacts which open when said second float rises to a second level, and a third set of normally closed contacts which open when said float rises to said second level.
41. The system of Claim 40 characterized in that said system further comprises means to cut off the flow of said fuel into said compartments when said level of fuel in any of said compartments reaches said second predetermined level.
42. The system of Claim 41 characterized in that closure of said first set of normally closed contacts lights said first warning lamp, and opening of said second set of contacts lights said second warning lamp.
43. The system of Claim 42 characterized in that said first warning lamp is of a different color than said second warning lamp.
44. The system of Claim 43 characterized in that said first warning lamp is amber and wherein said second warning lamp is red.
45. The system of Claim 44 characterized in that said audible alarm comprises an annunciator which sounds a first tone when said first float rises to said first level and a second tone, which is distinguishable from said first tone, when said second float rises to said second level.
46. The system of Claim 45 characterized in that said display and control equipment comprises a display with a third and fourth warning lamp for each of said plurality of compartments which are lit when said first float rises to said first level and said second float rises to said second level respectively. 


 47. The system of Claim 46 characterized in that third and fourth lamps are positioned in an array on said display which corresponds to the locations of said plurality of compartments on said vessel.
48. The system of Claim 47 characterized in that said system further comprises miniature displays which with said first and second warning lights positioned at each of said plurality of compartments in an array which corresponds to the locations of said plurality of compartments in said vessel.
49. The system of Claim 48 characterized in that said central display and control equipment further comprises dual processors.
50. The system of Claim 49 characterized in that said central display and control equipment comprises a means for detecting the operating condition of each of said dual processors and means for switching the full operation of said system to one of said dual processors when the other processor is not operating.
51. The system of Claim 50 characterized in that said system further comprises back-up power means.
52. The system of Claim 51 characterized in that said means for testing and diagnosing problems further comprises means for manually operating said first and second floats to light said first, second, third and fourth warning lamps and to sound said audible alarms.
53. The system of Claim 52 characterized in that said means for testing and diagnosing problems comprises a self-diagnostic test routine for said dual processors.
54. The system of Claim 1 characterized in that said system further comprises means for checking the continuity of filaments of said at least one warning lamp.
55. The system of Claim 1 characterized in that said system further comprises means for recording and storing information including the time, date, and nature of events which occur during testing, diagnostics, and loading operations. 


 56. The system of Claim 55 characterized in that said system further comprises means for off-loading said information to a portable computer for later analysis and printout at a central computer.
57. The system of Claim 37 characterized in that said system further comprises means for checking the continuity of the filaments of said first and second warning lamps.
58. The system of Claim 37 characterized in that said system further comprises means for recording and storing information including the time, date, and nature of events which occur during testing, diagnostics, and loading operations.
59. The system of Claim 58 characterized in that said system further comprises means for off-loading said information to a hand-held processor for later analysis and printout at a central computer.
60. A liquid fuel overflow protection system for a facility, said facility comprising a plurality of compart¬ ments for holding said fuel, characterized in that said system comprises:
(a) a first and second sensor at each one of said plurality of compartments for indicating the level of fuel in each of said compartments;
(b) a voice synthesizer which announces the identification of the compartment and the level reached when the level of fuel in any of said plurality of compartments reaches a first predetermined level or a second predetermined level; and
(c) central display and control equipment connected to said first and second sensors, said display and control equipment comprising; (i) means for testing and diagnosing problems in said system; (ii) means for displaying the operating status of said lamps at each of said 


 plurality of compartments on a display panel ; (iii) means f or appl ying power and removing power from said system. 61. The system of Claim 60 characterized in that said voice synthesizer broadcasts a female voice. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
