<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650221</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical connector.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R400	H01R426	H01R1200	H01R1204	H01R1216	H01R1302	H01R1333	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R4	H01R4	H01R12	H01R12	H01R12	H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical connector (10) for interconnecting first and 
second circuit members (11, 13) wherein the connector includes 

an insulative, e.g., plastic, housing (21) having a 
cylindrical metallic conductor rod (61) therein and at least 

one electrical contact (27) positioned on or within the 
housing and having opposed conductive end portions. When the 

connector is in a non-contacting position relative to the 
circuit members, the contact assumes a first configuration, 

e.g., oval, and thereafter assumes (moves to) a second 
configuration, e.g., round, when contact occurs. In this 

second configuration, the conductive end portions of the 
contact are equidistant from the conductor rod, thereby 

assuring a predetermined level of impedance for the connector 
during operation thereof. An information handling system 

(computer) which uses such a connector is also disclosed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERARD JAMES DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERARD, JAMES DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to electrical connectors and 
particularly to such connectors for electrically connecting 
circuit members, e.g., those typically found in many 
information handling systems (computers). Examples of such 
circuit members include printed circuit boards (PCBs), thermal 
conduction modules (TCMs), and the like. Electrical connectors for interconnecting pluralities of 
circuit members such as mentioned above in computers and 
similar equipment are known in the art, with representative 
examples shown in US Letters Patents 4,664,458 (Worth), 
4,863,387 (Snaper et al), 5,127,838 (Zaderej), 5,160,268 
(Hakamian) and 5,174,763 (Wilson). Typically, such connectors 
are designed for being positioned between the two circuit 
members to be coupled with designated contacting elements or 
the like of the connector projecting or extending from the 
connector to effect contact with respective conductive members 
(e.g., flat copper pads) located, usually, on an external 
surface of the circuit member. Contact is completed in most 
situations through use of some compression or clamping means 
that moves one or both of the circuit members toward the other 
to compress the connector therebetween. While many such connectors are known to exist, very rarely has 
consideration been given in the design of such with respect to 
impedance matching between the connector and one or more of 
the circuit members. Such is particularly the case with 
respect to connectors of the high density variety (e.g., those 
which utilize a plurality of contacts positioned adjacent one  
 
another at spacings as close as about 0.050 inch or even 
less). Impedance matching, as is known, is the process of 
making equal the impedance when looking both ways from a 
junction location in two parts of a circuit. In the 
particular case of the aforementioned connector structure, 
this capability serves at least two important functions: (1) 
it provides a condition of maximum power transfer from one 
circuit to another for resistive impedances; and (2) it also 
serves to prevent reflection of voltage and current waves. In typical computer systems, printed circuit boards and other 
circuit members are often associated with an established 
impedance, usually at a level of, say, 50, 70 or 93 ohms. In 
order to assure the above highly desirable features, 
therefore, it is important to provide a connector with an 
associated impedance at a value similar to (matching) these. 
US Letters Patent 5,174,763 represents one example of a 
connector
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A connector for electrically interconnecting first and 
second circuit members, said connector comprising: 

an electrically insulative housing adapted for being 
positioned between said first and second circuit members; 

a electrically conductive member positioned within said 
housing; and 

at least one electrical contact positioned within or on 
said housing and including first and second electrically 

conductive portions adapted for electrically contacting 
said first and second circuit members, respectively, said 

electrical contact adapted for assuming a first 
configuration within or on said housing prior to said 

electrically contacting and thereafter assuming a second 
configuration different than said first configuration 

during said electrically contacting, said electrically 
conductive portions of said electrical contact being 

substantially equidistant from said electrically 
conductive member when said electrical contact assumes 

said second configuration during said electrically 
contacting with said first and second circuit members to 

thereby assure a predetermined level of impedance for 
said connector during operation thereof. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein said second 
configuration of said electrical contact is substantially 

round. 
The connector according to claim 2 wherein said first 
configuration of said electrical contact is substantially 

oval. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein said 
electrical contact comprises a closed loop member. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein said second 
configuration of said electrical contact is substantially 

C-shaped, having an open portion. 
The connector according to claim 1 including a plurality 
of said electrical contacts, said housing including a 

plurality of individual parts, each of said parts of said 
housing associated with a respective one of said 

electrical contacts. 
The connector according to claim 6 wherein each of said 
electrical contacts is positioned about a respective one 

of said parts of said housing in a frictionally engaging 
manner. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein said 
electrical contact is positioned about said housing in a 

frictionally engaging manner. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein said 
electrically conductive member comprises a substantially 

cylindrically shaped metallic rod member. 
The connector according to claim 9 wherein said 
conductive member is substantially centrally positioned 

within said housing. 
The connector according to claim 9 wherein said 
conductive member is comprised of copper. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein at least one 
of said electrically conductive portions of said 

electrical contact includes a plurality of dendritic 
protrusions thereon for electrically contacting a 

respective one of said circuit members. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein said 
electrically conductive member also provides stiffening 

for said housing. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein said housing 
is comprised of plastic. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein said housing 
is comprised of ceramic. 
The connector according to claim 1 wherein said 
conductive member is adapted for having cooling fluid 

pass therethrough , to thereby provide cooling for said 
connector. 
An information handling system comprising: 
a first circuit member; 

a second circuit member; and 
a connector for electrically interconnecting said first 

and second circuit members, said connector including an 
electrically insulative housing adapted for being 

positioned between said first and second circuit members, 
a electrically conductive member positioned within said 

housing, and at least one electrical contact positioned 
within or on said housing and including first and second 

electrically conductive portions adapted for electrically 
contacting said first and second circuit members, 

respectively, said electrical contact adapted for 
assuming a first configuration within or on said housing 

prior to said electrically contacting and thereafter 
assuming a second configuration different than said first 

configuration during said electrically contacting, said 
electrically conductive portions of said electrical 

contact being substantially equidistant from said 
electrically conductive member when said electrical 

 
contact assumes said second configuration during said 

electrically contacting with said first and second 
circuit members, to thereby assure a predetermined level 

of impedance for said connector during operation thereof 
as part of said information handling system. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
