<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631661</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH SECURITY COUNTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C2200	G01C2200	G01C2202	G06M300	G06M312	H03K2100	H03K2100	H03K2140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G01C	G06M	G06M	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C22	G01C22	G01C22	G06M3	G06M3	H03K21	H03K21	H03K21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARACHNID INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARACHNID INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HIGH SECURITY COUNTERTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to a counter system and more particularly to a high security counter having a count value stored therein that cannot be decreased.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Mechanical and electromechanical counters are known for counting the number of times an event occurs. These counters have been used in coin operated amusement machines and gaming devices to count coin intake. These types of counters are also used in automobiles to provide odometer records as well as in various other applications. These counters however can be costly. Further, the count value indicated by these types of counters can be easily tampered with. For example, known counters can be bypassed by merely disconnecting them. The count value of counters employing mechanical counting wheels can be altered by manual movement of the wheels. The count value of mechanical and electromechanical counters can also be altered by subjecting the counter to physical shock. Software counters that count in a binary fashion, i.e., 001, 010, 111..., are also known. The contents of these counters are typically stored in a random access memory, RAM. This type of counter can be tampered with however by reprogreunming the count value in the RAM to a lower value. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention the disadvantages of prior counters as discussed above have been overcome. The high security counting system of the present invention utilizes a programmable read only memory counter to maintain a count value that cannot be decreased by tampering.More particularly, the high security counting system of the present invention counts events represented by an event signal. The counting system includes a programmable memory counter having a number of storage elements, each of which is programmable from a first value to a second value and not programmable from the second value to the first value. A controller is responsive to an event signal for controlling a memory programmer to program a storage element from the first value to the second value wherein each storage element programmed to a second value represents a unit of count and the the number of storage elements programmed to the second value represent the total count or count value of the counter.These and other objects and advantages of the invention as well as details of an illustrative embodiment will be more fully understood from the following description and the drawings.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A high security counting system for counting events represented by an event signal comprising: a programmable memory counter having a plurality of storage elements, each of which is programmable from a first value to a second value and not programmable from said second value to said first value; a programmer coupled to said programmable memory counter; a controller responsive to an event signal for controlling said programmer to program a storage element from said first value to a second value, each storage element programmed to a second value representing one unit of count and the number of storage elements programmed to said second value representing the count of said counter.
2. A high security counting system as recited in claim 1 wherein said controller controls said programmer to program the storage elements in said programmable memory counter sequentially starting with a storage element in a least significant position in said memory, the position of the last storage element programmed in said memory representing the count of said counter.
3. A high security counting system as recited in claim 2 wherein said controller includes means for locating the position of the last storage element programmed to said second value. 


 4. A high security counting system as recited in claim 2 wherein said storage elements are arranged in said memory in groups, each group having a predetermined number of storage elements therein and each group having an associated address, said controller controlling said programmer to program each storage element in a group sequentially by reprogramming said group of storage elements said predetermined number of times.
5. A high security counting system as recited in claim 1 wherein said memory counter includes a PROM and each storage element represents a bit in said PROM.
6. A high security counting system as recited in claim 1 wherein said memory counter is a PROM and each storage element represents a byte in said PROM.
7. A high security counting system for counting events represented by an event signal comprising: a nonerasable programmable read only memory having a plurality of storage elements, each of which is programmable from a first value to a second value; a programmer coupled to said programmable memory counter; a controller responsive to an event signal for controlling said programmer to program a storage element from said first value to a second value, each storage element programmed to a second value representing a unit of count and the number of storage elements programmed to said second value representing the count of said counter. 


 8. A high security counting system as recited in claim 7 wherein said controller controls said programmer to program the storage elements in said programmable memory counter sequentially starting with a storage element in a least significant position in said memory, the position of the last storage element programmed in said memory representing the count of said counter.
9. A high security counting system as recited in claim 8 wherein said controller includes means for locating the position of the last storage element programmed to said second value.
10. A high security counting system as recited in claim 8 wherein said storage elements are arranged in said memory in groups, each group having a predetermined number of storage elements therein and each group having an associated address, said controller controlling said programmer to program each storage element in a group sequentially by reprogramming said group of storage elements said predetermined number of times.
11. A high security counting system as recited in claim 7 wherein each storage element represents a bit in said programmable read only memory.
12. A high security counting system as recited in claim 7 wherein each storage element represents a byte in said programmable read only memory. 


 13. A high security counting system for counting events represented by an event signal comprising: a nonerasable programmable read only memory counter having a plurality of bit locations, each of which is programmable from a first value to a second value; a programmer coupled to said memory counter; a controller responsive to an event signal for controlling said programmer to program a bit location from said first value to said second value, each bit location programmed to a second value representing a unit of count.
14. A high security counting system as recited in claim 13 wherein said controller controls said programmer to program bit locations in said memory counter sequentially starting with the least significant bit location in said memory counter.
15. A high security counting system as recited in claim 14 wherein the location of the bit last programmed in said memory counter represents the count of said counter, said controller including means for locating the bit last programmed to said second value. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
