<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652141</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Isolation member  for air bag inflator
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R21272	B60R2126	B60R2126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R21	B60R21	B60R21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air bag inflator (10) is actuatable to supply 
inflation fluid under pressure, through discharge openings 

(40), into a diffuser chamber (90) and thence through gas 
outlets (92) into an air bag. An isolation membrane (100) 

extends across the diffuser chamber (90) between the 
discharge openings (40) and the gas outlets (92). The 

isolation membrane (100) is welded to the housing at 
axially and radially spaced locations (106, 128). When the 

inflator (10) is not actuated, the isolation membrane (100) 
blocks fluid flow including the conduction of moisture from 

the environment around the inflator through the discharge 
openings (40) and into the interior of the inflator. The 

isolation membrane (100) has a weakened portion defined by 
a stress riser (130). When the inflator (10) is actuated, 

the pressure of the fluid flowing through the discharge 
openings (40) breaks the isolation membrane (100) at the 

stress riser (130). The isolation membrane (100) moves to 
a second location in the diffuser chamber (90) clear of the 

gas outlets (92) to enable fluid flow out of the diffuser 
chamber and into the air bag. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER CRAIG M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'LOUGHLIN JOHN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER, CRAIG M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'LOUGHLIN, JOHN P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an inflator assembly
for inflating an inflatable vehicle occupant restraint,
such as an air bag. More particularly, the present
invention relates to an air bag inflator having an
isolation member for blocking conduction of moisture from
the environment around the inflator to gas generating
material inside the inflator.There are many known air bag inflator constructions.
Some inflator constructions include combustible gas
generating material. A known inflator construction
includes a combination of stored gas and combustible gas
generating material. Upon ignition of the gas generating
material, the stored gas is heated, and there is a
resulting increase in fluid pressure. The increased fluid
pressure ruptures a member to release the stored gas and
the gas created by ignition of the gas generating material
from the inflator for flow into an air bag. The gas flows 
through discharge openings in a housing of the inflator
into the air bag.The combustible gas generating material may be subject
to degradation if exposed to moisture in the ambient
atmosphere around the inflator. Accordingly, inflators
include some means to block the moisture in the ambient
atmosphere from contacting the gas generating material.
One means to block the moisture is a metal foil seal
adhesively secured to a surface of the inflator housing
across the discharge openings. The metal foil seal forms a
moisture barrier between the gas generating material inside
the inflator and the environment outside the inflator.
When the inflator is actuated, the pressure of the gas
flowing through the discharge openings ruptures the metal
foil seal.FR-A-2 231 543 as well as FR-A-2 171 107 disclose an apparatus
for inflating an air bag. A housing contains a pressurized gas
for inflating said air bag. Actuator means are provided for
allowing the flow of pressurized gas to the air bag via a
discharge opening. An isolation member blocks said flow of gas
until it is broken so as to allow the flow of gas into the air
bag.In accordance with the present invention an apparatus as set
forth in claim 1 is provided. Preferred embodiments of the
invention are disclosed in the dependent claims. The present invention is an apparatus for inflating a
vehicle occupant restraint, such as an air bag. The
apparatus includes a housing having an axis and a housing
wall extending transverse to the axis. Inflation fluid
supply means in the housing, when actuated, supplies
inflation fluid under pressure for inflating the occupant
restraint. An
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for inflating a vehicle occupant
restraint, such as an air bag, said apparatus comprising:


a housing (12) having an axis;
inflation fluid supply means (24) in said housing for,
when actuate
d, supplying inflation fluid for inflating the
occupant restraint;
an actuator housing (50) located on said axis and
having a chamber;
an actuator means (48) in said chamber for actuating
said inflation fluid supply means;
at least one discharge opening (40) spaced from said
chamber and extending through said housing (12) for enabling

inflation fluid to flow into the occupant restraint; and
a ring-shaped isolation member (100) encircling said
actuator housing

(50),
said isolation member blocking said at

least one discharge opening
and fluid flow from the environment around said housing through said discharge opening

prior to actuation of said
inflation fluid supply means;
said isolation member
(100) comprising a membrane

having a first portion (120)
secured to said housing (12) and a second portion (102) secured to

said actuator housing (50), said isolation member (100) having a third
portion (110) breakable under the pressure of the inflation fluid

acting on said third portion (110), said third portion (110) when
broken being movable in response to the pressure of the

inflation fluid to a position to enable inflation fluid to 
flow from said discharge opening (40) past said isolation member (100)

and into the occupant restraint.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said
first portion (120) of said isolation member is welded to said

housing (12) at a first weld location and said second portion (102) of
said isolation member (100) is welded to said actuator housing (50) at

a second weld location spaced axially and radially from
said first weld location, said isolation member (100) extending

axially and radially between said first and second weld
locations.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 or 2 wherein said
first and second portions (120, 102) of said isolation member (100) have a

first cross-sectional thickness and said breakable portion (103)
of said isolation member has a cross-sectional thickness

less than that of said first and second portions of said
isolation member.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said
isolation member has a generally circular configuration

extending around said axis of said housing, said breakable
third portion (103) of said isolation member comprising an

annular groove (132) having a cross-sectional thickness less than
the cross-sectional thickness of portions of said isolation

member disposed on either side of said annular groove. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein:

said housing comprises inner and outer walls
partially defining between them a diffuser chamber (90);
said discharge opening (40) extends through said
housing inner wall for enabling inflation fluid to flow

from said inflation fluid supply means and into said
diffuser chamber;
said housing outer wall includes an outlet
passage (92) extending through said housing outer wall for

enabling inflation fluid to flow from said diffuser chamber (90)
and into the vehicle occupant restraint; and
said isolation member (100) prior to actuation of said
inflation fluid supply means extends across said diffuser

chamber (90) intermediate said discharge opening and said outlet
passage and blocks fluid flow between said discharge

opening and said outlet passage.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said
housing inner and outer walls have facing surfaces and are

welded together at a first weld location, said isolation
member first portion (120) being at least partially disposed

between said facing surfaces of said housing inner and
outer walls and being welded to said housing inner and

outer walls.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said
isolation member (100) is conically shaped and extends around 

said axis of said housing, said isolation member first
portion (120) comprising a radially outer flange welded to said

housing at a first weld location, said isolation member
second portion (102) comprising a radially inner flange welded to

said actuator housing at a second weld location spaced
radially inward and axially from said first weld location,

said isolation member (100) having a conical wall portion
extending radially outward and axially between said inner

flange portion and said outer flange, said isolation member
third portion being disposed radially inward of said outer

flange.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said
inflation fluid supply means comprises gas generating

material (48). 
An apparatus as set forth in any of claims 1-8 wherein said
membrane has a stress riser (130) at which said

membrane is breakable, all portions of said membrane other
than said stress riser having the same cross-sectional

thickness, said stress riser having a reduced cross-sectional
thickness, whereby said membrane when

sufficiently stressed breaks at said stress riser. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein
said isolation member (100) is a metal member welded to said

housing wall at said first and second weld locations, and
first and second seal locations comprising said first and

second weld locations.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein
said first seal location is spaced apart axially and

radially from said second seal location.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
