<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654090</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIFFERENTIAL SEPARATION ASSAY METHODS AND TEST KITS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N27447	G01N27447	G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33536	G01N33536	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33558	G01N33561	G01N3358	G01N3358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods, test kits, and an apparatus for detecting analytes among closely related substances by reacting the analyte in a test sample with a labeled binding agent which specifically binds to the analyte to form a complex are disclosed. The complex and labeled binding agent are isolated on a separation medium and identified by differential rate of migration. A second labeled marker which migrates independently of the labeled binding agent and complex, preferably at or near the solvent front provides a quality control check for the assay.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOMETRIC IMAGING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOMETRIC IMAGING INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAZAROSSIAN VARTAN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYTER PAUL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANIAN BALA S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAZAROSSIAN, VARTAN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYTER, PAUL, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANIAN, BALA, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionDifferential Separation Assay Methods and Test KitsTechnical FieldThis invention is in the field of detecting analytes using agents which specifically bind to the analyte to form complexes, such as antigen/antibody complexes.Background ArtThere is an extensive body of prior art related analytical techniques based on the formation of complexes between specific binding substances, such as antigens and antibodies; hormones or cell modulators and receptors; avidin/biotin and the like.Tlte Journal of Chromatography 539: 177-185 (1991) and references therein describe the separation of antigen/antibody complexes by capillary zone electropho- resis and isoelectric focusing. In that article, the capillary zone electrophoretic migration of hGH, the an¬ tibody to hGH, and the hGH/antibody complex are shown. Techniques in Protein Chemistr , Academic Press, Inc., N.Y., N.Y. (1984), pp. 456-466, describes the purifica¬ tion of antibodies using high performance capillary elec- trophoresis.U.S. Patent No. 4,937,200, Kamazawa, describes the elution of antigens from an antibody packed affinity chromatography column wherein one member of the binding pair is bound to a solid support.U.S. Patent No. 5,006,473, Bouma, shows the migration of an alkaline phosphatase labeled antibody in a liposome embedded electrophoresis media. After elec- trophoresis, the liposome is lysed and a staining dye or reactant is released.U.S. Patent Nos. 4,205,058 and 4,301,139 describe a chromatography column which separates antigen 

and antigen/antibody labeled complexes and the reaction is determined by measuring a radio-labeled antigen which migrates on the column. As an example, T4 I125 and anti- T4 are reacted and separated on a cross-linked polyvinyl alcohol column. The antibody/T4 complex is retained at the bottom of the column and the T4 I125 migrates. These patents represent an example of the direct binding of a labeled hapten T4 I125 and antibody and separation of these complexes. In U.S. Patent No. 4,811,218, M. Hunkapiller et al. teach a DNA sequencing system using a multiple lane electrophoresis apparatus. Fluorescent dyes are attached to molecules moving through the lanes. A moving illumina¬ tion and detection system scans the multiple lanes. Four color data points are recorded for each of several lanes at a particular time at a fixed distance down the gel. Through a complex analytic procedure, the four colors are related to the concentrations of four dye-labeled DNA components. The object is to identify concentrations
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method for measuring the concentration of multiple analytes in a test sample comprising: (a) providing distinguishable labeled binding agents which specifically bind to each analyte to form complexes;
(b) providing a separation medium on which the labeled binding agents and complexes migrate in the same lane with different velocities; then
(c) contacting the test sample with an amount of the distinguishable labeled binding agents in excess of what will react with each analyte to form complexes with analytes in the test sample, both free and bound binding agents having expected migrations from a starting loca¬ tion to one or more measuring places;
(d) separating the excess labeled binding agents and complexes on the separation medium;
(e) measuring and recording the difference in migration between the labeled binding agents and the complexes on the separation medium by detecting labeled binding agents and the labeled binding agents in complex at said measuring places;
(f) searching said recorded migrations for bound binding agent in relation to free binding agent using said expected migrations in comparison to said measured migrations wherein finding of said bound binding agent indicates presence of each of said analytes;
(g) measuring the area under each peak of each characteristic detected label;
(h) normalizing the areas under each peak; and (i) relating the normalized measured areas with the normalized areas of samples containing known amounts of said analyte. 


2. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the separa¬ tion medium is an electrophoresis medium and the labeled binding agents and complexes migrate at different rates past a measuring place.
3. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the analyte is an antigen and the labeled binding agent is a labeled antibody, or labeled antibody fragment.
4. The method according to Claim 3 wherein the analyte is in a mammalian body fluid.
5. The method according to Claim 3 wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody or fragment of a monoclonal antibody.
6. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the means for normalizing the migration and detection signal amplitude is a second labeled marker of constant concentration which migrates independent of the labeled binding agent and labeled binding agent in complex.
7. The method according to Claim 6 wherein the second labeled marker is a fluorescently labeled molecule.
8. A method for detecting a hapten in a test sample comprising:
(a) providing an antibody which binds to the hapten to be detected; (b) providing a hapten conjugated labeled carrier where the conjugated hapten binds to the antibody in (a) ; (c) carrying-out a competition reaction of the hapten in the hapten conjugate labeled carrier and hapten in the test sample for the antibody to the hapten to form a complex between the hapten conjugated labeled carrier and the antibody, the presence of hapten leading to a reduced amount of complex; 


 (d) separating the complex from the hapten conju¬ gated labeled carrier on a separation medium wherein with the hapten conjugated labeled carrier and the complex have expected migrations from a starting location to one or more measuring places;
(e) measuring and recording the difference in migration between the hapten conjugated labeled carrier and the complex on the separation medium by detecting the hapten conjugated labeled carrier and the hapten conjugated labeled carrier in the complex at said measuring places; and
(f) searching said recorded migrations for complex in relation to free hapten conjugated labeled carrier using said expected migrations in comparison to said measured migrations wherein finding of a reduced amount of complex indicates presence of the hapten.
9. A test kit for detecting an analyte which comprises:
(a) a labeled binding agent which specifically binds to the analyte to be detected to form a complex;
(b) A separation medium which separates the labeled binding agent and complex; and
(c) a standard of the analyte.
ιo. A test kit according to Claim 9 further containing a second labeled marker which migrates on the medium independent of the labeled binding agent and complex.
11. The test kit according to Claim 10 wherein the second labeled marker is fluorescently labeled.
12. The test according to Claim 11 wherein the second labeled marker is fluorescently labeled human serum albumin. 


13. A test kit for detecting a hapten in a test sample which comprises:
(a) a reference sample of the hapten;
(b) a labeled carrier with the hapten conjugated to the labeled carrier; and
(c) a separation medium which separates the labeled carrier and the labeled carrier complexed with an anti¬ body to the hapten.
14. The test kit of Claims 13 which further contains a second labeled marker which migrates independent of the labeled conjugate and labeled conjugate antibody complex.
15. The test kit of Claim 14, wherein the second labeled marker is fluorescently labeled.
16. A second labeled marker according to Claim 15 which is fluorescently labeled human serum albumin. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 19 October 1993 (19.10.93); original claims 1 and 6-16 amended; other claims unchanged
(5 pages)]
1. A method for measuring the concentration of multiple analytes which form stable complexes with specific binding agents in a test sample comprising:
(a) labeling binding agents which specifically bind to each analyte to form stable complexes with distin¬ guishable detectable labels;
(b) determining an expected migration of each of the labeled binding agents and each of the labeled binding agents complexed with analyte to one or more measuring places in the separation medium, said measuring places being chosen to provide a measurable separation between said labeled binding agents and said complexes after a separation time;
(c) contacting the test sample with an amount of the distinguishable labeled binding agents -±n excess of what will react with each analyte under conditions suffi¬ cient for the labeled binding agents to form complexes with analytes in the test sample to produce a reaction mixture containing free distinguishable labeled binding agents;
(d) applying said reaction mixture to said sepa¬ ration medium; (e) measuring and recording the detection of the detectable labels at said measuring places for a time longer than the separation time;
(f) searching said recorded measurements to iden¬ tify free labeled binding agents using said expected mi- grations of free labeled binding agents to define a first search window;
(g) searching said recorded measurements to iden¬ tify complexes using said identified free labeled binding agents and said relative separation to define a second search window wherein finding of said complexes indicates presence of each of said analytes; 


 (h) measuring the area under each peak of each characteristic detected label;
(i) normalizing the areas under each peak; and (j) relating the normalized measured areas with the normalized areas of samples containing known amounts of said analyte.
2. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the separation medium is an electrophoresis medium and the labeled bind- ing agents and complexes migrate at different rates past a measuring place.
3. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the analyte is an antigen and the labeled binding agent is a labeled an- tibody, or labeled antibody fragment.
4. The method according to Claim 3 wherein the analyte is in a mammalian body fluid.
5. The method according to Claim 3 wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody or fragment of a monoclonal anti¬ body.
6. The method according to Claim 1 wherein the means for normalizing the migration and detection signal amplitude is a non-binding labeled marker having a known concentra¬ tion which migrates independent of the labeled binding agents and labeled binding agents in complex.
7. The method according to Claim 6 wherein the non-bind¬ ing labeled marker is a fluorescently labeled molecule. 


8. A method for detecting a hapten which when conjugated specifically binds to an antibody to form a stable complex in a test sample comprising:
(a) providing an antibody which specifically binds to the hapten to be detected; .
(b) providing a hapten conjugated labeled carrier where the conjugated hapten binds to the antibody in (a) ;
(c) carrying-out a competition reaction for the antibody between the hapten in the hapten conjugate la- beled carrier and hapten in the test sample to form a re¬ action mixture containing a complex between the hapten conjugated labeled carrier and the antibody, the presence of hapten in the test sample leading to a reduced amount of complex; (d) determining the expected migration of the hapten conjugated labeled carrier and the complex from a starting location to one or more measuring places in a separation medium;
_ (e) applying the reaction mixture to said separa- tion medium;
(f) measuring and recording detection of the hap¬ ten conjugated labeled carrier and the hapten conjugated labeled carrier in the complex at said measuring places; and (g) searching said recorded measurement to iden¬ tify free hapten conjugated labeled carrier using said expected migration wherein finding of a reduced amount of complex indicates presence of the hapten. 

9. A test kit for detecting an analyte which forms a sta¬ ble complex with a specific binding agent, comprising:
(a) a labeled binding agent which specifically binds to the analyte to be detected to form a complex, said labeled binding agent being in sufficient quantity to provide an excess of labeled binding agent that will react with the analyte under conditions sufficient for the la¬ beled binding agent to form the complex with analyte;
(b) A separation medium in which the labeled binding agent and complex have different migration rates and provide a measurable relative separation after a sepa¬ ration time; and
(c) a standard of the analyte whereby calibration runs an be performed to determine an expected migration of both the complex and the labeled binding agent to one or more measuring points in the sepa¬ ration medium and used for comparative purposes when de¬ tecting the analyte in the test sample.
ιo. A test kit according to Claim 9 further containing a non-binding labeled marker having a known concentration of label which migrates on the medium independent of the la¬ beled binding agent and complex.
li. The test kit according to Claim 10 wherein the non- binding labeled marker is fluorescently labeled.
12. The test kit according to Claim 11 wherein the non- binding labeled marker is fluorescently labeled human se- rum albumin. 


13. A test kit for detecting a hapten in a test sample which comprises:
(a) a reference sample of an antibody to the hap¬ ten; (b) a labeled carrier with the hapten conjugated to the labeled carrier which forms a complex with the an¬ tibody to the hapten; and
(c) a separation medium in which the labeled car¬ rier and the labeled carrier complexed with an antibody to the hapten have different migration rates and provide a measurable relative separation after a separation time whereby a reduction in the complex indicates the presence of the hapten in the test sample.
14. The test kit of Claim 13 which further contains a non-binding labeled marker having a known concentration of label which migrates independent of the labeled conjugate and labeled conjugate antibody complex.
is. The test kit of Claim 14, wherein the non-binding labeled marker is fluorescently labeled.
16. A non-binding labeled marker according to Claim 15 which is fluorescently labeled human serum albumin. 

STATEMENTUNDERARTICLE19
In response to the International Search Report, claims 1 and 6-16 were rewritten to point out that Applicants' invention is directed to a method for constructing a diagnostic assay for analytes which form stable complexes with specific binding agents, distinguishing the invention from the prior art cited in the International Search Report.
In the method taught by Applicants, a labeled specific binding agent is used to test for the presence of an analyte. Excess labeled binding agent is used to establish a search window for the labeled complex based on the known relative separation of the free labeled binding agent and a complex in a chosen separa¬ tion medium. In the preferred embodiments, this relative separa¬ tion is established in a particular separation medium during calibration runs prior to testing the sample, which may or may not contain analyte. Example 3 illustrates how search windows for excess labeled binding agents in a complex are determined from calibration runs. Two values are determined in the calibra¬ tion runs. The first value is the expected position of free labeled binding agent. This is determined by running labeled binding agent in the absence of analyte. The second value is the relative separation or time window between the excess labeled binding agent in the complex which is determined in a second calibration run containing excess labeled binding agent in com¬ plex.
The claims have also been amended to clarify that the analytes searched for in the present invention are limited to substances which form stable complexes with a specific binding agent.
Applicants also teach and claim the use of a non- binding labeled marker having a known concentration of label to normalize the signal detected from the label. This allows quantitative comparison of the test samples with analyte standards having known concentrations. What is important is the concentration of the non-binding marker and the fact that it has a different migration from either the free labeled binding agent or the complex. The peak area of the non-binding labeled marker provides a means for normalizing the detected signal per unit label between runs.
The prior art teaches the use of markers to identify particular positions in the separation medium corresponding to sample molecular weights or isoelectric points. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
