<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635151</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF DETERMINING THE INTERIOR POINTS OF AN OBJECT IN A BACKGROUND
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T700	G06T500	G06T100	G06K948	G06T700	G06T100	G06T500	G01V810	G06T1140	G06K948	G06T920	G01V810	G06T920	G06T1140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06T	G06K	G06T	G06T	G06T	G01V	G06T	G06K	G06T	G01V	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T7	G06T5	G06T1	G06K9	G06T7	G06T1	G06T5	G01V8	G06T11	G06K9	G06T9	G01V8	G06T9	G06T11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an image analysis method for determining the interior points of an object in a background when the countour, or perimeter points, of the object are known. By accessing the interior points of an object, textural and color information can be derived, thereby allowing for object recognition. Further, the ability to determine interior points of an object allows for complete identification of all objects in an image. By determining the interior points, one may "blacken out", or effectively remove previously identified objects from an image, creating a remainder image for further searching.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image analysis
method for determining the interior points of an object
in a background. The present invention also relates to
a method of identifying at least one valid object
having at least one predetermined attribute value in a
background. By determining the interior points of the
object, one may "blacken out" or effectively remove
previously identified objects from an image of the
object and the background, thus creating a remainder
image for further searching. The ability to access interior points of a region
when its contour is given is a classic problem in image
processing. Previous solutions to this problem have
been described by L. W. Chang and K. L. Leu in an
article entitled "A Fast Algorithm for the Restoration
of Images Based on Chain Codes Description and Its
Applications", Computer Vision, Graphics, and Image
Processing 50, 296-307 (1990). One algorithm
described, connectivity filling, requires that every
pixel in the object be interrogated. Since the number
of pixels within an object is greater than the number
of pixels which comprise the perimeter of the object,
such a technique is relatively slow. Another method
described is parity checking which is based on the fact
that the intersection of a straight line with the
contour regions of an object delineates an even number
of points on the perimeter of the object. Designation
of the interior points is determined by an arbitrary
filling rule where all points between each odd point
and the next even point on the contour in each line of
the image are designated as interior points. Such a
parity checking algorithm will not work with objects of
complex shape.In the same article cited above, Chang and Leu
propose an enhanced parity checking algorithm which
relies on characterizing the perimeter points into one
of four categories based on direction code values.
Characterizing the points leads to the creation of a
new buffer of perimeter points wherein some points have
been duplicated and others eliminated. By applying the
parity checking algorithm to the newly created buffer,
interior points of objects with complex shapes may be
identified. However, the enhanced algorithm presented
by Chang and Leu is an indirect method for solving the 
problem of interior point determination, requiring an
excessive number of steps.Japanese Patent Publication Number 62-60069 to
Hitachi Electronic Engineering Co. Ltd., published
12/14/87, discloses a colony screening device which
distinguishes colonies based on color. Colonies
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for determining the interior points
of an object in a background, comprising the steps of:


(a) generating an image of the object and the
background;
(b) searching the image for the object
using at least one automatically calculated threshold;
(c) determining the perimeter points of the
object;
(d) creating a perimeter buffer, the
perimeter buffer comprising the perimeter points, each

perimeter point having a row position coordinate value,
a column position coordinate value and a direction code

vector, the direction code vector comprising a first
and a second direction code value for each perimeter

point, the first direction code value describing the
relationship of each respective perimeter point to the

next perimeter point and the second direction code
value describing the relationship of each respective

perimeter point to the previous perimeter point;
(e) sorting the perimeter points in the
perimeter buffer in a predetermined order to create a

sorted perimeter buffer;
(f) assigning to each perimeter point in the
sorted perimeter buffer a status variable having one of

a first and a second value, the value of the status
variable being determined by the first and second

direction code values; and
(g) designating as the interior points of the
object each point on the same line segment as the

perimeter point being examined and lying between the
examined perimeter point and the next perimeter point

in the sorted perimeter buffer, the examined perimeter
point being assigned the first value of the status

variable.
The method of Claim 1, further including the
'steps of:


(h) determining the gray level value of each
interior point, and
(i) characterizing the object by using the
gray level values of the interior points.
The method of Claim 2, wherein the
characterizing step comprises determining the texture

of the object.
The method of Claim 2, wherein the
characterizing step comprises determining the color of

the object.
The method of Claim 2, wherein the
characterizing step comprises determining the patterns

in the object.
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising the
step of labeling the object by assigning a

predetermined gray level value to each interior point
designated in step (g).
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising the
step of checking for each redundant perimeter point.
The method of Claim 7, further comprising the
step of designating all points lying between each

redundant perimeter point and the next perimeter point
on the line segment as the interior points of the

object only when all instances of each redundant
perimeter point are assigned the first value of the

status variable.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the step of
searching the image includes the sub-steps of:


(i) generating a gray level histogram of the
image, the gray level histogram having an entropy

function, 
(ii) entropically selecting a threshold gray
level value such that the entropy function of the

histogram is maximized,
(iii) scanning the image for at least one object
using the entropically selected threshold gray level

value, and
(iv) tracing the candidate object having boundary
gray level values determined by the entropically

selected threshold gray level value.
The method of Claim 1, further comprising the steps of:

(h) characterizing the candidate object by
the candidate object attribute value; and
(i) validating the candidate object having
the valid object predetermined attribute value;

thereby identifying at least one valid object having at least
one predetermined attribute value in a background.
The method of Claim 10, wherein the step of
searching the image comprises searching only a portion

of the object.
The method of Claim 10, wherein the step of
searching the image includes the sub-steps of:


(i) generating a gray level histogram of the
image, the gray level histogram having an entropy

function,
(ii) entropically selecting a threshold gray
level value such that the entropy function of the

histogram is maximized,
(iii) scanning the image for at least one object
using the entropically selected threshold gray level

value, and
(iv) tracing the candidate object having boundary
gray levels determined by the entropically selected

threshold gray level value.
The method of Claim 12, further comprising
the steps of:


(j) subdividing the gray level histogram into
an upper histogram and a lower histogram using the

entropic threshold gray level value as defined by
step (b)(ii) as an upper delimiter and a lower

delimiter, and
(k) recursively repeating steps (b) (ii) and
(b) (iii) and step (b)(i) for each of the upper and

lower histograms, wherein the repetition of
step (b) (ii) selects a next successive entropic

threshold gray level value, thereby recursively
partitioning the gray level histogram until a

predetermined minimum number of new valid objects is
identified.
The method of Claim 13, further including the
steps of:


(l) determining the gray level value of each
interior point, and
(m) characterizing the object by using the
gray level values of the interior points after

designating step (g).
The method of Claim 14, wherein the
characterizing step comprises determining the texture

of the object.
The method of Claim 14, wherein the

characterizing step comprises determining the color of
the object.
The method of Claim 14, wherein the
characterizing step comprises determining the patterns

in the object.
The method of any one of claims 14 to 17, further comprising
the step of labeling the object by assigning a

predetermined gray level value to each interior point
designated in step (g). 
The method of Claim 10, further comprising
the steps of:


(j) selecting a predetermined gray level
value,
(k) scanning the image to determine all
points having the predetermined gray level value,
(l) re-assigning the gray level value of each
point having the predetermined gray level value a new

predetermined gray level value,
(m) assigning the predetermined gray level
value to all interior points of all valid objects,
(n) generating a gray level histogram of a
remainder image, the remainder image comprising all the

points having a gray level value other than the
predetermined gray level value,
(o) selecting N global entropic threshold
level values,
(p) subdividing the gray level histogram into
N + 1 sub-histograms using each of the entropically

selected threshold gray level values,
(q) searching portions of the image
corresponding to each sub-histogram using each global

entropically selected threshold gray level value for at
least one new candidate object, wherein the new

candidate object has at least one candidate object
attribute value, and
(r) validating the new candidate object
having the valid object predetermined attribute value

for each of the sub-histograms to identify the valid
object.
The method of Claim 19, further including the
step of determining whether the gray level value of the

center of mass of the candidate object is different
than the predetermined gray level value. 
The method of Claim 20, further including the
step of applying a post-scan filter based on the

attribute value of the valid object validated in
step (i).
The method of Claim 20 or Claim 21, further including the
step of merging the list of non-redundant, valid, newly

identified objects with the valid object validated in
step (i).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
