<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652350</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Support and constraint device for a roller shutter box assembly with shutter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E06B917	E06B917	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E06B9	E06B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A support and constraint device for a roller 
shutter box assembly with shutter comprises a plate (10) 

with projections (12) and slots (14) and a block (16) 
with front projections (40) designed to be inserted in 

said slots in which they are clamped by a fork (60) and a 
section bar (50). The plate (10) has a crosspiece (24) 

projecting orthogonally whose front face defines an 
opening (28) for engagement of the section bar (50) 

guided along the crosspiece by opposing teeth (30) formed 
like a square. With the block (16) is coupled a cursor 

(36) with a lower extension (38) having on its inner face 
projections (12'). Said projections (12') together with 

the projections (12) coincide with the holes (20) formed 
in the sides of a channel constituting the roller shutter 

guide and constrained thereto. The section bar (50) 
projects orthogonally to form the rigid support for a 

roller shutter box assembly with shutter roller. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMBAC SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
I.M.B.A.C. S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATTANEO RINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATTANEO, RINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a support and 
constraint device for a roller shutter box assembly with 
shutter. More specifically the present invention relates to 
a device especially suitable for being employed to 
support and constrain a roller shutter box assembly 
consisting of the shutter roller and related heads 
bearing the operating elements. Known roller shutters used as closing devices for 
windows and door windows are constrained to a roller on 
which they are wound or from which they are unwound by 
means of various manual or electrical systems and run 
along guides arranged vertically in the sides of the 
openings formed in the wall. The assembly consisting of the winding roller, the 
related end supports, roller shutter operation means and 
the roller shutter itself make up the so-called roller 
shutter box assembly whose installation in the window or 
door window opening involves a series of laborious 
operations. The elements making up the above mentioned roller 
shutter box assembly must first of all be assembled to 
form a single structure which must then be constrained to 
the wall safely and permanently. For this purpose metal 
brackets are used and connected by screws and tierods to 
the slide guides of the roller shutter and usually  
 
installed in advance in the wall. Sometimes it is 
necessary depending on the size of the roller shutter to 
use additional tierods or stiffening plates for the 
assembly. These are operations conventionally performed 
entirely at the work site and include preliminary 
assembly of the roller shutter box and thus require time 
in addition to skill for execution. Connection of the 
brackets to the slide guides requires the use of specific 
constraining means, e.g. screws, which are engaged in the 
holes made in said guides. In some cases special 
adjustments are necessary depending on size and 
orientation of said brackets. By a separate and simultaneous patent application 
this applicant seeks to obviate the first series of 
shortcomings mentioned above by providing a roller 
shutter box assembly which could advantageously be 
preassembled and then installed enbloc in the window or 
door window opening. The purpose of the present invention is to obviate 
the above mentioned shortcomings as regards permanent 
fastening of a preassembled roller shutter box assembly 
in the window or door window opening. More specifically, the purpose of the present 
invention is to provide a quick support and constraint 
device for roller shutter boxes including the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Support and constraint device for a roller shutter 
box assembly with shutter and achieved in metal or other 

suitable material and characterised in that it comprises 
a plurality of elements mating together and mountable along the 

external walls of each of the slide guides (22) of a 
shutter and the elements consisting of a plate (10) with pairs of 

slightly projecting cylindrical projections (12) on one 
face for fitting in corresponding holes in the guides and a vertical row of quadrangular slots (14) 

delimited above and below by said projections (12) and an 
orthogonal side extension formed of a crosspiece (24) 

which on its front face defines an opening (28) providing 
guiding and constraint of the front portion (52) of a 

section bar (50) for supporting the shutter box assembly, a block (16) with two or more front 
projections (40) complementary to said slots (14), 

clamping means (60) securing the projections (40) projecting 
from the rear of said plate through said slots and a cursor (36) sliding 

horizontally along the block (16) and provided with a 
lower extension (38) on the front face of which are 

achieved pairs of cylindrical projections 
(12') also for fitting in corresponding holes in the guides. 
Support and constraint device for a roller shutter 
box assembly with shutter and achieved in metal or other 

suitable material and characterised in that it comprises 
a plurality of elements mating together and mountable along the 

external walls of each of the slide guides (22') of a 
shutter having a longitudinal compartment (22") with 

rectangular cross section and pairs of vertical rows of 
holes (20') along its opposing sides and said elements 

consisting of a plate (10') with a vertical row of equally  
 

spaced grooves (14') on one side and a quadrangular plate 
(26') providing guiding and constraint of a section bar (50') for supporting the shutter box assembly, the quadrangular plate 

extending orthogonally on the opposite side and having a 
rectangular through hole (28'), a block (16') and a 

vertical row of projections (40') complementary to said 

grooves (14') formed on the front of the side wall (42') 
and a horizontally sliding cursor (36') with lower 

extension (38') on the front face of which are achieved 
pairs of slightly overhanging cylindrical projections. 
Support device in conformity with claim 1 
characterised in that the projections (12), (12') of the 

plate (10) and the lower extension (38) or (38') of the 
cursor (36) or (36') are spaced horizontally and 

vertically and correspond with holes (20), (20') formed 
on the opposite faces of each of the slide guides (22), 

(22'), which are made of channel, of the roller shutter. 
Support device in conformity with the above claims 
characterised in that along the crosspiece (24) or on the 

plate (10') are achieved opposing projecting square-shaped 
teeth (30), (30') whose internal portions are 

aligned with the opening (28), (28') and an elastic 
spring (32), (32') projecting towards said teeth. 
Support device in conformity with the above claims 
characterised in that the projections (40) formed on the 

block (16) have opposed lowered and straight segments at 
their front portion in contact with said block along 

which are fitted said clamping means (60) consisting of a 
fork which meets with the outer face of the plate (10). 
Support device in conformity with the above claims 
characterised in that the block (16), (16') consists of  

 
an angular element (34), (34') whose side wall (42), 

(42') on an internal face has a slightly projecting 
segment (44) extending horizontally and shaped like a 

swallow tail and along which there engages in a sliding 
manner the cursor (36) or (36') with lower extension (38) 

or (38') having a milling complementary to that of said 
segment (44) and slide stop means consisting of a 

setscrew or equivalent. 
Support device in conformity with the above claims 
characterised in that the section bar (50) has an H cross 

section with lowered front portion (52) on at least one 
side and a through opening (56) near the front end and 

complementary to the spring (32) or (32'). 
Support device in conformity with the above claims 
characterised in that on the front of the lower extension 

(38) of the cursor (36) is formed a tab (46) which meets 
the internal wall of one of the faces of the slide guide 

(22). 
Support device in conformity with the above claims 
characterised in that the section bar (50) arranged at 

right angles to the plate (10) or (10') has along its 
extension two or more opposing slots (58), (58') formed 

along its central segment and adjacent to the side 
portions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
