<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649111</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Noise reduction in identification system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K700	G06K700	G08B1324	G08B1324	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	G08B13	G08B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a system comprising a 
transmitter unit for generating an electromagnetic 

interrogation field, at least one responder which modulates 
the interrogation field with a code when it is located in the 

interrogation field, and a detection unit for detecting the 
interrogation field modulated by the responder. The 

transmitter and/or detection unit comprise means for 
suppressing at least a part of the interference signals, 

generated by the transmitter unit, which comprise at least one 
frequency component located within the frequency spectrum of a 

sideband of the modulated interrogation field. Thus the signal 
to noise ratio in the detection unit is improved. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDAP NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. NEDERLANDSCHE APPARATENFABRIEK NEDAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEKELENBURG J C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEKELENBURG, J. C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a system comprising a 
transmitter unit for generating an electromagnetic 
interrogation field, at least one responder which modulates 
the interrogation field with a code when it is located in the 
interrogation field, and a detection unit for detecting the 
interrogation field modulated by the responder. Such a system 
is disclosed in, for instance, Dutch Patent No. 176,404. In identification systems such as described in this Dutch 
patent, an electronic circuit is used which is made up of a 
transmitter and a receiver functioning as a detection unit. 
Using an antenna, the transmitter in this system produces a 
magnetic alternating field which can optionally serve as a 
source of energy for the responder arranged at some distance. 
The responder is an electronic circuit comprising a resonant 
circuit tuned to the frequency of the alternating field and a 
control circuit which damps this circuit, controlled by a 
digital code. The electrical resonant circuit supplies 
sufficient energy to provide the control circuit with 
electrical energy. Using the damping circuit, the responder is capable of 
controlling the absorption of energy from the magnetic field, 
so that the energy release of the transmitter is remotely 
influenced. If the distance between transmitter and responder 
is relatively great, however, the above-mentioned influence 
will be very small, so that mutilation of the code through 
interfering signals from the environment of the identification 
system becomes more and more likely.  Those intefering signals can be divided in two groups. 
Group 1 is formed by interfering signals which are caused by 
external sources, such as for instance radio transmitters. 
Group 2 consists of signals which are inevitably generated in 
the identification system itself, in particular in the 
transmitter circuit. Now, the object of the invention is to remove the 
drawbacks of the signals from group 2. As mentioned hereinabove, the responder transfers the 
digital information by damping the magnetic field, for 
instance, and two conditions are possible here: 
1. strong damping, as a result of a virtually unloaded 
resonant circuit; 2. no damping, as a result of a short-circuited resonant 
circuit. Now, if the two situations alternate at a fast rate, a 
rapidly alternating energy release of the transmitter will 
arise, with a rapidly alternating variation of the amplitude 
of the electromagnetic field. Accordingly, the electromagnetic 
field is modulated. Such an amplitude modulation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system comprising a transmitter unit for generating an 
electromagnetic interrogation field, at least one responder 

which modulates the interrogation field with a code when it is 
located in the interrogation field, and a detection unit for 

detecting the interrogation field modulated by the responder, 
characterized in that the transmitter and/or detection unit 

comprise means for suppressing at least a part of the 
interference signals, generated by the transmitter unit, which 

comprise at least one frequency component located within the 
frequency spectrum of a sideband of the modulated 

interrogation field. 
A system according to claim 1, characterized in that said 
interference signals are suppressed in the interrogation field 

radiated by the transmitter unit. 
A system according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
said interference signals are suppressed in the modulated 

interrogation field received by the detection unit. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the interrogation field has a 

predetermined fundamental frequency f0, with the sidebands of 
the modulated interrogation field being located on opposite 

sides of the frequency f0. 
A system according to claim 2, characterized in that the 
transmitter unit comprises a narrow-band filter which at least 

suppresses frequency components in the generated interrogation 
 

field which are located within the frequency spectrum of a 
sideband of the modulated interrogation field. 
A system according to claim 5, characterized in that the 
transmitter unit comprises an oscillator with which an 

oscillator signal of a predetermined fundamental frequency is 
generated, an output amplifier with which the oscillator 

signal is amplified and an antenna to which the amplified 
oscillator signal is applied for radiating the interrogation 

field, the narrow-band filter being included between the 
output amplifier and the antenna. 
A system according to claim 5, characterized in that the 
transmitter unit comprises an oscillator with which an 

oscillator signal of a predetermined fundamental frequency is 
generated, an output amplifier with which the oscillator 

signal is amplified and an antenna to which the amplified 
oscillator signal is applied for radiating the interrogation 

field, the narrow-band filter being included between the 
oscillator and the output amplifier. 
A system according to claim 6 or 7, characterized in that 
the narrow-band filter has a band-pass frequency which 

corresponds with the predetermined fundamental frequency. 
A system according to claim 3, characterized in that the 
detection unit comprises a difference former to which a 

received signal representing the received modulated 
interrogation field and a transmitted signal representing the 

radiated interrogation field are applied to obtain a 
difference signal which is further processed in the detection 

unit to obtain the code. 
A system according to claim 9, characterized in that the 
detection unit comprises a receiving antenna and an input 

circuit, connected with the receiving antenna, which separates 
the received modulated interrogation field from the carrier of 

the interrogation field in order to obtain the received 
signal. 
A system according to claim 9 or 10, characterized in 
that the detection unit comprises a frequency correction 

filter which simulates the frequency-dependent characteristic 
of the receiving antenna in order to obtain the transmitted 

signal. 
A system according to claim 11, characterized in that the 
detection unit comprises a dummy antenna which receives the 

interrogation field radiated by the transmitter unit. 
A system according to claim 12, characterized in that the 
detection unit comprises an input circuit, connected with the 

dummy antenna, which separates the received interrogation 
field from the carrier of the interrogation field and provides 

said transmitted signal. 
A system according to claim 11, characterized in that the 
detection unit comprises a low-pass filter to which at least a 

part of the signal applied to the transmitting antenna is 
applied. 
A system according to claim 14, characterized in that the 
detection unit comprises an input circuit, connected with the 

transmitter unit, to which at least a part of the signal 
applied to the transmitting antenna is applied, the input 

 
circuit providing a signal separated from the carrier to the 

low-pass filter in order to obtain the transmitted signal. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims 
9-15, characterized in that the transmitter unit comprises 

means for providing the radiated interrogation field with a 
predetermined interference signal, the detection unit 

comprises means which generate an error signal by comparing 
the difference signal with the predetermined interference 

signal, the detection unit further comprising a controllable 
amplifier which controls the amplitude of the received signal 

applied to the difference former on the basis of the error 
signal, in such a manner that the contribution of the 

interference signal in the difference signal is minimized. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the transmitter unit and the detection 

unit comprise a common antenna. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the system is suitable for identifying 

responders and/or communicating with responders. 
A transmitter and detection unit suitable for use in a 
system according to any one of the preceding claims. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
