<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656080</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MELT BONDED NONWOVEN ARTICLES AND METHODS OF PREPARING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D04H164	A47L1316	D04H140	D04H142	D04H154	D04H154	B24D302	A47L1708	A47L1316	A47L1700	B24D302	A47L1704	D04H164	D04H142	D04H140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D04H	A47L	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	B24D	A47L	A47L	A47L	B24D	A47L	D04H	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D04H1	A47L13	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	B24D3	A47L17	A47L13	A47L17	B24D3	A47L17	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A nonwoven abrasive or scouring article having at least one major surface, an interior region, and a periphery, comprises an open, lofty web of first and second crimped, staple organic thermoplastic fibers, wherein the first organic thermoplastic fiber comprises materials selected from the group consisting of polyamides, polyolefins, and polyesters, and wherein said second organic thermoplastic fiber comprises at least two materials of different heat stability. The first and second organic crimped, staple thermoplastic fibers are melt-bonded together at least at a portion of points where they contact. At least a portion of the first and second fibers of one major surface of the nonwoven article have an abrasive coating bonded thereto, and at least a portion of the first and second fibers of the interior region have no abrasive coating bonded thereto, a structure which minimizes the amount of binder which must be used.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEYER RAYMOND F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUBBARD CONNIE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEYER, RAYMOND F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUBBARD, CONNIE L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to low-density nonwoven 
abrasive or scouring articles and methods of making 
same. More particularly, the articles comprise first 
and second staple fibers, the second fiber being 
bicomponent fiber, which allows the articles to be 
"rebulked". The use of lofty, fibrous, nonwoven abrasive 
products for scouring surfaces such as the soiled 
surfaces of pots and pans is well known. These 
products are typically lofty, nonwoven, open mats 
formed of fibers which are bonded together at points 
where they intersect and contact each other. Low-density abrasive products of this type can be 
formed of randomly disposed staple fibers which are 
bonded together at points of contact with a binder that 
may contain abrasive particles. One very successful 
commercial embodiment of such an abrasive product is 
that sold under the trade designation "Scotch-Brite" by 
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company of St. Paul, 
MN. Low-density abrasive products of this type can be 
prepared by the method disclosed by Hoover et al. in 
U.S. Pat. No. 2,958,593. McAvoy, U.S. Pat. No. 3,537,121; McAvoy, et al., 
U.S. Pat. No. 4,893,439, and McGurran U.S. Pat. No. 
5,030,496 also describe fibrous nonwoven surface 
treating articles. U.S. Pat. No. 5,082,720 (Hayes) describes melt-bondable 
bicomponent fibers for use in nonwoven webs. 
The bicomponent fibers described therein have as a 
first component a polymer capable of forming fibers and 
a second component comprising a compatible blend of 
polymers capable of adhering to the surface of the 
first component. The second component has a melting  
 
temperature at least 30°C below the melting temperature 
of the first component, but at least 130°C. U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,377,151 (Lanham) and 4,856,134 
(Wertz et al.) disclose open, lofty webs useful as 
scouring articles which have heated-sealed edges. 
There is no disclosure in either reference of the use 
of melt-bondable fibers in such a device, nor the 
advantages of using such fibers. U.S. Pat. No. 4,078,340 (Klecker et al.) disclose 
an abrasive pad useful in cleaning and scouring kitchen 
utensils, the pad comprising a lofty fibrous nonwoven 
structure of mixed denier nylon or polyester crimped 
filaments bonded at contacting points with 
thermosetting resin containing finely divided soft 
abrasive and coated on one of its surfaces with 
thermosetting resin containing finely divided hard 
abrasive. The present invention provides a low-density, 
lofty, open, porous, nonwoven scouring article. 
Articles of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A nonwoven article having at least one major 
surface, an interior region, anda periphery, said 

article including an open, lofty web of first and 
second crimped, staple, organic thermoplastic fibers, 

said first organic thermoplastic fiber being a material 
selected from the group consisting of polyamides, 

polyolefins, and polyesters, and said second organic 
thermoplastic fiber being at least two materials of 

different heat stability, the heat stability of a lower 
heat stable component of the second crimped, staple, 

organic thermoplastic fiber being less than the heat 
stability of the first fiber, said first and second 

fibers melt-bonded together at least at a portion of 
points where the first organic thermoplastic fiber 

contacts the second organic thermoplastic fiber, the 
nonwoven article characterized by at least a portion of 

the first and second fibers of said one major surface 
of said nonwoven article having an abrasive coating 

bonded thereto which includes a binder and abrasive 
particles, and at least a portion of the first and 

second fibers of the interior region have no abrasive 
coating bonded thereto. 
An abrasive article in accordance with claim 
1 further characterized by said first fiber being 

polyester having a melting point which is greater than 
the melting point of the lower heat stable component of 

the second fiber, said second fiber is a core-sheath 
fiber, said sheath having lower heat stability than 

said core and said first fiber, and said core is 
selected from the group consisting of polyamides, 

polyolefins, and polyesters.  
 
An article in accordance with claim 1 further 
characterized by the denier of the first and second 

thermoplastic fibers ranging from 15 to 70 denier. 
An article in accordance with claim 1 further 
characterized by said binder being selected from the 

group consisting of isocyanate resins, isocyanurate 
resins, phenolic resins, epoxy resins, melamine resins, 

urea-formaldehyde resins, varnish, and mixtures 
thereof. 
An article in accordance with claim 1 further 
characterized by said article being heat sealed along 

at least a portion of its periphery. 
A method of making a nonwoven abrasive or 
scouring article having at least one major surface, an 

interior region, and a periphery, said article 
including a web of first and second crimped, staple 

organic thermoplastic fibers, said first organic 
thermoplastic fiber including materials selected from 

the group consisting of polyamides, polyolefins, and 
polyesters, and said second organic thermoplastic fiber 

including at least two materials of different heat 
stability, said first and second filaments melt bonded 

together at least at a portion of points where they 
contact, and wherein at least a portion of the first 

and second fibers of said one major surface of said 
nonwoven article have an abrasive coating bonded 

thereto which comprises a binder and abrasive 
particles, and wherein at least a portion of the first 

and second fibers of the interior region have no 
abrasive coating bonded thereto, said method 

characterized by the steps of: 

(a) arranging a multiplicity of said first and 
second crimped staple thermoplastic organic 

fibers into said open, lofty web;  
 
(b) subjecting the open, lofty web to conditions 
sufficient to melt a lower heat stable 

component of the second crimped, staple 
thermoplastic organic fiber at least at a 

portion of the points where said lower heat 
stable components contact the first crimped, 

staple organic thermoplastic fibers to form a 
web precursor; 
(c) while still at the conditions of step (b), 
passing the web precursor of step (b) through 

one or more sets of opposed rollers which are 
spaced apart by a distance sufficient to form 

a densified web having a fraction of the loft 
of the web precursor of step (b) and at least 

one major surface; 
(d) applying a binder precursor slurry to at 
least a portion of at least one major surface 

of said densified web, but not to the 
interior region, said binder precursor slurry 

comprising abrasive particles and a binder 

precursor solution; 
(e) subjecting the web of step (d) to conditions 
sufficient to at least partially cure said 

binder precursor solution and form a 
partially coated and partially cured 

densified melt-bonded web; and 
(f) subjecting said partially coated and 
partially cured densified melt-bonded web of 

step (e) to a temperature sufficient to melt 
at least a portion of the lower heat stable 

component of the second fiber, thus rebulking 
the partially coated and partially cured 

densified melt-bonded web. 
A method in accordance with claim 6 wherein 
subsequent to step (c) but prior to step (d) the melt-bonded 

open, lofty web is heat-sealed at least a 
portion of its periphery.  

 
A nonwoven abrasive or scouring article having at 
least two sides and an interior region, 


said article including an open, lofty web of first 
and second crimped, staple, organic thermoplastic fibers, said 

article characterized by at least a portion of the first and 
second fibers of at least one side of the at least two sides 

of said nonwoven article have an abrasive coating bonded 
thereto which includes a binder and abrasive particles, and at 

least a portion of the first and second fibers of the interior 
region have no abrasive particles bonded thereto, 
said article prepared by a process including the 
steps of: 


(a) arranging a multiplicity of said first and second 
crimped staple thermoplastic organic fibers into 

said open, lofty web, said first organic 
thermoplastic fiber being a material selected from 

the group consisting of polyamides, polyolefins, and 
polyesters, and said second organic thermoplastic 

fiber including at least two materials of different 
heat stability, the heat stability of a lower heat 

stable component of the second crimped, staple, 
organic thermoplastic fiber being less than the heat 

stability of the first fiber, 
(b) subjecting the open, lofty web to conditions 
sufficient to melt said lower heat stable component 

of the second crimped, staple thermoplastic organic 
fiber at least at a portion of the points where said 

lower heat stable components contact the first 
crimped, staple organic thermoplastic fibers to form 

a melt-bonded open, lofty web precursor; 
(c) passing the melt-bonded open, lofty web precursor, 
while still at the conditions of step (b) or after 

cooling and then reheating to temperature conditions 
of step (b), through one or more sets of opposed 

rollers which are spaced apart by a distance 
sufficient to form a densified melt-bonded web  

 
having a fraction of the loft of the melt-bonded 

open, lofty web precursor; 
(d) applying a binder precursor slurry to at least a 
portion of said at least one side of said densified 

melt-bonded web, but not to the interior region, 
said binder precursor slurry including abrasive 

particles and a curable resin; 
(e) subjecting the web of step (d) to conditions 
sufficient to at least partially cure said curable 

resin and form a partially coated and partially or 
fully cured densified melt-bonded web; and 
(f) subjecting said partially coated and partially or 
fully cured densified melt-bonded web to a 

temperature sufficient to rebulk the partially 
coated and partially cured densified melt-bonded 

web. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
