<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655150</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RECORDING OF OPERATIONAL EVENTS IN AN AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R1602	B60R1602	B60W3000	B60W3000	G01S704	G01S704	G01S1300	G01S1393	G06F1740	G06F1740	G07C500	G07C500	G07C508	G08G100	G08G100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60W	B60W	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G06F	G06F	G07C	G07C	G07C	G08G	G08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R16	B60R16	B60W30	B60W30	G01S7	G01S7	G01S13	G01S13	G06F17	G06F17	G07C5	G07C5	G07C5	G08G1	G08G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for recording operational events in an automotive radar system (1). The invention provides an Event Recording Apparatus (ERA) (5) that records selectable vehicle performance, operational status, and/or environment information, including information useful for accident analysis and updated software for use by a system processor (22) capable of reading data from the ERA (5). The preferred embodiment of the ERA (5) comprises a non-volatile solid-state memory card (20), a memory card adapter (21) located in a vehicle, and a microprocessor (22), either as part of the memory card (20) or embedded in a system within the vehicle, for controlling the storage of data within the memory card (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VORAD SAFETY SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VORAD SAFETY SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALAN VAN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLL BRYAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLL JERRY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALAN, VAN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLL, BRYAN, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLL, JERRY, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RECORDING OF OPERATIONAL EVENTS IN AN AUTOMOTIVEVEHICLEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThis invention relates to automotive radar systems, and more particularly to an apparatus and method for recording operational events in an automotive radar system.Description of Related ArtIn the automotive field, a number of electronic devices exist that record data on various aspects of vehicle performance and/or environment information. Such devices have used magnetic tape and paper strips to record such information. These devices primarily function as trip monitors, storing information such as trip distance, trip time, miles per gallon consumed, and average speed. A drawback of such devices is that magnetic tapes and paper strips are susceptible to the detrimental effects of heat and vibration commonly found in an automotive environment. A further drawback is that prior art automotive recording devices have not been used in conjunction with an automotive radar system to record such information as the closing rate (CR) between the recording vehicle and targets located by the vehicle's radar system, the distance (D) between the recording vehicle and targets, vehicle speed (VS) , and such vehicle performance and environment information as braking pressure, vehicle acceleration or deceleration in one or more dimensions, rate of turning of the vehicle, steering angle, hazard levels determined from a radar system processor, target direction, and cruise control status, to name a few. 

 Further, it is believed that such automotive recording devices have not been used to record informa¬ tion to be used for accident reconstruction.Most commercial aircraft and some private aircraft are equipped with an event recording device commonly called a "black box". This device records pertinent data from the aircraft's major subsystems as the aircraft is operating. If an accident occurs, the "black box" generally can be retrieved from the aircraft and the recorded information extracted to determine the status of subsystems of the aircraft just before the accident. Such information is then used to reconstruct the events leading up to the accident, and can help determine the cause of the accident. Black box recording devices have proven invaluable in aircraft accident reconstruction. However, this type of technology is quite expensive, and its use has been limited to more expensive vehicles such as aircraft. In addition, it is believed that all such devices operate using a cumbersome magnetic tape to record data.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED ISt
1. An event recording apparatus for use in an automotive vehicle having at least one data generating means, each for sensing an environmental or an operational parameter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corresponding data values, comprising:
(a) a removable data storage card including non¬ volatile memory means for storing data, and a first interface means for transmitting data from the memory means and for receiving data for storage in the memory means;
(b) an interface adapter, adapted to removably receive the data storage card and mountable in the automotive vehicle, and including a second interface means for transmitting data to the first interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card;
(c) controller means, coupled to the interface adapter and to at least one data generating means, for receiving data values from at least one data generating means and transmitting such received data values through the interface adapter for storage in the data storage card. 

2. An event recording apparatus for use in an automotive vehicle environment, comprising:
(a) a removable data storage card including non¬ volatile memory means for storing data, and a first interface means for transmitting data from the memory means and for receiving data for storage in the memory means;
(b) an interface adapter, adapted to removably receive the data storage card and mountable in an automotive vehicle, and including a second interface means for transmitting data to the first interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card; (c) at least one data generating means, adapted to be mounted in an automotive vehicle, each for sensing an environmental or an operational parameter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corresponding data values; (d) controller means, coupled to the interface adapter and to at least one data generating means, for receiving data values from at least one data generating means and transmitting such received data values through the interface adapter for storage in the data storage card. 

3. An event recording apparatus for use in an automotive vehicle having at least one data generating means, each for sensing an environmental or an operational parameter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corresponding data values, comprising:
(a) an electronic removable data storage card including non-volatile memory means for storing data, and a first serial interface means for transmitting data from the memory means and for receiving data for storage in the memory means;
(b) an interface adapter, adapted to removably receive the data storage card and mountable in the automotive vehicle, and including a second serial interface means for transmitting data to the first serial interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first serial interface means of the data storage card; (c) controller means, coupled to the interface adapter and to at least one data generating means, for receiving data values from at least one data generating means and periodically transmitting such received data values through the interface adapter for storage in the data storage card.
4. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the controller means further includes means for reading data from the data storage card.
5. The event recording apparatus of claim 4, further including a system non-volatile memory means for storing data read from the data storage card. 


6. The event recording apparatus of claim 5, wherein the data read from the data storage card comprises at least one computer program.
7. The event recording apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller means further includes means for enabling or disabling the automotive vehicle from operating, and wherein the data read from the data storage card comprises an authorization code in response to which the controller means enables the automotive vehicle if the authorization code is valid, and disables the automotive vehicle if the authorization code is invalid.
8. The event recording apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller means further includes means for enabling or disabling the automotive vehicle from operating, and wherein the data read from the data storage card comprises an expiration code in re¬ sponse to which the controller means enables the automotive vehicle if the expiration code is valid, and disables the automotive vehicle if the expiration code is invalid.
9. The event recording apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller means further includes means for controlling functions of the automotive vehicle in response to data values read from the data storage card.
10. The event recording apparatus of claim 5, wherein the system non-volatile memory means includes one of: dynamic RAM with a battery backup and refresh circuitry; static RAM with a battery backup; flash memory; and electrically alterable read-only memory. 


11. The event recording apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first and second interface means communicate over a 3-wire serial bus.
12. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the non-volatile memory means includes one of: dynamic RAM with a battery backup and refresh circuitry; static RAM with a battery backup; flash memory; and electrically alterable read-only memory.
13. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the data stored in the data storage card relates to events internal to the vehicle.
14. The event recording apparatus of claim 13, wherein the data relating to events external to the vehicle is selected from one or more of: a hazard level determined from a radar system mounted in the automotive vehicle; automotive vehicle speed; braking pressure; acceleration or deceleration in one or more dimensions; rate of turning; steering angle; cruise control status; vehicle engine RPM; brake temperature; brake line hydraulic pressure; distance travelled; average speed; miles-per- gallon; fuel remaining; compass direction of travel; coolant temperature; oil temperature; engine temperature; transmission fluid temperature; engine timing; impact; tire pressure; windshield wiper status; fog light status; defroster status; and geographic positioning information.
15. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the data stored in the data storage card relates to events external to the vehicle. 


16. The event recording apparatus of claim 15, wherein the data relating to events external to the vehicle is selected from one or more of: the closing rate between the automotive vehicle and targets located by a radar system mounted in the automotive vehicle; the distance between the automotive vehicle and such targets; and target direction.
17. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, further including a computer interface adapter means, adapted to removably receive a data storage card and adapted to be coupled to a computer, and including a third interface means for transmitting data from the computer to the first interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card.
18. The event recording apparatus of claims l, 2, or 3, wherein the data stored in the data storage card is normally stored at a first rate, but is stored at a second rate upon the occurrence of a selected event.
19. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein data storage is commenced upon the occurrence of a selected event.
20. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein data storage is terminated upon the occurrence of a selected event.
21. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the non-volatile memory means includes multiple logical data pages for storing independent sets of data. 


22. A method for recording events relating to an automotive vehicle having at least one data generating means, each for sensing an environmental or an operational parameter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corresponding data values, comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a removable data storage card including non-volatile memory means for storing data, and a first interface means for trans- mitting data from the memory means and for receiving data for storage in the memory means;
(b) providing an interface adapter, adapted to removably receive the data storage card and mountable in the automotive vehicle, and including a second interface means for trans¬ mitting data to the first interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card; (c) receiving data values from at least one data generating means;
(d) transmitting such received data values through the interface adapter;
(e) storing the transmitted data in the data storage card. 

23. The method for recording events of claim 22, further including the steps of:
(a) providing a computer interface adapter means, adapted to removably receive a data storage card and adapted to be coupled to a computer, and including a third interface means for transmitting data from the computer to the first interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card;
(b) reading into a computer data stored in the data storage card.
24. The method for recording events of claim 22, wherein the data stored in the data storage card relates to events internal to the vehicle.
25. The method for recording events of claim 24, wherein the data relating to events external to the vehicle is selected from one or more of: a hazard level determined from a radar system mounted in the automotive vehicle; automotive vehicle speed; braking pressure; acceleration or deceleration in one or more dimensions; rate of turning; steering angle; cruise control status; vehicle engine RPM; brake temperature; brake line hydraulic pressure; distance travelled; average speed; miles-per- gallon; fuel remaining; compass direction of travel; coolant temperature; oil temperature; engine temperature; transmission fluid temperature; engine timing; impact; tire pressure; windshield wiper status; fog light status; defroster status; and geographic positioning information.
26. The method for recording events of claim 22, wherein the data stored in the data storage card relates to events external to the vehicle. 


27. The method for recording events of claim 26, wherein the data relating to events external to the vehicle is selected from one or more of: the closing rate between the automotive vehicle and targets located by a radar system mounted in the automotive vehicle; the distance between the automotive vehicle and such targets; and target direction.
28. The method for recording events of claim 22, wherein the data stored in the data storage card is normally stored at a first rate, but is stored at a second rate upon the occurrence of a selected event.
29. The method for recording events of claim 22, wherein data storage is commenced upon the occurrence of a selected event.
30. The method for recording events of claim 22, wherein data storage is terminated upon the occurrence of a selected event.
31. The method for recording events of claim 22, wherein the non-volatile memory means includes multiple logical data pages for storing independent sets of data. 

32. An event recording apparatus for use in an automotive vehicle having at least one data generating means, each for sensing an environmental or an operational parameter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corresponding data values, comprising:
(a) a data storage unit having a non-volatile memory for storing data, and means for trans¬ mitting data from the memory and for receiving data for storage in the memory;
(b) controller means, coupled to the data storage unit and to at least one data generating means, for receiving data values from at least one data generating means and transmitting such received data values to the data storage unit for storage in the non-volatile memory.
33. The event recording apparatus of claim 32, wherein the data stored in the data storage unit relates to events internal to the vehicle.
34. The event recording apparatus of claim 32, wherein the data stored in the -data storage unit relates to events external to the vehicle. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 12 January 1994 (12.01.94); original claims 4-7, 33 and 34 cancelled; original claims 1-3, 8-10, 14,
22-32 amended and renumbered; new claim 29 added; other claims unchanged and renumbered (10 pages)]
1. An event recording apparatus for use in an automotive vehicle having at least one data generating means, each for sensing an environmental or an operational parame¬ ter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corre- sponding data values, comprising:
(a) a removable data storage card including non¬ volatile memory means for storing data, and a first interface means for transmitting data from the memory means and for receiving data for storage in the memory means;
(b) an interface adapter, adapted to removably re¬ ceive the data storage card and mountable in the automotive vehicle, and including a second inter¬ face means for transmitting data to the first interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card;
(c) controller means, coupled to the interface adapt¬ er and to at least one data generating means, for receiving data values from at least one data generating means and transmitting such received data values through the interface adapter for storage in the data storage card, the controller means including means for reading data from the data storage card; wherein the data read from the data storage card comprises at least one program. 


2. An event recording apparatus for use in an automotive vehicle environment, comprising:
(a) a removable data storage card including non¬ volatile memory means for storing data, and a first interface means for transmitting data from the memory means and for receiving data for storage in the memory means;
(b) an interface adapter, adapted to removably re¬ ceive the data storage card and mountable in an automotive vehicle, and including a second inter¬ face means for transmitting data to the first interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card; (c) at least one data generating means, adapted to be mounted in an automotive vehicle, each for sens¬ ing an environmental or an operational parameter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corresponding data values; (d) controller means, coupled to the interface adapt¬ er and to at least one data generating means, for receiving data values from at least one data generating means and transmitting such received data values through the interface adapter for storage in the data storage card, the controller means including means for reading data from the data storage card; wherein the data read from the data storage card comprises at least one program. 



3. An event recording apparatus for use in an automotive vehicle having at least one data generating means, each for sensing an environmental or an operation parameter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corre- sponding data values, comprising:
(a) an electronic removable data storage card includ¬ ing non-volatile memory means for storing data, and a first serial interface means for transmit¬ ting data from the memory means and for receiving data for storage in the memory means;
(b) an interface adapter, adapted to removably re¬ ceive the data storage card and mountable in the automotive vehicle, and including a second serial interface means for transmitting data to the first serial interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first serial interface means of the data storage card;
(c) controller means, coupled to the interface adapt¬ er and to at least one data generating means, for receiving data values from at least one data generating means and periodically transmitting such received data values through the interface adapter for storage in the data storage card, the controller means including means for reading data from the data storage card; wherein the data read from the data storage card comprises at least one program.
4. The event recording apparatus of claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein the controller means further includes means for 


 enabling or disabling the automotive vehicle from operating, and wherein the data read from the data storage card comprises an expiration code in response to which the controller means enables the automotive vehicle if the expiration code is valid, and disables the automotive vehicle if the expiration code is invalid.
5. The event recording apparatus of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the controller means further includes means for controlling functions of the automotive vehicle in response to data values read form the data storage card.
6. The event recording apparatus of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the system non-volatile memory means includes one of: dynamic RAM with a battery backup and refresh circuitry; static RAM with a battery backup; flash memory; and electrically alterable read-only memory.
7. The event recording apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first and second interface means communicate over a 3- wire serial bus.
8. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the non-volatile memory means includes one of: dynamic RAM with a battery backup and refresh circuit¬ ry; static RAM with a battery backup; flash memory; and electrically alterable read-only memory. 


9. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the data stored in the data storage card relates to events internal to the vehicle.
10. The event recording apparatus of claim 9, wherein the data relating to events external to the vehicle is selected from one or more of: a hazard level determined from a radar system mounted in the automotive vehicle; braking pressure; acceleration or deceleration in one or more dimensions; rate of turning; steering angle; cruise control status; brake temperature; brake line hydraulic pressure; average speed; miles-per-gallon; compass direction of travel; coolant temperature; oil temperature; engine temperature; transmission fluid temperature; engine timing; impact; tire pressure; windshield wiper status; fog light status; defroster status; and geographic positioning information.
11. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the data stored in the data storage card relates to events external to the vehicle.
12. The event recording apparatus of claim 11, wherein the data relating to events external to the vehicle is selected from one or more of: the closing rate between the automotive vehicle and targets located by a radar system mounted in the automotive vehicle; the distance between the automotive vehicle and such targets; and target direction. 


13. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, further including a computer interface adapter means, adapted to removably receive a data storage card and adapted to be coupled to a computer, and including a third interface means for transmitting data from the computer to the first interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card.
14. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the data stored in the data storage card is normally stored at a first rate, but is stored at a second rate upon the occurrence of a selected event.
15. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein data storage is commenced upon the occurrence of a selected event.
16. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein data storage is terminated upon the occurrence of a selected event.
17. The event recording apparatus of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the non-volatile memory means includes multiple logical data pages for storing independent sets of data.
18. A method for recording events relating to an automotive vehicle having at least one data generating means, each for sensing an environmental or an operational parame- 


 ter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corre- sponding data values, comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a removable data storage card including non-volatile memory means for storing data, and a first interface means for transmitting data from the memory means and for receiving data for storage in the memory means;
(b) providing an interface adapter, adapted to removably receive the data storage card and mountable in the automotive vehicle, and includ¬ ing a second interface means for transmitting data to the first interface means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card;
(c) receiving data values from at least one data generating means; (d) transmitting such received data values through the interface adapter;
(e) storing the transmitted data in the data storage card; and
(f) reading a computer program from the data storage card.
19. The method for recording events of claim 18, further including the steps of:
(a) providing a computer interface adapter means, adapted to removably receive a data storage card and adapted to be coupled to a computer, and including a third interface means for transmit¬ ting data from the computer to the first inter- 


 face means of the data storage card and for receiving data from the first interface means of the data storage card;
(b) ding into a computer data stored in the data storage card.
20. The method for recording events of claim 18, wherein the data stored in the data storage card relates to events internal to the vehicle.
21. The method for recording events of claim 18, wherein the data relating to events external to the vehicle is selected from one or more of: a hazard level determined from a radar system mounted in the automotive vehicle; braking pressure; acceleration or deceleration in one or more dimensions; rate of turning; steering angle; cruise control status; brake temperature; brake line hydraulic pressure; miles-per-gallon; fuel remaining; compass direction of travel; coolant temperature; oil temperature; engine temperature; transmission fluid temperature; engine timing; impact; tire pressure; windshield wiper status; fog light status; defroster status; and geographic positioning information.
22. The method for recording events of claim 18, wherein the data stored in the data storage card relates to events external to the vehicle.
23. The method for recording events of claim 22, wherein the data relating to events external to the vehicle is 


 selected from one or more of: the closing rate between the automotive vehicle and targets located by a radar system mounted in the automotive vehicle; the distance between the automotive vehicle and such targets; and target direction.
24. The method for recording events of claim 18, wherein the data stored in the data storage card is normally stored at a first rate, but is stored at a second rate upon the occurrence of a selected event.
25. The method for recording events of claim 18, wherein data storage is commenced upon the occurrence of a selected event.
26. The method for recording events of claim 18, wherein data storage is terminated upon the occurrence of a selected event.
27. The method for recording events of claim 18, wherein the non-volatile memory means includes multiple logical data pages for storing independent sets of data.
28. An event recording apparatus for use in an automotive vehicle having at least one data generating means, each for sensing an environmental or an operational parame¬ ter of the automotive vehicle and for generating corre- sponding data values, comprising:
(a) a data storage unit having a non-volatile memory for storing data, and means for transmitting data 


 from the memory and for receiving data for stor¬ age in the memory; (b) controller means, coupled to the data storage unit and to at least one data generating means, for receiving data values from at least one data generating means and transmitting such received data values to the data storage unit for storage in the non-volatile memory, the controller means including means for reading data from the data storage unit; wherein the data read from the data storage unit comprises at least one program.
29. The event recording apparatus of claim 1, 2, or 3, further including a system non-volatile memory means for storing data read from the data storage card. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
