<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645301</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Variable transmission.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62M900	B62M908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62M	B62M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62M9	B62M9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A variable speed transmission system usable with the 
standard rear axle (10) of most bicycles which utilizes a rotating 

chain sprocket (16) engaging an endless chain for receiving an input 
torque and transmitting an output torque. A shifter device 

includes a stationary shifter ring (28), a moveable shifter plate (32), and 
an appropriate control mechanism (42) for selectively displacing the 

shifter plate (32) with respect to the shifter ring (28) and sprocket (16). 
An appropriate apparatus means is utilized to selectively displace 

the longitudinal axis of the rear axle (38) with respect to the axis 
of the shifter ring (28) and axis of the sprocket (16) to vary the torque 

transmission ratio. The drive apparatus can include a plurality 
of drive arms (58,60) secured to and moveable with a clutch (56) associated 

with the rear axle (54) which are operably secured to the sprocket (66) or 
a groove plate (12) adjacent the sprocket (16) and secured to the 

rear axle (10) 
having a plurality of grooves (14,62,64) operable with a drive ring 

(20) affixed 
to the sprocket, and having slider means (48) connecting the drive 

ring (20) and groove plate (12). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUNTER HAROLD ARMSTEAD JR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUNTER, HAROLD ARMSTEAD, JR.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNTER HAROLD ARMSTEAD JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNTER, HAROLD ARMSTEAD, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
1. Field of the Invention. The present invention relates 
to a variable speed transmission system and more particularly to 
a system wherein the torque transmission ratio between the input 
torque and the output torque is changed by eccentrically 
offsetting the sprocket from the rear axle. 2. Description of the Prior Art. Numerous variable 
transmission systems having pulleys with varying diameters are 
well known such as those shown in U.S. Patent Nos. 1,626,701 
(Sleeper) and 1,279,271 (Sockl). The devices shown in these 
patents contain variable pulleys associated with belt drive power 
transmission systems. A different type of system is shown in U.S. Patent No. 
3,956,944 which discloses a variable ratio chain sprocket wherein 
a plurality of chain engaging segments are slidably affixed first 
between a pair of discs and are constrained to move in a radial 
direction with respect thereto. There are, however, variables in 
this type of construction that make it difficult to precisely 
adjust the transmission and to avoid excessive wear.  It is a primary objective of the present invention to 
provide a new and improved variable transmission for bicycles and 
related vehicles which has all of the advantages of prior art 
assemblies and none of the disadvantages. It is another objective of the present invention to provide 
a new and improved variable transmission of the type described 
which will fit the rear axle of the majority of standard sized 
bicycles. It is yet another objective of the present invention to 
provide a new and improved variable transmission of the type 
described which utilizes a simple force-displacing mechanism to 
eccentrically shift the axis of the rear axle from the sprocket 
to achieve varying transmission ratios. Yet still another objective of the present invention to 
provide alternative drive means that will effectively transmit 
the input torque from the sprocket to the rear axle through a 
range of torque transmission ratios. The present invention is a new and improved variable 
transmission system for bicycles and related vehicles utilizing a 
standard rear axle and rotating chain sprocket engaging an 
endless chain that receives an input torque and transmits an 
output torque. The system includes a shifter ring, a shifter 
plate moveable with respect to the ring and sprocket, an  
 
appropriately selected drive mechanism operably connected to the 
sprocket and rear axle, and an appropriate device to displace the 
shifter plate whereby the shifter ring and sprocket are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a power transmission system having a standard rear 
axle and a rotatable chain sprocket engaging an endless chain for 

receiving an input torque and transmitting an output torque, an 
improvement for varying the torque transmission ratio comprising: 

shifter means having a shifter ring and shifter plate means 
including a shifter plate moveable with respect to the shifter 

ring and sprocket; means selectively displacing the shifter plate 
with respect to the shifter ring and sprocket whereby the shifter 

ring and sprocket are eccentrically offset from the rear axle to 
vary the torque transmission ratio. 
The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the torque 
transmission ratio is selectively variable within a range of from 

1:1 to 1:2.4. 
The system as claimed in claim 2 wherein movement of the 
shifter plate displaces the rear axle with respect to the shifter 

plate and sprocket to vary the torque transmission ratio. 
The system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the shifter 
plate displacing means includes gear means responsive to an 

applied force. 
The system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the force is 
applied through a lever-actuated control cable. 
The system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the gear means 
includes a rack gear and a rotary gear cooperating with the rack 

gear upon application of the force to move the shifter plate 
along the rack gear and thereby eccentrically displace the rear 

axle from the shifter ring and sprocket. 
The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drive means 
includes a unidirectional clutch associated with the rear axle, 

a plurality of drive arms secured to and moveable with the 
clutch, and means associated with the sprocket operably securing 

the drive arms to transmit the rotational movement of the 
sprocket to the drive arms, clutch and rear axle. 
The system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the drive means 
includes a unidirectional clutch associated with the rear axle, a 

plurality of drive arms secured to and moveable with the clutch, 
and means associated with the sprocket operably securing the 

drive arms to transmit the rotational movement of the sprocket to 
the drive arms, clutch and rear axle. 
The system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the drive means 
includes a unidirectional clutch associated with the rear axle, a 

plurality of drive arms secured to and moveable with the clutch, 
and means associated with the sprocket operably securing the 

drive arms to transmit the rotational movement of the sprocket to 
the drive arms, clutch and rear axle. 
The system as claimed in claim 6 wherein the drive 
means includes a unidirectional clutch associated with the rear 

axle, a plurality of drive arms secured to and moveable with the 
clutch, and means associated with the sprocket operably securing 

the drive arms to transmit the rotational movement of the 
sprocket to the drive arms, clutch and rear axle. 
The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drive 
means includes a groove plate adjacent the sprocket having a 

 
plurality of grooves therein, a drive ring affixed to the 

sprocket having inner and outer clutch rings, means movably 
connecting the drive ring and groove plate to transmit the 

rotational movement of the sprocket to the groove plate and rear 
axle. 
The system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the drive 
means includes a groove plate adjacent the sprocket having a 

plurality of grooves therein, a drive ring affixed to the 
sprocket having inner and outer clutch rings, means movably 

connecting the drive ring and groove plate to transmit the 
rotational movement of the sprocket to the groove plate and rear 

axle. 
The system as claimed in claim 6 wherein the drive 
means includes a groove plate adjacent the sprocket having a 

plurality of grooves therein, a drive ring affixed to the 
sprocket having inner and outer clutch rings, means movably 

connecting the drive ring and groove plate to transmit the 
rotational movement of the sprocket to the groove plate and rear 

axle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
