<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634101</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved continuous process for the manufacture of tubular food casings
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4700	A22C1300	D01F206	D01F200	A22C1300	B29C4700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	A22C	D01F	D01F	A22C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C47	A22C13	D01F2	D01F2	A22C13	B29C47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention basically relates to a continuous process for the manufacture of 
tubular casings 9, which allows for a continuous regeneration with a non-interrupted 

driving out operation of liquids and gases which are produced during the 
cellulose regeneration step. The process provides for the elimination of said liquids 

and gases by means of a continuous driving out operation which is performed at 
the same time of the coagulating and partial-regeneration step of the cellulose 

tubular casings 9. 
The process allows the fluids to exit in a controlled manner and in a counter 
direction through the interior orifice of an annular extrusion die 5. Liquids and 

gases are received in an acid bath pool for further anti-pollution treatment and 
disposal. The special conditions of this process result in casings carrying on their 

inner surface much less particulate than the best of the so far known casings. The 
very low number of particulate on their inner surface is the reason for a much 

better peelability of the casings. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CELANESE MEXICANA SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CELANESE MEXICANA S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOPEZ-FARIAS IGNACIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOPEZ-FARIAS, IGNACIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a new and improved
continuous process for the manufacture of tubular
food casings, such as artificial casings and the
like.Processes for the manufacture of artificial sausage
casings made entirely of regenerated cellulose, are
well known.U.S.A. patent literature in the art shows many
references disclosing processes which comprise
extruding viscose, which is a solution of sodium
cellulose xanthate in caustic soda through an orifice
into a coagulating bath to form said casings.The oldest U.S. Patent known is Dietrich et al. U.S.
Patent No. 1,908,892 which describes the steps of
manufacturing a tubular casing, by extruding above
mentioned viscose through an annular die into a
spinning bath containing a mixture of sulfuric acid
and sodium sulfate or ammonium sulfate or equivalent
coagulating and regenerating agents. As the viscose
passes through the spinning bath, it is coagulated
and partially regenerated, forming a continuous
cellulose tube or casing. U.S. Patent No. 2,999,758, U.S. Patent No. 2,999,757
together with U.S. Patent No. 3,835,113 disclose what
is considered as the basic viscose processes.One of the most important technical challenges which
are present during the coagulation and regeneration
steps above mentioned, is the venting operation of
the fluids produced during said steps. As a result of
the chemical reaction between the cellulose xanthate
and the sulfuric acid, said xanthate is decomposed
evolving gaseous carbon disulfide (CS2). Additional
gases are produced from a secondary chemical reaction
with the sulfuric acid, in the form of sulfhydric
acid (H2S). These gases are entrapped within the
tubular casing and inflate the same. In addition to
the gases, an important amount of water is produced
due to the viscose dehydration and said chemical
reaction. Both, the gases and the water, must be
released from the casing in order to prevent same
from bursting.In the past, several attempts have been done in order
to solve the above mentioned problem. It was practice
to release the entrapped fluids by puncturing the
tubular casing. Therefore, the casing was cut
periodically producing a slit type opening.Since the extruded tubular casing has to continue
through a series of water wash, desulfuring, water
wash and plastification steps and then dried in an
inflated state, the tubular casing must be free of
punctures of any kind. Because of the above, it was also a practice to cut
out that section of the tubular casing having the
puncture, prior to the drying step. After

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A continuous process for the
manufacture of tubular food casings comprising the

following steps:

a) extruding an alkaline viscose solution
through an extrusion die within a coagulation bath to

obtain an extruded tubular casing,
b) inducing a counter flow within the
extruded tubular casing which removes the gases and

liquids contained inside the tubular casing through
an internal orifice in said extrusion die by means of

a flattening device located at the end of the
coagulation-regeneration step,
c) passing the tubular casings through a
series of water, desulfurizing, water and

plastification baths and through a drying step and
finally winding it up in flattened condition, whereby

less than 3% of the inside surface of the casing is
covered by particulates as measured by field emission

scanning electron microscopy and by image analysing
techniques.
Continuous process for the manufacture of a
regenerated cellulose tubular food casing as claimed

in claim 1, which comprises the steps of: extruding
an alkaline viscose solution through an extrusion die

within a coagulation bath in order to coagulate-regenerate
the extruded tubular casing; inducing a

counter flow entrapped within the extruded tubular
casing, together with the gases evolved as a result

of the coagulation-regenertion step by flattening the
tubular casing, in order to prevent the entrapped 

fluids to pass over the following steps of the
process; driving out said fluids through an internal

ofifice in said extrusion die which leads to a
conduit, while the flattened casing is passed to a

series of water, desulfurizing, water and
plastification baths and later on drying the same in

an inflated condition and finally winding up the
casing in a flattened condition.
A continuous process for the
manufacture of tubular food casings as claimed in

claim 1, wherein the coagulation bath contains from
about 100 to 200 grams per liter of sulfuric acid and

is saturated with sodium sulfate or ammonium sulfate
in water, maintained at a temperature from about 35

°C to about 55 °C.
A continuous process for the
manufacture of tubular food casings as claimed in

claim 1, wherein the driven out fluids exhausted
through said conduit are received in an acid bath and

later on recovered for further anti-pollution
treatment and final disposal.
A continuous process for the
manufacture of tubular food casings, as claimed in

claim 1, wherein the extrusion step is carried out
through an extrusion die having an internal tube or

mandrel to support the extruded tubular casing and to
remove the gases and liquids contained inside the

tubular casing.
Apparatus for the extrusion of tubular food
casings comprising an extrusion die (5) and an 

attached mandrel (14), both immersed in a spin bath
tank (2) wherein, in an annular space between the

mandrel (14) and a tubular casing (9), a thin volume
of the spin bath liquid (3) is drawn up to carry out

the coagulation of the inside of the tubular casing,
the interior of the mandrel (14) is hollow to return

and to discharge spin bath liquid exhausted and gases
produced during coagulation through the interior of

the mandrel to a scrubber (4) via a hydraulic seal
(8) within a spin bath container (21).
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein a
centering guide (13) is arranged coaxially to the

mandrel (14) and supports the extrusion die (5) and
wherein the centering guide (13) is provided with

openings (12) through which fresh spin bath liquid is
fed to the inside of the tubular casing (9).
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the
mandrel (14) passes a mandrel holder (17) at the

bottom of the spin bath tank (2) and a further holder
(19) sealed to the underside of the spin bath tank

(2) by means of a gasket (18).
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein the
further holder (19) affixes an exit tube (20) of the

exhausted spin bath liquid and gases to the end of
the mandrel (14).
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein the
exit tube (20) is connected to the scrubber (4), the

lower end of which is immersed in the spin bath
container (21), which can be moved up and down to

control the pressure of the exhausted gases in the 
interior of the mandrel (14) by adjusting the

hydrostatic pressure at the hydraulic seal (8) by the
movement of the spin bath container (21).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
