<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652540</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Self-service business system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K900	G10L1700	G07C900	G07F1900	G07D900	G07D900	G10L1700	G07F1900	G07C900	G06K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G10L	G07C	G07F	G07D	G07D	G10L	G07F	G07C	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K9	G10L17	G07C9	G07F19	G07D9	G07D9	G10L17	G07F19	G07C9	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-service automated teller machine system includes 
a transaction authorisation module (44) which uses a 

biometric recognition technique, such as voice or 
fingerprint recognition, in combination with predictive 

technology. The biometric recognition test is normally 
decisive, but if this test produces a result which is not 

conclusive but is close to a predetermined threshold, a 
predictive system (38) checks to determine whether the 

transaction is consistent with the user's normal behaviour 
before permitting the transaction to proceed. A suspicion 

count may also be included in the decision-making process, 
to determine whether or not the user has a previous record 

of suspicious transactions. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NCR INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NCR INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIME IAIN R F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIME, IAIN R. F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a self-service business system.Fraudulent use of self-service business systems such as automated teller machine
(ATM) systems has become a substantial problem for banks and other financial institutions.
Customer complaints have been received that "phantom withdrawals" have been made from
their accounts by persons passing themselves off as the customers.In an attempt to reduce the likelihood of fraud occurring, it is known to use biometrics
for confirmation of user identity in a self-service system. Biometrics relates to the analysis of
biological observations and phenomena. More particularly, in the present context, it relates to
the measurement and evaluation of certain physical characteristics which vary from person to
person. Biometric identification systems have been developed and are in use today. The
publication "Electronic Banking 1", published by "POST-NEWS", Stoke-sub-Hamdon,
Somerset TA14 6BR England, discusses the use of biometrics in connection with electronic
banking and identifies five types of biometric identification: signature verification, hand
geometry, finger and palm print comparison, voiceprint measurement and retinal or iris eye
scanning. A sixth type, vein patterns, is identified as having recently been designed. When a
biometric assessment is made, a value is calculated for each user. This value is compared with
a predefined reference value to decide whether to accept or reject a user. The use of
biometrics to confirm the identity of a user is not always completely accurate. Because of the
limitations of the technique, there is always a false acceptance rate and a false reject rate.
Even though these rates usually lie within the range of 0.1% and 3%, depending upon the
biometric used, this can still be unacceptable for banks.GB-A-2,237,670 discloses a system for the transfer of value for use in a situation
where a user wishes to receive the services or goods from a supplier in return for an
appropriate transfer of funds or a commitment to recognize the value of the services/goods
supplied. This system comprises a user interface unit having user identification input means,
biometric means for producing biometric output data relating to a user, storage means for
storing biometric reference data relating to an authorised of the system and is also arranged
such that data relating to previous transactions initiated by the authorised user can be stored
so that the likely type of transaction to be requested by a given user can be protected having
regard
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A self-service system including a user interface unit (14) having user identification
means (20), input means (16) operable by a user for initiating a selected self-service

transaction, biometric means (40) for producing biometric output data relating to a user,
storage means (36) for storing biometric reference data relating to a plurality of authorised

users of the system and arranged to store data relating to previous transactions initiated by
said authorised users, prediction means (38) coupled to said identification means (20) and

arranged to predict the type of transaction to be requested by a given user on the basis of the
stored data relating to previous transactions, transaction authorisation means (44) coupled to

said biometric means (40) and to said prediction means (38) and arranged to make a
determination as to whether a transaction initiated by a user is to be permitted to proceed to

completion, characterized in that said determination is made on the basis that if said biometric
output data does not conclusively match said biometric reference data but matches said

reference data within a predetermined limit of discrepancy the comparison between the
predicted and requested transaction is used in determining whether the transaction is permitted

to proceed to completion, and by the system including further storage means (42) arranged to
store a suspicion count for each of said authorised users, each suspicion count being arranged

to be incremented by one each time said biometric output data for the relevant user is not a
conclusive match with said biometric reference data for that user and regardless of the result

of the comparison between the predicted and requested transaction, and said transaction
authorisation mens (44) being arranged to terminate a transaction if said suspicion count

reaches a predetermined threshold value.
A system according to Claim 1, characterized in that said transaction authorisation
means (44) is arranged to allow a transaction to proceed if said biometric output data

conclusively matches said biometric reference data, regardless of the comparison between the
predicted and requested transaction.
A system according to Claim 2, characterized in that a first value is derived
representative of the difference between said biometric output data and said biometric 

reference data, said output data being considered to be a conclusive match with said reference
data if said first value is less than a predetermined threshold value.
A system according to either Claim 2 or Claim 3, characterized in that, if said
biometric output data does not conclusively match said biometric reference data but does

match said reference data within said predetermined limit, and said requested transaction is not
consistent with said predicted transaction, said transaction authorisation means (44) is

arranged to cause said system to obtain additional information concerning the relevant user
before a final determination is made as to whether the transaction is permitted to proceed to

completion.
A system according to Claim 4, characterized in that in the course of a transaction a
further use is made of said biometric means (40) to provide said additional information.
A system according to Claim 4, characterized in that in the course of a transaction the
user enters a personal identification number by means of said input means (16) to provide said

additional information.
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said user
identification means (20) is formed by a card reader for reading from a card account

information relating to a user.
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the stored

data relating to previous transactions is updated each time a transaction is initiated by one of
said authorised users.
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized by a host
computer (12) and a plurality of automated teller machines (10) each including a user interface

unit (14), prediction means (38) and authorisation means (44) as specified in Claim 1.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
