<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627830</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Digital receiver for variable symbol rate communications
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L2722	H04L702	H04L702	H04L7033	H04L7033	H04L2738	H04L700	H04L700	H04L2722	H04L2738	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L27	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L27	H04L7	H04L7	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital receiver (20) includes a tuner (24) and a demodulator (30) that 
obtains a baseband signal (36) carried in a received analog signal (22). A first 

sampler (46) operates at a preselected fixed asynchronous sampling rate on the 
baseband component to produce a first sampler output (48). A controllable digital 

filter (50) resamples the first sampler output to produce a filter output with a 
selectable resampling rate. The resampled output is time-position locked to 

baseband signal epochs. The resampling is processed to ascertain the bit stream 
of the baseband signal. The controllable filter sampling rate is automatically 

varied to correspond to the data rate of the baseband signal, so that the sampling 

rate of the first sampler need not change. Initial signal acquisition is achieved by 
operating the receiver as a frequency spectrum analyzer. A single signal-carrying 

band (66) is identified and demodulated, and a menu (72) carried on a transport 
layer (68) is read. This menu provides the center frequencies and bandwidths for 

all of the signals within an available frequency range, so that the receiver can be 
reconfigured for any desired signal. Changes in transmission characteristics of the 

signal can later be accommodated seamlessly by reading a change notice (74) 
transmitted in the transport layer and reconfiguring the receiver for the new 

transmission characteristics. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TV COM TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TV/COM TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKER DONALD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS FRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TIERNAN JAMES C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKER, DONALD W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS, FRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TIERNAN, JAMES C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the reception and demodulation 
of communications signals, and more particularly, to the reception of 
such signals transmitted with arbitrarily selectable data rates. In a communications system, data is formatted onto a carrier 
signal and transmitted by a transmitter. After the signal travels 
through some intervening medium, it is received and decoded by the 
receiver. Ideally, the waveform of the data would remain unchanged 
during the communications process. In practice, however, the waveform 
is distorted and corrupted by its passage both through the electronic 
circuitry of the transmitter and the receiver, and through the medium. 
An important feature of the receiver is the processing of the received 
signal to determine the actual content of the data even though the 
transmitting signal has become distorted and corrupted during the 
transmission and reception process. For example, in a typical satellite communications system a data 
signal is created at one location on the earth, encoded onto a radio 
signal, and transmitted to a satellite in synchronous orbit above the 
earth. The satellite retransmits the received signal to another 
location on the earth, where it is received and demodulated. The 
data-carrying signal passes though several electronic systems, as much 
as 44,000 miles of free space, and twice through the atmosphere, and in 
all of these portions of the transmission it is subject to external 
interference and distortions. Historically, the signal has been transmitted and processed 
entirely by analog techniques. In a paper entitled "Design Considerations and Design Tricks for  
 
Digital Receivers" presented at the 9th Kobe International Symposium on 
Electronics and Information Sciences held at Kobe on 18-19 June, 1991, 
Harris pointed out that the availability of high performance, 
reasonable cost, digital signal processing hardware assured the 
imminent application of digital signal processing (DSP) techniques to 
the implementation of radio receivers designed for the commercial AM 
and FM bands. Harris further pointed out that cost and performance 
considerations would require that the conversion of these traditional 
analog systems would entail more than direct replacement of their 
analog subsystems with digital counterparts. The standard operations 
of frequency translation, bandpass or lowpass filtering, and 
demodulation could often be merged or realized with trivial operations 
when implemented by clever DSP designs. Harris then
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital receiver for a transmitted analog signal (22) having an 
arbitrarily variable data rate, the digital receiver including: 


a source (24, 28, 30, 42) for receiving the transmitted analog 
signal (22) and processing its components (I,Q) to obtain baseband 

analog signals (44); 
first samplers (46) each having as an input one of the baseband 
analog signals (44) and a digital first sampler output (48), the first 

samplers operating at a preselected, fixed sampling rate; 
controllable digital filters (50) each having as a first input a 
corresponding digital first sampler output and as a second input a 

time-shifting command signal, and as an output (52) a controllable 
digital resampled signal; 
means (56) for determining a timing error signal of a data bit 
stream at the output of the controllable digital resampled signal; and 
a timing loop (60) having as an input the timing error signal of 
the data bit stream and as an output the time-shifting command signal 

to the controllable digital filters; 
 
characterized by: 


means (65) for controlling the controllable digital filters (50) 
to operate at a narrow bandwidth; 
means (30, 34) for sweeping the narrow bandwidth of the 
controllable digital filters (50) over a frequency range; 
means (65) for determining a power spectrum of the outputs of the 
controllable digital filters (50) over the frequency range; and 
means (65) for selecting a center frequency and bandwidth from the 
power spectrum at which the digital receiver is then operated, thereby 

automatically achieving initial acquisition of the received signal. 
The digital receiver of claim 1, wherein the source (24, 28, 30, 
42) for receiving the transmitted signal (22) and processing its 

components to obtain baseband analog signals (44) comprises: 

a tuner (24) having the transmitted analog signal (22) as an input 
and a received analog signal (26) as an output, 
demodulators (30, 32, 34) each having as a first input a component (I,Q) of the received 
analog signal and as a second input a mixer waveform, and as an output 

the transmitted signal modulated on the received analog signal, and 
low pass analog filters (42) each having as an input the modulated transmitted 
signal and as an output a filtered transmitted signal comprising the 

transmitted analog signal. 
The digital receiver of claim 1, wherein the means (34, 62) 
include a voltage controlled oscillator (34) having as an input the 

voltage control signal and as an output a mixer waveform. 
The digital receiver of claim 1, wherein the means (56) for 
determining a timing error signal includes: 


a matched filter (56) having as an input the controllable digital 
resampled signal, and as a first output (58) a spectrally shaped data 

bit stream and as a second output a timing error signal of the data bit 
stream. 
The digital receiver of claim 1, further characterized by: 

a system clock (47) that provides a clock rate to the first 
sampler (46). 
The digital receiver of claim 1, wherein the controllable digital 
filters (50) are mulitrate polyphase filters. 
The digital receiver of claim 1, wherein the controllable digital 
filters (50) are variable rate polyphase filters.  

 
The digital receiver of claim 1, wherein the means (65) is further 
for reading a header data signal of the data bit stream. 
The digital receiver of claim 8, wherein the means (65) is further 
for changing the center frequency in response to the header data signal. 
The digital receiver of claim 8, wherein the means (65) is further 
for changing the bandwidth of the controllable digital filters (50) in 

response to the header data signal. 
The digital receiver of claim 1, wherein the means (30, 34) causes 
the center frequency of the analog signal to change in a series of 

frequency steps. 
The digital receiver of claim 11, wherein the means (65) is 
further for measuring the power of the analog signal at each step in 

the series of frequency steps. 
A method for receiving transmitted analog signals of arbitrarily 
variable data rate using a digital receiver including: 


a source (24, 28, 30, 42) for receiving the transmitted analog 
signal (22) and processing its components (I,Q) to obtain baseband 

analog signals (44); 
first samplers (46) each having as an input the analog signals 
(44) and a digital first sampler output (48), the first samplers 

operating at a preselected, fixed sampling rate; 
controllable digital filters (50) each having as a first input a 
corresponding digital first sampler output and as a second input a 

time-shifting command signal, and as an output (52) a controllable 
digital resampled signal; 
means (56) for determining a timing error signal of a data bit 
stream at the output of the controllable digital resampled signal; and  

 
a timing loop (60) having as an input the timing error signal of 
the data bit stream a
nd as an output the time-shifting command signal 
to the controllable digital filters (50); 
 
characterized by: 


operating the controllable digital filters (50) at a narrow 
bandwidth; 
sweeping the narrow bandwidth of the controllable digital filters 
(50) over a range of frequencies; 
determining a power spectrum over the range of frequencies by 
using the outputs of the controllable digital filters (50); 
selecting a center frequency and bandwidth from the power 
spectrum; and 
operating the digital receiver at the selected center frequency 
and bandwidth, thereby automatically achieving initial acquisition of 

the received signal. 
The method of claim 13, further characterized by the narrow 
bandwidth being swept over the range of frequencies by changing the 

center frequency of the analog signal in a series of frequency steps. 
The method of claim 14, further characterized by the step of 
forming the power spectrum being executed by measuring the power of the 

analog signal at each step in the series of frequency steps. 
The method of claim 13, further characterized by: 

receiving a transmitted analog signal (22) having at least two 
transmitted signals thereon, each of the transmitted signals having a 

transport layer (69) and a symbol bit stream (70); 
identifying a center frequency and bandwidth for one of the 
transmitted signals (66); and  

 
reading a menu (72) of center frequencies and bandwidths of each 
of the transmitted signals from the transport layer of the identified 

transmitted signal. 
The method of claim 16, further characterized by: 

after the step of providing and before the step of identifying, 
producing a digital signal from the analog signal, the digital signal 

having the transport layer and the symbol bit stream in digital form. 
The method of claim 16, further characterized by: 

after the step of reading, tuning the digital receiver to one of 
the transmitted signals different from the transmitted signal selected 

in the step of identifying. 
The method of claim 13, further characterized by: 

transmitting the analog signal according to a first set of 
transmission parameters, the analog signal having a transport layer 

(68) and symbol bit stream (70), the transport layer having an 
indication (74) thereon of a subsequent change to a second set of 

transmission parameters and the time at which the change is to occur; 
reading the transport layer (68) to determine the time of the 
subsequent change and the second set of transmission parameters; and 
tuning the digital receiver according to the second set of 
transmission parameters responsive to the time at which the change is 

to occur as read from the transport layer (68). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
