<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632891</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND AN APPARATUS FOR DETECTING MAGNETIC DISCONTINUITIES IN A TEST SAMPLE OF MAGNETIC MATERIAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2782	G01N2782	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of detecting magnetic discontinuities in a test sample of magnetic material includes the steps of generating a magnetic field in said test sample, placing one or more magnetic sensors adjacent said test sample for the detection of magnetic leakage flux, if any, adjacent the surface of the test sample, and generating electric signals representing the leakage flux, if any, said sensors being moved across the surface of the test sample. Each sensor (7) carries out a scanning movement substantially transverse to the advancing direction during the advancing movement. In this manner it is sufficient to observe whether the output signal of the sensor discloses sudden changes during a scanning. As a result, the associated electronics can be simplified.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORCE INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORCE INSTITUTTERNE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORTHEVED ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLSEN HANS OLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORTHEVED, ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLSEN, HANS, OLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Title: A method and an apparatus for detecting magnetic discontinuities in a test sample of magnetic materialTechnical FieldThe invention relates to a method of detecting magnetic discontinuities in a test sample, whereby a magnetic field is generated in said test sample and one or more magnetic sensors are placed adjacent said test sample for detection of a magnetic leakage flux, if any, and generation of an electric signal representing the leakage flux, if any, said sensors being moved across the surface of the test sample.Background ArtUS-PS No. 4,814,705 discloses an apparatus for detection of magnetic discontinuities in an iron sheet. The apparatus comprises a vehicle to be moved across the iron sheet. The vehicle supports an elongated horse¬ shoe magnet the pole shoe of which faces the iron sheet. Without dis- continuities in the iron sheet, almost the entire magnetic field is transmitted through the sheet. A number of magnetic field sensors are arranged between the pole shoes, said sensors being able to detect a leakage flux caused by discontinuities in the iron plate, said leakage flux being transmitted beside the iron sheet as a consequence of the discon- tinuity. The signal of each sensor is subtracted from the mean value of a following and a succeeding sensor. If the difference exceeds a prede¬ termined threshold value, that indicates the presence of a leakage flux deriving from a discontinuity, which, however, would require a special calculating equipment. In addition, the detection perpendicular to the advancing direction of the apparatus can only be performed discon- tinuously.Description of the Invention 

The object of the invention is to provide a method of the above type, whereby the processing of the signal has been simplified and does not depend on the advancing speed of the sensors. In addition, the method allows an improved scanning transverse to the advancing direction.The method according to the invention is characterised in that each sensor carries out a scanning movement substantially transverse to the advancing direction during said advancing movement. In this manner it is sufficient to observe whether the output signal of the sensor discloses sudden changes during a scanning. Accordingly, the associated elec- tronic equipment can be considerably simplified. In addition, the measur¬ ing does not depend on the advancing speed, as well as a continuous scanning transverse to the advancing direction is rendered possible, i.e. a highly improved scanning.Initially an area of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method of detecting magnetic discontinuities in a test sample, whereby a magnetic field is generated in said test sample and one or more magnetic sensors are placed adjacent said test sample for detec- tion of a magnetic leakage flux, if any, and generation of an electric signal representing the leakage flux, if any, said sensors being moved across the surface of the test sample, c h a racte ris ed in that each sensor (7) carries out a scanning movement substantially trans¬ verse to the advancing direction during said advancing movement.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, c h a racte r i s e d in that each sensor (7) initially scans an area of the test sample without errors and generates a calibration curve for a correction of succeeding meas¬ urements.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1, c h a ra ct e r i s e d in that each sensor (7) carries out a difference measurement or a differential measurement.
4. A method as claimed in claim 3, cha racte rised by using a sensor for carrying out the difference measurement, said sensor com¬ prising two juxtaposed magnetic field detectors, the difference between the signals from the two detectors being used.
5. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised by provid¬ ing the scanning movement of each sensor (7) by mounting said sensor on a body (2) placed on a rotatable shaft (3) with a helical groove (5), a ratchet extending from the body (2) and downwards into said groove (5).
6. A method as claimed in claim 5, characterised by provid- 


ing the scanning movement of each sensor (7) by the rotatable shaft (3) being provided with helical grooves (5) in both directions in such a man¬ ner that a reciprocating movement can be carried out by the body (2) on which the sensor (7) is mounted.
7. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised by provid¬ ing the scanning movement of each sensor (7) by said sensor (7) being mounted on a chain (8) with a substantially transverse run, said chain (8) being driven by means of one or more sprockets (9, 10).
8. A method as claimed in claim 7, characterised in that the chain (8) comprises an upper run and a lower run, the scanning being performed at the lower run.
9. A method as claimed in claim 7 or 8, ch a ra cte ris e d in that several sensors are mounted on the same chain (8) in such a man¬ ner that one of said sensors (7) is always positioned at the lower run.
10. A method as claimed in claim 1 , characterised by replac¬ ing each scanning sensor by a number of stationary sensors (12) being activated one by one (Fig.4).
11. A method as claimed in claim 0, characterised by each sensor (12) in the number of stationary sensors being formed by a yoke of magnetically conductive material with a notch (13), which can be filled by means of a body (14) of magnetically conductive material, said body (14) being dϊsplaceable from sensor to sensor (12).
12. An apparatus for detecting magnetic discontinuities in a test sample of magnetic material, said apparatus being moved across said test sample and thereby generating a magnetic field in said test sample, where the apparatus comprises a number of sensors for the detection of 


magnetic leakage flux adjacent the surface of the test sample and for generating electric signals representing said leakage flux, cha r¬ a c t e r i s e d by each sensor (7) being displaceable substantially transverse to the advancing direction of the apparatus.
13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12, c h a ra ct e ri s e d in that each sensor (7) is mounted on a body (2) placed on a rotatable shaft (3) with a helical groove (5), means being provided for ensuring that said body does not rotate about the shaft, and that a ratchet extends from the body (2) and downwards into the groove (5).
14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12, c h a ra cte ris e d by each sensor (7) being mounted on a chain (8) driven by means of one or more sprockets (9, 10).
15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 14, c h a ra ct e r i s e d in that the chain (8) comprises an upper run and a lower run, the scanning being performed at the lower run. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 27 July 1993 (27.07.93); original claims 2-4 cancelled; original claim 1 amended; claims 5-15 renumbered as claims 2-12 (3 pages)]
1. A method of detecting magnetic discontinuities in a test sample, whereby a magnetic field is generated in said test sample and one or more magnetic sensors are placed adjacent said test sample for detec- tion of a magnetic leakage flux, if any, and generation of an electric signal representing the leakage flux, if any, said sensors being moved across the surface of the test sample, each sensor (7) carrying out a scanning movement, characterised in that the scanning move¬ ment is performed substantially along a line substantially transverse to the advancing direction during said advancing movement.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised by provid¬ ing the scanning movement of each sensor (7) by mounting said sensor on a body (2) placed on a rotatable shaft (3) with a helical groove (5), a ratchet extending from the body (2) and downwards into said groove (5).
3. A method as claimed in claim 2, characterised by provid¬ ing the scanning movement of each sensor (7) by the rotatable shaft (3) being provided with helical grooves (5) in both directions in such a man¬ ner that a reciprocating movement can be carried out by the body (2) on which the sensor (7) is mounted.
4. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised by provid¬ ing the scanning movement of each sensor (7) by said sensor (7) being mounted on a chain (8) with a substantially transverse run, said chain (8) being driven by means of one or more sprockets (9, 10).
5. A method as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the chain (8) comprises an upper run and a lower run, the scanning being performed at the lower run. 


6. A method as claimed in claim 4 or 5, characterised in that several sensors are mounted on the same chain (8) in such a man¬ ner that one of said sensors (7) is always positioned at the lower run.
7. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised by replac- ing each scanning sensor by a number of stationary sensors (12) being activated one by one (Fig.4).
8. A method as claimed in claim 7, characterised by each sensor (12) in the number of stationary sensors being formed by a yoke of magnetically conductive material with a notch (13), which can be filled by means of a body (14) of magnetically conductive material, said body (14) being displaceable from sensor to sensor (12).
9. An apparatus for detecting magnetic discontinuities in a test sample of magnetic material, said apparatus being moved across said test sample and thereby generating a magnetic field in said test sample, where the apparatus comprises a number of sensors for the detection of magnetic leakage flux adjacent the surface of the test sample and for generating electric signals representing said leakage flux, char¬ acterised by each sensor (7) being displaceable along a line sub¬ stantially transverse to the advancing direction of the apparatus.
10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, characterised in that each sensor (7) is mounted on a body (2) placed on a rotatable shaft (3) with a helical groove (5), means being provided for ensuring that said body does not rotate about the shaft, and that a ratchet extends from the body (2) and downwards into the groove (5).
11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, cha racte rised by each sensor (7) being mounted on a chain (8) driven by means of one or more sprockets (9, 10). 


12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, c h a racte ri s ed in that the chain (8) comprises an upper run and a lower run, the scanning being performed at the lower run. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
