<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648091</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRASOUND IMAGING SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B812	G01S1589	G01S7521	G01S7521	A61B812	G01S1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	G01S	G01S	G01S	A61B	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B8	G01S15	G01S7	G01S7	A61B8	G01S15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A longitudinal position translator includes a probe drive module (20) and a linear translation module (48). The drive module (20) is coupled to an ultrasonic imaging probe assembly (12) having a distally located transducer subassembly (16) such that longitudinal shifting of the subassembly (16) may be effected. The module (20) is mounted to the translation unit (48) so as to be moveable between a condition whereby longitudinal shifting of the subassembly (16) can be conducted either manually or automatically. When in the latter condition, the probe drive module (20) will engage a motor-driven screw associated with the linear translation module (48), causing the probe drive module (20) to be displaced at a constant rate. The distally located ultrasound transducer (16) is thus longitudinally shifted during an ultrasound scan to allow axially-spaced 360  data "slices" of surrounding tissue to be obtained, with reconstruction into a two or three-dimensional representation of the scanned tissue.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDIOVASCULAR IMAGING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDIOVASCULAR IMAGING SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUHR MARK S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBLER WILLIAM E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUHR, MARK, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBLER, WILLIAM, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is related to commonly owned U.S.
Patent No. 5,115,814 issuing on May 26, 1992 to James M.
Griffith et al, and entitled "Intravascular Ultrasonic
Imaging Probe and Methods of Using Same", which is the
parent of commonly owned and copending U.S. Patent
Application Serial No. 07/840,134 filed on February 24,
1992.The present invention generally relates to elongate
probe assemblies of sufficiently miniaturized dimensions
so as to be capable of navigating tortuous paths within a
patient's organs and/or vessels. The
present invention is embodied in automated units which are
connectable to a probe assembly having a distally located
ultrasound transducer subassembly which enables the transducer
subassemhly to be positioned accurately by an
attending physician and then translated longitudinally
(relative to the axis of the elongate probe assembly)
within the patient under automated control.Probe assemblies having therapeutic and/or diagnostic
capabilities are being increasingly utilized by the
medical community as an aid to treatment and/or diagnosis
of intravascular and other organ ailments. In this
regard, U.S. Patent No. 5,115,814 discloses an intravascular
probe assembly with a distally located ultrasonic
imaging probe clement which is positionable relative to 
intravascular sites. Operation of the ultrasonic element
in conjunction with associated electronic components
generates visible images that aid an attending physician
in his or her treatment of a patient's vascular ailments.
Thus, a physician may view in real (or essentially near
real) time intravascular images generated by the ultrasonic
imaging probe element to locate and identify
intravascular abnormalities that may be present and
thereby prescribe the appropriate treatment and/or
therapy.The need to position accurately a distally located
operative probe element relative to an intravascular site
using any therapeutic and/or diagnostic probe assembly is
important so that the attending physician can confidently
determine the location of any abnormalities within the
patient's intravascular system. Accurate intravascular
position information for the probe assembly will also
enable the physician to later replicate probe positions
that may be needed for subsequent therapeutic and/or
diagnostic procedures. For example, to enable the
physician to administer a prescribed treatment regimen
over time and/or to later monitor the effects of earlier
therapeutic procedures.Recently ultrasonic imaging using computer-assisted
reconstruction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ultrasound imaging system (10) comprising an
ultrasonic imaging probe having a distally located ultrasound

transducer subassembly and an automated longitudinal position
translator for said ultrasonic imaging probe, said longitudinal

position translator comprising:

a motor-driven probe drive module (20) adapted to supply
mechanical rotation to the imaging probe;
a motor-driven linear translation module (48) connectable
to said probe drive module (20) to effect motor-driven

longitudinal translation of said probe drive module (20) to
thereby responsively longitudinally shift said ultrasound

transducer subassembly; characterized by
mounting structures for mounting said probe drive module
(20) to said translation module to allow relative movements of

engagement and disengagement between an automatically-operable
condition wherein said probe drive module (20) is coupled to

said translation module (48) to effect said motor-driven
longitudinal translation thereof, and a manually-operable

condition wherein said probe drive module (20) is capable of
being longitudinally shifted manually.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 1,
characterized in that said relative movements are relative

pivotal movements.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 1 or 2,
characterized in that the position translator includes a

foot-activated switch (27) electrically connected to said
motor-driven linear translation module (48) to responsively

effect said motor-driven longitudinal translation of said probe
drive module (20) when said switch (27) is activated.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in one of claims 1
to 3, characterized in that said mounting structures include an

elongate guide rail, wherein said probe drive module (20) is
slidably and/or pivotally coupled to said guide rail (106,108). 
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 4,
characterized in that said mounting structures include:


a pair of elongate guide rails (106, 108);
forward and rearward transverse support arms (110,104)
connected to and spanning the distance between said pair of

elongate guide rails (106,108);

wherein said probe drive module (20) is slidably coupled
to said pair of guide rails (106,108), so as to be capable of

reciprocal longitudinal displacements therealong between said
forward and rearward transverse support arms (110,104); and

wherein
said probe drive module (20) is pivotally movable between
said automatically-operable condition and a manually-operable

condition by pivotal movement of said forward and rearward
transverse support arms (110,104) about said one guide rail

(106).
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in one of the
preceeding claims, characterized in that said ultrasound

transducer subassembly of said ultrasonic imaging probe
includes a flexible rotatable drive shaft (28a) disposed within

a flexible guide catheter sheath (14); wherein said probe drive
unit includes:


a longitudinally fixed but rotatable drive coupling
capable of being fixedly attached to the proximal end of said

rotatable drive shaft (28a), and
a longitudinally adjustable coupling which is
longitudinally adjustable with respect to said rotatable drive

coupling and which is capable of being fixedly attached to the
proximal end of said guide catheter sheath (14).
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 6,
characterized in that said rotatable drive coupling includes:


electrical brushes (88a) and associated electrical
slip-rings disposed within a shielded enclosure (90);
a drive gear member (94) positioned outside said shielded
enclosure (90); and
a rotatable drive shaft gear (96) coupled to said 
drive gear member (94).
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 6,
characterized in that said longitudinally adjustable coupling

includes: a clamshell-hinged barrel-shaped housing (22) having a longitudinally
extending slot (58); and


a radially extending positioning arm (24) coupled to said
housing for longitudinal sliding movement within said slot (58)

and having a cavity formed therein for securely engaging the
proximal end of said guide member or other members affixed to

said guide member.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 8,
characterized in that said proximal end of said probe assembly

includes a coupling member associated with said guide sheath
(14), said positioning arm (24) defines a cradle surface (80)

which is sized and configured to support said coupling member
such that said coupling member and said positioning arm (24)

are movable as a unit between retracted and advanced positions.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 9,
characterized in that said housing (22) includes upper and

lower housing sections (51,52) coupled to one another for
relative pivotal movements between open and closed conditions.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 10,
characterized in that said lower housing section (51) defines

an inner bearing surface for supporting said positioning arm
(24) during movements thereof between said advanced and

retracted positions, and wherein said inner bearing surface
defines a surface for capturing said coupling member within

said housing when said upper and lower housing sections (51,52)
are in said closed condition but permitting movement of said

coupling member as a unit with said positioning arm (24).
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 11,
characterized in that said housing (22) defines a

longitudinally extending slot (58) to accommodate movement of 
said positioning arm (24) between said advanced and retracted

positions.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 12,
characterized in that said slot (58) is defined by opposing

edge regions associated with said upper and lower housing
sections (51,52).
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 10,
characterized in that said positioning arm (24) is pivotally

coupled to said housing (22) such that said positioning arm
(24), said upper housing section (52), and said lower housing

section (51) are capable of independent relative pivotal
movement about a common pivot axis.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 8,
characterized in that said housing (22) includes a scale (60)

in operative association with said positioning arm (24), and
wherein said positioning arm (24) includes an indicator

adjacent to said scale (60).
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in one of claims
6 to 15, wherein said guide catheter sheath (14) has

proximal and distal extremities and wherein said flexible, rotatable
drive element is disposed within said guide catheter sheath

(14) for longitudinal movements towards and away from said
dis
tal extremity.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 8,
characterized in that said housing (22) is adapted for housing

said proximal extremity of said guide catheter sheath (14) and
having proximal and distal ends, and said positioning arm (24)

is mounted to said housing (22) for reciprocal longitudinal
movements between retracted and advanced positions relative to

said housing distal end, wherein proximal extremity of said
guide catheter sheath (14) is operatively coupled to said

positioning arm (24) to provide means for translating
longitudinal movements of said positioning arm (24) towards and 

away from said housing distal end into respective longitudinal
movements of said probe element away from and towards said

distal extremity of said guide sheath (14).
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 8,
characterized in that said proximal extremity of said guide

catheter sheath (14) includes a cap (12), and wherein said
positioning arm (24) defines a cradle surface (80) sized and

configured to accommodate said cap (72) so that said cap and
said positioning arm (24) are movable as a unit between said

retracted and advanced positions.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 14,
characterized in that said common pivot axis is a

longitudinally extending axis.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 19,
characterized in that said positioning arm (24) is transversely

oriented relative to said upper and lower housing sections
(52,51).
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 9,
characterized in that said slot (58) is defined between

opposing edge regions of said upper and lower housing sections
(52,51) for accommodating movements of said positioning arm

(24) between said retracted and advanced positions thereof.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in claim 19,
characterized by detent means for releasably maintaining said

upper and lower housing sections (52,51) in said closed
condition thereof.
An ultrasound imaging system (10) as in one of the
preceeding claims, characterized in that said motor-driven

linear translation module (48) being provided with means for
effecting the motor-driven longitudinal translation of said

probe drive module (20) at a selected constant motor-driven
rate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
