<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652230</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Biologically active bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein fragments
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	C07K14435	C07K1447	A61K3817	A61K3800	A61K3817	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	C07K	C07K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A biologically active polypeptide fragment of mammalian 
bactericidal/permeability increasing proteins is provided. 

Also provided are methods for isolating the fragments and 
methods for employing the polypeptide fragments as antimicrobial 

agents active against susceptible gram-negative 
bacteria. 
Also provided is a purified, isolated DNA sequence 
encoding human bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein and 

biologically-active fragments thereof. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV NEW YORK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELSBACH PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISS JERROLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELSBACH , PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISS, JERROLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of copending,
commonly assigned U.S. patent application Serial No.
084,335, filed August 6, 1987 of Peter Elsbach and Jerrold
weiss.The United States government has rights to this
invention by virtue of research grant Nos. DK-05472 and AI-18571
from the National Institute of Health.The present invention pertains to biologically active,
polypeptide fragments of mammalian bactericidal/permeability-increasing
proteins and methods for making and using said
fragments.Bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein (BPI) is a
50 to 60 Kd protein, isolated from the granules of mammalian
polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) which are blood cells that
are essential in the defense against invading microorganisms in
mammals. BPI occurs only in cells of the myeloid series of
blood cells, is produced at the promyelocytic/myelocytic stage
of differentiation and is located in the primary granules in
these cells.BPI is a potent bactericidal agent active against a
broad range of gram-negative bacterial species. It exhibits a
high degree of specificity in its cytotoxic effect, i.e. 10-40nM 
(0.5-2.0 micrograms), producing greater than 90% killing
of 107 sensitive bacteria whereas 100-fold higher concentrations
of BPI are non-toxic for other microorganisms and
eukaryotic cells. All available evidence suggests that in the
intact PMN and in crude leukocyte fractions, BPI is the
principal oxygen-independent agent present which is active
against BPI-sensitive bacteria.BPI isolated from both human and rabbit PMN has been
purified to homogeneity. The molecular weight of human BPI is
approximately 58,000 Daltons (58 kDa) and that of rabbit BPI is
approximately 50 kDa. The amino acid composition of these two
proteins is closely similar as is the amino acid sequence of
their first 15 NH2-terminal amino acid residues. Both proteins
are highly basic, having an isoelectric point greater than 9.6.The biological effects of BPI require attachment of the
protein to the surface of the susceptible gram-negative
bacteria. Initial binding of BPI to target cells involves
electrostatic interactions between the basic protein and the
negatively charged sites on the lipopolysaccharides (LPS) on
the bacterial outer membrane and leads to an activation of
bacterial enzymes that degrade phospholipids and peptidoglycans.
The final stage of action is the actual killing
of the bacteria by an as yet unknown mechanism. The closely
similar amino acid composition and nearly identical bactericidal
and membrane-perturbing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A purified, isolated DNA sequence encoding a polypeptide having less
than one half the molecular weight of bactericidal/permeability increasing

protein (BPI) and derived from the NH
2
-terminal domain of said protein,
wherein the polypeptide retains the biological activity of BPI.
A DNA sequence according to Claim 1, wherein the encoded polypeptide
has an apparent molecular weight of approximately 25,000 as determined by

SDS-PAGE.
A DNA sequence according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the encoded
polypeptide has the amino terminal sequence V-N-P-G-V-V-V-R-I-S-Q-K-G-L-D-Y-A-S-Q-Q.
A DNA sequence according to any one of Claims 1 to 3 encoding the
polypeptide from amino acid residue 1 to 210-220 as set out in Figure 5.
A DNA sequence according to any one of Claims 1 to 4 selected from

(a) a DNA sequence having the sequence from nucleotide 123 to 759-780 as
set out in Figure 5; or
(b) the complement of the DNA sequence of (a); or
(c) a DNA sequence which hybridises to the DNA sequence of (a) or (b)
under stringent hybridisation conditions.
A cDNA sequence according to any one of Claims 1 to 5.
A genomic DNA sequence according to any one of Claims 1 to 5 
An expression vector for the production of a polypeptide having less than
one half the molecular weight of BPI and derived from the NH
2
-terminal
domain of said protein, wherein the polypeptide retains the biological activity

of BPI, said expression vector having inserted therein a DNA according to any
one of the preceding claims.
A cell transformed or transfected with a vector according to Claim 8.
A eukaryotic cell according to Claim 9.
A mammalian or yeast cell according to Claim 10.
A prokaryotic cell according to Claim 9.
A method for producing a polypeptide having less than one half the
molecular weight of BPI and derived from the NH
2
-terminal domain of said
protein, wherein the polypeptide retains the biological activity of BPI, said

method comprising the steps of inserting a DNA according to any one of
Claims 1 to 7 into an expression vector and transforming or transfecting a cell

with said expression vector so as to produce said polypeptide.
A method of producing a polypeptide having less than one half the
molecular weight of BPI and derived from the NH
2
-terminal domain of said
protein, wherein the polypeptide retains the biological activity of BPI, said

method comprising the steps of cleaving BPI holoprotein by incubating in the
presence of serine protease and recovering said polypeptide, wherein the

BPI holoprotein is incubated at a pH ranging
between 6.0 and 8.0, at a temperature

between 20°C and 37°C for a time ranging
between 16 and 24 hours. 
A method according to Claim 14, wherein the BPI holoprotein is
incubated in 0.1M HEPES/NaOH buffer, pH 7.4 for 18 hours at 37°C.
A method according to any one of Claims 14 to 15, wherein the BPI
holoprotein is purified BPI holoprotein.
A purified, isolated polypeptide having the amino acid sequence from
amino acid residue 1 to amino acid reside 210-220 as set out in Figure 5.
A pharmaceutical formulation comprising a polypeptide encoded by the
DNA sequence of any one of Claims 1 to 7, a polypeptide produced by the

method of any one of Claims 13 to 16, or a polypeptide of Claim 17, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable

diluent or carrier.
A pharmaceutical formulation according to Claim 18 for use in treatment
of mammals suffering from gram-negative bacterial infections. 
A pharmaceutical formulation according to Claim 18 or 19, in parenteral
dosage form.
A pharmaceutical formulation according to Claim 20, which comprises a
sterile isotonic saline solution.
A pharmaceutical formulation according to Claim 18 or 19 in topical
dosage form.
A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of Claims 20 to 22,
which contains between 1 and 1000 micrograms of the polypeptide per dose.
A pharmaceutical formulation according to Claim 23, which contains
between 10 and 250 micrograms of the polypeptide per dose.
A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of Claims 18 to 24
further comprising another anti gram-negative bacterial agent selected from an

antibiotic, immune system cell or factor such as T-cell or interleukin-2, a
cytotoxic agent; or a mixture thereof.
A pharmaceutical formulation according to Claim 25, wherein the
antibiotic is selected from a penicillin, a cephalosporin, rifampicin or

actinomycin D.
A pharmaceutical formulation according to Claim 19, wherein the gram-negative
bacteria are smooth gram-negative bacteria. 
Use of a polypeptide encoded by the DNA sequence of any one of Claims
1 to 7, a polypeptide produced by the method of any one of Claims 13 to 16, or

a polypeptide according to Claim 17, for the manufacture of a medicament for
treatment of a disease caused by gram-negative bacteria in mammals.
A use according to Claim 28, wherein the disease is sepsis.
A use according to Claim 28, wherein the disease is bacteremia.
Use of a polypeptide encoded by the DNA sequence of any one of Claims
1 to 7, a polypeptide produced by the method of any one of Claims 13 to 16, or

a polypeptide according to Claim 17 for the manufacture of a medicament for
co-treatment with another anti 
gram-negative bacterial agent of a disease
caused by gram-negative bacteria in mammals, said other anti gram-negative

bacterial agent selected from an antibiotic, immune system cell or factor such as
T-cell or interleukin-2 a cytotoxic agent, or a mixture thereof.
A use according to Claim 31, wherein the antibiotic is a penicillin, a
cephalosporin, rifampicin or actinomycin D.
Use of a polypeptide encoded by the DNA sequence of any one of Claims
1 to 7, a polypeptide produced by the method of any one of Claims 13 to 16, or

a polypeptide according to Claim 17, for the manufacture of a medicament for
increasing the effectiveness of an antibiotic in the treatment of a disease caused

by gram-negative bacterial infection.
A use according to Claim 33, wherein the antibiotic is a penicillin, a
cephalosporin or rifampicin. 
Use of a polypeptide encoded by the DNA sequence of any one of Claims
1 to 7, a polypeptide produced by the method of any one of Claims 13 to 16, or

a polypeptide according to Claim 17, for the manufacture of a medicament for
decreasing the resistance of gram-negative bacteria to an antibiotic.
A use according to Claim 35, wherein the antibiotic is actinomycin D.
A use according to any one of Claims 28 to 36, wherein the medicament
is for parenteral administration.
A use according to Claim 37, wherein the medicament is for intravenous
administration.
A use according to any one of Claims 28 to 36, wherein the medicament
is for topical administration.
A use according to any one of Claims 37 to 39, wherein the medicament
is for administration in an amount of between 1 and 1000 micrograms per dose.
A use according to Claim 40, wherein the medicament is for
administration in an amount of between 10 and 250 micrograms per dose.
A use according to Claim 41, wherein the medicament is for
administration in an amount of 100 micrograms three times per day.
A use according to any one of Claims 28 to 42, wherein the gram-negative
bacteria are smooth gram-negative bacteria. 
An 
in vitro
 method for killing gram-negative bacteria comprising
contacting said gram-negative bacteria with a polypeptide encoded by the DNA

sequence of any one of Claims 1 to 7, a polypeptide produced by the method of
any one of Claims 13 to 16, or a polypeptide according to Claim 17.
An 
in vitro
 method for increasing the permeability of gram-negative
bacteria comprising incubating said gram-negative bacteria with a polypeptide

encoded by the DNA sequence of any one of Claims 1 to 7, a polypeptide
produced by the method of any one of Claims 13 to 16, or a polypeptide

according to Claim 17.
An 
in vitro
 method according to Claim 44 or 45, wherein the gram-negative
bacteria are smooth gram-negative bacteria.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
