<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639521</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for buffering media
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03D1300	B65H3500	B65H506	B65H3506	G03D1300	B65H3506	B65H2030	B65H2032	B65H3500	B65H506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03D	B65H	B65H	B65H	G03D	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03D13	B65H35	B65H5	B65H35	G03D13	B65H35	B65H20	B65H20	B65H35	B65H5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus buffers the movement of sheets cut from a continuous 
web. Each sheet has a sheet leading edge and a 

sheet trailing edge. 
Feeding means (26) are provided for feeding the web leading 
edge into a buffer (40) at a first speed. 
Cutting means (16) cut said web to form a first sheet 
having said sheet leading edge and said sheet trailing 

edge, and to form a new web leading edge. 
A single pair of roller means (46) grab and hold said web 
leading edge when it first enters said buffer (40) at said 

first speed and for then advancing said sheet leading edge 
of 
said first sheet out of said buffer at a second speed. 
Said feeding means (26) feed said new web leading edge into 

said buffer at said first speed while said sheet trailing 
edge of said first sheet is advancing out of said buffer at 

said second speed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODWIN ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUPICA LIBOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORGAN PAUL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODWIN, ROBERT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUPICA, LIBOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORGAN, PAUL W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the movement of sheets of material
from a first machine operating at a first speed to a second
machine operating at a second speed and provides a method and
apparatus to allow each machine to operate at its own speed with
no idle time of either machine. An example is automated photographic
imaging and developing. The forming of a photographic
latent image in a first machine by exposing photographic
material to exposure illumination and the subsequent chemical
developing of the latent image in a second machine that
develops, fixes, and washes the latent image forming a silver
image, are consecutive processes, which usually occur at
different operating speeds.The diffusion transfer reversal (DTR) process as described
in U.S.-A-2,352,014 is a photo-chemical process of exposing
a photosensitive material to electromagnetic radiation
thereby forming a latent image and then chemically processing
the latent image in a subsequent step, thereby forming a silver
image. Similar photochemical processing methods are used for
example in photo finishing applications and in electronic prepress
systems. In such applications film images are produced for
transfer to lithographic plate materials or for imaging photolithograph
plates directly.In electronic prepress systems, images to be printed by
offset printing means are scanned from photographic negatives
and digitized, assembled and edited electronically at a work-station,
and then transmitted to a raster image processor or
"RIP" for half-tone screening and image rasterization. The "RIP
image", that is, the rasterized image to be printed, is then
transmitted from the RIP to an imagesetter for photographic or 
film recording. Such an electronic prepress system is described
in U.S. Patent No. 4,004,079 and is available for example from
MILES Inc. under the Trademark "COLORSCAPE".An imagesetter includes a supply of unexposed photosensitive
material, a recording support surface, and an image exposing
system for forming the image to be recorded according to the RIP
image data. The image exposing system may employ a laser beam,
a cathode ray tube (CRT), an LED emitter or the like as a radiation
source. The material passes from a supply roll or web to
the recording support surface at which point the photosensitive
material is exposed to the recording radiation, forming a latent
image. The speed of the web movement is determined by the image
resolution which may vary from image to image. Numerous images
may be recorded onto the web consecutively, each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for buffering separate pieces of material,
each with a leading edge (52) and a trailing edge (54),

between two machines comprising:

a first machine (20) having a first operating speed and a
first controller (120);
a second machine (60) having a second operating speed and
a second controller (160) which is distinct from said

first controller;
a material buffer (40) disposed between said first
machine (20) and said second machine (60), for taking up

a first piece of material from said first machine (20) at
said first operating speed and transferring said first

piece of material to said second machine (60) at said
second operating speed, said material buffer (40) being

capable of taking up a second piece of material while
said first piece of material is being transferred to said

second machine (60) from said material buffer (40);

characterized in that, said material buffer (40) being
detachably coupled with said first machine (20) and said

second machine (60) and further comprising a buffer
controller (140) which is distinct from said first

controller (120) and said second controller (160), and
wherein said buffer controller (140) includes a

communication interface (158, 162) for exchanging
information between said material buffer (40) and said

second machine (60) so that a communication network is
provided.
An apparatus for buffering separate sheets of material
according to claim 1 wherein said material buffer (40)

comprises a single pair of drive rollers (46) maintained
in constant rolling contact with each other. 
An apparatus for buffering separate sheets of material
according to claim 2, further comprising, a drive motor

drive (70) in driving contact with one roller of said
single pair of drive rollers (46), said drive motor (70)

being driven by a motor controller (146) such that said
single pair of drive rollers (46) operate at a first

speed, while receiving said leading edge (52) of said
first piece of material from said first machine (20), and

at a second speed, while transferring said leading edge
of said first piece of material to said second machine

(60).
An apparatus according to claims 2 and 3 wherein after
said single pair of drive rollers (46) transfer said

leading edge (52) of said first piece of material to said
second machine (60) and after said trailing edge (54) is

free from said first machine (20), said single pair of
drive rollers (46) operate at a third speed to move said

trailing edge (54) of said first piece of material beyond
said single pair of drive rollers (46), said third speed

being faster than said first speed and said second speed.
An apparatus according to claims 2-4, further including,
a second piece of material havin
g a second leading edge
and a second trailing edge and wherein said second

leading edge is taken up by said single pair of drive
rollers (46) after said first leading edge (52) exits

from said single pair of drive rollers (46).
An apparatus for buffering separate sheets of material
according to any of the above claims, further comprising,

a communication interface (122, 156) connected between
said first machine (20) and said material buffer (40)

such that information is exchanged between said first
machine (20) and said material buffer (40) and between

said first machine (20) and said second machine (60). 
An apparatus for buffering separate sheets of material
according to any of the above claims, wherein said

material buffer (40) removably replaces a take-up
cassette in said first machine (20) and has approximately

equal dimensions to said take-up cassette such that said
material buffer (40) fits in a space (129) provided for

said take-up cassette and may be easily interchangeable
therewith.
An apparatus for buffering separate sheets of material
according to any of the above claims wherein said first

machine (20) comprises a photographic recording device
and said second machine (60) comprises a photochemical

processor.
A method for buffering separate pieces of material, each
with a leading edge (52) and a trailing edge (54),

between two machines comprising the steps of:

advancing a first sheet of material from a first machine
(20) at a first speed;
receiving said first sheet of material from said first
machine with a material buffer (40), disposed between

said first machine (20) and a second machine (60), said
material buffer (40) taking up said first piece of

material from said first machine (20) at said first
speed, said material buffer (40) being capable of taking

up a second piece of material while said first piece of
material is being transferred to said second machine (60)

from said material buffer (40);

characterized in

communicating between said material buffer (40), which is
detachably coupled with said first machine (20) and said

second machine (60), and said second machine (60)
information determining a status of said second machine,

so that a communication network is provided.
A method according to claim 9 further comprising the step
of advancing said leading edge (52) of said first sheet

of material from said material buffer (40) to said second
machine (60) at a second speed corresponding to the speed

of said second machine (60).
A method according to claim 10 further comprising the
steps of:


receiving a signal in said material buffer (140) from
said second machine (60), said signal indicating that

said leading edge (52) of said first piece of material
has been received by said second machine (60);
receiving a signal in said material buffer (140) from
said first machine (20), said signal indicating that said

trailing edge (54) of said first piece of material is
free from said first machine (20);
advancing said trailing edge (54) through said material
buffer at a speed which is faster than said first speed

and said second speed while said leading edge (52) is
advancing into said second machine (60) at said second

speed.
A method according to claim 11 further comprising the
steps of:


sending a signal from said material buffer (140) to said
first machine (20), said signal indicating that said

material buffer can receive a second sheet of material;
advancing a second sheet of material from said first
machine (20) to said material buffer (40) while said

first sheet of material is advancing into said second
machine (60).
A method according to claim 9 further comprising the step
of communicating information between said material buffer

(40) and said first machine (20) to determine a status of
said first machine. 
A method according to claim 9 further comprising the step
of communicating between said second machine (60) and

said first machine (20) and between said first machine
(20) and said second machine (60) through said material

buffer (40).
A method according to claim 9 further comprising the
steps of:


determining a length of said first piece of material
based on an recorded image size and a maximum length and

a minimum length of material that said material buffer
can accommodate;
cutting said first piece of material from a web of
material according to said determined length.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
