<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621810</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISINFECTION OF CONTAINERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B300	B08B312	A61L224	B65B5504	A61L200	B65B5506	B08B920	B08B300	B08B312	B08B920	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	A61L	B65B	A61L	B65B	B08B	B08B	B08B	B08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B3	B08B3	A61L2	B65B55	A61L2	B65B55	B08B9	B08B3	B08B3	B08B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Steam conditions within a container (5) during disinfection are monitored by taking measurements of temperature and pressure within the container (5). From one of these measured parameters a target value of the other, corresponding to saturated steam conditions, is established by data processing means (7), and if the measured value of the other parameter is within a given tolerance of the target value, an output is provided which gives a direct indication, for example visually that the desired conditions have been met. For example, temperature measurements taken may be displayed graphically, and when the temperature lies outside the desired tolerance the plot shown as one colour, and when within the tolerance, as another colour.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AG PATENTS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
A.G. (PATENTS) LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALSHE JOHN JUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALSHE, JOHN, JUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the disinfection 
of containers, and in particular, but not exclusively, 
to the steam disinfection of beer kegs in a kegging 
plant. In a brewery, kegs are usually filled with beer 
using a piece of equipment commonly called a washer/racker. 
Empty kegs are positioned successively at one 
end of the washer/racker and pass sequentially through a 
series of stations or cycles where different operations 
are performed on the kegs. Typically the kegs pass 
through a number of cleaning treatments and a steam 
disinfection cycle before they are filled. The 
disinfection of the keg is of paramount importance in 
maintaining hygiene in the filling procedure and 
maintaining product quality. Disinfection is required 
to destroy any spoiling organisms which may remain in 
the keg from its previous usage and is most commonly 
effected using steam. High temperature, saturated steam 
is introduced into the keg for a given period of time to 
effect the disinfection. Up to now verification of sterility has been 
effected by introducing a sterile solution into a keg 
after it is put through the washing and disinfecting 
cycle and retrieving the solution from the keg. The 
solution is then analysed in a laboratory to detect the 
presence of any viable spoiling organism or other 
microbiological contaminants. This process is both time 
consuming and expensive since it requires the use of 
skilled personnel. Moreover it is not entirely 
satisfactory since the sterile solution can become 
contaminated by external organisms or impurities from 
the air. The results of the tests may take several days 
to process, in which time many hundreds or thousands of  
 
kegs will have been processed. There thus is a need for 
a method and means by which disinfection conditions 
inside a keg can be quickly and reliably verified. In steam disinfection, the sanitising effect is due 
to the release of latent heat on the condensing of the 
steam to water on the surfaces of the keg. Steam at 
around 100°C can provide approximately 6 times more 
total heat than water at approximately the same 
temperature. It is found that the disinfection is most 
effective using steam which is at or very close to the 
phase boundary. At temperatures below the phase 
boundary temperature the steam is already condensed and 
will not release latent heat on the surfaces of the keg, 
while at temperatures significantly in excess of the 
phase boundary the steam is super-heated and behaves 
like dry heat. Dry heat requires higher
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of monitoring steam conditions in a 
container (5) during disinfection comprising the steps 

of: 

a) repeatedly taking measurements of the 
temperature and pressure within the container during 

disinfection; 
b) inputting measured temperature and pressure 
values to data processing means (7); 
c) establishing automatically in said processing 
means (7) whether measured temperature and pressure 

values correspond to desired steam conditions within the 
container, such conditions being at or within a 

predetermined tolerance from the phase boundary between 
steam and water; and 
d) providing an output including a direct 
indication of whether the desired conditions are or have 

been met for measured pairs of temperature and pressure 
values; characterised in that: 


for each simultaneous temperature and pressure 
measurement, the value of one parameter is taken as a 

reference value, a target value is established for the 
other parameter representative of phase boundary 

conditions within the container, the measured value of 
the other parameter is compared against the target 

value, and, if said measured value is within a 
predetermined range from said target value, said output 

is provided. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein pressure is 
used as the reference value and the measured temperature 

compared with a target steam saturation temperature. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein said 
target values are pre-stored in said data processing 

means.  
 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the time at which the pairs of readings are taken is 

measured, calculated or recorded and input to the data 
processing means, and the measured temperature and/or 

pressure is displayed on a screen (24) and/or printed, 
in graphical form, against time. 
A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the 
temperature measurements at least are displayed, and a 

predetermined minimum critical disinfection temperature 
is also displayed as a reference line on the temperature 

graph. 
A method as claimed in claim 4 or 5 wherein the 
direct indication that the disinfection conditions are 

within the given tolerance is effected by altering the 
visual appearance of the temperature and/or pressure 

plot. 
A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the colour 
of said plot is changed. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the data processing means (7) compares each measured 

temperature value against a predetermined minimum 
disinfection temperature, the desired output indication 

only being given if the measured temperature is above 
this minimum temperature and if the pressure and 

temperature conditions are within the permitted 
tolerance. 
A method as claimed in claim 2 and any preceding 
claim wherein the indication is given if the measured 

temperature is within a tolerance of 0° to +3°C of the 
saturated steam temperature. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein  
 

said container (5) is a beer keg having means (8) for 
measuring the temperature and pressure within the keg. 
A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein the 
measured data is stored in memory means (13) provided on 

the keg and the information downloaded to the data 
processing means at the end of the kegging procedure. 
Apparatus for monitoring the steam conditions in a 
container (5) during disinfection comprising: 


a) means (8) for measuring the temperature and 
pressure within a container during disinfection; 
b) data processing means (7); 
c) means (9) for inputting said temperature and 
pressure values into said data processing means, said 

processing means establishing automatically whether the 
measured temperature and pressure values correspond to 

desired steam conditions within the container, such 
conditions being at or within a predetermined tolerance 

from the phase boundary between steam and water; and 
d) output means (24, 25) for providing a direct 
indication of whether the desired conditions are or have 

been met for measured pairs of temperature and pressure 
values; characterised in that said apparatus further 

comprises: 

means for establishing a target value for one 
parameter representative of phase boundary conditions 

within the container from the measured other parameter, 
and comparing the measured one parameter against the 

target value, and providing said output if said measured 
value is within a predetermined range from said target 

value. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12 comprising storage 
means for pre-storing said target values. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12 or 13 comprising  
 

at least some of said readings graphically against time. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 comprising means 
for displaying the measured temperature graphically and 

for superimposing on said graph a line representative of 
a minimum disinfection temperature. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 or 15 comprising 
means for changing the visual appearance of the graph 

when the desired conditions have been met. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 comprising means 
for changing the colour of the graph when the desired 

conditions have been met. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 12 to 17 
wherein said data processing means comprises a computer 

(23). 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 12 to 18 
comprising means (13) mounted on the container for 

storing said measured pressure and temperature data and 
means (22) for transferring said data to said data 

processing means after completion of the taking of 
readings. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 12 to 19 

wherein said container is a beer keg. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 12 to 20 
comprising means for starting and stopping automatically 

the recording of data. 
A method of monitoring steam conditions in a 
container (5) during disinfection comprising the steps 

of:  
 


a) repeatedly taking measurements of the 
temperature and pressure within the container during 

disinfection; 
b) inputting measured temperature and pressure 
values to data processing means (7); 
c) establishing automatically in said processing 
means whether measured temperature and pressure values 

correspond to desired steam conditions within the 
container, such conditions being at or within a 

predetermined tolerance from the phase boundary between 
steam and water; and 
d) if said measured values do not fall within the 
predetermined tolerance, providing an output for use in 

automatically correcting the disinfection process; 
characterised in that: 


for each simultaneous temperature and pressure 
measurement, the value of one parameter is taken as a 

reference value, a target value is established for the 
other parameter representative of phase boundary 

conditions within the container, the measured value of 
the other parameter is compared against the target 

value, and, if said measured value does not fall within a 
predetermined range from said target value, said output 

is provided. 
Apparatus for monitoring the steam conditions in a 
container (5) during disinfection comprising: 


a) means (8) for measuring the temperature and 
pressure within a container during disinfection; 
b) data processing means (7); 
c) means (9) for inputting said temperature and 
pressure values into said data processing means, said 

processing means establishing automatically whether the 
measured temperature and pressure values correspond to 

desired steam conditions within the container, such 
conditions being at or within a predetermined tolerance  

 
from the phase boundary between steam and water, and, if 

said desired steam conditions are not met, providing an 
output for use in controlling the disinfection 

apparatus; characterised in that said apparatus further 
comprises: 


means for establishing a target value for one 
parameter representative of phase boundary conditions 

within the container from the measured other parameter, 
and comparing the measured one parameter against the 

target value, and providing said output if said measured 
value does not fall within a predetermined range from said target 

value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
