<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619041</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPEECH INFORMATION EXTRACTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10L1100	G10L1100	G10L1104	G10L1500	G10L1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10L11	G10L11	G10L11	G10L15	G10L15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCEACHERN ROBERT H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCEACHERN, ROBERT H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCEACHERN ROBERT H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCEACHERN, ROBERT H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SPEECH INFORMATION EXTRACTORBackground of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThe invention relates to methods and apparatus for extracting the information content of audio signals, in particular audio signals associated with human speech.2. Related ArtConventional devices for extracting the information content from human speech are plagued with difficulties. Such devices, which include voice activated machines, computers and typewriters, typically seek to recognize, understand and/or respond to spoken language. Speech compressors seek to minimize the number of data bits required to encode digitized speech in order to minimize the cost of transmitting such speech over digital communication links. Hearing-aids seek to augment the hearing impaired's ability to extract information from speech and thus better understand conversations. Numerous other speech interpreting or responsive devices also exist.As disclosed herein, the difficulties encountered by these devices and their resulting poor performance stem from the fact that they incorporate principles of operation that are wholly unlike the operating principles of the human ear. Since such devices fail to incorporate an information extraction principle similar to that found in the ear, they are incapable of extracting and representing speech information in an efficient manner.Chappell in "Filter Technique Offers Advantages for Instantaneous Frequency Measurement" published in Microwave System News and Communications Technology, June, 1986, discloses the basic concept of channelized filter discriminators or ratio detectors. Chappell applies the technique to measuring the frequency of 

 individual radar pulses rather than speech and does not address measurement of combination of harmonics for frequency diversity processing. In addition, Chappell uses butterworth filters with a non-linear frequency discriminator curve rather than Gaussian filters, as is disclosed herein, with a perfectly linear discriminator curve or Gaussian/exact log discriminator curve.Morlet, et al. , in "Wavelet Propagation and Sampling Theory" published in Geophysics in 1982, discloses a filter bank with Gaussian filters equally spaced along a logarithmic frequency axis. The system is applied to seismic waves, rather than speech and does not address the measurement and combination of harmonics for frequency diversity processing. Hartman in "Hearing a Mistuned Harmonic in an Otherwise Periodic Complex Tone", published in 1990 in the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. A method of extracting information content from speech, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving a speech signal into a receiver having a plurality of individual bandpass filters, said bandpass filters, taken together, spanning the frequency range of a human voice;
(b) determining instantaneous amplitude modulation, AM(t) , of each harmonic in speech signal waveforms from outputs of said bandpass filters;
(c) determining instantaneous frequency modulation, FM(t) , of each harmonic in said speech signal waveforms from outputs of said bandpass filters to within an accuracy of frequency separation between adjacent said bandpass filters to provide speech signal recognition;
(d) determining a logarithm of an instantaneous frequency of a speech fundamental frequency by computing a weighted average of logarithms of said FM(t) from each measured harmonic, after subtracting the logarithm of the harmonic number from each said log (FM(t));
(e) forming output signals having the logarithm of the instantaneous frequency of said speech signal fundamental frequency obtained in step (d) and the logarithms of said AM(t) obtained in step (b) , for a plurality of lowest frequency speech harmonics.
2. The method recited in claim 1, wherein said filters have center frequencies such that predetermined subsets of filters form AM and FM detectors centered at frequencies which are about equal to exact integer multiples of a lowest center frequency detector in each subset, and wherein the detectors in each subset are harmonically tuned.
3. The method recited in claim 2, further comprising the step of selecting a subset of FM detector outputs for combining in step d. 


 4. The method recited in claim 3, wherein a weighted summation is performed in determining said weighted average, and wherein weighting of said summation is a function of the signal-to-noise ratio of signals within each FM detector.
5. The method recited in claim 3, wherein a weighted summation is performed in determining said weighted average, and wherein weighting of said summation is a function of a difference, computed in a feedback process, between a computed output frequency, FM(t) , of each harmonic and a corresponding expected integer multiple of a fundamental frequency.
6. The method recited in claim 3, wherein a single composite log (FM(t)) of a speech fundamental is constructed by demultiplexing said FM outputs from all of said FM detectors.
7. The method recited in claim 6, wherein, at each instant of time, said demultiplexing of said speech fundamental is accomplished by power combining a weighted sum of AM detected signals within said filters comprising said subset and selecting log (FM(t)) from said subset yielding the greatest power.
8. The method recited in claim 7 wherein for multiple, simultaneous speech sources, a plurality of filter outputs is selected, said outputs corresponding to subsets with greatest power, to construct multiple composite speech fundamental frequencies.
9. The method recited in claim 1, wherein said output logarithms of AM(t) for each harmonic are derived from demultiplexing and combining said AM detected filter outputs from filters centered at about integer multiples of said composite fundamental frequency. 


 10. The method recited in claim 1, wherein said FM(t) are determined by a ratio detector.
11. The method recited in claim 10, wherein said bandpass filters have frequency responses that are Gaussian on a linear frequency axis, with center frequencies and bandwidths such that a ratio detector computation of FM(t) is determined from a linear function of a difference between said logarithms of said outputs from two adjacent AM detected filters.
12. The method recited in claim 10, wherein said individual bandpass filters have log-frequency responses which are Gaussian on a logarithmic frequency axis, with center frequencies and bandwidths such that the ratio detector computation of log (FM(t) ) may be determined from a linear function of a difference between said logarithms of said outputs from two adjacent AM detected filters.
13. The method recited in claim 11, wherein spacing of said Gaussian filters on one of a frequency axis and a logarithmic frequency axis equals a standard deviation of said Gaussian function.
14. The method recited in claim 12, wherein the spacing of the Gaussian filters of the frequency or logarithmic frequency axis equals the standard deviation of the Gaussian function.
15. The method recited in claim 2, wherein the center frequencies of said filters are separated by l/12th of an octave.
16. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the step of determining the instantaneous frequency modulation to within an accuracy required for speech recognition 


 comprises determining said accuracy to within ±10% of the frequency separation between adjacent filters,
17. A method of compressing speech signals, the method comprising applying the speech signals to a plurality of bandpass filters and sampling log (FM(t)) and log (AM(t)) outputs of said filters at low sampling frequencies, thereby encoding information content in said speech into low bit-rate, low dynamic range, digitized signals.
18. A method of reconstructing a speech waveform, the method comprising the steps of : synthesizing a set of harmonically spaced audio carrier tones, and modulating said tones with FM and AM outputs, said FM and AM outputs being determined by: determining instantaneous amplitude modulation, AM(t) , of each harmonic in a speech waveform from outputs of a plurality of bandpass filters spanning the range of human speech; determining instantaneous frequency modulation, FM(t) , of each harmonic in speech waveforms from outputs of said bandpass filters to within an accuracy of frequency separation between adjacent said bandpass filters to provide speech recognition; determining a logarithm of an instantaneous frequency of a speech fundamental frequency by computing a weighted average of logarithms of said FM(t) from each measured harmonic, after subtracting the logarithm of the harmonic number from each said log (FM(t)); forming output signals having the logarithm of the instantaneous frequency of the speech fundamental frequency obtained in step (d) , and the logarithms of the AM(t) obtained in step (b) , for a plurality of lowest frequency speech harmonics. 


 19. The method recited in claim 1 wherein said plurality of lowest frequency speech harmonics comprises any of the ten lowest frequency harmonics of a fundamental frequency.
20. An apparatus for extracting information content from speech, the apparatus comprising:
(a) a receiver arranged to receive a speech signal, said receiver having a plurality of individual filters with adjacent filters having center frequencies separated by a predetermined ratio of frequency;
(b) means for measuring frequency characteristics of said speech signal by determining differences in signal amplitudes detected in said adjacent filters;
(c) an adder, said adder being configured to sum predetermined sets of said differences into a sum, each said set comprising differences in signal amplitudes in frequency ranges including only harmonics of fundamental frequencies; and
(d) means for forming an output signal from said sum.
21. The apparatus recited in claim 20, wherein said means for determining differences comprises a subtractor, said subtractor being configured to subtract logarithms of signal amplitudes in said adjacent filters.
22. The apparatus recited in claim 21 further comprising means for determining an average value of signal amplitudes in each said filter.
23. The apparatus recited in claim 20 wherein each said filter has a Gaussian frequency response.
24. The apparatus recited in claim 20 wherein said filters are logarithmically spaced in frequency and are centered close to frequencies of linearly spaced 



 harmonics and have bandwidths comparable to bandwidths known to exist in the human auditory system.
25. The apparatus recited in claim 20 wherein said filters have center frequencies spaced at intervals of about 1/12 octave.
26. The apparatus recited in claim 22 wherein said filters have a Gaussian response vs. log (frequency/R) , where R is a reference frequency.
27. The apparatus recited in claim 20 wherein said individual filters form a filter bank covering known frequencies of human speech.
28. An apparatus for extracting information from speech signals, the apparatus comprising:
(a) a receiver arranged to receive a speech signal;
(b) a filter bank having a plurality of filters to sort said speech signal into a plurality of frequency bands;
(c) means for detecting amplitudes of frequencies in said frequency bands and selecting a band with highest amplitude;
(d) means for selecting frequency bands including harmonic frequencies of said band with the highest amplitude; and
(e) an adder arranged to sum the amplitudes of said frequency bands including said harmonic frequencies.
29. An apparatus for extracting information content from speech, comprising:
(a) means for receiving a speech signal into a plurality of individual bandpass filters, said bandpass filters, taken together, spanning the frequency range of a human voice; 


 (b) means for determining instantaneous amplitude modulation, AM(t) , of each harmonic in speech waveforms from outputs of said bandpass filters;
(c) means for determining instantaneous frequency modulation, FM(t) , of each harmonic in said speech waveforms from outputs of said bandpass filters to within an accuracy of frequency separation between adjacent said bandpass filters to provide speech recognition;
(d) means for determining a logarithm of an instantaneous frequency of a speech fundamental frequency by computing a weighted average of logarithms of said FM(t) from each measured harmonic, after subtracting the logarithm of the harmonic number from each said log (FM(t) ) ;
(e) means for forming output signals having the logarithm of the instantaneous frequency of the speech fundamental frequency obtained in step (d) , and the logarithms of the AM(t) obtained in step (b) , for a plurality of the lowest frequency speech harmonics.
30. A method of extracting information content from an information carrying signal composed of a plurality of modulated harmonically related carrier tones, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving said information carrying signal into a receiver having a plurality of individual bandpass filters, said bandpass filters, taken together, spanning a predetermined frequency range of said information carrying signal;
(b) determining instantaneous amplitude modulation, AM(t) , of each harmonic in information signal waveforms from outputs of said bandpass filters;
(c) determining instantaneous frequency modulation, FM(t) 
f
 of each harmonic in said information signal waveforms from outputs of said bandpass filters to within an accuracy of frequency separation between adjacent said bandpass filters to provide information recognition; 


 (d) determining a logarithm of an instantaneous frequency of an information signal fundamental frequency by computing a weighted average of logarithms of said FM(t) from each measured harmonic, after subtracting the logarithm of the harmonic number from each said log (FM(t));
(e) forming output signals having the logarithm of the instantaneous frequency of said information signal fundamental frequency obtained in step (d) and the logarithms of said AM(t) obtained in step (b) , for a plurality of lowest frequency information signal harmonics.
31. The method recited in claim 30, wherein said FM(t) are determined by a ratio detector.
32. The method recited in claim 31 wherein said individual bandpass filters have log-frequency responses which are Gaussian on a logarithmic frequency axis, with center frequencies and bandwidths such that the ratio detector computation of log (FM(t)) may be determined from a linear function of a difference between said logarithms of said outputs from two adjacent AM detected filters.
33. An apparatus for extracting information content from an information carrying signal composed of a plurality of modulated harmonically related carrier tones, the apparatus comprising:
(a) a receiver arranged to receive said information carrying signal, said receiver having a plurality of individual filters with adjacent filters having center frequencies separated by a predetermined ratio of frequency;
(b) means for measuring frequency characteristics of said information carrying signal by determining differences in signal amplitudes detected in said adjacent filters; 


 (c) an adder, said adder being configured to sum predetermined sets of said differences into a sum, each said set comprising differences in signal amplitudes in frequency ranges including only harmonics of fundamental frequencies; and
(d) means for forming an output signal from said sum.
34. A ratio detecting filter bank having ratio detectors and comprising: at least one pair of bandpass filters, each having a different center frequency, said bandpass filter having frequency response characteristics to cover a desired frequency band, wherein each said filter has a first frequency response based on a first standard deviation below a said center frequency and a second frequency response based on a second standard deviation above the same said center frequency, said first and second standard deviations being different and, wherein said second standard deviation for a filter of said pair at a lower center frequency matches a first standard deviation for a filter of said pair with a higher center frequency.
35. The apparatus recited in claim 34, wherein said center frequencies of said filters forming said ratio detectors are spaced at approximate harmonic intervals and further comprising: means for weighing outputs of said filters to form weighted outputs; means for detecting a ratio of signals output from said filters to form FM outputs; means for summing and said weighted outputs with said FM outputs to form sums; means for detecting a ratio of said sums to obtain an average FM signal; and 


 means for subtracting said average FM signal from said FM outputs of said filters in said filter bank.
36. The apparatus recited in claim 35 wherein said means for weighing comprises an attenuator.
37. The apparatus recited in claim 36 further comprising means for implementing a virtual filter bank, said virtual filter bank having means for compensating for mistuned ones of said filters spaced at approximate harmonic intervals.
38. The apparatus recited in claim 37 wherein said virtual filter bank has a center frequency offset from a center frequency of said filter bank, said offset being a difference between an actual center frequency of a mistuned said filter at harmonic intervals and a precise harmonic center frequency for said mistuned filter.
39. The apparatus recited in claim 38 wherein each ratio detector in said filter bank has its own offset.
40. An apparatus for characterizing discrete signals in an input multicomponent signal, comprising: a receiver having a plurality of filters, said receiver receiving as input said multicomponent signal, said receiver comprising means for estimating power versus frequency of said multicomponent signal, wherein each filter in said plurality of filters used for estimating has an amplitude/frequency response suitable for forming ratio detectors, and wherein said ratio detectors have outputs, certain ones of said outputs forming a consistent set of estimates of frequency and amplitude of a component of said input multichannel signal. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
