<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620291</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
High purity bulk chemical delivery system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1644	C23C1644	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method are described for delivering hygroscopic, 
corrosive chemicals such as hydrogen chloride from a source such as a 

tube 
trailer to a use point such as a semiconductor fabrication tool 

minimizing 
infiltration of moisture, and entrainment of particulates, while still 

reducing moisture contents below 100 parts per billion and achieving 
appropriate pressure drops without two phase flow. 
The apparatus comprising: 

(a) a delivery conduit (12) for connection to said source of supply 
(10) of said chemical and to said use point (34); 
(b) a heated dehydrator (18) connected in said delivery conduit for 
removing moisture from said chemical as it passes through said conduit; 
(c) at least one pressure regulator (22) connected in said delivery 
conduit to reduce the pressure from said elevated pressure source of 

supply to said lower pressure use point; 
(d) at least one means (20) to heat said chemical as it passes 
through said at least one pressure regulator; and 
(e) a vacuum means (16) for evacuating said delivery conduit in an 
operation of connecting said delivery conduit to said source of supply 

and/or said use point. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIR PROD 
&
 CHEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIR PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOWDHURY NASER MAHMUD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSTOWY LEWIS JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOWDHURY, NASER MAHMUD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSTOWY, LEWIS JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to an apparatus and process for 
delivering a hygroscopic, corrosive chemical, such as hydrogen chloride, 
from a source of supply, such as a tube trailer, to a use point, such as a 
semiconductor fabrication tool. More specifically, the present invention 
is directed to such a delivery apparatus and process wherein contamination 
with moisture is minimized, in situ moisture is substantially removed and 
single phase gas flow is achieved so as to minimize corrosion created by 
such moisture and the entrainment of metals or particular contaminants 
which the liquid form of such moisture could achieve. Hygroscopic, corrosive chemicals are frequently used in sophisticated 
semiconductor fabrication processes. Typical of such a chemical is 
anhydrous hydrogen chloride which is a colorless gas which fumes strongly 
in moist air. Bulk hydrogen chloride is shipped in tube trailers or 
Y-cylinders as a liquified compressed gas under a vapor pressure of 
613 psig 1 psig ≙ (1,013 + 0,069) x 105 Pa at 21,1°C (70°F). Chemically, hydrogen chloride is non-corrosive in the 
anhydrous state. However, hydrogen chloride readily adsorbs water to yield 
highly corrosive hydrochloric acid, which can attack metals and other 
equipment, such as the containment and delivery systems, meant to provide 
hydrogen chloride to semiconductor fabrication facilities. It is known to provide apparatus and methods for transfer and 
delivery of high purity chemicals as is set forth in U.S. Patent 5,148,945, 
including hydrochloric acid. The patent uses vacuum to initially fill a 
reservoir which is subsequently pressurized with inert gas to deliver 
chemical to the end use application. U.S. Patent 5,137,047 discloses a process for delivery of reactive 
gases to a semiconductor fabrication area using a pigtail having reduced 
dead volume and a vacuum system which allows for purge and evacuation of  
 
the delivery system. The patent is specifically directed to the delivery 
of tungsten hexafluoride. U.S. Patent 4,853,148 discloses a process and composition for drying 
gaseous hydrogen halides, such as hydrogen chloride using a metal halide or 
metal halide supported on a substrate or resin. In an article "Joule-Thomson Expansion and Corrosion in HCl System", 
by Paul M. Bhadha, et al. appearing in Solid State Technology, July 1992, 
pages S3 through S7, a discussion of the formation of liquid in conveyance 
of HCl through various pressure drop mechanisms is disclosed and techniques 
including heating are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for transfer and delivery of a hygroscopic, 
corrosive chemical from an elevated pressure source of supply to lower 

pressure use point, comprising 

(a) a delivery conduit for connection to said source of supply 
of said chemical and to said use point; 
(b) a heated dehydrator connected in said delivery conduit for 
removing moisture from said chemical as it passes through said 

conduit; 
(c) at least one pressure regulator connected in said 
delivery conduit to reduce the pressure from said elevated pressure 

source of supply to said lower pressure use point; 
(d) at least one means to heat said chemical as it passes 
through said at least one pressure regulator; and 
(e) a vacuum means for evacuating said delivery conduit in an 
operation of connecting said delivery conduit to said source of 

supply and/or said use point. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said vacuum means includes means 
for providing a purge gas to said delivery conduit from a purge gas source 

and removal of said purge gas from said delivery conduit. 
The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said vacuum means comprises a 
vacuum pump connected to said delivery conduit by a vacuum conduit and 

further connected to a scrubber means, a purge gas source connected to said 
delivery conduit by a purge gas conduit, and means for controlling the 

evacuation and purging of said delivery conduit by said vacuum pump.  
 
The apparatus of Claim 1, including means for sensing the ambient 
temperature at said source of supply, means for sensing the temperature of 

said chemical transferred from said source of supply, means for sensing a 
rate of pressure decline in said source of supply, means to compare the 

sensed temperature and the sensed pressure decline against preset valves, 
indicative of the chemical in said source of supply being substantially in 

a gas phase and means for generating an alarm signal when sensed values 
indicate said chemical in said source of supply is in a gas phase. 
The apparatus of Claim 1, including means for inputting data 
representing the volume of the source of supply, means for sensing the 

weight of the source of supply, means for sensing the ambient temperature 
at the source of supply and/or the temperature of said chemical, means to 

compare volume, weight and temperature values against preset values 
indicative of said chemical in said source of supply is approaching 

substantially a gas phase and means for generating an alarm signal when 
input and sensed values indicate said chemical in said source of supply is 

approaching substantially a gas phase. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said delivery conduit includes 
bellows valves for controlling delivery of said chemical from said source 

of supply. 
The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said delivery conduit includes 
bellows valves for controlling delivery of said purge gas to said delivery 

conduit. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said delivery conduit includes 
bellows valves for controlling connection of said vacuum means to said 

delivery conduit. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said pressure regulator is a 
diaphragm regulator fabricated from high purity bar stock material.  

 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said delivery conduit is 
constructed substantially of welded electro-polished 316L stainless steel. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said heated dehydrator is a bed 
of metal halide which is selective for the absorption of moisture from said 

chemical. 
A process for transferring and delivering a hygroscopic, corrosive 
chemical from an elevated pressure source of supply to a lower pressure use 

point comprising: 

(a) conveying said chemical from said source of supply to a 
delivery conduit by operation of an appropriate valve; 
(b) heating said chemical and removing moisture from the 
chemical by passage of the chemical through a dehydrator; 
(c) heating said chemical and reducing the pressure on the 
chemical from substantially an elevated pressure of said source of 

supply to a lower pressure of said use point by passage through at 
least one pressure regulator; 
(d) delivering said chemical at reduced pressure to a use 
point in a substantially dehydrated single phase gaseous condition. 
The process of Claim 12 wherein said delivery conduit is purged 
with an inert dry gas and evacuated with a vacuum pump before connecting 

said delivery conduit to said source of supply and/or said use point. 
The process of Claim 13 wherein, upon connecting said delivery 
conduit to said source of supply and/or said use point, said delivery 

conduit is operated through the series of steps comprising:  
 


(a) initially purging with said inert dry gas; 
(b) venting to remove said gas; 
(c) evacuating to a subambient pressure; 
(d) pressure sensing to determine the subambient pressure 
level achieved in step (c); 
(e) if the desired subambient pressure is not achieved, 
returning to step (a), initially purging; 
(f) if the desired subambient pressure is obtained, said 
delivery conduit is sensed for maintaining a selected pressure 

increase over a selected time interval; 
(g) if said selected pressure increase is exceeded, returning 
to step (c), evacuation; 
(h) if said selected pressure increase is not exceeded, conveying 
said chemical through said delivery conduit and venting it; 
(i) purging with said inert dry gas; 
(j) cycling through steps (c)-(f) again; 
(k) opening said delivery conduit to convey said chemical from 
said source of supply to said use point. 
The process of Claim 12 wherein said chemical is selected from 
the group consisting of hydrogen chloride, hydrogen bromide, hydrogen 

fluoride, hydrogen iodide or mixtures thereof.  
 
The process of Claim 12 wherein said dehydrator is a bed of a 
metal chloride selective for removal of moisture from said chemical. 
The process of Claim 12 wherein the ambient temperature at said 
source of supply is sensed, the temperature of said chemical transferred 

from said source of supply is sensed, the rate of pressure decline of said 
chemical in said source of supply is sensed, the sensed temperatures and 

sensed rate of pressure decline are compared with preset values representative 
of a substantially gas phase, and generating an alarm signal when 

sensed values indicate said chemical in said source of supply is in the gas 
phase. 
The process of Claim 12 wherein the volume of the source of 
supply is determined, the weight of the source of supply is sensed, the 

ambient temperature at the source of supply is sensed and/or the temperature 

of said chemical is sensed, the values for said volume, weight and 
temperatures are compared against preset values indicative that said 

chemical in said source of supply is approaching substantially a gas phase 
and an alarm signal is generated when determined and sensed values indicate 

said chemical in said source of supply is approaching substantially a gas 
phase. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
