<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632780</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN APPARATUS FOR TURNING OBJECTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B1102	B65B1104	A01F1500	A01F1507	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	A01F	A01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B11	B65B11	A01F15	A01F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device (1) to turn an object (2), said device comprising an object-supporting bight (3) of a flexible belt (4), line, chain or the like which is endless during the turning movement. After the bight (3) the two parts of the belt (4) run into parts (5, 6) each one of which travels past a deflection means (8, 9), such as a roller. On the lower side of said parts they are united by means of a lower belt part (7). The belt (4) is provided with support members (10-25) which together with the belt support the object and the length of the belt is sufficient to encircle the object (2), or partly encircle a symmetrical portion thereof, in the intended direction of rotation. In a hypothetical encircling position of the belt with the support members (10-25) extending radially outwards, these members are configured to essentially fill up the space between the belt itself and the object and each support member abuts against the object (2) at least at one point along the circumference of the object. When the object is positioned on said bight (3) and its support members, if any, assume essentially the same position with respect to the object (2) as when the object was encircled by the belt, the objet will be turned in a controlled manner when the belt is set in motion in consequence of a turning movement imparted to one deflection means (8).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REKORDVERKEN AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REKORDVERKEN SWEDEN AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARLQVIST LARS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARLQVIST, LARS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The subject invention concerns an apparatus in accordance with the preamble of claim 1 adapted 
to rotatably support at least one object. When wrapping objects in e.g. paper or plastics it 
is as a rule necessary to either lift or somehow turn the 
object on a working table top. This operation is an easy 
one only if the object has a cylindrical or almost 
cylindrical shape. On the other hand, if the object is 
more irregular or angular in shape it becomes a great 
deal more complicated to wrap the object. For instance, 
in order to apply a wrapping around a heavy box or a box-shaped 
bale of straw, the box or bale must first be 
lifted and placed in position on the wrapping sheet by 
means of a lifting aid whereupon the wrapping sheet is 
wound around the object to allow the package to be 
closed. An alternative way of applying the wrapping is to 
roll the object to which one end of the wrapping material 
has been attached, on the table top in such a manner that 
the wrapping covers the object. The wrapping is then 
closed about the object. However, rolling of the often 
angular or square object on the support is a hard and 
often laborious task, particularly if it is done manually. 
One solution to mechanize the wrapping procedure is 
to clamp the object in position at its short ends and to 
thereafter rotate the object so as to apply the wrapping 
about it. The object must then be deposited on a working 
top to allow closing at the short ends. This procedure is 
a time-consuming one. In accordance with another prior-art solution for 
wrapping essentially angular or square objects, the body 
is rotated on a bight of a conventional conveyor belt. On 
account of its angular shape, the body in this case  
 
rotates at highly varying speeds and actually it bounces 
rather rotates. Consequently, larger widths of the roll 
of wrapping paper or plastics are required, in addition 
to which the risks for deficient wrapping are increased. 
Fragile bodies could hardly be wrapped at all by this 
method. WO-A-9 113 540 discloses a wrapper apparatus 
designed to apply pre-stretched film around objects of 
rectangular cross-section. The object is positioned on an 
endless drivebelt on which it is turned over without 
being fastened while in a one-point engagement with a 
guide member arrangement to control the rotation of the 
object with a view to obtain a uniform rate of rotation 
thereof. The purpose of the subject invention is to considerably 
reduce the problems outlined above by creating a 
device of the kind
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device (1) designed to rotatably support at 
least one object (2), said device comprising, in an 

operative position, an object-supporting bight (3) of a 
flexible belt (4), line, chain or the like which is 

endless when performing its turning movement and which 
belt (4) or the like from the two ends of the bight (3) 

merges into portions (5, 6) each one of which runs around at 
least one deflection means (8, 9), such as a roll or 

roller, said portions being united on the lower side thereof 
by means of a lower belt portions (7), 
characterized
 
in that the length of the belt or the like is 

sufficient to encircle the object (2), or partly encircle 
a symmetrical part thereof, in the intended direction of 

rotation, and in that the belt (4) is formed with support 
members (10-25) projecting radially from one side of the 

belt and being configured in such a manner that when the 
belt, in a preparatory stage, is positioned so as to 

encircle the object or a symmetrical part thereof with the 
support members (10-25) turned radially inwards, said 

members each one projects from the belt (4) towards the 
object (2) and 

is essentially in contact with the object (2) at least at 
one point along the periphery of the object and, when the 

belt (4) later, in the operative stage, is turned such 
that the support members face outwards and is placed so as 

to run around the deflection means (8, 9), and the object 
(2) is placed on said bight (3) and its support members, 

e.g. members (10-13; 27-30), essentially assume the same 
position relatively to the object (2) or another object 

having a shape essentially identical to that of the object 
(2) as said members had when said object (2) in the 

preparatory stage was encircled or partly encircled by the 
belt (4) together with its support members (10-25), the 

object (2) is made to turn at an even speed about an 
essentially fixed centre of rotation (0), when the belt  

 
(4), in the operative position, is set in motion by the 

rotation of one deflection means (8). 
A device as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized
 
in that the support members (10-25) are so 

configured that when the belt (4) is in its essentially 
encircling or partly encircling position with the support 

members facing inwards, neighbouring support members have contact, 
e.g. supporting contact, with one another somewhere along 

their respective adjoining sides, from the belt (4) and 
inwards towards the object. 
A device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, 
characterized
 
in that at least one support member 

(10-25) is mounted on the belt or the like at two attachment 
points in the lengthwise extension of the belt, the 

remaining part of the respective one of the support 
members (10-25) that faces the belt (4) being so con-figured 

that when the belt moves over the deflection means 
(8, 9) said parts always are spaced somewhat from the belt 

(4) so that the latter may roll around the deflection 
means (8, 9) without interference from the respective one 

of the support members (10-25). 
A device as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized
 
in that the two attachment points are 

placed immediately adjacent the front and trailing edges 
of the associated support member as seen in the lengthwise 

extension of the belt. 
A device as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized
 
in that at least one of the two attachment 

points is positioned so as to be spaced from the front or 
trailing edge of the associated support member as seen in 

the lengthwise exension of the belt, and in that each 
support member is configured, from said edge up to the 

respective attachment point, in such a manner that in the 
object-encircling position of the belt with the support 

members (10-25) projecting radially inwards, said member 
essentially conforms with the circular shape of the belt.  

 
A device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, 
characterized
 
in that at least one of the support 

members (10-25) is mounted on the belt or the like at 
an attachment point, 

and the side of the support member which 
faces the belt (4) in the object-encircling position of 

the belt with the support members (10-25) projecting 
radially inwards, essentially conforms with the circular 

shape of the belt so that consequently the belt bight (3) 
will be essentially evenly loaded by the object (2). 
A device as claimed in claim 6, 
characterized
 
in that the point of attachment of the 

support member (10-25) is positioned essentially halfway 
between the front and trailing edges of the support member 

in the lengthwise extension of the belt. 
A device as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, 
characterized
 in that at least one 
support member is hingedly attached to the belt so that 

the attachment does not significantly interfere with the 
ability of the belt to roll around the deflection means 

(8, 9). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
