<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649441</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CALCIFICATION-RESISTANT SYNTHETIC BIOMATERIALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L2700	A61L2700	A61L2714	A61L2718	A61L2736	A61L2750	A61L3300	A61L3300	C08G5900	C08G5914	C08L10100	C08L10100	C08L10102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	C08G	C08G	C08L	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L27	A61L27	A61L27	A61L27	A61L27	A61L27	A61L33	A61L33	C08G59	C08G59	C08L101	C08L101	C08L101	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Synthetic biomaterials are provided with irreversibly bound amino diphosphonate, polyphosphonate, or other anticalcification agent to prevent (in vivo) calcification. Such biomaterials include biocompatible elastomers such as polyurethane and/or polydimethylsiloxane, and the like which are intended for invasive, or indwelling use in a human or animal body. Illustratively, reaction conditions utilizing bi- or polyfunctional epoxides result in epoxide bridge incorporation of the anticalcification agent to the biomaterial elastomer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MICHIGAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOSHI RAVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVY ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOSHI, RAVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVY, ROBERT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
CALCIFICATION-RESISTANT SYNTHETIC BIOMATERIALSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to materials which are resistant to in vivo calcification, and more particularly, to calcification-resistant biomaterials, suitable for implantation in a living being, comprising a synthetic biocompatible polymer to which an anticalcification agent(s) is bound by stable, irreversible covalent bonds. More than 100,000 cardiac valve prostheses are placed in patients each year. Frequently, valve replacement surgery is the only means of treating cardiac valve disease. Currently used replacement valves include mechanical valves which may be composed entirely of a synthetic polymeric material such as polyurethane; bioprosthetic valves derived from bovine pericardium or porcine aortic valves; and aortic homografts.Use of mechanical valves is frequently complicated by thrombosis and tissue overgrowth leading to valvular failure. Calcification is the most frequent cause of the clinical failure of bioprosthetic heart valves fabricated from porcine aortic valves or bovine pericardium. Human aortic homograft implants have also been observed to undergo pathologic calcification involving both the valvular tissue as well as the adjacent aortic wall albeit at a slower rate than the bioprosthetic heart valves. Pathologic calcification leading to valvular failure, in such forms as stenosis and/or regurgitation, necessitates re-implantation. Therefore, the use of bioprosthetic heart valves and homografts has been limited because such tissue is subject to calcification.Pathologic calcification also further complicates the use of synthetic vascular grafts and other artificial heart devices, such as ventricular assist systems, because its affects the flexibility of the synthetic polymers used to produce the devices. The mechanism for pathological calcification of cardiovascular tissue is not understood. Generally, the term "pathologic calcification" refers to the deposition of calcium phosphate mineral salts in association with a disease process. Calcifica¬ tion may be due to host factors, implant factors, and extraneous factors, such as mechanical stress. There is some evidence to suggest that deposits of calcium are related to devitalized cells, and in particular, cell membranes, where the calcium 

pump (Ca+2 - Mg+2 - ATPase) responsible for maintaining low intracellular calcium levels is no longer functioning or is malfunctioning. Calcification has been observed to begin with an accumulation of calcium and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A material for implantation in the interior of the body of a living being, the material comprising a biocompatible synthetic polymer which is substantially insoluble in the interior of the body of a host living being and which has irreversibly bound thereto an effective amount of an polyphosphonate anticalcifi¬ cation agent for rendering said biocompatible synthetic polymer resistant to in vivo pathologic calcification.
2. The material of claim 1 wherein the biocompatible synthetic polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyurethane, polydimethylsiloxane, ethylene vinyl acetate, poly methyl methacrylate, polyamide, polycarbonate, polyester, polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, polytetrafluoroethylene, polysulfone, or cellulose acetate and copolymers thereof.
3. The material of claim 1 wherein the polyphosphonate anticalcification agent is selected from the group consisting of aminopropanehydroxydiphosphonate, ethanehydroxydiphosphonate, aminotri(methylenephosphonic acid), and diethylentri- aminepenta(methylenephosphonic acid) .
4. The material of claim 1 further comprising an effective amount of the anticoagulant heparin irreversibly bound to said biocompatible synthetic polymer for rendering said biocompatible synthetic polymer resistant to in vivo thrombus formation.
5. A material for implantation in the interior of the body of a living being, the material being characterized by a biocompatible synthetic polymer which is substantially insoluble in the interior of the body of a host living being and which has irreversibly bound thereto via epoxide linkages an effective amount of an anticalcification agent, the anticalcification agent having at least one functional group having an active hydrogen, for rendering said biocompatible synthetic polymer resistant to in vivo pathologic calcification.
6. The material of claim 5 wherein the anticalcification agent has an amine, amide, alcohol, or carboxylic acid functionality. 


 7. The material of claim 6 wherein the anticalcification agent is selected from the group consisting of polyphosphonates, sulfaminotricarballyate, alpha amino oleic acid, pyrophosphate, statherin, polylysine, and polyarginine.
8. The material of claim 5 further comprising heparin irreversibly bound thereto via epoxide linkages in an amount effective for rendering said biocompatible synthetic polymer resistant to in vivo thrombus formation.
9. The material of claim 7 wherein the anticalcification agent is a polyphosphonate, the polyphosphonate having reactive hydroxy groups on the phosphonate moieties and less reactive hydroxy groups on the alkyl, aryl, or aralkyl moiety.
10. The material of claim 9 wherein the epoxide linkage is through the reactive hydroxy groups on the phosphonate moieties.
11. The material of claim 9 wherein the epoxide linkage is through the hydroxy group on the alkane. 12. A method of making a calcification-resistant biocompatible polymeric material comprising the steps of: forming a monoadduct of a polyphosphonate anticalcification agent and a reactive polyfunctional epoxide; adding the monoadduct to a prepolymer base of a biocompatible copolymer; adding the second component of the biocompatible copolymer; and polymerizing.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the biocompatible copolymer is a polyurethane.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the prepolymer base is a polyol and the second component is diisocyanate.
15. The method of claim 12 wherein the polyphosphonate is selected from the group consisting of aminopropanehydroxydiphosphonate, ethanehydroxydiphos- phonate, aminotri(methylenephosphonicacid), anddiethylentriaminepenta(methylene- phosphonic acid). 


 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the polyfunctional epoxide is selected from the group consisting of diglycidyl butanediol ether, ethanediol diglycidyl ether, butanediol diglycidyl ether, and polyglycerol polyglycidyl ethers.
17. A method of making a calcification-resistant polymeric material comprising the steps of: forming a solution of a polyphosphonate anticalcification agent and a reactive polyfunctional epoxide in a solvent; adding to the solution a second solution of a prepolymerized biocompatible polymer to form a mixture; and polymerizing the mixture.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the polyphosphonate is selected from the group consisting of aminopropanehydroxydiphosphonate, ethanehydroxydiphos- phonate,aminotri(methylenephosphonicacid),anddiethylentriaminepenta(methylene- phosphonic acid). 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the polyfunctional epoxide is selected from the group consisting of diglycidyl butanediol ether, ethanediol diglycidyl ether, butanediol diglycidyl ether, and polyglycerol polyglycidyl ethers.
20. A method of making a calcification-resistant polymeric material comprising the steps of: forming a diisocyanate-terminated prepolymer by reacting a soft segment component of a polyurethane and a hard segment component of the polyurethane; adding a chain extender to the diisocyanate-terminated prepolymer.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein the chain extender is a short chain diol and the product is an hydroxy-terminated polyurethane. 22. The method of claim 21 comprising the further step of reacting the hydroxy-terminated polyurethane with a polyphosphonate anticalcification agent to produce a phosphonate-terminated polyurethane.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein said step of reacting comprises the steps of: 


 forming a solution of the polyphosphonate anticalcification agent and a reactive polyfunctional epoxide in a solvent; adding to the solution a second solution of the hydroxy-terminated anticalcifi¬ cation agent to form a mixture; and polymerizing the mixture.
24. The method of claim 20 wherein the chain extender is a polyphos¬ phonate anticalcification agent and the product is a phosphonate-terminated polyurethane.
25. A method of making a calcification-resistant polymeric material comprising the steps of: forming a tetraester derivative of a polyphosphonate anticalcification agent; reacting the tetraester derivative of a polyphosphonate anticalcification agent and a reactive polyfunctional epoxide to form a phosphonated epoxide monoadduct; reacting the phosphonated epoxide monoadduct with an hydroxy-terminated polymer to form a tetraester-terminated biocompatible polymer.
26. The method of claim 25 comprising the further step of hydrolyzing the tetraester-terminated biocompatible polymer to a phosphonate-terminated biocom¬ patible polymer.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the step of hydrolyzing comprises reacting the tetraester-terminated biocompatible polymer with bromotrimethyl silane.
28. The method of claim 26 wherein the step of hydrolyzing comprises subjecting the tetraester-terminated biocompatible polymer to water.
29. A method of making a thromboresistant polymeric material comprising the steps of: forming a solution of heparin and a reactive polyfunctional epoxide to form a heparin-epoxide monoadduct; adding a solution of a prepolymerized biocompatible polymer to the monoadduct to form a mixture; and polymerizing the mixture. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
