<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639271</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PREDICTING END-OF-LIFE OF A CONSUMABLE IN A FLUID PURIFICATION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5330	G01N2712	G01N1508	B01D5304	G01N3300	G01N1508	G01N3300	G01N3320	B01D5304	G01N2712	G01M1900	B01D5330	G01M1900	G01N3320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	G01N	G01N	B01D	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	B01D	G01N	G01M	B01D	G01M	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	G01N27	G01N15	B01D53	G01N33	G01N15	G01N33	G01N33	B01D53	G01N27	G01M19	B01D53	G01M19	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for predicting end-of-life of a system consumable in a fluid purification system (50) characterized by the steps of (a) coupling a model consumable (62) to the fluid purification system which has comparable characteristics but substantially less time capacity than the system consumable; (b) diverting a portion of an unpurified fluid which could otherwise flow into the system consumable into the model consumable; and (c) analyzing the model consumable to predict the end-of-life of the system consumable. Preferably, the time capacity of the model consumable to remove impurities from the fluid is a small fraction, e.g. 25 % - 50 %, of the capacity of the system consumable. A fluid purification system of the present invention is characterized by an inlet (70), an outlet (72), a system consumable (52) coupled between the inlet and the outlet, a model consumable (62) having comparable characteristics but substantially less time capacity than the system consumable, and a diverting mechanism (108) coupled between the inlet and the model consumable for diverting a portion of an unpurified fluid to model consumable. The diverting mechanism preferably includes a mass flow meter (MFM) (60) coupled in-line with the system consumable which is coupled to and controls a mass flow controller (MFC) (64) which is coupled in-line with the model consumable. The model consumable is analyzed to predict the end-of-life of the system consumable.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAES PURE GAS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAES PURE GAS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LORIMER D ARCY H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LORIMER, D'ARCY, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to fluid purification systems, and more
particularly to gas purification systems used to provide highly purified gasses for
use in semiconductor manufacturing equipment.Fluid purification systems are used to remove impurities from contaminated
or otherwise impure fluids. The fluids may be liquid and/or gaseous, and are
typically purified to provide a high quality fluid source for manufacturing or
consumption purposes, or to remove toxins and other contaminants prior to the
disposal of the fluid. Such systems usually include "consumables" such as filters
or getters, which must be periodically replaced.In the semiconductor manufacturing industry, gas purifiers are used to
provide the highly purified gasses used in the semiconductor manufacturing
process. For example, argon (Ar) must have less than 10 parts per billion (ppb) of
impurities if it is to be used in-state-of-the-art semiconductor manufacturing
equipment. Argon available from commercial gas suppliers typically has about 500
ppb of impurities, including water (H2O), oxygen (O2), nitrogen (N2), carbon
monoxide (CO) and carbon dioxide (CO2). Gas purifiers are used to purify the
commercially available gas to impurity levels acceptable to the semiconductor
manufacturer.It is apparent from the above example that the terms "pure" and "impure" are
relative, not absolute, terms. For example, commercially available argon gas
having 500 ppb of impurities can hardly be considered heavily contaminated.
Therefore, as used herein, "pure" gasses will be defined as gasses which meet the
purity specifications for a given process, and "impure" gasses will be defined as
those gasses which do not meet those purity specifications.There are several methods for removing impurities from gasses such as
argon. For example, Semi-Gas of San Jose, California produces a resinous filter 
under the trademark NANOCHEM which removes impurities from gasses. While
resinous filter systems are fairly effective in removing certain impurities from
gasses, they sometimes introduce organic contaminants into the gasses being
purified.A preferred type of gas purification system for use in the semiconductor
manufacturing industry is a getter-type purification system. Getter materials
comprise certain metal alloys which have a chemical affinity for certain gasses. In
these systems, getter materials are encased in stainless steel columns and are heated
to a temperature in the range of 300 - 450 °C. Impurities from gasses flowing
through a getter column are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for predicting the end-of-life of a system consumable in a
fluid purification system comprising:


coupling a model consumable (62) to a fluid purification system (50) which
has comparable characteristics but substantially less impurity removal capacity than a system

consumable (52) in said fluid purification system;
diverting a portion of an unpurified fluid which could btherwise flow into
said system consumable into said model consumable; and
analyzing said model consumable to predict the end-of-life of said system
consumable.
A method for predicting end-of-life of a system consumable in a
fluid purification system as recited in claim 1 wherein said fluid purification system

comprises a gas purification system, and wherein said system consumable and said
model consumable comprise getter material.
A method for predicting end-of-life of a system consumable in a
fluid purification system as recited in claim 1 wherein said step of diverting a

portion of an unpurified fluid comprises diverting a portion of unpurified fluid into
said model consumable which is quantitatively related to the flow of unpurified

fluid into said system consumable.
A method for predicting end-of-life of a system consumable in a
fluid purification system as recited in claim 1 wherein said step of analyzing said

model consumable comprises removing said model consumable from said fluid
purification system and analyzing said model consumable.
A method for predicting end-of-life of a system consumable in a
fluid purification system as recited in claim 4 further comprising replacing said

removed model consumable with a replacement model consumable. 
A method for predicting end-of-life of a system consumable in a
fluid purification system as recited in claim 4 wherein said removed model

consumable is analyzed by a destructive chemical analysis.
A method for predicting end-of-life of a system consumable in a
fluid purification system as recited in claim 1 wherein said step of analyzing said

model consumable comprises monitoring the resistance of consumable material
within said model consumable.
A method for predicting end-of-life of a system consumable in a
fluid purification system as recited in claim 1 wherein said step of analyzing said

model consumable comprises monitoring fluid flowing out of said model
consumable.
A fluid purification system comprising:

an inlet (70) adapted to be coupled to a source of unpurified fluid;
an outlet (72);
a system consumable (52) coupled between said inlet and said outlet such
that unpurified fluid flowing through said system consumable is purified by said

system consumable;
a model consumable (62) having comparable characteristics but substantially
less impurity removal capacity than said system consumable; and
a diverting mechanism (108) coupled between said inlet and said model
consumable for diverting a portion of said unpurified fluid which could otherwise

flow through said system consumable into said model consumable.
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 9 wherein said system
consumable and said model consumable comprise getter material, and wherein said

unpurified fluid comprises a mixture of gasses.
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 9 wherein said model
consumable has a time capacity to remove impurities from said fluid which is less

than or equal to about 50% of the time capacity to remove impurities of said system
consumable.
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 11 wherein said model
consumable has a time capacity to remove impurities from said fluid which is less

than or equal to about 25% of the time capacity to remove impurities of said system
consumable.
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 9 wherein said means

for diverting a portion of said unpurified fluid comprises a conduit (90) coupling said
inlet to said model consumable.
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 13 wherein said means
for diverting a portion of said unpurified fluid further comprises a mass flow

controller (MFC) (64) coupled between said inlet and said model consumable.
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 14 wherein said means
for diverting a portion of said unpurified fluid further comprises a mass flow meter

(MFM) (60) coupled between said inlet and said system consumable.
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 15 wherein said MFM
is coupled to said MFC such that the rate of flow of unpurified fluid into said model

consumable is controlled by the rate of flow of unpurified fluid into said system
consumable. 
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 16 wherein said MFM
is coupled to said MFC by an apparatus (66) employing digital logic.
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 9 further comprising
coupling means for releasably coupling said model consumable to said diverting

means (92/98).
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 9 further comprising
fluid analysis means (68) coupled to an outlet of said model consumable for

detecting impurity levels in fluids exiting said model consumable.
A fluid purification system as recited in claim 10 further comprising
end-of-life detection means (120/130) adapted to measure the resistance of getter

material within said model consumable.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
