<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627630</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Differential current sensing method and apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R1514	G01R1518	G01R1900	G01R1900	G01R2100	G01R2106	H01F3828	H01F3830	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	H01F	H01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R15	G01R15	G01R19	G01R19	G01R21	G01R21	H01F38	H01F38	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A current sensor includes first and second 
conductors (12,14) and an annular current comparator (16) 

magnetically coupled to the first and second conductors 
for producing an output signal related in magnitude and 

phase to an input current. The first and second 
conductors have first and second-predetermined 

resistances, respectively, for conducting first and 
second portions of the input current along first and 

second directions, respectively. The first direction 
is substantially opposite the second direction within a 

bore of the annular current comparator. A current is 
induced in the annular current comparator, preferably a 

toroidal winding, in relation to the current difference 
between the first and second portions of the input 

current. Secondary windings, preferably feedback and 
sense secondary windings, are wound about and 

magnetically coupled to the annular current comparator 
for producing an output signal responsive to the 

current induced within the annular current comparator 
while preventing the annular current comparator from 

being saturated. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COBURN DAVID CARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COBURN DAVID CARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates current sensors 
for sensing a current, and, more particularly, to 
current sensors for producing an output signal related 
to the sensed input current. Many electrical devices, such as induction or 
electronic type watthour meters for metering electric 
power and energy usage, require current sensors for 
sensing the line current and producing an output signal 
related to the line current. These devices demand 
sensors which are accurate for a wide range of line 
currents. For many years, induction type watthour 
meters have been used to measure energy consumption by 
individual electrical energy users, with consumption 
measured in kilowatt hours. Induction type watthour 
meters typically have separate voltage and current 
coils with a rotating disk driven by a combination of 
fluxes from the coils. Conventional induction watthour 
meters include a current sensing circuit in which the 
conductor carrying the line current is wrapped about in 
an iron core to form a current coil. A magnetic flux 
is created in the iron core due to the current flowing 
in the conductor. The magnetic flux in the iron core, 
in combination with the magnetic flux from a similar  
 
voltage coil, rotates a disk at a rate related to the 
customer's electrical energy consumption. Current transformers are used in conjunction 
with the above-described current sensing circuits to 
scale down relatively large line currents, i.e., 
greater than about 320 amperes, since the number of 
turns about the iron core required to properly scale 
such relatively large line currents would become 
prohibitively large. The current transformer is 
disposed between the line conductor and the current 
sensing circuit. While such current transformers are 
generally rated to have a nominal current in their 
secondary winding of five amperes, approximately twenty 
amperes of secondary current may usually be drawn 
without exceeding the thermal rating of the 
transformer. Thus, even with the introduction of a 
current transformer between the conductor and the 
current sensing circuit, induction type watthour meters 
must still be capable of measuring relatively large 
currents, such as twenty amperes. Such relativity large currents however, 
cannot be accurately sensed by electronic watthour 
meters which typically utilize electronic or integrated 
circuits for measuring the current and voltage usage of 
individual electrical energy customers. The integrated 
circuits are designed to accept and measure small 
signal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for sensing an input current, comprising: 
   means for conducting a first portion of said input current; 

   means for conducting a second portion of said input current; and 
   sensing means magnetically coupled to said first and second 

conducting means for producing an output signal related to a current 
differential between said first and second portions of said input current. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said 
first conducting means is a first conductor having a first predetermined 

resistance, wherein said second conducting means is a second conductor 
having a second predetermined resistance, and wherein said sensing 

means includes a toroidal winding having a bore extending therethrough. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said 
sensing means includes a means for magnetically sensing a current 

induced within said toroidal winding by said current differential between 
said first and second portions of said input current. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said 
means for magnetically sensing said current induced in said toroidal 

winding includes a secondary winding wound about and magnetically 
coupled to said toroidal winding for producing said output signal. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said 
first conductor includes a notch whereby the resistance of said first 

conductor varies in relation to the size of said notch. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said 
output signal is directly proportional to said current differential between 

said first and second portions of said input current. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the sum 
of the magnitude of said first and second input current portions 

substantially equals the magnitude of said input current. 
A current sensing apparatus comprising: 
   a first resistor having a first predetermined resistance for conducting 

a first portion of said input current along a first direction; 
   a second resistor having a second predetermined resistance for 

conducting a second portion of said input current along a second 
direction; and 

   an annular current comparator responsive to said first and second 
portions of said input current for producing an output signal related to said 

input current; wherein said first and second resistors are disposed through 
a bore of said current comparator such that said second direction is 

substantially opposite said first direction. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said 
annular current comparator includes a toroidal winding having said bore 

extending therethrough. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said 
annular current comparator includes means for magnetically sensing a 

current induced within said toroidal winding by current differential 

between said first and second portions of said input current. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said 
means for magnetically sensing said current induced in said toroidal 

winding comprises: 
   a sense secondary winding wound about and magnetically coupled 

to said toroidal winding; 
   an amplifier means having an input connected to said sense 

secondary winding and an output; and 
   a feedback secondary winding wound about and magnetically 

coupled to said toroidal winding and connected at a first end to said 
output of said amplifier means, wherein any DC component of current 

induced in said toroidal winding is substantially eliminated. 
A current sensing apparatus comprising: 
   a first leg for conducting an input current; 

   a first wire connected at a first end to said first leg; 
   a second wire connected at a first end to said first leg; 

   a second leg for conducting an output current, said second leg 
connected to a second end of both said first and second wires; 

   a toroidal winding having a bore through which both said first and 
second wires extend. 
The current sensing apparatus according to claim 12, further 
comprising a secondary winding wound about said toroidal winding for 

producing an output signal related to said input current. 
A method for sensing an input current, comprising the steps of: 
   dividing said input current into first and second portions having a 

predetermined ratio therebetween; 
   sensing a difference in current between said first and second 

portions; and 
   producing said output current related to said sensed current 

differential. 
The method according to claim 14, wherein the dividing step includes 
the step of directing said first portion of input current along a first 

direction and said second portion of input current along a second 
direction, and wherein the sensing step includes the steps of passing both 

said first and second portions of current through a bore of a toroidal 
winding and inducing a current in said toroidal winding directly 

proportional to said current differential between said first and second 
portions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
