<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617481</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Deployable reflector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q128	H01Q108	H01Q127	H01Q108	H01Q1520	H01Q1514	H01Q1516	H01Q1514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q15	H01Q15	H01Q15	H01Q15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A deployable reflector (10) having several long, 
tapered petals (20) hinged at the tapered end to a top ring. 

The top ring (22) is attached to a central disk (26) 
positioned below the top ring (22) such that it is contained 

within the petals (20) when they are in the closed position. 
The centre disk (26) is attached to the top ring (22) by 

several screw jacks (28) such that the centre disk (26) 
moves up to a position proximate the top ring (22) as the 

petals (20) are moved outward from the closed position to 
the open position. In the deployed position, the reflector 

surface forms a substantially solid, parabolic surface. 
Telescoping struts (40) are attached to the underside of 

selected ones of the petals (20) to enable steering of the 
reflector (10). The struts (40) are positioned such that 

the central axis of the paraboloid formed by the deployed 
reflector (10) remains clear. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LORAL SPACE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPACE SYSTEMS / LORAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER ELLSWORTH B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYDEN ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, ELLSWORTH B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYDEN, ROBERT C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention generally relates to deployable
satellite reflectors of the type launched and sustained in
space, typically about Earth's orbit or for deep space probe
applications. Specifically, the invention relates to large,
solid surface reflectors for reflecting electromagnetic
signals.High-gain antenna reflectors have been deployed into
space for several decades. The configurations of such
reflectors have varied widely as material science developed
and as the sophistication of technology and scientific needs
increased.Large diameter antenna reflectors pose particular
problems both during deployment and post-deployment. Doubly-curved,
rigid surfaces which are sturdy when in a deployed
position cannot be folded for storage. Often, reflectors are
stored one to two years in a folded, stored position prior
to deployment. In an attempt to meet this imposed
combination of parameters, large reflectors have been
segmented into petals so that these petals could be stowed
in various overlapped configurations. However, the
structure required in deploying such petals has tended to be 
rather complex and massive, thus reducing the feasibility of
such structures. For this reason, parabolic antennae
reflecting surfaces larger than those that can be designed
with petals typically employ some form of a compliant
structure.Responsive to the need for such a compliant
structure, rib and mesh designs have been built, tested, and
used. However, such antennae tend to suffer from chording
in both radial and circumferential directions. The use of
mesh in such a configuration has an inherent disadvantage in
diminishing the reflective quality of the resulting
parabolic surface. Further, a mesh cannot be made to assume
a truly parabolic configuration.Other antennae designs typically include a centre
post about which the petals are configured, much like an
umbrella configuration. This also affects the reflective
quality of the resulting surface, since the centre portion
typically is the point of optimum reflectance, which is then
blocked by the centre post. Thus, it is desirable to have
a structure that is deployable from a compact, stored
position to a parabolic, open position without the use of a
centre post.More recently, antenna reflectors have been
constructed from carbon fiber reinforced, synthetic material
(CFK). Such material may satisfy the requirements for space
technology and contour accuracy and, therefore, high
performance antenna systems. However, power and performance
of such antennae are limited, owing to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A deployable, steerable reflector apparatus for reflecting electromagnetic
signals, comprising a plurality of elongate members (20), each member having

a tapered end and being of sufficient width such that the plurality of elongate
members forms a solid parabolic surface when in a deployed position and a

conical shape when in an undeployed, stored position, a top ring (22) to which
the tapered end of each elongate member is attached, a plurality of adjustable

struts (40) each attached to one end to an underside surface of selected ones of
the elongate members, first activating means (42) attached to the struts for

lengthening the struts, and a centre disk (26) positioned spaced apart from the top
ring (22), characterised in that the centre disk (26) is attached to the top ring by

at least one elongate attachment element (28) and second activating means (44)
are attached to the attachment elements for positioning the centre disk proximate

the top ring in the deployed position.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the struts (44) comprise
linear actuators.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein each elongate member
(20) further comprises a locking notch (12) on its underside surface proximate the

tapered end of the elongate member, for locking the centre disk (26) in the
deployed position.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 
to 3, wherein each elongate member comprises an elongate rib

element (30) attached to and extending along at least a
portion of the top surface of the elongate members.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
rib elements (30) are fabricated from a substantially rigid

material.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the elongate members comprise

flexible, shape-memory material.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the
material comprises a high modulus graphite material and

resin system with shape-memory.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, comprising a plurality of spaced apart

structural members (32), each structural member including a
rib element (30) centrally positioned and extending along

the length of the structural member, attached to one of the
struts, having a width greater than the elongate members,

and interspersed among the elongate members such that in the
undeployed, stored position a plurality of the elongate

members proximate the structural element overlap under the
structural element.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising a hinge element (24)

connecting each elongate member (20) to the top ring (22).
An apparatus as claimed in anyone of the
preceding claims, further comprising a lanyard element (14)

of fixed length that extends across the back surface of each
elongate member (20) for securing a preselected spacing

among the elongate member in the deployed position.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, comprising a selectively releasable

element (14) extending across the top surface of each
elongate element (20) when in the undeployed, stored

position to maintain the elongate elements in the stored
position.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the adjustable struts (40) are

spaced apart from each other and positioned apart from a
central axis (A-A) of the parabolic surface.
A method for deploying the reflector apparatus
of any one of the preceding claims from a first, storage

position to a second, deployed position, the method
comprising activating the first activating means to

telescope the strut elements to a preselected length,
activating the second activating means to move the centre

disk to a position proximate the top ring and rotating the 
elongate members outward from the top ring.
A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the
apparatus further comprises a selectively releasable element

extending across the back surface of each elongate element
when in the undeployed, stored position to maintain the

elongate elements in the stored position, the method further
comprising the step of releasing the elongate members from

the selectively releasable element.
A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the
releasing step is performed after the activating of the

first activating means and before the activating of the
second activating means.
A method as claimed in claim 13, further
comprising the step of, after rotating the elongate members

outward, locking the centre disk in the notches.
A method as claimed in claim 13, further
comprising the step of, after rotating the elongate members,

simultaneously activating at least two of the first
activating means to selectively telescope at least two strut

elements.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
