<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646720</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spillage drag and infrared emission reducing fan jet engine
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02K182	F02K306	F02C7057	F02K300	F02C716	F02K3075	F02K100	F02C718	F02C704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02K	F02K	F02C	F02K	F02C	F02K	F02K	F02C	F02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02K1	F02K3	F02C7	F02K3	F02C7	F02K3	F02K1	F02C7	F02C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An aircraft gas turbine engine having an outer fan 
duct (3) circumscribing a preferably variable cycle inner 

gas turbine engine (10) and having a "FLADE" fan (2) disposed in 
the outer fan duct (3) and radially outward of and drivenly 

connected to a first fan (32) disposed in a first fan duct of 
the inner engine. The annular inlet (11) of the first fan 

duct is sized to receive essentially the full mass 
airflow of the engine at full power conditions with the 

annular outer fan duct inlet (13) essentially closed off. The 
engine is further designed and operable to fully open 

the inlet of the flade duct (13) at predetermined part power 
flight conditions and essentially close it at full power 

conditions such as take off. An infra-red (IR) 
radiation shielding apparatus is disposed in the exhaust 

duct of the engine to block infra-red radiation emitting 
hot metal surfaces of the engine from view through an 

exhaust outlet of the exhaust duct and is cooled by air 
flow from the outer fan duct (3). The IR radiation shielding 

apparatus (200) of one embodiment is constructed of a 
plurality of circumferentially disposed hollow vanes (208) 

supporting an essentially hollow centerbody (72). The hollow 
vanes (208) are operable to receive cooling air from the outer fan 

duct (3) and flow it on to the hollow centerbody (72) which 
exhausts the spent cooling air through a variable throat 

centerbody nozzle. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON JAMES EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, JAMES EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to FLADE aircraft gas
turbine engine and more particularly to construction and
operating method of such an engine to reduce inlet
spillage drag and reduce the infrared signature of the
aircraft and aircraft engine.A considerable effort has been made toward
developing high performance variable cycle gas turbine
engines. These types of engines have a unique ability
to operate efficiently at various thrust settings and
flight speeds both subsonic and supersonic. An
important feature of the variable cycle gas turbine
engine which contributes to its high performance is its
capability of maintaining a substantially constant inlet
airflow as its thrust is varied. This feature leads to
important performance advantages under less than full
power engine settings or maximum thrust conditions, such
as during subsonic cruise. The effect of maintaining
inlet airflow as thrust is reduced is to decrease such
performance penalties as inlet spillage drag and
afterbody closure drag, both of which have a
considerable detrimental effect on the overall
efficiency, size, weight, and performance of the
aircraft and its engine.Certain variable cycle engines, such as those 
described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,068,471 and 4,285,194,
assigned to the same assignee as the present invention,
achieve relatively constant airflow as thrust is varied
by changing the amount of fan bypass flow with a valve
system referred to as a variable area bypass injector
(VABI). As engine thrust is decreased, the VABI
increases bypass flow to offset decreasing core engine
flow resulting in a relatively constant total engine
flow, thus exhibiting the performance benefits described
above. However, it uses very expensive multi-stage fan
air to do so. Furthermore, it is somewhat limited in ,
its ability to ingest the air at subsonic part power
engine settings and engine operation because it has to
be sized to match the flow conditions in the bypass duct
into which is dumped some very highly pressurized air.
This fan air is divided between the core flow and the
bypass flow and therefore is controlled by the various
bypass flow control mechanisms such as the VABI's. This
in turn limits the degree to which the bypass air can be
used to avoid spillage. Typically, conventional
variable cycle engines have a limited range of thrust
settings for a given Mach No. (particularly subsonic
levels e.g. Mach No. = .8-.9) through which essentially
constant airflow can be maintained and specific fuel
consumption can be minimized. Therefore, it is
desirab
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An aircraft fan on blade (FLADE) gas turbine engine (1) comprising:

an inner gas turbine engine (10) having at least one
inner fan section with at least one row of inner fan

blades (32) disposed in an inner fan duct,
a FLADE fan duct (3) circumferentially disposed around
said inner engine,
a FLADE fan (2) disposed in said FLADE duct,
said FLADE fan having at least one row of FLADE fan
blades (5) radially outward of and drivenly connected to

said inner fan section,
said inner fan duct having an inner fan duct inlet (11)
and said FLADE fan duct having a FLADE fan dust inlet (8),
a FLADE inlet airflow modulation means (6, 7) disposed in
said FLADE fan duct to control airflow through said

FLADE fan duct, characterised in that
said inner fan duct inlet is sized to
receive essentially the full mass airflow of the engine

at a full power condition with said FLADE fan duct inlet
essentially closed off,
an engine inlet airflow control means (140) operable to
control said FLADE inlet airflow modulation means to

fully open said FLADE fan duct inlet (8) at a part power
flight condition of the engine and essentially close

said FLADE fan duct inlet at a full power flight
condition of the engine, and
an infra-red radiation shielding means (200) disposed in
the exhaust duct to block infra-red radiation emitting

hot metal surfaces of the engine from view through an
exhaust outlet of said exhaust duct, said infra-red

radiation shielding means in cooling air flow receiving
communication with said FLADE duct.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 1 wherein said infra-red radiation shielding means

comprises an essentially hollow centerbody (72) operably
connected to said FLADE duct for receiving cooling air

from said FLADE duct.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 2 wherein said infra-red radiation shielding means

further comprises a plurality of circumferentially
disposed hollow vanes (208) operably connecting said FLADE

duct to said hollow centerbody for receiving cooling air
from said FLADE duct and flowing it through said hollow

vanes to said centerbody.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 3 wherein said centerbody (72) is structurally

supported by said hollow vanes (208).
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 4 wherein said centerbody includes a variable

throat centerbody nozzle (218) operable to exhaust cooling air
received from said hollow vanes.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 5 further comprising an engine nozzle (122) disposed at

about the end of the exhaust duct wherein said FLADE
duct is operably connected to the engine nozzle to flow

cooling air to cool the engine nozzle.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 6 further wherein said engine nozzle (122) further

comprises divergent flaps (220) operably connected to said
FLADE duct to flow cooling air to cool said divergent

flaps. 
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 1 wherein said inner fan duct inlet has an inner

fan duct inlet area and said FLADE fan duct inlet has a
FLADE fan duct inlet area that is in a range of about

between 30%-40% of said inner fan duct inlet area.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 8 wherein said part power flight condition is a

cruise condition.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 9 wherein said FLADE inlet airflow modulation

means comprises a row of variable angle FLADE vanes (6)
disposed forward of said FLADE fan.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 6 wherein said inner gas turbine engine is a

variable cycle engine.
A method of operating an aircraft fan on blade (FLADE) gas turbine
engine (1), said method comprising the following steps:


a) providing an aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine (10)
having an inner gas turbine engine having at least one

inner fan section with at least one row of inner fan
blades (32) disposed in an inner fan duct,


a FLADE fan duct (3) circumferentially disposed around
said inner engine,
a FLADE fan (2) disposed in said FLADE duct,
said FLADE fan having at least one row of FLADE fan
blades (5) radially outward of and drivenly connected to

said inner fan section,
said inner fan duct having an inner fan duct inlet (11)
and said FLADE fan duct having a FLADE fan duct inlet (8),
a FLADE inlet airflow modulation means (6, 7) disposed in
said FLADE fan duct to control airflow through said

FLADE fan duct, characterised by 
said inner fan duct inlet being sized to
receive essentially the full mass airflow of the engine

at a full power condition with said FLADE fan duct inlet
essentially closed off, by
b) operating said FLADE engine at takeoff with said
FLADE inlet airflow modulation means essentially fully

closed, and by
c) flowing airflow from said FLADE fan duct to an
infra-red radiation shielding means (200) disposed in an

exhaust duct of the engine to block infra-red radiation
emitting hot metal surfaces of the engine from view

through an exhaust outlet of the exhaust duct.
A method as claimed in Claim 12 further comprising
step:

c) operating said FLADE engine at a part power flight
condition with said FLADE inlet airflow modulation means

fully open.
A method as claimed in Claim 12 further comprising
step:

d) flowing cooling air from the FLADE fan duct to an
engine nozzle (122) to cool the engine nozzle.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
