<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624350</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Arbor press staple and washer and method for its use.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B17064	A61B17064	A61B1756	A61B1756	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An arbor press staple and washer of the invention is for use 
in a practice of a surgical procedure for securing a ligament, that 

is either natural or prosthetic, onto a bone cortex surface and 
includes a staple having spaced equal parallel legs with a flat web 

arranged between the top ends of the staple legs. The staple is 
for driving into a bone cortex surface and includes barb ridges 

around three of its four sides for resisting staple withdrawal. 
The staple flat web includes at least one hole, that is preferably 

tapped, formed therethrough that is for receiving a threaded 
section of a threaded pin turned therethrough, and includes a pair 

of guide posts that extend, at right angles, from the web 
undersurface. An arbor plate type washer, that is a flat plate 

that has concave notches formed in opposite ends, is for 
arrangement between the staple legs, the concave notches sliding 

along the staple legs prohibiting washer rotation. The flat plate 
includes a pair of guide post holes that receive the guide pins 

that extend from the staple web undersurface, and includes a center 
smooth hole wherethrough a pin end of the threaded pin travels to 

where the threaded section lower face and engages the flat plate 
top surface, the continued turning of the threaded pin to urge the 

washer away from the staple web, causing spikes that extend from 
the washer flat plate undersurface to travel through a ligament 

that the staple legs straddle and into a bone cortex surface. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUMAN DAVID P
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARLOWE GOBLE E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOBLE, E. MARLOWE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUMAN, DAVID P.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOBLE E MARLOWE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUMAN DAVID P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOBLE, E. MARLOWE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUMAN, DAVID P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to devices and arrangements for 
securing a ligament, or the like, onto a bone surface during a 
ligament repair or replacement surgical procedure. One of the present inventors is the co-inventor of an earlier 
invention entitled, Channel Ligament Clamp and System, U. S. Patent 
No. 4,960,420, and a U. S. Patent Application entitled, Improved 
Channel Ligament Clamp, Serial No. 07/959,546, that show 
arrangements of clamping devices for mounting a ligament onto a 
bone surface. Which channel ligament clamps, like the present 
invention, employ a flat ligament engaging surface, wherefrom a 
plurality of spikes extend to penetrate the ligament and pass into 
the bone surface providing purchase therewith. Unique therefrom, 
the present invention provides, as a reference, a staple 
arrangement with parallel legs for driving into a bone surface, to 
straddle a ligament, with a movable arbor plate type washer 
wherefrom spikes extend arranged to travel between the staple legs 
through a ligament and into the bone surface. For moving the arbor 
plate type washer, the staple web is flattened and has a tapped 
hole formed therethrough that a threaded pin is turned into. The 
pin has a pointed end that when it is turned through the tapped 
hole, travels into a center hole that has been formed in the arbor  
 
plate type washer, a flat section above the pin top end urging that 
arbor plate type washer away from the staple web forcing the arbor 
plate type washer spikes through a ligament that the staple legs 
straddle and into the bone cortex. Additional to the above cited channel ligament clamp type 
systems, staple arrangements that do not include the movable arbor 
plate type washer, have been earlier employed in ligament repair 
and replacement surgical procedures for attaching a ligament to a 
bone surface. Examples of such staple devices for medical 
applications are shown in patents to Hall, U.S. Patent No. 
4,047,524; to Johnson, et al, U.S. Patent No. 4,146,022; to Griggs, 
U.S. Patent No. 4,263,903; to Borzone, U.S. Patent No. 4,278,091; 
to Kurland, U.S. Patent No. 4,400,833; to Shapiro, U.S. Patent No. 
4,414,967; to Pratt, et al, U.S. Patent No. 4,438,769; and to 
Wevers, et al, U.S. Patent No. 4,456,006. All of which staple 
devices provide for fitting the staple like device across the 
ligament to secure the ligament between the staple legs by driving 
it into the bone surface. None of these staple devices, however, 
employ a movable spike mounting arbor plate type washer like
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An arbor press staple comprising, a staple 
having a pair of spaced apart legs and including a web 

section extending between top ends of said staple legs, and 
said web section includes at least one threaded hole formed 

therethrough; a shaft having a threaded section for 
projecting through said at least one hole; and means for 

controlling projection of a distal end of said shaft from 
said staple web alongside said staple legs. 
An arbor press staple as recited in claim 1, 
wherein the shaft is arranged for turning utilizing a tool, 

to control projection of said shaft distal end from said 
staple web section. 
An arbor press staple as recited in claim 2, 
wherein an upper portion of the shaft is threaded for 

turning in the threaded hole; the shaft distal end is 
pointed and a tool receiving recess is formed in a proximal 

shaft end for receiving the tool for providing shaft 
turning as the means for controlling projection of said 

shaft distal pointed end. 
An arbor press staple as recited in any 
preceding claim, wherein the staple legs are barbed and are 

of equal length and each has a pointed lower end; and the 
ridges of said barbs are each formed with a flat outwardly 

sloping surface that slopes away from said staple leg point 
lower end and connects along an edge to a flat surface that 

extends outwardly from the staple leg surface. 
An arbor press staple and washer comprising, a 
staple having a pair of spaced apart legs and including a 

web section extending between top ends of said staple legs; 
and an arbor plate for disposition between said staple legs 

that forms a washer, said washer having opposite ends that 
fit between said staple legs and said washer includes a 

plurality of spikes that extend from an undersurface of 
said washer. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
claim 5, further including one or more holes formed through 

the staple web section; a shaft or shafts for fitting 
through each said staple web section hole; and means for 

controlling and advancing projection of each said shaft out 
from said staple web section to engage the washer. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
claim 6, wherein the flat web section hole or holes are 

threaded; the shaft or shafts each include an upper portion 
that is a threaded section for turning in said threaded 

hole or holes as the means for controlling shaft 
projection; a tool receiving recess formed in a top surface 

of each said shaft for receiving a tool fitted therein as a 
means for providing shaft turning; and the or each said 

shaft includes a pointed pin section that extends axially 
from a lower face of its said threaded section. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
claim 7, wherein the washer is notched along opposite edges 

to accommodate the staple legs and includes one or more 
openings formed therethrough each for aligning with the 

pointed section pin of each shaft and is of a diameter to 
pass said pointed pin section therethrough, a lower face of 

the threaded section engaging the top surface of said 
washer, around said opening, said shaft pointed pin section 

extending through said flat plate and alongside the washer 
spikes. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
claim 8, wherein the spikes are arranged at the corners of 

the washer undersurface, and at spaced intervals around the 
hole or holes. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
any one of claims 5 to 9, wherein each staple leg includes 

a plurality of spaced barb ridges formed around three sides 
of each four sided staple leg, with said staple legs 

opposing surfaces having smooth faces. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
 

claim 10, wherein the staple legs are of equal length and 
each has a pointed lower end; and the barb ridges are each 

formed with a flat outwardly sloping surface that slopes 
away from said staple leg point lower end and connects 

along an edge to a flat surface that extends outwardly from 
the staple leg surface. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
any one of claims 5 to 11, further including at least one 

guide post secured at a right angle from the underside of 
the web section that fits into a guide hole formed through 

the washer, said washer guided along said guide post. 
An arbor press staple and washer for securing 
soft tissue adjacent to bone comprising, a staple having a 

pair of spaced apart legs adapted for insertion into bone 
and including a web section extending between top ends of 

said staple legs; a plate for disposition between said 
staple legs to be movable therealong and adapted to contact 

and cover a section of soft tissue between said staple 
legs; and means for urging said plate away from said staple 

web section towards said bone for contacting said soft 
tissue section between said staple legs and urging it 

against said bone. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
claim 13, wherein the staple web includes at least one hole 

formed therethrough; and the means extending between the 
staple web and plate is a shaft for fitting through said 

staple web hole and including a means for advancing 
projection of said shaft out from said staple web for 

urging said plate along the staple legs towards the bone. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
claim 14, wherein the staple web hole is threaded, and a 

portion of the shaft is threaded for turning in said staple 
web threaded hole as the means for advancing projection of 

said shaft. 
An arbor press staple and washer as recited in 
claim 15, further including at least one hole formed 

 
through the plate that aligns with the threaded hole formed 

through the staple web; and said shaft includes a pointed 
lower end for fitting through
 said hole formed through said 
plate. 
A method for mounting a section of a ligament 
onto a bone cortex utilizing a combination of a staple with 

an arbor press type washer disposed between the staple legs 
that is moved against the ligament surface, comprising the 

steps of, selecting a location on a bone cortex surface to 
attach a ligament section to and driving pointed ends of 

staple legs therein, said staple legs to straddle said 
ligament section positioned thereon with a washer disposed 

between said staple legs to slide against the ligament 
section; applying a force between a web of said staple and 

said washer to urge said washer against said ligament 
section, clamping it against the bone cortex surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
