<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631221</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pointing device with pivot.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F116	G06F116	G06F3033	G06F3033	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pivotable trackball-type computer command pointing device for entering 
commands into a computer has a housing and a ball retained within the housing for 

generating electrical signals translatable into commands for the computer. A coupling 
assembly removably attaches to the computer, preferably the keyboard. A knuckle joint 

assembly pivotally connects the housing to the coupling assembly and includes a pivot blade 
pivotally received in an elongated recess of a hinge pocket plate to define an axis of rotation 

within the housing about which the housing is rotatable. Opposing button members each 
carry actuation teeth which engage a corresponding row of teeth formed in a coupling frame 

held stationary with respect to the computer by the coupling assembly. When the button 
members are moved together, the actuation teeth disengage the rows of teeth to permit the 

housing to be selectively angularly oriented by the user. Alternatively, pawls and 
corresponding ratchet teeth are used to provide unidirectional orientation of the housing upon 

depressing one of the two button members. In another alternative embodiment, a brake 
member having a high coefficient of friction is used to provide a brake to engage the 

coupling frame. Cams selectively force the brake member against an underside of the 
coupling frame to lock the housing into a selected angular orientation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STILES WILLIAM PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STILES, WILLIAM PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to pointing devices for entering commands into a 
computer. More particularly, this invention is related to a trackball that is pivotably 
attachable to a keyboard, or a laptop, portable or desktop computer. Pointing devices for entering commands into a computer are well known 
in the art, and include mice. joysticks. X-Y tablets, wire pens and trackballs. Trackball-type 
pointing devices include a housing supporting a rotatable ball and one or more 
depressible buttons. Electronic encoders sense rotation of the ball and generate a signal 
indicative of the ball's rotation to control movement of a cursor on a display screen of 
the computer. The ball protrudes from the top of the housing. The housing is usually 
positioned on a table top. The rotatable ball is exposed for rotation by the hand of a 
user. The housing may include one or more depressible buttons to enter commands into 
the computer, based on the position of the cursor on the display screen. Depressing the 
button permits the user to enter various commands into the computer, based on the 
location of the cursor. Examples of such commands include: depressing the button to 
pull down a menu; create starting, ending or other points in a graphic pattern on the 
screen; moving objects to different locations on the screen; and the like. Many prior art trackball-type pointing devices are not easily usable with 
laptop or portable computers. The trackball-type pointing device requires a work 
surface upon which the housing containing the ball must rest. Many times, a laptop or 
portable computer is used in an environment where an adequately sized table top or a 
table top itself is not provided. For example, laptop or portable computers may be used 
on an airplane tray table, or while resting in a user's lap. In each of these examples, no 
surface is readily available to a user upon which to place a trackball-type pointing 
device. U.S. Patent No. 5,187,468 describes a trackball-type pointing device 
attachable to a keyboard using an adjustable clamp. This pointing device permits its 
use in environments that lack a suitable work surface. However, even users of larger sized computers and other systems where 
an appropriate work surface is available find it desirable to use this type of trackball-type 
pointing device.  In U.S. Patent No. 5,187,468, a tilting mechanism allows the pointing 
device to tilt about an axis parallel to an edge of the keyboard. Using the tilting 
mechanism to tilt the device causes the device to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computer command apparatus for entering commands into a 
computer comprising: 

   a housing; 
   an input device supported by the housing and including a rotatable ball and 

encoding members adapted to generate electrical signals translatable into commands to the 
computer; 

   a coupling member attachable to the computer; 
   a pivot assembly, pivotally coupling the housing and the coupling member 

together for selected pivoting movement of the housing relative to the coupling member, the 
pivot assembly including a first hinge member positioned within the housing and attached to 

the coupling member and a second hinge member positioned within the housing and attached 
to the housing, the second hinge member being rotatable relative to the first hinge member 

about an axis of rotation located within the housing to allow selective movement of the 
housing between a plurality of possible user-selected angular orientations of the housing 

relative to the coupling member, one of the first or second hinge member having an 
engagement edge and the other of the first or second hinge member having an elongated 

receiving recess which pivotally receives the engagement edge therewithin; and 
   a locking member selectively operable by a user to lock the housing in the 

angular orientation relative to the coupling member selected by the user from the plurality of 
possible angular orientations, and to unlock the housing and allow adjusting angular 

movement of the housing by the user. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the 
locking member includes an engagement member and the coupling member includes a 

receiver, and the engagement member is moveable into and out of locking engagement with 
the receiver to selectively lock and unlock, respectively, the housing against pivotal 

movement relative to the coupling member. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the 
engagement member is slidably disposed within the housing for reciprocal movement along a 

path generally transverse to the housing between a laterally inward position whereat the 
engagement member is out of locking engagement with the receiver and a laterally outward 

position whereat the engagement member is in locking engagement with the receiver, and the 
engagement member has a user operable portion moveable by the user to move the 

engagement member to the laterally inward position. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the 
locking member includes a friction brake movable into and out of frictional engagement with 

the coupling member to selectively lock and unlock, respectively, the housing against pivotal 
movement relative to the coupling member. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 4, further 
including an actuator slidably disposed within the housing for reciprocal movement along a 

path generally transverse to the housing between a laterally inward position whereat the 
actuator allows the friction brake to disengage from the coupling member and a laterally 

outward position whereat the actuator forces the friction brake into frictional engagement 
with the coupling member, and the actuator has a user operable portion movable by the user 

to move the actuator to the laterally inward position. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the 
actuator is a cam member which engages and progressively presses the friction brake against 

the coupling member as the actuator is moved toward the laterally outward position. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the 
locking member includes a pawl and the coupling member includes a set of ratchet teeth, the 

pawl being engagable with the set of ratchet teeth to permit adjusting angular movement of 
the housing in a first direction and prevent angular movement of the housing in a second 

direction opposite the first direction, the pawl being selectively movable into and out of 
operable engagement with the set of ratchet teeth. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the 
locking member includes a first and second pawls and the coupling
 member includes first and 
second sets of ratchet teeth, the first pawl being engagable with the first set of ratchet teeth to 

permit adjusting angular movement of the housing in a first direction and prevent adjusting 
angular movement of the housing in a second direction opposite the first direction, and the 

second pawl being engagable with the second set of ratchet teeth to permit adjusting angular 
movement of the housing in the second direction and prevent adjusting angular movement of 

the housing in the first direction, the first pawl being selectively movable into and out of 
operable engagement with the first set of ratchet teeth and the second pawl being selectively 

into and out of operative engagement with the second set of ratchet teeth, the first and second 
pawls being independently movable by a user relative to the other to permit the user to move 

 
a selected one of the first and second pawls out of operable engagement with the 

corresponding one of the first and second sets of ratchet teeth. 
A computer command apparatus for entering commands into a 
computer comprising: 

   a housing; 
   pointing device means, including a rotatable ball and encoding means, 

supported by the housing, for generating electrical signals translatable into commands to the 
computer; 

   coupling means attached to the computer; 
   pivot means for pivotally coupling the housing and the coupling means 

together and for permitting selected pivoting movement of the housing relative to the 
coupling means about an axis of rotation located within the housing to allow selective 

movement of the housing between a plurality of possible user-selected angular orientations of 
the housing relative to the coupling means; and 

   selectively operable locking means for permitting a user to selectively lock the 
housing in the angular orientation relative to the coupling means selected by the user from 

the plurality of possible angular orientations and to unlock the housing and allow adjusting 
angular movement of the housing by the user. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the 
coupling means includes receiving means and the locking means includes engagement 

means for selectively engaging the receiving means and thereby selectively locking and 
unlocking the housing against pivotal movement relative to the coupling means. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the 
locking means includes user-operable actuation means for actuating one of the engagement 

means and receiving means, to permit a user to selectively lock and unlock the housing 
against pivotal movement relative to the coupling means. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the 
locking means includes friction means for selectively, frictionally locking and unlocking the 

housing against pivotal movement relative to the coupling means. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the 
locking means includes user-operable actuation means for actuating the friction means, to 

 
permit a user to selectively lock and unlock the housing against pivotal movement relative to 

the coupling means. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the 
locking means includes pawl and ratchet means for permitting adjusting angular movement 

of the housing in a first direction and prevent adjusting angular movement of the housing in a 
second direction opposite the first direction. 
The computer command apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the 
locking means includes user-operable actuation means for actuating the pawl and ratchet 

means, to permit a user to selectively lock and unlock the housing against pivotal movement 
relative to the coupling means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
