<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656670</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Miniaturized superconducting dielectric resonator filters and method of operation thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01P1208	H01P120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01P	H01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01P1	H01P1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved design for microwave bandpass 
cavity filters wherein dielectric resonator elements 

are mounted in dielectric blocks (there can be more 
than one resonator element per dielectric block). The 

dielectric blocks are in turn fitted within the filter 
housing, and the open ends are covered by shorting 

plates which are maintained in contact with each 
resonator surface. The shorting plates may be coated 

with a superconductive material. The structure 
results in significant size reduction over prior art 

filters. In addition, the new design is of higher 
structural integrity and helps to maintain a 

consistent output over a wide range of temperatures. 
By carefully choosing the dielectric materials to 

insure uniform thermal expansion of the component 
parts, the filter output is stable over a wide range 

of temperatures. This allows the filters to be tuned 
while at cryogenic temperatures, then returned to room 

temperature for storage or shipping, and finally 
return to cryogenic temperatures for operating 

purposes. The filters can be constructed with various 
configurations and can be operated in single mode, 

dual-mode, triple-mode, etc. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COM DEV LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COM DEV LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOKAS VAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANSOUR RAAFAT R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOKAS, VAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANSOUR, RAAFAT R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to microwave bandpass 
filters, and more particularly, to a filter design 
which allows further substantial miniaturization, and 
to an improved method of tuning and operation at 
cryogenic temperatures. The use of dielectric resonators in 
microwave filters results in a significant reduction 
in size and mass while maintaining a performance 
comparable to that of waveguide filters without 
dielectric resonators. A typical dielectric resonator filter 
consists of a ceramic resonator disc mounted in a 
particular way inside a metal cavity. In addition to 
miniaturization, loss performance, as well as thermal 
and mechanical stability are also important design 
objectives for dielectric resonator filters. A number 
of specific refinements can be incorporated in 
furtherance of these goals. For instance, in dielectric resonator 
filters the size of the cavity can be substantially 
reduced by mounting the dielectric resonator along a 
base wall of the cavity rather than mounting the 
resonator in a center of the cavity. This eliminates 
the need for a centering stem-type mounting, and it 
allows a reduction in the size of the microwave 
cavity. See, U.S. Patent No. 4,423,397 issued to 
Nishikawa, et al. However, it is difficult to attach 
the dielectric resonator to the base wall in such a 
way that proper electrical contact is ensured. 
Conductive glues and the like can result in a change 
in frequency of the filter, thereby reducing the Q 
(i.e. quality factor). Moreover, this type of 
mounting is prone to the thermal expansion caused by 
wide temperature variations, and to the mechanical  
 
vibrations that must be endured when the filter is 
used in space applications. Multiple mode filters also can provide 
further miniaturization over single mode filters. For 
instance, single, dual and triple mode dielectric 
resonator waveguide filters are known (See U.S. Patent 
No. 4,142,164 by Nishikawa, et al., issued February 
27th, 1979; U.S. Patent No. 4,028,652 by Wakino, et 
al. issued June 7th, 1977; Paper by Guillon, et al. 
entitled "Dielectric Resonator Dual-Mode Filters", 
Electronics Letters, Vol. 16, pages 646 to 647, August 
14th, 1980; U.S. Patent No. 4,675,630 by Tang, et al. 
issued June 23rd, 1987; U.S. Patent No. 4,652,843 by 
Tang, et al. issued March 24th, 1987; and U.S. Patent 
No. 5,083,102 by Zaki.). The use of superconductors is a more recent 
advance which holds good potential. For example, a 
hybrid dielectric resonator high temperature 
superconductor filter is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A microwave filter having in combination: 

(a) at least one cavity (14) having at least one dielectric resonator 
(38) therein; 
(b) said cavity resonating in at least one mode at the resonant 
frequency of said cavity, there being a respective tuning screw 

(48) for each mode and for each resonator within said cavity, 
and one coupling screw (50) for every two modes that are 

coupled within said cavity; 
(c) said filter having input (28) an output (30) and operatively 
connected thereto; 
(d) said filter being 
characterized by
 at least one dielectric block 
(36) disposed in said at least one cavity, with said at least one 

dielectric resonator connected thereto and being located within 
said block, said at least one resonator having an associated 

shorting plate (40) connected thereto said shorting plate being 
located within said block, said block having a size and shape 

relative to said cavity so that said block fits tightly within said 
cavity, said block having an interior with a size and shape to 

hold said dielectric resonator and said shorting plate within said 
block in a fixed position, said block having suitable openings to 

accommodate said tuning and coupling screws. 
A filter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the respective block (36) 
has at least three areas of contact with said corresponding cavity. 
A filter as claimed in Claim 2 wherein there are at least two 
dielectric resonators (38) contained separately within one block with each 

resonator having an associated shorting plate (40).  
 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 
respective block (36) has a size and shape to substantially fill said 

corresponding cavity. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 
respective block (36) has a size and shape to substantially fill said 

corresponding cavity (14), said respective block being solid except for a 
hollowed portion (42) that corresponds to a size and shape of each resonator 

(38) and associated shorting plate (40) contained therein and except for 
openings to accommodate said tuning screws (48) and any coupling screws 

(50). 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein there 
are at least two cavities (14,16)and at least one of the cavities has a rectangular 

shape and the respective block (36) has a similar rectangular shape 
corresponding to an interior of said corresponding cavity. 
A filter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein each dielectric resonator 
(38) is held in contact with an associated shorting plate (40) using a 

corresponding spring. 
A filter as claimed in Claim 7 wherein the associated shorting 
plate (40) is comprised of a metallic material. 
A filter as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the associated shorting 
plate (40) is comprised of high temperature superconductive thin films 

deposited on a dielectric substrate. 
A filter as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the associated shorting 
plate (40) is comprised of high temperature superconductive thin film 

deposited on a dielectric substrate. 
A filter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the dielectric resonators 
(38) operate in a single mode that is selected from the group of a TEE mode or 

a TME mode. 
A filter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the dielectric resonators 
(38) operate in a dual HEE mode. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 3, 7 or 9 wherein there 
are two cavities (76,78) with one block (90) in each cavity, each block  

 
containing two dielectric resonators (38) and corresponding shorting 

plates(40), the dielectric resonators being operated in a mode selected from the 
group of an HEE mode to realize an eight-pole dual-mode filter, a TEE mode 

to realize a four-pole single mode filter and a TME mode to realize a four-pole 
single mode filter, there being sufficient tuning screws and coupling screws as 

required, with means to control coupling between the resonators located 
within the same block and an iris (86) containing an aperture (88) located 

between said cavities to control coupling between resonators in different 
blocks, said blocks containing channels (46) to receive said tuning and 

coupling screws. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1 or 2 wherein there 
are four cavities (96,98,100,102), with one block and a respective dielectric 

resonator (38a, 38b, 38c,38d) and associated shorting plate (40) mounted in 
each block, there being two irises, each iris having two sides, one iris (86) 

being located between two of said cavities and another iris being located 
between said other cavity, each iris (86) having an aperture (88) with a shape 

to permit coupling between the dielectric resonators located on either side of 
said iris, the filter (94) being operated in a mode selected from the group of an 

HEE mode to realize an eight-pole dual-mode filter, a TEE mode to realize a 
four-pole single mode filter, and a TME mode to realize a four-pole single 

mode filter. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein there 
are two blocks (36) with two dielectric resonators (38) mounted in one block 

and three dielectric resonators (38) mounted in another block, an iris located 
between said blocks, the coupling between resonators in adjacent blocks being 

controlled by an aperture (88) located in the iris (86) with means to control the 
coupling between resonators located in the same block. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein there 
are two cavities, with each cavity (76, 78) containing two dielectric resonators 

(38) and associated shorting plates (40) contained in the respective block of 
each cavity.  

 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 8 wherein there 
are four cavities (96, 98, 100, 102) with one dielectric resonator (38) and 

associated shorting plate (40) in each respective block, with one block being 
located in each cavity. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein there 
are four cavities with two dielectric resonators (38a, 38b) and associated 

shorting plates (40) being located in a respective block in each cavity, there 
being one block in each cavity. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 
blocks (90) are comprised of ceramic materials of low loss tangent selected 

from the group of D4 and sapphire. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 
associated shorting plate (68) has a dielectric substrate (72), said associated 

shorting plate having a contact surface (70) that is in contact with a dielectric 
resonator, said surface having a plating of a material selected from the group 

of silver, gold and high temperature ceramic materials. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 
associated shorting plate has a surface (66) that contacts said dielectric 

resonator, said surface having a coating of a thin film layer of material 

selected from the group of yttrium barium copper oxide and thallium barium 
copper calcium oxide. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 
associated shorting plate is comprised of a dielectric substrate (72) selected 

from the group of lanthium aluminate and sapphire. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 
dielectric resonator (38) has a cylindrical shape and the associated shorting 

plate (40) has a cross-sectional size sufficient to cover a cross-sectional area of 
said resonator. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 
associated shorting plate (40) has a surface adjacent the dielectric resonator 

(38)having a coating of a high temperature superconductive film so that said 
filter can be operated at cryogenic temperatures.  

 
A filter as claimed in Claim 7 wherein the spring (44) for each 
associated shorting plate (40) is located between a cavity wall and the 

associated shorting plate to urge said associated shorting plate towards said 
respective resonator. 
A filter is claimed in Claim 2 wherein said block and said 
housing have different coefficients of thermal expansion from said resonator. 
A filter is claimed in Claim 2 wherein said block, said housing 
and said resonator are formed of materials having substantially equal 

coefficients of thermal expansion. 
A filter as claimed in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the 
respective blocks are comprised of ceramic materials. 
A method of operating a microwave filter having at least one 
cavity (14) with a dielectric block (36) disposed therein, with at least one 

dielectric resonator (38) and associated shorting plate (40) connected thereto, 
said dielectric resonator and associated shorting plate being located within 

said block, said block being sized and shaped relative to said cavity so that 
said block fits tightly within said cavity, said block having an interior that is 

sized and shaped to hold said dielectric resonator and said associated shorting 
plate within said block in a fixed position, said cavity resonating in at least one 

mode at its resonant frequency, there being sufficient tuning and coupling 
screws, said filter having an input (28) and output (30), said block being made 

out of ceramic materials of low loss tangent, said associated shorting plate 
having a surface (66) adjacent said resonator that is plated with high 

temperature ceramic materials that become superconductive at cryogenic 
temperatures, said method being 
characterized by
 lowering the temperature of 
said associated shorting plate to cryogenic temperatures, tuning said filter, 

raising the temperature of said associated shorting plate to room temperature, 
lowering the temperature of said shorting plate to cryogenic temperatures on 

operating said filter at cryogenic temperatures.  
 
A method as claimed in Claim 29 wherein the filter is operated 
to realize a result selected from the group of Chebyshev, elliptic and linear 

phase functions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
