<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622910</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Time diversity transmission system for the reduction of adjacent channel interference in mobile telephone systems
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B726	H04J1302	H04B104	H04B104	H04J1302	H04Q736	H04B726	H04B706	H04Q736	H04B704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04J	H04B	H04B	H04J	H04Q	H04B	H04B	H04Q	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04J13	H04B1	H04B1	H04J13	H04Q7	H04B7	H04B7	H04Q7	H04B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention includes a system and method for
reducing adjacent channel interference, particularly in CDMA

radiotelephone systems. Diversity transmissions are provided
for weaker signals to be transmitted by coupling delayed or

advanced versions of these weaker signals to an antenna which
is also transmitting signals on an adjacent frequency.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENT PAUL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENT, PAUL W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to cellular,
mobile, radiotelephone systems using a type of coded
transmission known as CDMA. More particularly, the present
invention relates to methods and systems for reducing
adjacent channel interference in CDMA radiotelephone
systems.Cellular mobile phone systems comprise a number of fixed or
base stations that are in communication with a number of
portable or mobile stations. The information flow from the
base-to-mobile is termed the downlink, while the
information flow from the mobile-to-base is termed the
uplink.Current cellular mobile telephone systems primarily employ
Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA) and analog
frequency modulation for speech transmission. Systems will
soon be installed worldwide using Time Division Multiple
Access (TDMA) and digital transmission of speech to provide
higher capacity. Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) is a
well-known technique that has principally been used for
military satellite communications because of its jamming
resistance. CDMA permits several signals to simultaneously
use the same frequency even in the same cell, in contrast
to FDMA systems that require different signals in the same
cell to use different frequencies, and TDMA systems that
permit use of the same frequency but not at the same time.U.S. Patent no. 4,363,132 describes a type of FDMA system
wherein distinct frequency carriers are obtained from the
frequency modulation of an oscillator. All the carriers are 
subsequently modulated by the information and then power-amplified
in a single amplifier.CDMA systems have not previously been favored for
landmobile communications because of the so-called near/far
ratio problem. In landmobile communications, the ratio of
the distance of one mobile station to a base station to the
distance of another mobile station to the base station can
be 
relatively high. This can lead to a large difference in the
signal strength that the base station receives from both
mobile stations because signal propagation loss varies
roughly as a function of the fourth power of the distance
between a mobile station and a base station. Since mobile
stations in CDMA systems can transmit on the same frequency at
the same time, signals received at the base station having
relatively high signal strengths tend to interfere with those
having lower signal strengths. This is not a problem in
satellite communications since a geostationary satellite is
equidistant from all points on the earth.Recent advances in CDMA techniques, such as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A diversity transmission system comprising:

a first modulator (1) for modulating a first set
of information signals (A
1
-A
8
) on to a first radio carrier
frequency (f1) to produce a first modulated signal;
a third modulator (7) for modulating a second set
of information signals (B
1
-B
8
) on to a second radio carrier
frequency (f2)to produce a third modulated signal;
means (11) for coupling the third modulated
signal to a second antenna means (12) for transmission;
characterized in that
 the system further comprises

a second modulator (2) for modulating at least
one of the second set of information signals on to the

second radio carrier frequency to produce a second
modulated signal;
a radio frequency combining network (5, 23) for
combining the first and second modulated signals to produce

a first combined signal and coupling the first combined
signal to a first antenna means (6, 25) for transmission
a first transmit power amplifier means (3, 4, 21,
27) for amplifying signals to be transmitted from the first

antenna means;
a second transmit power amplifier means (9, 10)
for amplifying signals to be transmitted from the second

antenna means.
The diversity transmission system according to claim 1

characterized

in that
 the system further comprises an antenna
multiplexing filter (22) for combining the first modulated

signal with at least one other signal having at least a
third carrier frequency (f3) intended for transmission from

the same antenna (25); and
in that
 the radio frequency combining network (23) for
combining the first and second modulated signals is 

arranged to combine the outputs of said antenna
multiplexing filter and said second modulated signal to

produce the first combined signal.
The diversity transmission system according to claim 2

characterized

in that
 the system further comprises a second antenna
multiplexing filter (24) that combines the second modulated

signal with at least one other signal having at least a
fourth carrier frequency (f4) intended for transmission

from the same antenna (25); and
in that
 the radio frequency combining network (23) for
combining the first and second modulated signals is

arranged to combine the outputs of said first and second
antenna multiplexing filters to produce the first combined

signal.
The diversity transmission system according to claim 2
or 3, wherein said at least one other signal having at

least a third carrier frequency are generated by a fifth
modulator and fifth transmit power amplifier.
The diversity transmission system according to claim
3, in which said at least one other signal having at least

a fourth carrier frequency are produced by a sixth
modulator and sixth transmit power amplifier.
The diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 1-5 
characterized in that
 the first transmit power
amplifier means comprises a first transmit power amplifier

(3) for amplifying the first modulated signal and a second
transmit power amplifier (4) for amplifying the second

modulated signal.
The diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 1-5 
characterized in that
 the first power amplifier 
means comprises a common power amplifier for amplifying the

first combined signal.
The diversity transmission system according to claim 7
in which said common power amplifier is a linear or

linearized power amplifier designed to minimize intermodulation
between said signals.
The diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 1-8, wherein said first antenna means is a first

antenna (6) and said second antenna means is a second
antenna (12) which is spaced many wavelengths from said

first antenna so as to obtain maximum spatial diversity
gain.
The diversity transmission system according to claim 9
in which said at least one of said second set of signals is

transmitted at a power level lower than the transmission of
said first set of signals.
The diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 1-8 in which said first antenna means and said

second antenna means comprise orthogonal polarization
inputs of a dual-polarization antenna.
The diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 1-11 
characterized

in that
 the system further comprises a fourth modulator (8)
for modulating at least one of said first set of

information signals on to said first radio carrier
frequency (f1) to produce a fourth modulated signal; and
in that
 the means for coupling the third modulated signal
to the second antenna means comprises a second radio

frequency combining network (11) for combining the third
and fourth modulated signals to produce a second combined

signal and coupling the second combined signal to the 
second antenna means for transmission.
The diversity transmission system according to claim
12 
characterized

in that
 the system further comprises a third antenna
multiplexing filter that combines the third modulated

signal with at least one signal having at least a fourth
carrier frequency intended for transmission from the same

antenna and a fourth antenna multiplexing filter that
combines the fourth modulated signal with at least one

other signal having at least a third carrier frequency
intended for transmission from the same antenna; and
in that
 the second radio frequency combining network for
combining the third and fourth modulated signals is

arranged to combine the outputs of said third and fourth
antenna multiplexing filters to produce the second combined

signal.
A diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 1-13, wherein said at least one signal fed to said

second modulator (2) is delayed or advanced with respect to
the same signal applied to said third modulator (7).
A diversity transmission system according to claim 14,
wherein said at least one signal is delayed or advanced by

a whole number of bit or symbol periods.
A diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 12-13, wherein said at least one signal fed to said

second modulator (2) is delayed or advanced with respect to
the same signal applied to said third modulator (7); and

   said at least one signal fed to said fourth
modulator (8) is delayed or advanced with respect to the

same signal applied to said first modulator (1).
A diversity transmission system according to claim 16, 
wherein said at least one signals are delayed or advanced

by a whole number of bit or symbol periods.
The diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 12-17 
characterized in that
 the second transmit
power amplifier means comprises a third transmit power

amplifier (9) for amplifying the third modulated signal and
a fourth transmit power amplifier (10) for amplifying the

fourth modulated signal.
The diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 9-14 
characterized in that
 the second power
amplifier means comprises a second common power amplifier

for amplifying the second combined signal.
The diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 1-19, wherein said radio-frequency combining

networks (5, 11, 23) are directional couplers.
The diversity transmission system according to any of
claims 1-19, wherein said radio-frequency combining

networks are multiplexing filters.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
