<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625871</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic component heat sink attachment using a canted coil spring
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2340	H05K720	H01L2334	H05K500	H05K500	H05K720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H05K	H01L	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H05K7	H01L23	H05K5	H05K5	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermal attachment assembly for heat generating electronic devices which 
uses a canted coil spring to apply pressure directly against electronic 

components. The attachment assembly includes a heat sink housing in which 
the electronic components are pressed against an electrically insulating, 

thermally conductive film positioned against a surface of a shoulder or 
side wall of the heat sink housing. The force of the canted coil spring 

can be counterbalanced by a cover for the housing, or by an abutment that 
is either fixed in the housing or floats between attachment and an assembly 

at each of opposite sides of the housing. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the attachment of printed circuit board-mounted, 
heat generating electrical components to heat sinks. In particular, to the 
attachment of such electrical components which have heat transfer tabs to 
heat sink housings using spring type members. One method by which tabbed printed circuit board-mounted, heat generating 
electrical components have been attached to heat sinks has involved individually 
attaching each device to the heat sink with a screw through the 
hole in the tab of the electronic device, and utilizing an electrically 
insulating thermally conductive film between the heat sink and the device 
tab. A nut is tightened onto the screw to provide the compressive force 
required to provide adequate compression of the film to maximize heat transfer 
from the device to the heat sink through the film. There are many variations 
of this technique, such as using a threaded hole in the heat sink 
rather than a nut. Problems arise with this general manner of attachment 
because the tension created by the screw may be relieved by material creep 
in the insulating washer or grommet, or the screw may back out under certain 
operating conditions, such as where the device is subject to vibration or 
temperature cycling. Another disadvantage is that the large number of parts 
that must be manually assembled when there are a number of heat generating 
components in an assembly, and it is difficult to automate the production 
of such attachments for high volume manufacturing. In addition to the various uses of attachment screws, numerous attachment 
techniques have been developed which use spring members. A number of these 
attachments use clips with multiple spring fingers, as can be seen by reference 
to U.S. patents 4,922,601; 4,891,735; 4,872,089; 4,845,590; 4,707,726; 
4,674,005; 4,605,986; and 4,479,140, for example. Difficulties are encountered 
with these techniques for various reasons. To achieve a compact assembly, 
the springs must achieve high forces at low deflections, and this 
means that the springs must be manufactured specifically for an individual 
device and changing the device may cause the spring to exert too much or too 
little force since stiff springs have force constants which create a very 
narrow range of deflections within which the proper pressure will be applied.  
 Furthermore, there is often a need for special tools to insure that the 
device or the spring is not damaged during assembly. Historically, electrically 
insulating and thermally conductive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Electronic component heat sink arrangement comprising a housing (1) formed 
of a heat sinking material and containing a printed circuit wiring 

board (11) and a plurality of heat generating electronic components (3), 
at least one canted coil spring (5) for pressing the electronic components 

(3) into a nonelectrically conductive, heat exchange relationship with an 
inner wall surface of the housing (1), and means (17; 15) for holding the 

canted coil spring (5) against the electronic components (3) with a spring 
deflection that is within a substantially constant spring force range of the 

canted spring (5). 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to claim 1, wherein 
said canted coil spring (5) is constructed to apply a pressure in a range 

of 137.9 - 344.7 kPa (20-50 psi) to a full range of differing sizes of electronic components (3). 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to claim 1 or 2, 
wherein a supporting shoulder (1a) is provided on a bottom wall of the 

housing (1) and the canted coil spring (5) presses the electronic components 
(5) against a top surface of said supporting shoulder (1a). 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to any preceding 
claim, wherein the mea
ns for holding the canted coil spring (5) against the 
electronic components (3) is formed by a cover (7) for said housing (1), 

said canted coil spring (5) being compressed between the electronic components 
(3) and a portion of the cover (7) which faces said inner wall surface 

of the housing (1). 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to any preceding 
claim, wherein the housing (1) is provided with a pair of supporting shoulders 

(1a) on the bottom wall thereof, a respective canted coil spring (5) 
pressing a row of said electronic components (3) against a top surface of 

each said supporting shoulder (1a).  
 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to any preceding 
claim wherein the or each canted coil spring (5) is carried by the cover (7), 

and, optionally, wherein the cover (7) has an inwardly projecting portion 
upon which the canted coil springs (5) are carried. 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to any preceding 
claim, wherein an electrically insulative, thermally conductive film (9) is 

disposed on the inner wall surface of the housing (1) or on the top wall 
surface of the supporting shoulder (1a) respectively, the electronic components 

(3) being in said nonelectrically conductive, heat exchange relationship 
with the inner wall surface of the housing (1) or said top wall 

surface via said film (9). 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to any preceding 
claim, wherein said printed wiring board (11) is oriented parallel to said 

inner wall surface, wherein said electronic components (3) are connected to 
a top side of said printed wiring board (11) via electrically conductive 

leads (3c), said leads (3c) being bent at a right angle to said printed 
wiring board (11) and the electronic components (3) being pressed against 

said inner wall surface laterally outwardly of a peripheral edge of the 
printed wiring board (11). 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to any preceding 
claim, wherein said inner wall surface is a side wall (1b) of the housing 

(1) and, preferably, wherein the means for holding the at least one canted 
coil spring (5) against the electronic components (3) is formed by an abutment 

member (15) in said housing (1), said canted coil spring (5) being 
compressed between the electronic components (3) and said abutment member 

(15). 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to claim 9, wherein 
a canted coil spring (5) is provided for each electronic component (3), 

the abutment member supporting (15) each canted coil spring (5) oriented 
parallel to the respective electronic component (3), and/or wherein the  

 
abutment member (15) is fixed to the housing (1), and/or wherein a single 

canted coil spring (5) is provied for a plurality of electronic components 
(3), the abutment member (15) supporting the canted coil spring (5) 

oriented parallel to a row of said electronic components (3), and/or wherein 
said inner wall surface comprises an inner side wall surface (1b) at opposite 

sides of the housing (1), and wherein canted coil springs (5) are provided 
for pressing electrical components (3) against each of the inner side 

wall surfaces (1b). 
Electronic component heat sink arrangement according to claim 9 or 10, 
wherein the electrical components (3) have conductive leads (3c) by which 

they are connected to a circuit board (11), said leads (3c) having a generally 
S-shaped configuration for minimizing the force required by the 

springs (5) to move the electrical components (3) against said inner wall 
surfaces and for minimizing the stresses in the leads (3c) after the electrical 

components (3) have been moved against said inner wall surfaces. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
