<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651551</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Eject mechanism for an image input device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N100	H04N100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image input device is provided with an 
engagement assembly that releasably engages a document to 

hold the document on a carriage against the bias force of 
a biasing member. The engagement assembly includes a stop 

assembly that releasably engages the document and a 
release mechanism for releasing the original document from 

the stop assembly permitting the biasing member to urge 
the document in a discharge direction. The engagement can 

be operated either manually or by motor. The document can 
then be removed from the input device at any time except 

during the scanning operation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON KOGAKU KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIKON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEDA EISAKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI MAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAZAWA MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEDA, EISAKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, MAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAZAWA, MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image input 
device for use in reading the image of a document, such 
as, for example a transparent original document such as 
photographic film, using light that has passed through or 
been reflected from the original document. In particular, 
the invention relates to an eject mechanism for a document 
mount that holds the document. An image input device includes an illuminator that 
guides illuminating light to the surface of an original 
document such as, for example, a transparent original 
document. A scanner containing a carriage supports and 
moves the transparent original document to be scanned. A 
lens forms the light that has passed through the document 
into an image on a photo-electric sensor element such as, 
for example, a charge-coupled-device (CCD). Light from 
the illuminator is focused so that it is linear (i.e., 
forms a line) on the surface of the transparent original 
document, and after passing through the document is formed 
into an image on the CCD, which is read as one line of 
data. After one line has been read, the scanner moves by 
an amount equivalent to one line, thereby changing the 
position of the original document, and the reading process 
is repeated. By repeating the reading and movement 
numerous times, scanning of a single original document can 
be accomplished. As a conventional image input device structured as 
described above, Japanese laid-open patent application No. 
3-145881 discloses a structure having a support body with 
an insertion opening formed its surface through which a 
film (i.e., the transparent original document) is 
inserted. A conveyor capable of reciprocal movement 
conveys the original document toward the interior of the 
body from the film insertion opening. The image input 
device includes an optical reading mechanism having an  
 
optical axis and at least one reading component 
perpendicular to the direction of conveyance of the 
conveyor. When the original document is inserted into the 
conventional image input device described above, the 
original document protrudes from the insertion opening. 
With this arrangement, the user can accidentally touch the 
original document. This may produce an excessive force on 
the conveyor causing damage. Furthermore, the original 
document may tilt relative to the conveyor and become 
jammed, thereby making normal reading of the original 
document impossible. In the conventional image input device described 
above, the document mount cannot be discharged at an 
arbitr
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image input device having an optical 
system that forms a light image on an original document 

and a light sensor that receives light from the original 
document, comprising: 

   a movable carriage for holding the original 
document; 

   a guidance assembly that controls movement of 
the carriage along a linear direction, said guidance 

assembly engaged with said carriage; 
   a biasing member that applies force on the 

original document held in the carriage to urge the 
original document in a discharge direction; and 

   an engagement assembly releasably engaging 
the original document to hold the original document in 

position relative to the carriage against the force 
applied by the biasing member. 
The image input device according to claim 1, 
wherein the engagement assembly further includes a stop 

member that releasably engages the original document and 
fixes the document in said position relative to the 

carriage. 
The image input device according to claim 2, 
wherein the engagement assembly further includes a release 

mechanism that releases the engagement between the stop 
member and the original document, said release mechanism 

being engageable with said stop member. 
The image input device according to claim 3, 
wherein the release mechanism includes a rod that is 

capable of reciprocal movement along said linear direction 
and the stop member is rotatable in a direction 

perpendicular to said linear direction such that 
engagement of the rod with the stop assembly causes 

rotation of the stop assembly, which releases the 
engagement between the stop assembly and the original 

document. 
The image input device according to claim 4, 
wherein the release mechanism includes an actuation member 

 
that can be manually driven by a user to release the 

engagement between the stop assembly and the original 
document. 
The image input device according to claim 5, 
wherein the release mechanism can release the engagement 

between the stop assembly and the original document 
without an electrical power source. 
The image input device according to claim 4, 
wherein the release mechanism includes an automatic 

actuation device that automatically engages the stop 
assembly with the release mechanism to release the 

engagement between the stop assembly and the original 
document. 
The image input device according to claim 7, 
wherein the automatic actuation device includes a stepping 

motor. 
The image input device according to claim 4, 
wherein the stop assembly includes an inclined surface and 

the rod engages the inclined surface to release the 
engagement between the stop assembly and the original 

document. 
The image input device according to claim 4, 
wherein the rod has a length such that the rod does not 

engage the stop assembly to release the engagement between 
the stop assembly and the original document when the 

carriage is positioned to perform a scanning operation. 
The image input device according to claim 1, 
further comprising: 

   an insert opening in a housing of the image 
input device, said insert opening sized to permit 

insertion of the original document into the image input 
device. 
The image input device according to claim 11, 
wherein said insert opening has an upper portion and a 

lower portion and at least one of the upper portion and 
the lower portion is sized to permit a user to grasp the 

original document with the user's fingers. 
The image input device according to claim 12, 
wherein both of the upper portion and the lower portion 

are sized to permit a user to grasp the original document 
with the user's fingers. 
The image input device according to claim 1, 
wherein the biasing member is a spring member. 
The image input device according to claim 14, 
wherein the spring member is connected to the carriage. 
An image input device having an optical 
system for forming a light image on an original document 

and a light sensor for receiving light from the original 
document, comprising: 

   document holding means for holding an 
original document; 

   guiding means for guiding movement of the 
document holding means along a linear direction; 

   biasing means for biasing the original 
document held by the document holding means in a discharge 

direction; and 
   releasable engagement means for releasably 

engaging the original document to hold the original 
document in position relative to the document holding 

means against the biasing means. 
The image input device according to claim 16, 
wherein the releasable engagement means further includes 

stop engagement means for releasably engaging the original 
document and fixing the original document to the document 

holder means. 
The image input device according to claim 17, 
wherein the releasable engagement means further includes 

engagement release means for releasing the engagement 
between the stop engagement means and the original 

document. 
The image input device according to claim 18, 
wherein the release engagement means includes a memberthat 

is capable of reciprocal movement along said linear 
direction, and the stop engagement means is rotatable in a 

direction perpendicular to said linear direction such 
 

engagement of the member and the stop engagement means 
causes rotation of the stop engagement means which 

releases the engagement between the stop engagement means 
and the original document such that the
 biasing means 
moves the original document in the discharge direction. 
The image input device according to claim 19, 
wherein the stop engagement means includes an inclined 

surface and the member engages the inclined surface to 
release the engagement between the stop engagement means 

and the original document. 
The image input device according to claim 20, 
wherein the member has a length such that the member does 

not engage the inclined surface to release the engagement 
between the stop engagement means and the original 

document when the document holding means is positioned to 
perform a scanning operation. 
The image input device according to claim 16, 
further comprising: 

   an insert opening in a housing of the image 
input device sized to permit insertion of the original 

document into the image input device. 
The image input device according to claim 22, 
wherein said insert opening has an upper portion and a 

lower portion and at least one of the upper portion and 
the lower portion is sized to permit a user to grasp the 

original document with the user's fingers. 
The image input device according to claim 16, 
wherein the biasing means is a spring assembly connected 

to the document holding means. 
A method of removing an original document 
from an image input device having an optical system that 

forms a light image on the original document, and a light 
sensor that receives light from the original document, 

said original document being held in a carriage that is 
movable in a linear direction in said image input device, 

said method comprising the steps of: 
   moving at least one of the carriage and a 

release mechanism towards each other in said linear 
 

direction so that said release mechanism engages a stop 
member on said carraige, causing said stop member to move 

out of engagement with the original document so that said 
original document is ejected from the image input device 

under the influence of a bias force that biases said 
document against said stop member. 
The method according to claim 25, wherein the 
original document is ejected through an insert opening 

insert opening in a body of the image input device. 
The method according to claim 25, wherein the 
release mechanism includes a rod that is reciprocally 

movable along the linear direction, and the stop member is 
rotatable in a direction perpendicular to said linear 

direction such that engagement of the rod and stop member 
causes rotation of the stop member which releases the 

original document from the stop member. 
The method according to claim 27, wherein the 
stop member includes an inclined surface and the rod 

engages the inclined surface to release the original 
document from the stop member. 
The method according to claim 27, wherein the 
rod has a length such that the rod does not engage the 

inclined surface to release the original document when the 
carriage is positioned to perform a scanning operation. 
The method according to claim 25, wherein 
said release mechanism is manually moved toward said 

carriage. 
The method according to claim 25, wherein 
said carriage is automatically driven toward said release 

mechanism. 
A method of removing an original document 
from an image input device having an optical system that 

forms a light image on the original document being held in 
a carriage that is movable in a linear direction in said 

image input device, said method comprising the steps of: 
   charging an eject spring by inserting the 

original document into the image input device;
 

   catching the eject spring with a catch to hold 
the original document in the carriage; 

   scanning an image on the original document; and 
   releasing the catch of the eject spring to eject 

the original document from the image input device. 
Apparatus for reading an image of a document, 
comprising a document holder for holding an inserted 

document, and releasable means for releasably securing 
the inserted document to the document holder. 
Apparatus for reading an image of a document, 
wherein the document is selectively retainable in the 

apparatus, and document is biased in a discharge 
direction for discharging the document from the 

apparatus. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
