<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656761</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING PSYCHOTHERAPY OUTCOMES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1000	A61B1000	G06F1900	G06F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B10	A61B10	G06F19	G06F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for measuring a patient's psychotherapy progress is provided. Initial patient mental health is measured by administering a questionnaire measuring three psychological variables. The three psychological variable measures are combined into a mental health index (69). Following a number of sessions of psychotherapy, the patient's subsequent psychological condition is again measured using the three psychological variables. Patient session records (42) are stored in a large database (20). Patient progress can thus be compared versus patient initial psychlological condition, typical patient outcomes as stored in the database (20), and patient improvement as a function of a number of sessions of psychotherapy can be determined. The system further provides a case manager with a measure of the effectiveness of continued psychotherapy sessions, and a basis of comparison of various psychotherapy providers.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRILL PETER L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRILL PETER L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRILL PETER L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRILL PETER L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING PSYCHOTHERAPY OUTCOMESBackground Of The InventionThis invention relates to psychotherapy. More particularly, this invention relates to a system for measuring and quantifying a patient's psychological condition and the progress, stasis, or retrogression thereof, and for administering pyschotherapy based on such measurements.Costs in the health care field have grown at an alarming rate. Efforts to contain these costs through devices such as DRGs have slowed the growth of inpatient care, but total health care costs continue to escalate as the inpatient cost savings have shifted into expenditures for outpatient treatment. Meanwhile, the cost of mental health treatment has greatly outpaced general health care costs. Prior cost containment efforts have focused on inpatient costs. A case management approach has been applied to cost containment efforts. Often, much of a company's mental health costs are for inpatient treatment. However, recent trends are forcing a shift toward outpatient care. Furthermore, simply decreasing the amount of mental health coverage is not an attractive alternative, since poorly treated employees typically work less effectively and have increased absenteeism. Moreover, the families of such employees typically use the general health care system at an increased rate. 

 Mental health care may be characterized by two characteristics of overriding importance: the cost of the care, and the results or benefits of the care. Although cost is easily measured, treatment outcomes and the benefits of mental health care have been difficult if not impossible to measure. Accordingly, efforts to improve the system for delivering mental health care have focused on cost, the only measured variable in the system. Since the cost parameter can be measured, systems which minimize cost tend to be rewarded without regard to the unknown effect of cost minimizing measures on patient care. Efforts to control costs include restricting access to mental health care; a case manager may encourage providers to deny care altogether or to terminate care as early as possible. However, without a reasonably accurate and objective method of evaluating cases, a case manager or other interested person is unable to rationally allocate the limited resources for psychotherapy among those who demand it. For instance, extensive resources may be allocated to patients who would show limited or no improvement even after extended treatment, while resources may be denied to patients who would show
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
£ ?
What Is Claimed Is:
1. A method for measuring the outcome of psychotherapy comprising the steps of: a. measuring a patient's psychological condition with respect to at least one psychological variable; b. administering a dose of psychotherapy; c. measuring the patient's subsequent psychological condition with respect to previously measured psychological variables; and d. comparing the patient's subsequently measured psychological condition with the patient's previously measured psychological condition to determine the change therein.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the psychological variables measured include one or more of subjective well being, symptomatic distress, current life functioning, self-esteem, coping, temperament, and attitude.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the psychological variables measured include subjective well being, symptomatic distress, and current life functioning.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said measuring steps include administering a psychological test. 

7
-
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said psychological test administering step includes obtaining patient responses to a questionnaire.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of computing a mental health index based upon patient questionnaire responses.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein said psychological test administering step includes obtaining clinician responses to a questionnaire.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of computing a clinical assessment index based upon clinician questionnaire responses.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein steps b, c, and d are performed repeatedly.
io. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of comparing the patient's measured psychological condition with benchmark values.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of measuring the psychological condition of a plurality of persons and computing at least one benchmark value based upon such measurements.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the benchmark value computing step includes computing a benchmark value of psychological normalcy. 


04072
13. The method of claim 12, wherein said psychotherapy administering step b and said subsequent measuring step c are performed repetitively until the patient's measured psychological condition exceeds the benchmark value of psychological normalcy.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the benchmark value computing step includes computing a benchmark psychotherapy dose-response value.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein steps b and c are performed repetitively, further comprising the step of comparing the patient's measured psychotherapy dose response with a benchmark value of dose response.
16. A method of administering a program of psychotherapy comprising the steps of repetitively alternately administering a dose of psychotherapy to a patient and measuring the psychological condition of the patient for each patient in a group of patients; storing data representing the psychotherapy doses administered and the measurements of psychological condition; and computing changes in psychological condition per psychotherapy dose based upon the stored data.
17. A method according to claim 16, wherein the change in psychological condition per dose is computed for each patient in a group of patients. 


 (*l
PAGE MISSING UPON FILUNG 

6
>
J
functioning, self-esteem, coping, temperament and attitude.
23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the database comprises: data corresponding to patient responses to a questionnaire; and data corresponding to clinician responses to a questionnaire.
24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the processing means further comprises means for computing a clinical assessment index based upon the entered clinician responses.
25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the processing means further comprises means for computing a benchmark value of psychological normalcy from the data in the database.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the processing means further comprises means for computing a benchmark psychotherapy dose-response value.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the processing means further comprises means for comparing the patient's measured psychotherapy dose response with a benchmark value of dose-response. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 28 December 1993 (28.12.93); original claims 1-27 replaced by amended claims 1-34 (8 pages)]
1. A method for administering psychotherapy to a patient and measuring the outcome thereof comprising the steps of: a. administering a psychological test to a patient and measuring the patient's psychological condition with respect to at least one psychological variable; and repeatedly b. administering a dose of psychotherapy to the patient; c. administering the psychological test to the patient and measuring the patient's subsequent psychological condition with respect to said at least one previously measured psychological variable; and d. comparing the patient's subsequently measured psychological condition with the patient's previously measured psychological condition to determine the change therein, wherein said psychotherapy administering step includes determining a process of psychotherapy to be administered in accordance with the measured psychological condition of the patient and computed changes therein, and administering psychotherapy in accordance with said determined process, whereby the psychotherapy administration process is optimized by feedback control on the basis of psychological condition measurements. 



 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the psychological variables measured include at least one of subjective well being, symptomatic distress, current life functioning, self-esteem, coping, temperament, and attitude.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the psychological variables measured include subjective well being, symptomatic distress, and current life functioning.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said 
■
 psychological test administering steps includes obtaining patient responses to a questionnaire.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of computing a mental health index based upon patient questionnaire responses.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said psychological test administering steps includes obtaining clinician responses to a questionnaire.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of computing a clinical assessment index based upon clinician questionnaire responses.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of comparing the patient's measured psychological condition with benchmark values. 


 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of measuring the psychological condition of a plurality of persons and computing at least one of said benchmark values based upon such measurements.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the benchmark value computing step includes computing a benchmark value of psychological normalcy.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein said psychotherapy administering step b and said subsequent measuring step c are performed repetitively until the patient's measured psychological condition exceeds the benchmark value of psychological normalcy.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the benchmark value computing step includes computing a benchmark psychotherapy dose-response value.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of comparing the patient's measured psychotherapy dose response with a benchmark value of dose response, wherein said psychotherapy administering step includes determining said process of psychotherapy to be administered in accordance with said dose response comparison.
14. A method of administering a program of psychotherapy comprising the steps of repetitively alternately administering a dose of psychotherapy to a patient and measuring the psychological condition of the 


patient for each patient in a group of patients; storing data representing the psychotherapy doses administered and the measurements of psychological condition; computing changes in psychological condition per psychotherapy dose based upon the stored data; and administering psychotherapy to patients in the group in accordance with the computed changes in psychological condition per psychotherapy dose.
15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the change in psychological condition per dose is computed for each patient in the group of patients.
16. A method according to claim 15, further comprising the step of allocating psychotherapy among the patients in the group in accordance with the computed change in psychological condition per dose for each patient in the group.
17. A method according to claim 14, wherein the change in psychological condition is computed for each psychotherapy provider in a group of psychotherapy providers who has performed said administering step.
18. A method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of allocating psychotherapy resources among the psychotherapy providers in the group in accordance with the computed change in patient psychological condition per dose achieved by each provider in the group. 


 19. An apparatus for measuring the psychological condition of a patient to facilitate determining outcome of patient psychotherapy, comprising: input means for entering psychological test data relating to a patient's psychological condition with respect to at least one psychological variable; a memory including a database for storing the entered data; and processing means for computing a single- valued mental health index from the entered data, said mental health index representing the patient's psychological condition with respect to said at least one psychological variable.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the psychological variables measured include at least one of subjective well being, symptomatic distress, current life functioning, self-esteem, coping, temperament and attitude.
21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the database comprises: data corresponding to patient responses to a questionnaire; and data corresponding to clinician responses to a questionnaire.
22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the processing means further comprises means for computing a 


clinical assessment index based upon the entered clinician responses.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the processing means further comprises means for computing a benchmark value of psychological normalcy from the data in the database.
24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the processing means further comprises means for computing a benchmark psychotherapy dose-response value.
25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the processing means further comprises means for comparing the patient's measured psychotherapy dose response with a benchmark value of dose-response.
28. Apparatus for measuring the psychological condition of a patient comprising: means for receiving psychological test data relating to at least one patient, said test data including data relating to at least one psychological variable, and for presenting the received data as digital signals; means for examining said digital signals and selecting therefrom the signal portions relating to said at least one psychological variable; means for computing a single-valued quantity, representing the psychological condition of a patient with respect to said at 


 least one psychological variable, from said selected digital signals; and means for comparing said single-valued quantity with a predetermined benchmark quantity representing a benchmark psychological condition to obtain an indication of the patient's psychological condition with respect to said benchmark condition.
29. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein said test data includes data obtained with respect to a patient at various times during a time interval, said computing means includes means for computing said single-valued quantity for each of said various times, and said comparing means includes means for comparing said single- value quantity computed for each of said various times to obtain an indication of the change in the patient's psychological condition over the time interval.
30. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said comparing means includes means for comparing time changes in said single-valued quantity with a predetermined benchmark quantity representing a benchmark time rate of change of psychological condition, to obtain an indication of the time rate of change in the patient's psychological condition with respect to said benchmark rate.
31. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein said test data includes data relating to a plurality of psychological variables, said examining and selecting means includes means for selecting from said digital 


signals the portions relating to each of said plurality of psychological variables, and said computing means includes means for computing said single-valued quantity with respect to said plurality of variables.
32. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein said test data includes data relating to a plurality of patients, and said computing means includes means for computing said predetermined benchmark quantity from said digital signals.
33. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein said predetermined benchmark quantity represents a psychological condition of normalcy.
34. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein said test data includes data obtained at various times with respect to each of a plurality of patients, and said predetermined benchmark quantity represents a time rate of change of psychological condition. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
