<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640161</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ASPHALT FINISHING SCREED HAVING ROTARY COMPACTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01C1900	E01C1948	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01C	E01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01C19	E01C19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An asphalt finishing screed (22) is disclosed which is adapted to achieve essentially complete compaction of the asphalt mix over a range of finished mat thicknesses. The screed (22) comprises a vertically adjustable strike off bar (32), a rotary compactor (35) positioned immediately behind the bar, and a screed plate (50) positioned immediately behind the rotary compactor (35). In one preferred embodiment, the rotary compactor (35) comprises a rotor which includes a plurality of freely rotating rollers (44) about the peripheral surface thereof. In operation, the adjustable strike off bar (32) is set at an elevation so as to meter the material to the rotary compactor (35) and to achieve the desired compaction for the particular thickness of the finished mat being laid. The rotary compactor (35) then impacts the mat in an essentially vertical direction and so as to achieve complete compaction of the mix.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASTEC IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASTEC INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMPBELL THOMAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMPBELL, THOMAS, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ASPHALT FINISHING SCREED HAVING ROTARY COMPACTORBackground of the InventionThe present invention relates to a finishing screed for compacting and smoothing an asphalt mix and which is useful in forming roadway surfaces. Present asphalt paving machines commonly comprise a self propelled tractor which deposits the asphalt on the ground behind the tractor, and which then distributes the deposited mix transversely by means of a pair of rotating augers which are transversely directed. The tractor mounts a trailing finishing screed by means of a pair of rearwardly extending tow arms which are pivoted to the opposite sides of the tractor, and so that the forward ends of the tow arms may be raised and lowered. The finishing screed is attached between the rear ends of the tow arms so as to follow the tractor in a free floating arrangement. The screed serves to spread and compact the asphalt which has been deposited by the tractor unit. Known screeds typically comprise a strike off bar which is followed by a tamper bar, with the tamper bar being mounted on an eccentric shaft so as to vertically reciprocate upon rotation of the shaft. The tamper bar is in turn followed by a horizontal screed plate, which is usually heated. A major problem associated with known screeds of the described type is the fact that the tamper bar stroke cannot be adjusted to accommodate different mat 

thicknesses. For example, asphalt mix typically compacts about 1/4 inches per inch of thickness at full compaction, and thus the initial uncompacted thickness should be about Ik inches to achieve a 1 inch finished mat. For a 2 inch finished mat, an initial thickness of about 2\ inches is required, and so forth.The stroke of the tamper bar in most conven¬ tional screeds is set to be about 3/16 inch, and longer strokes have not been practical since the bearings are not able to support the forces that would be generated by the rapidly reciprocating bar moving a greater distance. This eccentric stroke determines the maximum compaction that can be obtained, and thus known screeds are not able to fully compact mats having a thickness greater than about 1 inch. To remedy this deficiency, it is usual to provide a number of self propelled rollers which follow the paving machine, and which serve to further compact the asphalt mat. In particular, a breakdown roller, a rubber tired roller, and a sealing or finishing roller are usually provided for this purpose.It is accordingly an object of the present invention to provide a finishing screed of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THAT WHICH IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An asphalt screed for compacting and smoothing an asphalt mix or the like which is deposited on the ground in front of the screed as the screed is drawn along the ground, and comprising a strike off bar extending transversely across the width of the screed for spreading the mix delivered in front thereof to a predetermined thickness, rotary compaction means positioned behind said strike off bar and extending transversely across the width of the screed for compacting the mix which has been spread by said strike off bar, and comprising a rotor mounted for rotation about a transverse axis, and drive means for rotating said rotor about said transverse axis, and a screed plate positioned behind said rotary compaction means and extending transversely across the width of the screed and having a horizontal bottom surface for engaging the compacted mix.
2. The screed as defined in Claim 1 further comprising means mounting said strike off bar so as to permit adjustment thereof in the vertical direction to thereby control the thickness of the mix being etered to said rotary compactor means.
3. The screed as defined in Claim 2 wherein said rotor includes a peripheral surface which is composed of a plurality of transversely extending protrusions which are arcuately curved outwardly when viewed in a direction parallel to said transverse axis and which are circumferentially spaced apart. 


 4. The screed as defined in Claim 3 wherein said arcuate protrusions each comprise a roller which is mounted for free rotation about an axis parallel to said transverse axis.
5. The screed as defined in Claim 3 wherein said arcuate protrusions each comprise a plurality of members which are fixedly mounted with respect to each other.
6. The screed as defined in Claim 2 wherein said rotor includes a cylindrical peripheral surface, and said drive means includes means mounting said rotor for eccentric rotation about said transverse axis and so that the rotor reciprocates in a substantially vertical direction during rotation thereof.
7. The screed as defined in Claim 2 wherein said drive means acts to rotate said rotor in a direction corresponding to the intended forward direction of movement of the screed.
8. An asphalt finishing screed adapted for use with a self propelled tractor having a pair of rearwardly extending tow arms pivoted at their forward ends to the opposite sides of the tractor and with the finishing screed being attachable transversely between the rear ends of the tow arms, said finishing screed comprising a strike off bar extending transversely across the width of the screed for spreading the mix delivered in front thereof to a predetermined thickness, rotary compaction means positioned behind said strike off bar and extending transversely across the width of the screed for compacting the mix which has been spread by said strike off bar, and comprising 


a rotor mounted for rotation about a transverse axis, said rotor including a plurality of transversely extending protrusions on the peripheral surface thereof and which are arcuately curved outwardly when viewed in a direction parallel to said transverse axis and which are circumferentially spaced apart, and drive means for rotating said rotor about said transverse axis, and a screed plate positioned behind said rotary compaction means and extending transversely across the width of the screed and having a horizontal bottom surface for engaging the compacted mix.
9. The finishing screed as defined in Claim
8 wherein said arcuate protrusions each comprise a roller which is mounted for free rotation about an axis parallel to said transverse axis.
10. The finishing screed as defined in Claim
9 further comprising means mounting said strike off bar so as to permit adjustment thereof in an upward direction.
11. The finishing screed as defined in Claim
10 wherein said rotary compactor means further comprises a housing surrounding the upper portion of said rotor, and resilient means mounted to said housing for engaging said rollers during rotation of said rotor and imparting rotation to said rollers.
12. The finishing screed as defined in Claim
11 wherein said screed plate has a leading edge which is closely adjacent the outer circle generated by said rollers, and wherein said housing includes an end edge which is fixed to said screed plate. 


 13. The finishing screed as defined in Claim 12 wherein said means mounting said strike off bar permits movement thereof along a direction which is about 45
β
 from the vertical.
14. A roadway paving apparatus comprising a self propelled tractor comprising a hopper for receiving asphalt mix, conveyor means for conveying the asphalt mix from the hopper to a discharge location rearwardly of the tractor, auger means for transversely distributing the asphalt mix after being discharged at said discharge location, and a pair of rearwardly extending tow arms pivoted at their forward ends to respective opposite sides of said tractor, and a finishing screed mounted transversely between the rearward ends of said tow arms so as to be free floating with said tow arms, said screed comprising
(a) a vertically adjustable strike off bar extending transversely across the width of the screed for spreading the mix delivered from said discharge location to a predetermined thickness,
(b) rotary compaction means positioned behind said strike off bar and extending transversely across the width of the screed for compacting the mix which has been spread by said strike off bar, and comprising a rotor mounted for rotation about a transverse axis, said rotor including a plurality of transversely extending protrusions on the peripheral surface thereof and which are arcuately curved outwardly when viewed in a direction parallel to said transverse axis and which are circumferentially spaced apart, and drive means for rotating said rotor about said transverse axis, and
(c) a screed plate positioned behind said rotary compaction means and extending transversely across the width of the screed and having a horizontal bottom surface for engaging the compacted mix. 


 15. The roadway paving apparatus as defined in Claim 14 wherein said arcuate protrusions each comprise a roller which is mounted for free rotation about an axis parallel to said transverse axis. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
