<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617840</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NEGATIVE BIASING OF ISOLATION TRENCH FILL TO ATTRACT MOBILE POSITIVE IONS AWAY FROM BIPOLAR DEVICE REGIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L21763	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The tendency of mobile positive ions to be transported into device regions of a bipolar transistor is effectively minimized by surrounding the transistor with a "positive ion"-attracting electric field, preferably by applying a prescribed bias to the fill material of a conductive trench that surrounds the device. The trench which surrounds a respective device to be protected contains dielectric material disposed along sidewalls of the trench. The trench contains material such as undoped polysilicon, which is capable of distributing a voltage, so that the material in the trench is insulated by dielectric material from an adjacent portion of the semiconductor substrate surrounded by the trench. In order to prevent mobile positive ions from moving into a device region in response to temperature bias stress and thereby degrade an operational parameter of the transistor, a predefined (relatively negative) bias voltage is applied to the material in the trench. By relatively negative is meant that the magnitude of the predefined bias voltage is established to be no more positive than half the difference between the most positive and the most negative of bias voltages that are applied to the device. Preferably, the prescribed bias voltage corresponds to the most negative of the plurality of bias voltages of the transistor.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARRIS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARRIS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEASOM JAMES D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEASOM, JAMES, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 NEGATIVE BIASING OF ISOLATION TRENCH FILL TO ATTRACT MOBILE POSITIVE IONS AWAY FROM BIPOLAR DEVICE REGIONSFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates in general to semiconductor devices and is particularly directed to the biasing of the fill material of a trench isolated integrated circuit architecture, so as to prevent mobile positive ions from moving into a device region in response to temperature bias stress and thereby degrading an operational parameter of the device.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONWithin the variety of devices that may make up an integrated circuit architecture, some are very sensitive to the effects of temperature bias stress. Specifically, a number of circuit components include sensitive regions, such as active device regions of a bipolar transistor that are subject to being impacted by mobile positive ions. Such mobile ions may be transported into such regions in the presence of temperature bias stress, causing unwanted shifts in the electrical parameters of the transistor.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn accordance with the present invention, the tendency of mobile positive ions to be transported into device regions, particularly in a bipolar transistor, is effectively minimized by surrounding the device with a 'positive ion'-attracting electric field, preferably by applying a prescribed bias to the fill material of a conductive trench that surrounds the device. In particular, the present invention is readily incorporated in a trench-isolated bipolar transistor circuit architecture formed of a semiconductor substrate containing one or more trench-isolated bipolar transistor 

 each of which is coupled to receive a respective plurality of bias voltages. The trench which surrounds a respective device to be protected contains dielectric material disposed along sidewalls of the trench. Material, such a polysilicon, which is capable of distributing a voltage, is formed in or fills the trench, so that the material in the trench is insulated by dielectric material from an adjacent portion of the semiconductor substrate surrounded by the trench.In order to prevent mobile positive ions from moving into a device region in response to temperature bias stress and thereby degrade the intended operational characteristics of the transistor, a predefined (relatively negative) bias voltage is applied to the material in the trench. By relatively negative is meant that the magnitude of the predefined bias voltage is established to be no more positive than half the difference between the most
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED
1. A semiconductor device comprising: a semiconductor substrate having a semiconductor device disposed in a first portion thereof, said semiconductor device being coupled to receive a plurality of bias voltages; a trench surrounding said first portion of said substrate; dielectric material disposed along sidewalls of said trench; material capable of distributing a voltage therethrough formed in said trench so as to be insulated from said first portion of said semiconductor substrate by said dielectric material; and means for applying a prescribed bias voltage to the material in said trench, said prescribed bias voltage being no more positive than half the difference between the most positive and the most negative of said plurality of bias voltages.
2. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein said prescribed bias voltage corresponds to the most negative of said plurality of bias voltages.
3. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein said semiconductor device comprises a bipolar device. 

4. A semiconductor integrated circuit structure comprising: a semiconductor substrate having a plurality of semiconductor devices disposed in spaced apart portions thereof, each respective semiconductor device being coupled to receive a respective plurality of bias voltages; a plurality of trenches surrounding respective ones of said spaced apart portions of said substrate; dielectric material disposed along sidewalls of said trenches; conductive material formed in respective ones of said trenches, such that conductive material in a trench is insulated by dielectric material from an adjacent portion of said semiconductor substrate surrounded by that trench; and means for applying respective predefined bias voltages to the conductive material in respective ones of said trenches, at least one of said predefined bias voltages being no more positive than half the difference between the most positive and the most negative of the bias voltages that are applied to the semiconductor device of that portion of said substrate, surrounded by the trench containing the conductive material to which that predefined bias voltage is applied.
5. A semiconductor integrated circuit structure according to claim 4, wherein a respective prescribed bias voltage corresponds to the most negative of the plurality of bias voltages of a respective semiconductor device.
6. A semiconductor integrated circuit structure according to claim 4, wherein a respective prescribed bias voltage corresponds to the most negative bias voltage applied to said integrated circuit. 


 7. A semiconductor integrated circuit structure according to claim 4, wherein said semiconductor devices are bipolar devices.
8. A method of operating a semiconductor integrated circuit structure formed of a semiconductor substrate having a plurality of semiconductor devices disposed in spaced apart portions thereof, each respective one of said plurality of semiconductor devices being coupled to receive a respective plurality of bias voltages, a plurality of trenches surrounding respective ones of said spaced apart portions of said substrate, dielectric material disposed along sidewalls of said trenches, and conductive material formed in respective ones of said trenches, such that conductive material in a trench is insulated by dielectric material from an adjacent portion of said semiconductor substrate surrounded by that trench, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) applying respective predefined bias voltages to the conductive material in respective ones of said trenches; and
(b) establishing the magnitude of at least one of the predefined bias voltages applied in step (a) to be no more positive than half the difference between the most positive and the most negative of the bias voltages that are applied to the semiconductor device of that portion of said substrate which is surrounded by the trench containing the conductive material to which that predefined bias voltage is applied.
9. A method according to claim 8, wherein a respective prescribed bias voltage corresponds to the most negative of the plurality of bias voltages of a respective semiconductor device. 


 10. A method according to claim 8, wherein a respective prescribed bias voltage corresponds to the most negative bias voltage applied to said integrated circuit.
11. A method according to claim 8, wherein said semiconductor devices are bipolar devices.
12. For use with a semiconductor integrated circuit structure formed of a semiconductor substrate having a semiconductor device disposed therein, said semiconductor device being coupled to receive a respective plurality of bias voltages and being surrounded by a trench, dielectric material disposed along sidewalls of said trench, and material capable of distributing a voltage therethrough formed in said trench, such that said material in said trench is insulated by dielectric material from an adjacent portion of said semiconductor substrate surrounded by said trench, a method of preventing mobile positive ions from moving into a device region in response to temperature bias stress and thereby affecting an operational parameter of said device comprising the steps of:
(a) applying a predefined bias voltage to the material in said trench; and
(b) establishing the magnitude of said predefined bias voltage applied in step (a) to be no more positive than half the difference between the most positive and the most negative of bias voltages that are applied to said semiconductor device.
13. A method according to claim 12, wherein said prescribed bias voltage corresponds to the most negative of the plurality of bias voltages of said semiconductor device. 


 14. A method according to claim 12, wherein a respective prescribed bias voltage corresponds to the most negative bias voltage applied to said integrated circuit.
15. A method according to claim 12, wherein said semiconductor device is a bipolar device. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
