<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635210</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and device for separating the skull and the vertebral column of a slaughtered animal
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22B500	A22B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22B	A22B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22B5	A22B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method for processing the 
neck of a slaughtered animal such that the skull is separated 

from the vertebral column, which method comprises the steps 
of: 


(1) positioning a slaughtered animal for processing; 
(2) providing a separating device (16,17,18), for instance a 
hydraulically or pneumatically energized pair of scissors, to 

arrange a separation in the cervical vertebral column, for 
instance between the skull and the first cervical vertebra; 
(3) determining the location where the separation must 
take place; and 
(4) positioning the separating device (16,17,18) and activating 
same on the basis of the result of step (3) in order to 

arrange the separation. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method as defined in 
the precharacterizing portion of claim 1. The invention also relates to a device for 
performing such method, the device being defined in 
precharacterizing portion of claim 2. Such a method and device are known from 
EP-A-0 212 580. Usual is substantially vertical 
positioning of the animal, for instance suspended from 
the hind legs. Using a hydraulically or pneumatically 
energized scissor tool the neck of the animal, for 
instance a pig, is cut through. This processing method 
has the drawback of being none too accurate. It can occur 
that due to the separating operation bone splinters are 
separated from the locally present bones, which is 
undesired. Loss of usable meat can also occur due to the 
inaccuracy of the cutting operation. The separating operation takes place in the 
vertebral column, for example in the region between the 
occipital protuberances and the atlas, or further to the 
rear in the direction of the tail. The object of the invention is to perform the 
separating operation with higher accuracy, such that the 
occurrence of bone splinters is effectively prevented, 
while the danger of usable meat being lost is also 
considerably reduced. The method according to the invention is 
characterized for this purpose by the characterizing 
feature (e) of claim 1.  
 The rear surface is not always flat but has 
different shapes depending on the type of animal. The 
separating device can for instance be adapted to follow 
the shape of this rear surface. It is noted that a 
separation between cervical vertebrae can also take 
place. The device according to the invention is 
characterized for this purpose by the characterizing 
features of claim 2. In EP-A-0 212 580 the scissors form part of 
rough means of bringing the separating device to a 
cutting position by moving the scissors in its opened or 
rest-position downward until an electrical switch senses 
an increased mechanical movement resistance. This 
detection triggers the scissors drive to stop, thus 
determining the operative separating position of the 
scissors. In this specification EP-A-0 212 580 also the 
possibility of using measuring means separate from the 
separating means is disclosed. Use is made of a measurement 
of the lowermost zone of the head of the animal, 
i.e. the nose. From this per se already rather rough 
approximation on basis of statistical information 
furthermore the nominal cutting position is derived on a 
statistical basis. This whole measuring method is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for processing the neck of a 
slaughtered animal such that the skull is separated from 

the vertebral column, which method comprises the steps 
of: 


(a) positioning a slaughtered animal (1) for 
processing; 
(b) providing a separating device, for instance 
a hydraulically or pneumatically energized pair of 

scissors (15-17), to arrange a separation in the cervical 
vertebral column, for instance between the skull (24) and 

the first cervical vertebra; 
(c) determining the location where the 
separation must take place; and 
(d) positioning the separating device (15, 16, 
17) and activating same on the basis of the result of 

step (c) in order to arrange the separation,
 
   
characterized by
(e) performing step (c) such that the desired 
separating position is determined by means of a measuring 

device (21, 22) by measuring directly at least one point 
of the rear surface of the skull (24), said measuring 

device (21, 22) being separate from the separating device 
(15, 16, 17). 
Device (3-14) for performing the method 
according to claim 1 for processing the neck of a 

slaughtered animal (1) such that a separation is arranged 
in the vertebral column, which device comprises: 


positioning means (3-5) for positioning a 
slaughtered animal (1) for processing; and 
a separating device, for instance a 
hydraulically or pneumatically energized pair of scissors 

(15-17), for arranging a separation in the cervical 
vertebral column, for instance between the skull (24) and 

the first cervical vertebra,
  
 

   
characterized by
a measuring device (21, 22) which is separate 
from the separating device for measuring directly at 

least one point of the rear surface of the skull (24), 
and for thus determining the desired separating position, 

for example the transition between the skull (24) and the 
first cervical vertebra; and 
a positioning device (7, 14) which is coupled 
to the separating device and which, under the control of 

the measuring device (21, 22), positions the 
separating device such that when activated the latter 

arranges said separation. 
Device as claimed in claim 2, 
characterized in that
 
the measuring device comprises a pointed pin (21) which can 

be placed through the soft tissue to come into contact with 
the rear surface of the skull (24) oriented toward the 

vertebral column. 
Device as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized in that
 
the measuring device comprises a second pointed pin (22) 

which can be placed through the soft tissue to come into 
contact with the rear surface of the skull (24) oriented 

toward the vertebral column, which second pin (22) is placed 
at a distance from the first pin (21) such that the measuring 

device can also determine the angle at which the rear surface 
of the skull (24) extends for corresponding control of the 

positioning device (7, 14) coupled to the separating device. 
Device as claimed in claim 3 or 4, 
characterized by
 
means (19, 20) for retracting the pin(s) (21, 22) prior to 

activating of the separating device. 
Device as claimed in claim 3 or 4, 
characterized in 
that
 the positioning means (3-5) comprise a support which 
prevents movement of an animal under the influence of the 

pin(s). 
Device as claimed in claim 6, 
characterized in that
 
the separating means also serve as support. 
Device as claimed in claim 2, 
characterized in that
 
the measuring device comprises ultrasonically operating 

means. 
Device as claimed in claim 2, 
characterized in that
 
the measuring device comprises means based on X-rays. 
Device as claimed in claim 2, 
characterized in that
 
the separating device comprises an endless drivable wire. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
