<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657711</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Heat exchanger
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F28F122	F28D102	F28F112	F28D102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F28F	F28D	F28F	F28D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F28F1	F28D1	F28F1	F28D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed to a 
heat exchanger which includes an upper (11) and 

a lower (12) tank and a 
plurality of heat exchange units (13) extending between the upper and 

lower tanks. Each heat exchanger unit includes a 
plurality of plane portions (132) and a 

plurality of pipe portions (131), each 
having a longitudinal axis. The pipe portions are spaced 

from one another at about equal intervals and place the upper and lower tanks in fluid 
communication. Adjacent pipe portions are connected by the plane portions. The heat 

exchanger is provided with a plurality of louvers (133) formed 
in the plane portions along the 

longitudinal axis of the heat exchange unit. Each louver is formed by twisting a plane 
belt region which is defined between adjacent slits formed in the plane portions. A 

plane of each of the louvers is oriented to be substantially parallel to a plane which is 
perpendicular to the longitudinal axes of pipe portions. The heat exchange units are 

aligned, so that the plane portions are perpendicular to the flow direction of air which 
passes through the heat exchanger when the heat exchanger is installed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDEN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDEN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAKI KENICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAKI, KENICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to a heat exchanger, such as a 
condenser or an evaporator, and more particularly, to heat exchangers including heat 
exchange units, at which an exchange of heat occurs, that have openings and louvers. A heat exchanger, such as an evaporator for use in an automotive air 
conditioning systems, is well known in the art. For example, such 
heat exchangers are described in US-A- 5 076 354 
which forms the basis for the preamble of claim 1. In the known heat exchanger a plurality 
of corrugated fins are arranged between adjacent pipe portions.  
 It is an object of the present invention to provide a lightweight heat 
exchanger with increased performance. A heat exchanger in accordance with the present 
invention includes a first tank and a second tank spaced vertically from the first tank. 
At least one connecting member extends between the first tank and the second tank. 
The at least one connecting member comprises a plurality of pipe portions, each having 
a longitudinal axis, which place the first tank and the second tank in fluid 
communication, and a plurality of plane portions one of which is fixedly disposed 
between each pair of adjacent pipe portions. The heat exchanger further comprises a plurality of openings formed 
at the plane portions along the longitudinal axis of the at least one connecting member. 
A plurality of louvers are formed at the openings, respectively, so that the louvers are 
parallel to a plane, which is perpendicular to the longitudinal axes of the pipe portions. 
The at least one connecting member is oriented, so that said plane portions are 
perpendicular to a flow direction of air which passes through the heat exchanger. The invention further includes a method of manufacturing a heat 
exchanger. The manufactured heat exchanger includes a first tank and a second tank 
spaced vertically from the first tank, and at least one connecting member which extends 
between the first tank to the second tank. The at least one connecting member 
comprises a plurality of pipe portions, each having a longitudinal axis, which place the 
first tank and the second tank in fluid communication, and a plurality of plane portions. 
Each of these plane portions are fixedly disposed between a pair of adjacent pipe 
portions. The method comprises the steps of forming a plurality of slits in the plane 
portions along the longitudinal axis of the at least one connecting member, so that the 
slits are perpendicular to the longitudinal axes of the pipe portions,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A heat exchanger comprising: 

a first tank (11) and a second tank (12) spaced vertically from said 
first tank (11), and at least one connecting member (13;23) which extends 

between said first tank (11) and said second tank (12); 
said at least one connecting member (13;23) comprising a plurality of 
pipe portions (131,233), each having a longitudinal axis, which place said 

first tank (11) and said second tank (12) in fluid communication; 
 
characterized by: 


a plurality of plane portions (132,231b), one of which is fixedly disposed 
between each pair of adjacent pipe portions (131,233); 
a plurality of openings (136,137) formed in said plane portions (132,231b) and 
extending along a longitudinal axis of said at least one connecting 

member (13,23); and 
a plurality of louvers (133,234) formed at said openings (136,137), respectively, 
so that said louvers (133,234) are parallel to a plane which is perpendicular 

to the longitudinal axes of said pipe portions (131,233); 
wherein said at least one connecting member (13,23) is oriented, so 
that said plane portions (132,231b) are perpendicular to a flow direction (A) of 

air which passes through said heat exchanger. 
The heat exchanger of claim 1,
 
   characterized in that the at least one connecting member (13; 

23) comprises a plurality of first arch portions (231a) and a 
plurality of second arch portions, the first and second arch 

portions being bulged in opposite directions and arranged in a 
plurality of rows to form a plurality of cylindrical passages 

(232), the pipe portions (233) extending through the cylindrical 
passages (232).  

 
The heat exchanger of claim 2,
 
   characterized in that the at least one connecting member (23) 

includes a single plate from which the plane portions (231b) and 
the first and second arch portions (231a) are formed. 
The heat exchanger of any of claims 1 to 3,
 
   characterized in that the upper and lower tanks (11, 12) are 

rectangular parallelepiped in shape. 
The heat exchanger of any of claims 1 to 4,
 
   characterized in that the at least one connecting member (13; 

23) is made of aluminum alloy. 
The heat exchanger of any of claims 1 to 5,
 
   characterized in that each of the pipe portions (131; 233) 

has a circular cross-section. 
The heat exchanger of any of the claims 1 to 6,
 
   characterized in that the heat exchanger is an evaporator. 
A method of manufacturing a heat exchanger including a 
first tank (11) and a second tank (12) spaced vertically from the first 

tank, and at least one connecting member (13,23) which extends between 
the first tank and the second tank, the at least one connecting 

member comprising a plurality of pipe portions (131,233), each having a 
longitudinal axis, which place the first tank and the second tank 

in fluid communication, and a plurality of plane portions (132,231b), each 
of which is fixedly disposed between each pair of adjacent pipe 

portions, 

the method comprising the steps of 
forming a plurality of slits (134) in the plane portions spaced 
along the longitudinal axis of the at least one connecting member 

so that the slits are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of 
the pipe portions, thereby defining a plurality of plane belt 

regions (134a) between adjacent slits, and  
 
twisting each of the plane belt regions so that the plane 
belt regions are parallel with a plane perpendicular to the 

longitudinal axis of the pipe portions. 
The method of claim 8,
 
   characterized in that the at least one connecting member (13,23) is 

made by providing a plurality of first arch portions (231a) and a plurality 
of second arch portions between adjacent plane portions (231b), 

the first and second arch portions being bulged in opposite 
directions and arranged in a plurality of rows to form a plurality 

of cylindrical passages (232), and that the pipe portions (233) are 
passed through the cylindrical passages. 
The method of claim 9,
 
   characterized in that the at least one connecting member (23) 

includes a single plate from which the plane portions (231b) and the 
first and second arch portions are formed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
