<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626790</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Segmentation-based JPEG image artifacts reduction
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M730	G06T500	G06T900	H04N141	H04N726	H03M730	H04N730	H04N141	H04N726	H04N730	G06T500	G06T900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	H03M	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M7	G06T5	G06T9	H04N1	H04N7	H03M7	H04N7	H04N1	H04N7	H04N7	G06T5	G06T9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for reducing ringing and blocking artifacts in a decompressed image 
models an image in a relatively small area as several smooth regions separated by edges. The 

method uses JPEG MxM pixel blocks and is compatible with JPEG decompression. To reduce 
ringing, a block is examined for uniformity (S20), segmented and smoothed (S24). Then, after a 

DCT transform (S26), a projection is performed (S28) to guarantee that the DCT coefficients of 
the resulting image block will be within the initial quantization interval. The resultant image is 

produced (S30) by an inverse DCT. To reduce blocking, the method is modified to employ a 
large outer window for uniformity checking, segmentation and smoothing and a small inner 

window for DCT projection. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is directed to a method of decompressing images compressed in accordance with the Joint Photographic Expert Group (JPEG) proposed adaptive discrete cosine transform (ADCT) standard. More particularly, the invention is directed to a method of reducing decompression artifacts in document-type images resulting from decompression of standard JPEG ADCT compressed images.Data compression is required in data handling processes when too much data is present for practical applications. Commonly, data compression is used in communication links, where the time to transmit is long or where bandwidth is limited. Another use for data compression is in data storage to substantially reduce the amount of media space required to store data. Data compression is also used in digital copiers, which require intermediate storage for copier functions such as collation and reprinting. Generally, scanned images, i.e., electronic representations of hard copy documents, require large amounts of data and thus are desirable candidates for data compression.A number of different compression techniques exist, and many of these are proprietary to individual users. However, standards among the various techniques are desirable to enable communication between data handling devices. With the advent of multimedia communication, formerly dissimilar devices are and will be required to communicate. For example, it is desirable to enable facsimile machines to directly communicate with printers. Presently, compression standards are generally distinct for different data handling devices such as these. Thus, common data compression standards are needed.Three major schemes for image compression are currently being studied by international standardization groups. A first scheme, for facsimile type image transmission that is primarily binary, is under study by the JBIG (Joint Binary Image Group) committee. A second scheme is being developed for television and film by the MPEG (Motion Pictures Expert Group.) For non-moving images, i.e., still images that are more general than those covered by JBIG, the JPEG (Joint Photographic Expert Group) is developing a device independent compression standard, which uses an ADCT scheme.ADCT is described for example by W. H. Chen and C. H. Smith in "Adaptive Coding of Monochrome and Color Images", IEEE Trans. Comm., Vol. COM-25, pp. 1285-1292, November 1977. ADCT is the method disseminated by the JPEG committee and is a lossy system that reduces data redundancies based on pixel to pixel correlations.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of removing artifacts from a decompressed image, comprising the steps of:

providing a plurality of pixel blocks of said decompressed image;
examining each pixel block for uniformity;
forming regions of pixels in each pixel block based on said examining for uniformity;
smoothing each region by low pass filtering;
performing a discrete cosine transform on the pixels in each block, the discrete cosine transform yielding resultant discrete cosine transform coefficients;
projecting the resultant coefficients of the resulting image obtained by the discrete cosine transform so that the resultant coefficients are within the initial quantization interval; and
performing an inverse discrete cosine transform to produce decompressed data.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of examining each pixel block for uniformity comprises comparing a dynamic range of pixels in each block to a pre-set threshold.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the step of forming regions comprises the steps of:

forming initial regions of connected pixels wherein neighboring pixels have an intensity difference smaller than a pre-set threshold, and then merging each region in sequence beginning by combining neighboring pairs of pixels having a minimum difference in mean.
The method of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the step of projecting includes comparing the resultant discrete cosine transform coefficients to the initial quantization interval and correcting the resultant discrete transform coefficients to fit within the initial quantization interval.
The method of claim 4, wherein when the discrete cosine transform coefficients are beyond the quantization interval, the step of correcting comprises partitioning a region into two and repeating the steps of smoothing, performing the transform and comparing.
The method of claim 5, wherein the step of partitioning comprises splitting the last merged region first.
The method of claim 4, wherein when the discrete cosine transform coefficients fit generally within the initial quantization interval or a number of merged regions equals an established minimum number of regions, the method proceeds to the step of performing the inverse discrete cosine transform.
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the step of smoothing comprises replacing pixels in an interior of a region with the mean value of pixels in the region, and replacing pixels in the boundary of the region with a combination of the original pixel value and the mean value of pixels in the region.
A method of decompressing image data, comprising the steps of:

establishing discrete cosine transform constraints based on the image data;
forming pixel blocks of image data;
determining uniformity for each block of image data;
forming regions of pixels in each non-uniform pixel block;
replacing pixel values in a region with an average pixel value of the respective region to smooth the region;
performing a discrete cosine transform on the image data in each block yielding discrete cosine transform coefficients; and
projecting the resultant coefficients into the established discrete cosine transform constraints.
A programmable image decompression apparatus when suitably programmed for carrying out the method of any of the preceding claims.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
