<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634750</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for reading multi-level data stored in a semiconductor memory
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27112	H01L218246	G11C1604	G11C1602	G11C1156	G11C1604	G11C1156	H01L2170	G11C1606	H01L27112	G11C1606	G11C1602	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	H01L	G11C	H01L	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L21	G11C16	G11C16	G11C11	G11C16	G11C11	H01L21	G11C16	H01L27	G11C16	G11C16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor memory comprising memory cells (M1 
to M4), word lines (W1, W2, ...), bit lines (B1, B2, 

...), a row decoder (2), column decoder (3, 4), a 
voltage-changing circuit (9), a sense amplifier (5), and 

an output circuit (61 to 64). Each memory cell stores 
multi-level data. The row decoder (2) selects one of 

the word lines in accordance with an address signal. 
The voltage-changing circuit (9) generates different 

voltages, which are applied to the row decoder (2). The 
different voltages are sequentially applied from the 

voltage-changing circuit (9) to the word line selected 
by the row decoder (2). The column decoder (3, 4) 

selects a bit line every time the potential of the word 
line changes. The sense amplifier (5) detects the data 

read from the memory cell onto the bit line every time 
the potential of the word line changes. The output circuit 

(61 to 64) converts the data to code data. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor
memory device according to the preamble of claim 1 and to a
method for reading multi-level data respectively stored in
a plurality of memory cells. This memory device can be a
ROM (Read Only Memory) for storing multi-level data. The
semiconductor memory device according to the preamble of
claim 1 is known from EP 0 057 111.The memory-cell array of, for example, a ROM comprises
memory cells arranged in rows and columns. Word lines
extend along the rows of memory cells, and bit lines extend
along the columns of memory cells. Each memory cell has its
gate connected to a word line and its source and drain
connected to a bit line. To read data from any desired
memory cell, the bit line to which the desired memory cell
is connected is selected, and the word line to which the
desired memory cell is connected is set at a high level.Generally, a one-bit memory cell has one transistor.
The threshold voltage of the tansistor is set at a high or
low level so that the memory cell stores data. The memory
cell can store but one bit of data at a time. To store a
great amount of data, a memory needs to have many cells,
and its chip size inevitably becomes large.To manufacture a memory which can store a large amount
of data without increasing its chip size, it has recently
been proposed that two bits of data be stored in one memory
cell. Such a memory is called "multi-level memory". Various
types of multi-level 
memories may be provided. In one type, the gate length
or gate width of the transistor of each memory cell is
changed so that the current flowing when the memory cell
is selected may be set at various values. In another
type, the dose of impurity ions injected into the MOS
transistor of each memory cell is changed so that the
threshold voltage of the MOS transistor may be set at
various values. Thus, each memory cell of a multi-level
memory can store two or more bits when set in two or
more states. The multi-level memory has therefore an
increased storage capacity of the memory.FIG. 48 illustrates the relationship between the
gate voltage Vg and drain current Id of each of the
memory cells constituting a multi-level ROM. Each
memory cell of this multi-level ROM has one of four different
threshold voltages V1 to V4 and can store two
bits of data. The threshold voltages V1 to V4 have the
relationship of: V1 < V2 < V3 < V4. Any memory cell
having threshold voltage V1 will be identified as memory
cell M00; any memory cell having threshold voltage V2 as
memory cell M01;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor memory device
comprising:


a plurality of memory cells (M1 to M4) arranged in
rows and columns, for storing multi-level data, each of

said memory cells (M1 to M4) has a gate and a current path;
a plurality of word lines (W1, W2, ...) connected to
the gates of said memory cells (M1 to M4), respectively;
a plurality of bit lines (B1, B2, ...), each connected
to one end of the current path of one memory cell;
first selecting means (2) connected to said word lines
(W1, W2, ...), for selecting one of said word lines (W1,

W2, ...) in accordance with an address signal;
voltage-applying means (9) connected to said first
selecting means (2), for generating a plurality of voltage

levels sequentially, which are to be applied to said word
lines (W1, W2, ...) in order to read data from said memory

cells (M1 to M4), and for applying said plurality of
voltage levels to said first selecting means (2);
characterized in that

said voltage-applying means (9) comprises a plurality
of reference cells (M01, M10, M11) for setting said

plurality of voltage levels and is designed to apply one of
said plurality of voltage levels generated by said

reference cells to said first selecting means (2). 
A device according to claim 1, 
characterized
by
 :

second selecting means (3, 4) for selecting said bit
lines (B1, B2, ...) one after another in accordance with an

address signal, in order to read data from said memory
cells (M1 to M4) while one of said word lines (W1, W2, ...)

is selected by said first selecting means (2) and while one
of said plurality of voltage levels is applied from said

voltage-applying means (9) to the word line being selected;
a sense amplifier (5) to be connected to said bit line
selected by said second selecting means (3, 4), for

sequentially detecting potentials of said bit lines; and
a plurality of output circuits (61 to 64) connected to
said sense ampliefier (5), for converting a plurality of

voltages output from said sense amplifier (5) into digital
data in accordance with potentials of the word lines other

than the word line selected by said first selecting means
(2), and for outputting the digital data.
A device according to claim 1, 
characterized in

that each of said memory cells (M1 to M4) has a threshold
voltage which is one of a plurality of threshold voltages.
A device according to claim 2, 
characterized in

that each of said output circuits (61 to 64) comprises at
least two latch circuits (71 to 74) for latching potentials

output from said sense amplifier (5), and data-converting
means (81 to 84) for converting the potential latched by

each of said latch circuits (71 to 74) into digital data.
A device according to claim 1, 
characterized in

that said voltage applying means (9) has a plurality of
resistors (R1 to R3) for dividing a power-supply voltage to

generate said plurality of voltage levels such that they
are identical to the threshold voltages of said memory

cells (M1 to M4). 
A device according to claim 1, 
characterized in

that said voltage-applying means (9) comprises a voltage-generating
circuit (19H) for dividing a power-supply

voltage into a plurality of voltages corresponding to said
plurality of voltage levels to be applied to said word

lines (W1, W2, ...), and for applying the voltages
sequentially to said first selecting means (2);

   a stop circuit (19K) connected to said voltage-generating
circuit (19H) and having first, second and third

reference cells (M01, M10, M11) which are used to set at a
potential the word line selected by said first selecting

means and which have a first threshold voltage, a second
threshold voltage higher than the first threshold voltage

and a third threshold voltage higher than the second
threshold voltage, respectively, said stop circuit (19K)

being designed to stop said voltage-generating circuit
(19H) when the voltage generated by said voltage-generating

circuit (19H) reaches one of said first, second and third
threshold voltages.
A device according to claim 1, 
characterized in

that said voltage-applying means (9) comprises:

a voltage-generating circuit (36E) for dividing a
power-supply voltage into a plurality of voltages

corresponding to said plurality of voltage levels to be
applied to said word lines (W1, W2, ...), and for applying

said voltage levels sequentially to said first selecting
means (2);
a stop circuit (36F) connected to said voltage-generating
circuit (36E) and having first, second, third

and fourth reference cells (M00, M01, M10, M11) which are
used to set at a potential the word line selected by said

first selecting means (2) and which have a first threshold
voltage, a second threshold voltage higher than the first

threshold voltage, a third threshold voltage higher than
the second threshold voltage and a fourth threshold voltage 

higher than the third threshold voltage, respectively, said
stop circuit (36F) being designed to stop said voltage-generating

circuit (36E) when the voltage generated by said
voltage-generating circuit (36E) reaches one of an

intermediate voltage between said first and second
threshold voltages, an intermediate voltage between said

second and third threshold voltages and an intermediate
voltage between said third and fourth threshold voltages.
A method of reading multi-level data respectively
stored in a plurality of memory cells, said plurality of

memory cells being connected to a word line and being
respectively connected to respective bit lines, comprising

the steps of:

applying a first potential (V2) determined by a first reference cell to the word line
selected, selecting said bit lines one after another to

thereby sequentially detect currents flowing through the
respective memory cell connected to said word line and

selected by said respective bit line by means of a sense
amplifier (5), and latching the currents detected by the

sense amplifier (5), in a latch circuit ;
applying a second potential (V3) determined by a second reference cell higher than the first
potential (V2) to the word line selected, selecting said

bit lines one after another to thereby sequentially detect
currents flowing through the respective memory cell

connected to said word line and selected by said respective
bit line, and latching the currents detected by the sense

amplifier (5), in said latch circuit; and
generating digital data from the currents latched in
said latch circuit.
A method according to claim 8, further comprising the
step of applying a third potential (V4) higher than the

second potential (V3) to the word line selected, selecting
said bit lines one after another to thereby sequentially

detect currents flowing through the respective memory cell
connected to said word line and selected by said respective 

bit line, and latching the currents detected by the sense
amplifier (5), in said latch circuit.
A method according to claim 8, 
characterized in

that the first, second and third potentials (V2, V3, V4)
are sequentially applied to the selected word line after

the digital data has been generated, and currents flowing
through the memory cell when the first, second and third

potentials (V3, B4) are applied to the word line are
sequentially detected by said sense amplifier (5).
A method according to claim 8, 
characterized in

that the third, second and first potentials (V4, V3, V2)
are sequentially applied to the selected word line after

the digital data has been generated, and currents flowing
through the 
memory cell when the third, second and first
potentials (V4, V3, B2) are applied to the word line are

sequentially detected by said sense amplifier (5).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
