<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632201</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Scroll compressor oil pumping system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04C2902	F04C1802	F04C1802	F04C2902	H01F702	H01F702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04C	F04C	F04C	F04C	H01F	H01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04C29	F04C18	F04C18	F04C29	H01F7	H01F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A scroll compressor oil pumping system has a concentric axial bore located 
in the driveshaft of the compressor which serves as the primary oil pump. The 

driveshaft is journaled in a lower bearing housing and is located within the oil sump 
of the compressor. An inlet housing is attached to the lower bearing housing and 

creates a stepped flow path for the oil between the sump and the oil pump. The 
inlet housing may also be equipped with a plurality of air foil shaped vanes to 

impede the formation of a bottom vortex. The stepped flow path causes an annular 
vortex to form which operates to separate the contaminants from the lubricating oil. 

In order to assist in the formation of the annular vortex, the driveshaft can include 
an impeller. The contaminants are channelled into a holding chamber formed by the 

lower bearing housing and the inlet housing. A plurality of funnel shaped orifices 
guide the contaminants into the chamber and operate to resist blow out of the debris 

during liquid flashing conditions. A magnet can be included within the holding 
chamber to attract the metallic contaminants if desired. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COPELAND CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COPELAND CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAIN GARY KENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAIN, GARY KENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to scroll-type machinery. More
particularly, the present invention relates to an improved lubricant pumping system
for scroll compressors which includes a dirt trap, an oil pump and an oil screen.Scroll machinery for fluid compression or expansion is typically comprised of
two upstanding interfitting involute spirodal wraps or scrolls which are generated
about respective axes. Each respective scroll is mounted upon an end plate and has
a tip disposed in contact or near contact with the end plate of the other respective
scroll. Each scroll further has flank surfaces which adjoin, in moving line contact or
near contact, the flank surfaces of the other respective scroll to form a plurality of
moving chambers. Depending upon the relative orbital motion of the scrolls, the
chambers move from the radially exterior ends of the scrolls to the radially interior
ends of the scroll for fluid compression, or from the radially interior ends of the
scrolls to the radially exterior ends of the scrolls for fluid expansion. The scrolls, to
accomplish the formation of the chambers, are put in relative orbital motion by a
drive mechanism. Either one of the scrolls may orbit or both may rotate
eccentrically with respect to one another.A typical scroll machine, according to the design which has a non-orbiting
scroll, includes an orbiting scroll which meshes with the non-orbiting scroll, a thrust
bearing to take the axial loads on the orbiting scroll, and a lubricant supply system
for lubricating the various moving components of the machine including the thrust 
bearing. Accordingly, there is a continuous need in the field of scroll machines for
improved lubricating techniques and systems of the scroll machinery.Conventionally, scroll compressors utilize a large bore located within the lower
portion of the crankshaft to act as a primary lubricant pump. This large bore or
primary pump is in communication with a smaller bore extending from the outer
circumference of the primary pump up through the top of the crankshaft to provide
lubricating fluid to all the various components of the compressor which require
lubrication. The lower portion of the crankshaft and thus the large bore is located
within a lubricant sump in the bottom of the compressor's shell to provide a
continued supply of lubricant to the primary pump.When the primary pump draws lubricant from the sump, often included with
this lubricant is a collection of debris including dirt, metal shavings, and other forms
of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A scroll machine (10) comprising:

a first scroll member (72) having on one side a first
spiral vane;
a second scroll member (30) having a second spiral vane
disposed in inter-engaging relationship with said first

spiral vane so that, as said first scroll member (72) orbits
with respect to said second scroll member (30), moving

pockets of changing volume are formed by said vanes;
drive means (26,44) for causing said scroll members
(30,72) to orbit with respect to one another; and
oil supply means (38,40,200) for supplying lubricating
oil from a sump to moving components of said scroll machine;

   characterised in that the machine further comprises:

means (201) for removing contaminants from said
lubricating oil and accumulating said removed contaminants in

a chamber (250) during operation of the machine, said means (201) being powered by said oil
supply means and including a device (201) for forming an

annular vortex in said lubricating oil whereby contaminants
in the lubricating oil in the annular vortex experience

outward acceleration forces which cause the contaminants to
move out of the vortex to remove to said chamber (250); and
means for preventing said removed contaminants from
leaving said chamber (250) and returning to said sump.
The scroll machine according to claim 1,
further comprising a magnet (206) disposed within said

chamber (250).
The scroll machine according to claim 1 or claim
2, wherein said oil supply means includes a shaft (32)

rotating within said sump, said shaft defining an axially
extending bore (38) which serves as a primary oil pump for

said oil supply means.
The scroll machine according to claim 3, wherein
said shaft (32) is a driveshaft associated with said drive

means (26,44).
The scroll machine according to claim 3 or claim
4, wherein said device (201) for forming a vortex 

comprises a stepped flowpath between said sump and said
axially extending bore (38) within said shaft, said stepped

flowpath causing said vortex.
The scroll machine according to claim 5,
wherein said stepped flowpath is formed by said means for

preventing said contaminants from leaving said chamber.
The scroll machine according to claim 5 or
claim 6, further comprising an impeller (202) disposed

within said axially extending bore (38), said impeller
being secured to said shaft for rotation therewith and

operable to assist in the formation of said annular vortex.
The scroll machine according to any one of
claims 5 to 7, wherein said shaft (32) and said means for

preventing said contaminants from leaving said chamber
forms an annular path between said annular vortex and said

chamber (250).
The scroll machine according to claim 1,
wherein said means for preventing said contaminants from

leaving said chamber comprises an annular member (204)
having an inlet end and an outlet end, said annular member

being secured to a housing of said scroll machine and in
conjunction with said housing of said scroll machine

defining said chamber (250).
The scroll machine according to claim 9,
further comprising a magnet (206) disposed within said

chamber (250).
The scroll machine according to claim 9 or
claim 10, wherein said inlet end defines a plurality of air

foil shaped vanes (228).
The scroll machine according to claim 11,
wherein said plurality of vanes (228) impart a negative

swirl to the lubricant moving between said inlet end and
said outlet end of said annular member (204).
The scroll machine according to any one of
claims 9 to 12, wherein said annular member (204) and said

scroll machine form a plurality of funnel shaped orifices 
(244), said plurality of funnel shaped orifices defining a

path for said contaminants between said means for removing
contaminants and said chamber (250).
The scroll machine according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said means for removing

contaminants includes a screen (260).
The scroll machine according to claim 1,
wherein:


said drive means includes a drive shaft (32) having a
first end extending into said lubricating oil in said sump

and defining an axial bore (38) extending from said first
end, said drive shaft being rotatably journaled in a lower

bearing housing (20);
said oil supply means includes a primary oil pump
defined by said axial bore (38);
said device (201) for forming a vortex includes a
dirt trap (204) fixedly secured to said lower bearing

housing (20) and defining a lubricant flow path between
said sump and said axial bore (38), said flow path having

an inlet end and an outlet end and being stepped at said
outlet end to create said vortex in a portion of the

lubricant being pumped from said sump to said axial bore,
said vortex being operable to separate contaminants from

said lubricant, said dirt trap (204) and said lower bearing
housing (20) defining said chamber; and
said means for preventing said contaminants from
leaving said chamber includes an annular passage for said

separated contaminants formed by said dirt trap (204) and
said driveshaft (32), said annular passage extending

between said vortex and said chamber.
The scroll machine according to claim 15,
further comprising a magnet (206) disposed in said cavity

formed by said dirt trap (204) and said lower bearing
housing (20).
The scroll machine according to claim 15 or
claim 16, further comprising an impeller (202) disposed 

within said axial bore (38), said impeller being secured to
said driveshaft (32) for rotation therewith and operable to

assist in the formation of said annular vortex.
The scroll machine according to any one of
claims 15 to 17, wherein said dirt trap (204) includes a

plurality of air foil shaped vanes (228) disposed at said
inlet end of said lubricant flow path, said plurality of

vanes being operable to impart a negative swirl to said
lubricant being pumped between said sump and said axial

bore.
The scroll machine according to any one of
claims 15 to 18, wherein said dirt trap (204) is formed

from plastic.
The scroll machine according to any one of
claims 15 to 19, wherein said dirt trap (204) and said

lower bearing housing (20) further define a plurality of
funnel shaped orifices disposed between said annular

passage and said cavity.
The scroll machine according to any one of
claims 15 to 20, further comprising a screen (260) disposed

within said lubricant flow path.
The scroll machine according to claim 1,
wherein said means for preventing said contaminants from

leaving said chamber includes means for holding a specified
volume of said contaminants in communication with said

means (201) for removing contaminants, said means for
holding a specified volume of said contaminants comprising

an annular member (204) having an inlet end and an outlet
end, said annular member being secured to a housing (20) of

said scroll machine (10) and in conjunction with said
housing of said scroll machine defining said chamber for

accumulating said contaminants.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
