<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for recovering magnesium sulfate products from mixtures of epsomite and halite
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01D308	C01D300	C01F500	C01F540	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01D	C01D	C01F	C01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01D3	C01D3	C01F5	C01F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A simple, efficient and inexpensive method 
of purifying magnesium sulfate from mixtures of 

epsomite and halite. The method allows for the 
preparation of substantially pure magnesium sulfate 

products. The method generally involves heating a 
mixture of epsomite and halite to form clusters of 

lower hydrated magnesium sulfate crystals and 
subsequently applying slight pressure to the clusters 

so that they collapse to yield fine, less hydrated 
magnesium sulfate crystals which can then be easily 

separated from the comparatively coarse halite 
crystals. The less hydrated magnesium sulfate 

crystals can be recrystallized to provide highly 
purified epsomite which can then be dehydrated to 

provide kieserite or anhydrous magnesium sulfate. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXPORTADORA DE SAL SACV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXPORTADORA DE SAL S.A. DE C.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SADAN ABRAHAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SADAN, ABRAHAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to the 
preparation of substantially pure magnesium sulfate 
products and more particularly to a method for 
recovering such products from mixtures of epsomite and 
halite. Magnesium sulfate monohydrate (MgSO4·H2O) and 
the higher hydrates of magnesium sulfate are naturally 
occurring materials having many uses. For example, 
they are known as fireproofing materials, as catalyst 
carriers, for use in warp-sizing and loading cotton 
goods, weighting silk, dyeing and calico printing, as 
an ingredient in mineral waters, and are used in 
ceramics, fertilizers, paper, cosmetic lotions, 
dietary supplements, laxatives, and as a therapeutic 
bath salt. A number of methods are known in the prior 
art for the production and purification of magnesium 
sulfate (MgSO4) and its hydrates. For example, these 
materials are sometimes produced by reacting sulfuric 
acid (H2SO4) with either magnesia (MgO) or magnesite 
(MgCO3). However, this method is very expensive and 
the magnesium sulfate produced may still require 
subsequent purification due to impurities present in 
the magnesia or magnesite feed stock. Alternatively, hydrated magnesium sulfate 
may be produced by dissolving kieserite (magnesium 
sulfate monohydrate) and then subsequently 
refrigerating this resulting solution.  
 Kieserite is mined in large quantities, for 
example in Germany, and after washing, supplies most 
of the world's magnesium sulfate market. It contains 
various impurities, however, including halite (i.e., 
sodium chloride) and, in addition, it comprises only 
89-93% magnesium sulfate monohydrate. Moreover, since 
the mined kieserite is only partly soluble in ambient 
water it is not acceptable for use in certain 
applications, for example, as a therapeutic bath salt 
or as a laxative. The refrigeration process described above 
requires the refrigeration of an unduly large amount 
of magnesium sulfate-containing solution to obtain a 
commercially desirable quantity of epsomite and is 
thus not particularly commercially feasible. For a 
further discussion of the refrigeration process, see, 
e.g., Fernàndez-Lozano, "Recovery of Epsomite and 
Sylvite from Seawater Bittern by Crystallization", 
Fourth Symposium on Salt, Alan H. Coogan, The Northern 
Ohio Geological Society, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio, Vol. 
2, pp. 501-510 (1974). Epsomite is a heptahydrate of magnesium 
sulfate having the chemical formula MgSO4·7H2O. It is 
often found mixed with halite (i.e., NaCl) in nature. 
Such mixtures are readily isolated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of recovering magnesium sulfate from a mixture 
of epsomite and halite, said method comprising: 


providing a mixture of epsomite and halite crystals; 
heating said mixture at a sufficient temperature for 
about 1 to 10 min to convert at least some of said epsomite 

crystals to clusters of comparatively finer magnesium sulfate 
crystals which are less hydrated than said epsomite; 
applying a sufficient amount of pressure to collapse at 
least some of said clusters into a plurality of substantially 

separate crystals of less hydrated magnesium sulfate in admixture 
with said halite; 
separating the less hydrated magnesium sulfate crystals 
from the halite crystals; and 
recovering the less hydrated magnesium sulfate crystals. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the mixture is heated at a 
temperature of between about 47°C and 83°C, for about 1 to 10 

min to convert said epsomite crystals to magnesium sulfate 
hexahydrate crystals. 
The method of claim 2 wherein said mixture is heated at a 
temperature of between about 60°C and 70°C for about 4 to 

about 6 min to convert substantially all said epsomite crystals 
to said magnesium sulfate hexahydrate crystals. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising recrystallizing 
said less hydrated magnesium sulfate crystals to convert  

 
subtantially all said less hydrated magnesium sulfate crystals 

to epsomite. 
The method of claim 4 wherein said magnesium sulfate 
crystals are recrystallized in an atmospheric crystallizer to 

convert substantially all said less hydrated magnesium sulfate 
crystals to high grade epsomite. 
The method of claim 5 which further comprises recrystallizing 
the high grade epsomite in a vacuum crystallizer to 

convert said high grade epsomite to pure grade epsomite. 
The method of claim 4 wherein said less hydrated magnesium 
sulfate crystals are recrystallized in a counter current 

belt filter extractor to convert said less hydrated magnesium 
sulfate crystals to high grade epsomite. 
The method of claim 4 further comprising dehydrating the 
epsomite crystals in a spray drier or fluidized bed drier. 
The method of claim 8 wherein a fluidized bed drier is 
used to dehydrate said epsomite crystals at a bed temperature 

of from about 400°C to about 500°C to convert said epsomite to 
anhydrous magnesium sulfate. 
The method of claim 8 wherein a fluidized bed drier is 
used to dehydrate said epsomite crystals at a bed temperature 

of from about 100°C to about 250°C to convert said epsomite to 
magnesium sulfate monohydrate. 
The method of claim 8 wherein a fluidized bed drier is 
used to dehydrate said epsomite crystals at a bed temperature 

of less than about 100°C to convert said epsomite to a hydrated 
magnesium sulfate product selected from the group consisting 

of magnesium sulfate dihydrate, magnesium sulfate trihydrate, 
magnesium sulfate tetrahydrate, magnesium sulfate 

pentahydrate, and magnesium sulfate hexahydrate.  
 
The method of claim 2 further comprising recrystallizing 
the magnesium sulfate hexahydrate crystals to form an epsomite 

product selected from the group consisting of high and pure 
grade epsomite. 
The method of claim 12 further comprising dehydrating the 
epsomite crystals in a spray drier or a fluidized bed drier. 
The method of claim 13 wherein a fluidized bed drier is 
used to dehydrate said epsomite crystals at a bed temperature 

of from about 400°C to about 500°C to convert said epsomite to 
anhydrous magnesium sulfate. 
The method of claim 13 wherein a fluidized bed drier is 
used to dehydrate said epsomite crystals at a bed temperature 

of from about 100°C to about 250°C to convert said epsomite to 
magnesium sulfate monohydrate. 
The method of claim 13 wherein a fluidized bed drier is 
used to dehydrate said epsomite crystals at a bed temperature 

of less than about 100°C to convert said epsomite to a hydrated 
magnesium sulfate product selected from the group consisting 

of magnesium sulfate dihydrate, magnesium sulfate trihydrate, 
magnesium sulfate tetrahydrate, magnesium sulfate 

pentahydrate, and magnesium sulfate hexahydrate. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the mixture is heated in an 
aqueous magnesium chloride medium. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the mixture is heated by 
directing a stream of relatively warm air thereupon, said air 

having a temperature sufficient to convert at least some of 
said epsomite crystals to clusters of comparatively finer 

magnesium sulfate crystals which are less hydrated than said 
epsomite.  

 
The method of claim 1 wherein the mixture is heated with 
an organic based liquid. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the mixture is heated with 
oil. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said oil is a mineral oil. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said clusters are collapsed 
by directing a flow of compressed air thereupon. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said clusters are collapsed 
by contacting them with at least one roller meant for applying 

a slight pressure thereto. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said magnesium sulfate 
crystals are separated from said halite crystals by elutriation. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the heating and pressure 
applying steps are carried out substantially simultaneously. 
The method of claim 3 which further comprises recrystallizing 
said magnesium sulfate hexahydrate to convert substantially 

all said magnesium sulfate hexahydrate crystals to 
epsomite. 
The method of claim 26 further comprising dehydrating 
epsomite crystals in a spray drier or a fluidized bed drier. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
