<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617831</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOTORIZED TWO-PIECE VIDEOCASSETTE ADAPTOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2304	G11B2506	G11B2304	G11B23087	G11B23087	G11B2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B23	G11B25	G11B23	G11B23	G11B23	G11B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKAVNAK JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURGEON THOMAS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKAVNAK, JAMES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURGEON, THOMAS, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a two-piece 
videocassette. In devices of this type, the cartridge is 
inserted into the cassette adaptor, and the composite 
two-piece assembly emulates an industry standard VHS 
videocassette. The use of an adaptor in combination with a 
tape cartridge for use as a videocassette has been 
proposed by US-A-4,920,436 (Novak). In 
Novak, the cartridge-to-cassette adaptor includes both a 
take-up reel and a tether leader structure which 
terminates with a tether connector. The tape cartridge, 
includes a tape supply reel, and a tape connector. In 
use, the cartridge is inserted into the adaptor and an 
interconnection is made between the take-up reel and the 
supply reel. In Novak the cartridge adaptor combination 
is placed directly into the videotape machine once the 
interconnection is formed. Many videotape tape machines 
have transport mechanisms which would be damaged by the 
direct use of a "passive" Novak type adaptor, because 
the interconnection hardware will not easily pass the 
through the tape transport system. EP-A-0 443 265 forms the basis of the preamble of claim 1. In this document an adapter for use with a supply 
reel tape cartridge is disclosed. The adapter includes a 
take up reel for receiving the tape from the supply reel, 
and includes cooperative mechanisms that once manually 
activated, function to advance the tape on the supply reel 
to the take up reel. The adapted with the supply reel, may 
now be placed in a conventional video cassette 
player/recorder apparatus or use. In US-A-4,595,962, a video cassette adaptor for 
receiving a miniature cassette is disclosed. The video 
cassette adaptor is of a size corresponding to a standard 
video cassette in order to be played in a conventional video 
cassette player/recorder apparatus. The present invention overcomes this problem 
and is directed to a motorized gear train which is 
incorporated within the adaptor for preparing the 
adaptor and cartridge combination for use in a 
conventional videotape machine. The user inserts the cartridge 10 into the 
adaptor 12 and actuates a user switch 49 to initiate an 
internal winding cycle. At the conclusion of play, the 
user again actuates the user switch 49 on the ejected 
adaptor, to initiate an internal rewind cycle. Power for 
the wind and rewind cycles is supplied by a motor 
assembly which includes a battery 44, a user activated  
  
 
switch 49, a pair of limit switches 40,41 and a motor 19 
and companion gear train assembly 21. The purpose of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A motorized adaptor (12) for use with a cartridge 
(10) of the type h
aving a single supply reel (14), said 
single supply reel (14) adapted to store tape and having a 

length of tape wound thereon, said supply reel (14) having 
a flange (35), said flange (35) having a plurality of gear-form 

teeth (50) on the periphery of said flange forming a 
supply reel gear flange (37), said adaptor (12) comprising: 


an adaptor housing (17) having a cartridge 
reception cavity (13), said cartridge reception cavity (13) 

adapted to receive said cartridge (10); 
a take-up reel (16) located within said adaptor 
housing (17) laterally adjacent said cartridge reception 

cavity (13), said take-up reel (16) having a flange, said 
flange having a plurality of gear-form teeth (50) located 

around the periphery of said flange forming a take-up 
reel gear flange (35); and 
gear train means (21) for driving said supply 
reel gear flange (37) and for driving said take-up reel 

gear flange (35); 
whereby said tape is moved from said supply 
reel (14) toward said take-up reel (16) during said internal 

wind cycle and said tape is moved from said take-up reel 
(16) toward said supply reel (14) during said internal rewind cycle; characterized by: 
motor means (19) located within said adaptor 
housing coupled to said gear train means (21) for 

supplying rotational motion to said gear train means (21); 
power means (44)coupled to said motor means (19) 
for supplying power to said motor means (19); 
initiation means (49) located within said adaptor 
housing coupled to said motor means for starting an 

internal wind cycle and for starting an internal rewind 
cycle; and 
termination means (40,42) located within said 
adaptor housing coupled to said motor means for stopping 

said internal wind cycle and for stopping said internal 
rewind cycle. 
The motorized adaptor of claim 1 wherein said 
gear train means (21) included:
 
   direction reversing subassembly means (54) for 

altering the direction of rotation of at least a portion 
of said gear train means (21) in response to the direction 

of rotation of said motor means (19). 
The motorized adaptor of claim 1 wherein said 
gear train means includes:
 
   clapper gear subassembly means (27) for engaging 

said gear train means (19) with either said take-up reel 
gear flange (35) or said supply reel gear flange (37) in 

response to the direction of rotation of said motor 
means (19). 
The motorized adaptor of claim 2 wherein said 
direction reversing subassembly (54) means comprises: 


a transfer gear arm (56), adapted for movement 
through an arc, centered about a first pivot axis (57), 

from a first position to a second position; 
a transfer gear (55) located on said transfer 
gear arm (56) mounted for rotation about a first rotation 

axis (47); 
whereby said transfer gear arm (56) moves from 
said first position to said second position in response 

to the direction of rotation of said motor means (19), 
said first position corresponding to a first gear ratio, 

and said second position corresponding to a second gear 
ratio different from said first gear ratio. 
The motorized adaptor of claim 2 wherein said 
direction reversing subassembly means comprises: 


a transfer gear arm (56), adapted for movement 
through an arc, centered about a first pivot axis (57), 

from a first position to a second position;  
 
a transfer gear (55) located on said transfer 
gear arm (56) mounted for rotation about a first rotation 

axis (47); 
whereby said transfer gear arm (56) moves from 
said first position to said second position in response 

to the direction of rotation of said motor means (19), 
said first position corresponding to a first gear 

rotation direction, and said second position 
corresponding to a second gear rotation direction 

different from said first gear rotation direction. 
The motorized adaptor of claim 3 wherein said 
clapper gear subassembly means comprises: 


a clapper gear arm, adapted for movement 
through an arc, centered about a second pivot axis, from 

a first position to a second position; 
a clapper gear located on said transfer gear 
arm mounted for rotation about a second rotation axis; 
whereby said clapper gear arm (15) moves from 
said first position to said second position in response 

to the direction of rotation of said motor means (19), 
said first position corresponding to engagement with 

said take-up reel gear flange (37), and said second 
position corresponding to engagement with said supply 

reel gear flange (35). 
The motorized adaptor of claim 1 wherein said 
motor means comprises:
 
   a reversible electric motor (19) having a first 

polarity corresponding to a first direction of rotation, 
and having a second polarity corresponding to a second 

direction of rotation. 
The motorized adaptor of claim 1 wherein said 
power means comprises:
 
   a battery (44) located with said adaptor housing 

(17).  
 
The motorized adaptor of claim 7 wherein said 
initiation means comprises:
 
   user activated switch means (48) for selecting 

between said first and second polarities. 
The adaptor of claim 1 wherein said termination 
means comprises: 


a first limit switch (40) for removing power from 
said motor means when said tape is proximate said take-up 

reel, defining the conclusion of said internal wind 
cycle; 
a second switch (42) for removing power from said motor means when said tape is proximate said supply 
reel, defining the conclusion of said internal rewind 

cycle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
