<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619710</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED METHOD OF FASTENING BRISTLE TUFTS TO BRISTLE CARRIER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A46B300	A46B306	A46B322	A46D300	A46D304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A46B	A46B	A46B	A46D	A46D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A46B3	A46B3	A46B3	A46D3	A46D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIRKSING ROBERT STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIRKSING, ROBERT, STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED METHOD OF FASTENING BRISTLE TUFTS TO BRISTLE CARRIERTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention pertains to an improved method of making thermoplastic brushes in which fused and thickened ends of bristle tufts are inserted into premolded holes with outwardly extending generally concentric collars on a brush member. The concentric collar material is heated and softened prior to inserting the bristle tufts. After insertion of the bristle tufts the softened collar material is displaced to fill the void about the thickened fastening ends of the bristle tufts. Upon cooling of the swaged collar material, the bristle tufts are locked in place.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Many processes for fastening thermoplastic bristle tufts to thermoplastic bristle carriers are disclosed in the prior art.U.S. Pat. No. 3,604,043 issued to Lewis on September 14, 1971 discloses a tuft attachment means wherein the end portions of a group of parallel fibers are heated in a shaping mold. The fibers remain in the heater long enough to fuse, but not melt, their ends and create a self-supporting heat-sealed tuft. The fused mass is shaped to a tapering configuration so that its cross-section, as measured perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the tuft, is less than the cross-section of the fiber bundle. The softened fused portion of the tuft is immediately inserted into a tuft hole in the brush head forcing the softened fused portion of the tuft to conform to the geometric confines of the tuft hole. U.S. Pat. No. 4,609,228 issued to Bickel on September 2,1986 discloses several different methods for attaching bristle tufts to a brush member. One such disclosed method is to heat both the pre-fused fastening ends of the bristle tufts and the corresponding fastening locations on the brush member to the point of softening and then cause the bristle tufts to be impressed against the brush member, thereby welding the bristle tufts to the brush member. Another disclosed method is to form a mushroom in a fused end of a bristle tuft by means of a heated mold and then injection molding the brush material about the mushroom to fasten the bristle tuft to the 

 brush member. Still another disclosed method is to form an undercut hole in the brush member and introduce the heated and softened end of a bristle bundle at high speed into the hole so that the softened end compresses and fills the hole. Still another disclosed method is to attach the bristle bundle by narrowing the outermost part of hole in the brush member by means of frictional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS: 1. An improved method for fastening thermoplastic bristle tufts to a thermoplastic bristle carrier, said method comprising the steps of: (a) injection molding said bristle carrier to include a multiplicity of premolded holes exhibiting a first predetermined cross-section on a receiving surface of said bristle carrier, each of said premolded holes including a generally concentric collar about said premolded hole, said collar projecting outwardly from said receiving surface;
(b) heating the fastening ends of the thermoplastic bristles contained in each of said bristle tufts to cause said fastening ends of said bristles fuse to one another and form a thickened fastening end portion on each of said bristle tufts, said thickened fastening end portion exhibiting a second cross-section, as measured perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said bristle tuft, said second cross-section being greater than the cross-section of the non-fused portions of said bristle tuft but no greater than said first predetermined cross-section of said premolded holes in said bristle carrier;
(c) heating said generally concentric collars and the adjacent side wall portions of said premolded holes to their point of softening with non-contact heating means;
(d) inserting said thickened fastening . end portions of said bristle tufts into said premolded holes and said concentric collars without substantial interference therebetween;
(e) swaging the softened thermoplastic material comprising said collars and the adjacent side wall portions of said premolded holes in said bristle carrier about said thickened fastening end portions of said bristle tufts; and
(f) cooling said softened thermoplastic material in said bristle carrier to lock sa-id thickened fastening end portions of said bristle tufts into said bristle carrier. 


 2. An improved method for fastening thermoplastic bristle tufts to a thermoplastic bristle carrier, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) injection molding said bristle carrier to include a multiplicity of premolded holes exhibiting a first predetermined cross-section on a receiving surface of said bristle carrier, each of said premolded holes including a generally concentric collar about said premolded hole, said collar projecting outwardly from said receiving surface; (b) heating the fastening ends of the thermoplastic bristles contained in each of said bristle tufts to cause said fastening ends of said bristles fuse to one another and form a thickened fastening end portion on each of said bristle tufts, said thickened fastening end portion exhibiting a second cross-section, as measured perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said bristle tuft, said second cross-section being greater than the cross-section of the non-fused portions of said bristle tuft but no greater than said first predetermined cross-section of said premolded holes in said bristle carrier;
(c) cooling said thickened fastening end portions of said bristle tufts to the point of solidification;
(d) heating said generally concentric collars and the adjacent side wall portions of said premolded holes to their point of softening with non-contact heating means;
(e) inserting said thickened fastening end portions of said bristle tufts into said premolded holes and said concentric collars without substantial interference therebetween using a bristle tuft clamp;
(f) swaging the softened thermoplastic material comprising said collars and the adjacent side wall portions of said premolded holes in said bristle carrier about said thickened fastening end portions of said bristle tufts using a swaging means which is integral with said bristle tuft clamp; and 


 - 12 -
(g) cooling said softened thermoplastic material in said bristle carrier to lock said thickened fastening end portions of said bristle tufts into said bristle carrier.
3. The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the volume of thermoplastic material comprising each of said generally concentric collars is at least equal to the void volume remaining within the corresponding premolded hole in said bristle carrier after the thickened fastening end portion of said bristle tuft has been completely inserted into said premolded hole.
4. The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein said generally concentric collars and the adjacent side wall portions of said premolded holes in said bristle carrier are softened by non-contact radiant heating.
5. The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein said generally concentric collars and the adjacent side wall portions of said premolded holes in said bristle carrier are softened by convection heating.
6. The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein said bristle carrier is injection molded to include a multiplicity of premolded holes and outwardly projecting generally concentric collars exhibiting an internal cross-section which generally increases, as measured from the bottom of said premolded holes in said bristle carrier in the direction of said collars.
7. The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein said bristle carrier is injection molded to include a multiplicity of premolded holes and outwardly projecting generally concentric collars and wherein the outermost peripheries of at least a portion of said generally concentric collars are discretely spaced from one another.
8. The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein said bristle carrier is injection molded to include a multiplicity of premolded holes and outwardly projecting generally concentric collars and 


wherein the outermost peripheries of at least a portion of said generally concentric collars contact one another to form a common web. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
