<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654131</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEALS WITH LOW THERMAL EXPANSION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K310	C09K310	F16J1516	F16J1516	H02G302	H02G306	H02G1500	H02G15013	H02G1502	H02G1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C09K	F16J	F16J	H02G	H02G	H02G	H02G	H02G	H02G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K3	C09K3	F16J15	F16J15	H02G3	H02G3	H02G15	H02G15	H02G15	H02G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved sealing system. The sealing system provides for the use of a body (2) defining a cavity (4). The cavity is filled or substantially filled with a material (6) having a lower coefficient of thermal expansion than the body and, in some embodiments, a material that expands at low temperature. During low temperature operation, the body may shrink considerably, but the compressive force applied between two surfaces will not decrease appreciably due to the internal, low coefficient of thermal expansion filler. Accordingly, the risk of seal failure at low temperature is substantially reduced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYCHEM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYCHEM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAMARRA JOSE P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAMARRA, JOSE, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SEALS WITH LOW THERMAL EXPANSIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to the field of sealing systems and methods of forming seals. For instance, in one embodiment the invention provides a seal system that is resistant to leakage due to low temperatures, as well as a method of using such sealing systems and methods of their manufacture. Gaskets and other sealing members are used in a broad array of applications to prevent encroachment of material beyond two adjoining surfaces. Such gaskets are normally placed between the two surfaces and the two surfaces are brought together, compressing the gasket between the two surfaces. Accordingly, fluids, gases and other materials are prevented from flowing between the two surfaces. Such gaskets have been made from many different materials ranging from cork to exotic elastomers. Representative gaskets are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,524,794, 4,196,162, 4,317,575, and 2,806,509.Often gaskets are subjected to low temperatures during their life cycle. Although the gasket may seal satisfactorily at its installation temperature, as the temperature decreases the size of the seal decreases. Therefore, a decrease in the compressive force between the surfaces abutting the gasket is often observed during low temperature operations. When the compressive force decreases beyond a certain level, the gasket will be subject to leakage and failure. Fig. 1 illustrates the volume change (in %, from 20°C) as a function of temperature for various elastomers. As seen, the volume change is significant, and this can hurt gasket performance at low temperatures. The data therein are taken from Robbins et al. , Adv. Crvoα. Enσ. (1963) pgs. 287-299. 

 While substantial work has been done to improve the life and sealing capabilities of gaskets used at high temperatures, less work has been done to solve the problems of gaskets operated at low temperatures. In large part, such efforts- have been directed at different materials such as those described in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,093,432, 4,981,727, 4,673,187, and 4,580,794. While meeting with some success, such gasket materials have continued to be subject to failure, especially during low temperature operations.From the above it is seen that improved methods and articles for gasket formation are needed.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An improved sealing system is provided by virtue of the present invention. The sealing system provides for the use of a body defining a cavity. The cavity is filled or substantially filled with a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS. CLAIMED IS:
1. A sealing member comprising: an elastomeric body defining an internal cavity, said elastomeric body formed to engage at least two surfaces to be sealed against leakage, said elastomeric body having a first coefficient of thermal expansion; and a compliant filling material, said compliant filling material selected from the group consisting of materials with a coefficient of thermal expansion less than said first coefficient of thermal expansion, materials that expand with lowering temperature on at least a portion of a temperature range of interest, and combinations thereof.
2. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said filling material substantially fills more than 50% of the internal volume of said body.
3. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said filling material fills more than 70% of the internal volume of said body.
4. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said fill material has a coefficient of thermal expansion of less than 200xl0
-6
 m/m/°K.
5. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said fill material has a coefficient of thermal expansion of less than 5xl0
"6
 m/m/°K.
6. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said body is a thermoset elastomer.
7. A sealing member as recited in claim 6 wherein said body is silicone rubber. 


 8. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said filling material comprises a material selected from the group consisting of glass, graphite, carbon, ceramic, epoxy, mica, and combinations thereof.
9. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said filling material comprises finely divided glass.
10. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said filling material comprises finely divided solid particles.
11. A sealing member as recited in claim 10 wherein said solid particles have an average diameter of less than 1000 microns.
12. A sealing member as recited in claim 10 wherein said solid particles have an average diameter of less than 500 microns.
13. A sealing member as recited in claim 10 wherein said particles are closely packed whereby a void volume in said cavity is less than about 50%.
14. A sealing member as recited in claim 10 wherein interstices between said particles are unfilled.
15. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein a compressive force generated between two said sealing member and adjoining surfaces is substantially greater when a temperature of said gasket is lowered from 20°C to -40°C than a sealing member made entirely of a material of fabrication of said body.
16. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said filling material expands at temperatures below 4°C. 


 17. A sealing member as recited in claim 16 wherein said filling material comprises a material selected from the group consisting of water, hydrogels, water swellable polymers, and combinations thereof.
18. A sealing member as recited in claim 16 wherein said filling material is a hydrogel selected from the group consisting of polyethylene oxide, polyacrylic and polymethacrylic acids, polyacrylic and polymethacrylic esters, polyhydroxyalkyl metacrylates or acrylates, polyacrylamide or polymetarylamide, poly-n-isopropyl- acrylamide, poly-n-vinyl-l-2-pyrrolidinone, crosslinked polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl propynol, polyethylene oxide, carboxymethyl or hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, crosslinked polypropenoic acid, polyelectrolyte complexes, charge polymers carrying ionizable groups, and mixtures thereof.
19. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said body is cylindrically shaped and contains a longitudinal aperture therethrough.
20. A sealing member as recited in claim 19 wherein said cylindrically shaped body is split along a side thereof, said split comprising at least a substantially lateral segment therein.
21. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 further comprising a mastic adjacent one of said surfaces to be sealed.
22. A seal as recited in claim 21 wherein said mastic is selected from the group consisting of thermoset gels, thermoplastic gels, mastics, putties, pastes, polyisobutylene, grease, extended rubber, and combinations thereof. 


 23. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 wherein said filling material comprises a conductor, whereby said seal provides electromagnetic and radio frequency protection.
24. A sealing member as recited in claim 1 further comprising a seal carrier selected from the group consisting of thin walled enclosures, inside/outside gasketed wall enclosures, single piston enclosures, and seam sealing enclosures.
25. A seal comprising at least a ring of material having a first coefficient of thermal expansion, said ring surrounding an internal body, a wall of said body engageable with a surface to be sealed, said ring of material having a coefficient of thermal expansion less than said body, whereby upon cooling said ring contracts to forcibly engage said wall with said surface to be sealed. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
