<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638741</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Planetary type traction roller transmission.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H1300	F16H1306	F16H1500	F16H1550	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H13	F16H13	F16H15	F16H15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a high ratio planetary transmission which 
includes in a housing (1, 2) coaxial input and output shafts 

(3, 4), a first sun roller structure (8) which is part of 
one (3) of the shafts (3, 4) and disposed within the housing 

(1, 2), a first traction ring (10) which is disposed within 
the housing (1, 2) around the first sun roller structure (8) 

in spaced relationship therefrom, and a number of planetary 
traction rollers (11) supported in the space between the sun 

roller structure (8) and the first traction ring (10), each 
traction roller (11) has two sections (11a, 11b) of different 

diameters, one (11a) in engagement with the first traction 
ring (10) and with the sun roller structure (8) and the 

other section (11b) in engagement with a second traction 
ring (17) which is operatively connected for rotation with 

the other (4) of the input and output shafts (3,4) whereby, 
with a small difference in the diameters of the two traction 

roller sections, a large transmission ratio can be achieved. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXCELERMATIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXCELERMATIC INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVE DANIEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVE, DANIEL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a planetary type transmission 
with a high transmission ratio. Such high ratio transmissions are needed for converting 
rotary motion of a high speed motor shaft, for example, 
for low speed, high torque applications. In order to achieve extremely high transmission 
ratios it is generally necessary to use several transmission 
stages. This can also be achieved however by a differential 
arrangement of a planetary transmission with planetary gears 
having each two sections of different diameters, that is, 
with a slightly different number of gears, wherein the sun 
gear of the planetary transmission is a stationary gear ring 
each in engagement with one diameter section and a rotatable 
gear ring which is connected to the transmission output 
shaft in engagement with the other diameter section of the 
planetary gears. The smaller the difference between the two 
diameter sections the larger is the transmission ratio, the 
largest ratio being present if the difference between the 
two diameter sections is only one tooth. It is noted however 
that such transmissions develop such large torques that 
they require a shear pin or a slipping clutch to protect the 
transmission from overloads in extreme overload situations, 
for example, if the load locks up. It is the object of the present invention to provide 
such a differential type high ratio planetary type 
transmission which is inherently protected from overloads,  
 
which permits to provide for any design ratio and which is 
relatively inexpensive to manufacture. With this object in view the present invention 
resides in a high ratio planetary transmission as defined in 
claim 1. With this transmission, creeping will only 
increase somewhat when an overload occurs allowing for zero 
output speed while the maximum transmission design torque 
will remain. The contact surfaces are lubricated so that 
the increased creeping will cause no damage to the transmission. The invention will become more readily apparent 
from the following description of a preferred embodiment 
thereof shown, by way of example only, in the accompanying 
drawings, wherein: 
Figure 1 shows a planetary traction roller transmission 
with predetermined engagement forces; Fig. 2 shows a similar arrangement which, however, 
includes cam structures to provide torque-dependent engagement 
forces; Fig. 3 shows an arrangement similar to Fig. 2 but 
with a single cam structure providing torque-dependent 
engagement forces for both traction rings; and Fig. 4 shows an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A planetary type traction roller transmission 
comprising a housing (1), coaxial input and output shafts 

(3, 4) rotatably supported in said housing (1, 2), a first 
sun roller structure (8) associated with one (3) of said 

input and output shafts (3, 4) in said housing (1), a first 
traction ring (10) disposed in said housing (1) around said 

first sun roller structure (8) and having a traction surface 
spaced from said sun roller structure (8) and, a number of 

planetary traction rollers (11) supported in the space 
between said sun roller structure (8) and the traction surface 

of said first traction ring (10), characterized in that 
said planetary traction rollers (11) each have two sections 

(11a, 11b) of different diameters, one section (11a) being 
in engagement with the traction surface of said first traction 

ring (10) and said sun roller structure (8), and that a 
second traction ring (17) is operatively connected for rotation 

with the other (4) of said input and output shafts (3, 
4) and surrounds the second sections (11b) of said planetary 

traction rollers (11) and are in engagement therewith for 
the transmission of motion between said second planetary 

roller section (11b) and said second traction ring (17). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 1, wherein a second sun roller structure (19) is disposed 

adjacent said first sun roller structure (8) and sized 
so as to fit into the space surrounded by said second section 

(11b) of said planetary traction rollers (11) in order 
to provide radial support for the second sections (11b) of 

the planetary traction rollers (11). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 2, characterized in that said one shaft (3) extends 

through said second sun roller structure (19) and is rotatably 
supported in said other shaft (4). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 3, characterized in that said second sun roller structure 

(19) is rotatably supported on said one shaft (3) by a 
pilot bearing (20). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 3 or 4, characterized in that said planetary traction 

rollers (11) are rotatably supported on support shafts (14) 
mounted at opposite ends to planetary traction roller support 

rings (12, 15) disposed at opposite ends of said planetary 
traction rollers (11). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 5, characterized in that at least one (12) of said 

traction roller support rings (12, 15) is a support disc 
with a central opening receiving said input shaft (3) and 

being rotatably supported thereon by a bearing (13). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
any one of claims 1 to 6, characterized in that said planetary 

traction rollers (11) are supported with their axes 
slightly inclined with respect to the axis of the input and 

output shafts (3, 4) and the surfaces of said two sections 
(11a, 11b) of the planetary traction rollers (11) are 

slightly conical and the traction surfaces of said traction 
rings (10, 17) are also conical according to the respective 

planetary traction roller section surfaces to provide for 
radial engagement of the traction surfaces by axial engagement 

forces between the planetary traction rollers (11) and 
the traction rings (10, 17). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 7, characterized in that a first axial cam structure 

(21) is arranged between said first traction ring (10') and 
said housing (1, 2) for axially forcing said first traction 

ring (10' ) onto said first planetary traction roller sections 
(11a) with a force depending on the reaction torque 

 
force applied to the first traction ring (10') by the planetary 

traction rollers (11). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 8, characterized in that said second shaft (4) 

includes a drive disc (18) extending around said second 
traction ring (17') and a second axial cam structure (22) is 

connected to said drive disc (18) for axially forcing said 
second traction ring (17') onto said second traction roller 

sections (11b) with a force depending on the reaction torque 
force applied to the second traction ring (17') by the planetary 

traction rollers (11). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 8, characterized in that said second shaft (4) 

includes a drive disc (18'), said second traction ring (17') 
and said second traction ring (17''') is axially but not 

rotationally movably supported on said drive disc (18') and 
an axial thrust bearing (27) is disposed between said first 

and second traction rings (10', 17''')for transmitting axial 
engagement forces from said first (10') to said second traction 

ring (17'''). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 10, characterized in that said second traction ring 

(17''') is supported on said drive disc (18') via a linear 
bearing structure (28). 
A traction roller transmission according to 
claim 10, characterized in that said second traction ring 

(17''') is supported on said drive disc (18') by a flexible 
drive plate structure (29) connected at its outer end to 

said second traction ring (17''') and at its inner end to 
said drive disc (18'). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
