<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633400</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Adaptiv hydropneumatic pulsation damper
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04B1100	F15B108	F16L5504	F04B1100	F16L55053	F15B100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04B	F15B	F16L	F04B	F16L	F15B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04B11	F15B1	F16L55	F04B11	F16L55	F15B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an adaptive hydropneumatic pulsation damper which is especially suitable for hydraulic systems prone to pulsations and having a greatly varying operating pressure and makes possible during an effective damping action a hydraulically rigid coupling between the elements, e.g. pressure source and consumer, of a hydraulic system. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A passive adaptive hydropneumatic pulsation damper suitable for hydraulic systems
of changing operating pressure and subject to pulsation, in particular hydraulic systems

with pulsatingly functioning pumps, with a gaseous or vaporous medium which is subject
to the pulsations of the hydraulic medium and which is enclosed in a vapour or gas-carrying

chamber coupled to the hydraulic system and which forms a flexible-volume
buffer which can be adapted to the hydraulic pressure, characterised in that the buffer (12,

12') formed by the gaseous or vaporous medium is subject to the pressure of the hydraulic
system (4) via a relatively unthrottled path (7, 8, 11) which only permits displacement of

a small quantity of hydraulic medium, and also via a throttled path (15, 15') which allows
the displacement of large quantities of the hydraulic medium.
A pulsation damper according to claim 1, characterised in that a diaphragm (8) is
disposed in the relatively unthrottled path (7, 8 11) to limit the quantity of hydraulic

medium which can be displaced in unthrottled manner, in the fashion of a shut-off between
abutment surfaces limiting the mobility of the diaphragm (8).
A pulsation damper according to claim 2, characterised in that one side of the
diaphragm (8) is subject to the gaseous or vaporous medium.
A pulsation damper according to claim 2, characterised in that the diaphragm (8) is
subject to the hydraulic medium on both its sides and separates from each other two

hydraulic zones (14, 14') which communicate via the throttled path, one hydraulic zone
being disposed in and communicating in relatively throttle-free fashion with the gas or

vapour-containing chamber (14) while the other hydraulic zone is disposed in and
communicates in relatively throttle-free fashion with the hydraulic system (4).
A pulsation damper according to claim 4, characterised in that the throttled path is
constructed as a throttling orifice (15') in the diaphragm (8). 
A pulsating damper according to one of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that a non-return
valve (24) is disposed in parallel with the throttled path and opens in the direction

of the hydraulic system (4).
A pulsation damper according to one of claims 2 to 6, characterized in that the
diaphragm (8) is of plate-like construction and is disposed in the equator plane of a

substantially lenticular diaphragm working chamber (7) which forms an upper abutment
face on one side of the diaphragm and a lower abutment face on the other side of and for

the diaphragm (8).
A pulsation damper according to one of claims 1 to 7, characterised in that the gas
or vapour-containing chamber (14) is sub-divided by a separating member (13) which

isolates the enclosed gaseous or vaporous medium in respect of the hydraulic medium
with a considerable range of diaphragm travel and low-resistance mobility into a hydraulic

zone connected to the hydraulic system (4) via at least the throttled hydraulic path (15,
15'), and a gas or vapour zone (12, 12').
A pulsation damper according to claim 8, characterised in that the separating member
(13) is constructed as a bellows.
A pulsation damper according to claim 8, characterised in that the separating member
(13) is constructed as a diaphragm.
A pulsation damper according to claim 8, characterised in that the separating member
(13) is constructed as a sac.
A pulsating damper according to claim 8, characterised in that the separating member
(13) is constructed as a piston. 
A pulsation damper according to one of claims 1 to 12, characterised in that the
throttled path (15, 15') only permits, in comparison with the pulsations, substantially slow

variations in pressure in the gas or vapour-containing chamber (14).
A pulsation damper according to one of claims 2 to 13, characterised in that the side
of the diaphragm (8) for limiting the displacement of hydraulic medium and which faces

the hydraulic system (4) is constructed as a chamber through which hydraulic medium
flows and which has a separate inlet (9) and outlet (10), whereby the inlet (9) and outlet

(10) provide for passage preferably at right-angles to the plane of the diaphragm and are
so disposed that the direction of flow is reversed between inlet (9) and outlet (10).
A pulsation damper according to one of claims 1 to 14, characterised in that a
separate pressure source is prodded for the suppl
y of hydraulic pressure to the gas or
vapour-containing chamber (1).
A pulsation damper according to one of claims 1 to 15, characterised in that the
gaseous or vaporous medium is at a pressurising pressure.
A pulsation damper according to claim 16, characterised in that a further pulsation
damper (27, 28) is provided which exercises a damping effect essentially only at a pressure

which is below the pressurising pressure and which can only accommodate minor
quantities of hydraulic medium.
A pulsation damper according to claim 17, characterised in that the further pulsation
damper comprises a diaphragm (28) adapted for limited movement and of which one side

is subject to the action of the hydraulic medium in the hydraulic system while the other
side is subject only to atmospheric pressure or a minimal pneumatic pressure.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
