<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631431</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An image processing apparatus for and a method of preparing data representing a colour image.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T100	G06T100	G06T500	G06T500	G09G116	G09G116	H04N146	H04N146	H04N160	H04N160	H04N904	H04N904	H04N964	H04N964	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G09G	G09G	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T1	G06T1	G06T5	G06T5	G09G1	G09G1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image processing apparatus (1) comprises a colour 
image scanner (2) for producing digital data defining 

pixels representing an image in terms of cyan (C), 
magenta (M), yellow (Y) and black (K) components. The 

CMYK data from the scanner is received by a conversion 
processor (5) and a colour converter (6). The colour 

converter (6) together with a format converter (7) 
converts the CMYK data into RGB data, representing the 

image in terms of its red, green and blue components, 
for processing by a drawing processor (9). The 

operation of the scanner (2) is adjustable to a desired 
setting to provide CMYK data to which a colour 

correction has been applied. In order that the RGB data 
accurately represents the colour content of the image 

the effect of the colour correction must be removed. 
This is achieved by scanning an image of a grey scale 

with the scanner (2) set to a reference setting and set 
to the desired setting to obtain two sets of CMYK data 

which are analysed by the conversion processor (5) to 
determine a relationship therebetween. With this 

information the conversion processor (5) calculates 
conversion parameters for use by the colour converter 

(6). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUANTEL LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUANTEL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH JONATHAN PRICE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, JONATHAN PRICE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an image processing 
apparatus for and a method of preparing data 
representing a colour image. In electronic image processing systems images are 
normally defined by data representing an array of 
picture elements with each picture element being 
defined in terms of its red, green and blue content. 
Any three colour components could in fact be used to 
represent a picture element but red, green and blue 
are chosen because in electronic image processing 
systems a television-type monitor is usually provided 
for display of an image and the colours red, green and 
blue correspond to the three colour phosphors used in 
a TV-type monitor. The screen of a monitor is usually 
dark (black) and during the display of an image the 
phosphors are stimulated to emit red, green and blue 
light components which are summed in the eye of a 
person viewing the monitor and thereby seen as the 
appropriate colour by the viewer. Thus, the red, 
green, blue (RGB) colour format is an additive colour 
format. Electronic image processing systems are also used 
to process images prior to printing. Images are 
usually printed onto white paper and in order to 
achieve the correct colour when the printed image is 
viewed inks are used to absorb light which would  
 
otherwise reflect from the white paper, thereby 
leaving only the unabsorbed light to be seen as the 
appropriate colour by the viewer. In printing, cyan, 
magenta and yellow inks are used with cyan ink 
absorbing the colour red, magenta ink absorbing the 
colour green and yellow ink absorbing the colour blue. 
The cyan, magenta, yellow (CMY) colour format is a 
subtractive colour format. In theory any colour can be reproduced completely 
using only cyan, magenta and yellow inks. However, in 
practice there are several limitations in the printing 
process which will result in cyan, magenta and yellow 
inks not producing a printed image containing the 
correct colour. Firstly, the cyan, magenta and yellow 
inks that are available for printing are not perfect 
absorbers of red, green and blue light respectively. 
As a result darker areas of the image will not tend to 
be seen as black (all colours absorbed) but will 
instead tend to be seen as a dark purple or brown 
colour. Secondly, in dark areas relatively large 
amounts of all three inks should be used to create the 
dark colour, but laying large amounts of different 
coloured inks onto a single area of paper often 
results in the ink smearing and can result in a 
greater amount of ink
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of preparing data representing a colour 
image from a colour image scanner having adjustable 

scanning characteristics, the method comprising: 
   scanning an image of a monochrome scale comprising 

multiple different monochrome values with the scanning 
characteristics adjusted to a reference setting to 

obtain first colour separation data representative of 
the scale; 

   scanning the image of the monochrome scale with the 
scanning characteristics adjusted to a desired setting 

to obtain second colour separation data representative 
of the scale; 

   determining a relationship between the first colour 
separation data and the second colour separation data 

for the different monochrome values in the scale; 
   scanning the colour image with the scanning 

characteristics adjusted to the desired setting to 
obtain first image colour separation data representing 

a first set of colour separations which together form 
the colour image; 

   adjusting the first image colour separation data 
depending on the determined relationship to produce 

second image colour separation data representing a 
second set of colour separations which together form the 

colour image, the second image colour separation data 
 

being in or directly convertible to a form suitable for 
processing by an electronic image processing system. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising 
employing a grey scale as the monochrome scale. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, comprising 
adjusting the reference and desired settings of the 

scanner so that the first and the second colour 
separation data representative of the scale comprise 

data representing printing ink colour separations. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 or 3, 
comprising disposing the reference setting of the 

scanner so that the first set of colour separations 
which together form the colour image comprises printing 

ink colour separations. 
A method as claimed in claim 4, comprising 
disposing the reference setting of the scanner so that 

the first set of colour separations comprises cyan, 
magenta, yellow and black colour separations. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, 
comprising disposing the desired setting of the scanner 

so that the second set of colour separations comprises 
 

cyan, magenta and yellow colour separations. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, further 
comprising processing the second image colour separation 

data to produce processed separation data representing 
a processed version of the image; and 

   converting the processed separation data depending 
on the determined relationship into converted data 

representing the processed version of the image as 
separations in said first set of colour separations. 
An image processing apparatus comprising: 
   a colour image scanner (2) having adjustable 

scanning characteristics for providing colour separation 
data representing a 
scanned image; 
   a conversion processor (5) for receiving first 

colour separation data representing an image of a 
monochrome scale comprising multiple different 

monochrome values with the scanning characteristics of 
the scanner adjusted to a reference setting and second 

colour separation data representing the image of the 
monochrome scale with the scanning characteristics 

adjusted to a desired setting, the conversion processor 
being adapted to determine a relationship between the 

first colour separation data and the second colour 
separation data for the different monochrome values in 

 
the scale; 

   a colour converter (6) for receiving from the image 
scanner with the scanning characteristics adjusted to 

the desired setting first image colour separation data 
representing a first set of colour separations which 

together form a colour image and for converting the 
first image colour separation data into second image 

colour separation data representing a second set of 
colour separations which together form the colour image 

depending on the relationship determined by the 
conversion processor; and 

   a store (8) for storing the second image colour 
separation data. 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in claim 
8, further comprising a first format converter (7) for 

receiving the second image colour separation data from 
the colour converter (6), for converting the same to a 

format which facilitates further processing thereof and 
for outputting the converted second colour separation 

data for storage in the store (8). 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in claim 
8 or 9, further comprising a drawing processor (9) 

responsive to a user operable input device (10) for 
processing the data stored in the store. 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in claim 
10, wherein the drawing processor (9) is adapted to read 

selected data from the store (8) in response to user 
operation of the input device (10), to modify the read 

data and to write the thus modified data to the store 
replacing corresponding data previously stored therein. 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in claim 
10 or 11, wherein the drawing processor (9) is adapted 

to modify substantially all of the data in the store (8) 
in response to user operation of the input device (10). 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in any of 
claims 8 to 12 further comprising a monitor (11) for 

displaying the image represented by the data stored in 
the store. 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in any of 
claims 8 to 13 further comprising a second format 

converter (12) for converting the data in the store into 
a format corresponding to that of said second colour 

separation data depending on the relationship determined 
by the conversion processor (5). 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in claim 
14, further comprising an image setter (3) for receiving 

 
data from the second format converter and for producing 

image colour separations for use in printing the image 
represented by the data from the second format 

converter. 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in any of 
claims 8 to 15, further comprising a data library (30) 

for storing said first and second colour separation data 
for the conversion processor. 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in any of 
claims 8 to 16, wherein the colour converter (6) 

comprises a plurality of look up tables (24, 25, 26) 
defining the relationship between said first colour 

separation data and said second colour separation data. 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in claim 
17, wherein the first colour separation data comprises 

data representing cyan, magenta, yellow and black 
separations (CMYK), and the second colour separation 

data comprises data representing cyan, magenta and 
yellow separations (C'M'Y') the colour converter 

comprising a look up table (24, 25, 26) responsive to 
the black separation data of said first colour 

separation data for providing for each of the cyan, 
magenta and yellow separations of said second colour 

 
separation data a correction value to be applied to the 

respective cyan, magenta and yellow separations (CMY) of 
said first colour separation data. 
An image processing apparatus as claimed in claim 
18, wherein the colour converter comprises a plurality 

of summing units (27, 28, 29) connected to a respective 
one of the plurality of look up tables for summing the 

correction values to the respective cyan, magenta and 
yellow separations (CMY) of said first colour separation 

data. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
