<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632890</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR SEPARATING AND MOBILIZING SOLUTES IN A SOLUTE MIXTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5702	B01D5702	G01N27447	G01N27447	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D57	B01D57	G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides processes for isoelectric focusing ("IEF") and associated detection, which incorporates a dynamic means of electroosmotic flow ("EOF") control during IEF and/or after IEF to effect solute mobilization. In accordance with the present invention, the EOF control during IEF and/or solute mobilization after IEF are accomplished by applying an external electric field, relative to an internal electric field, to modify the electroosmotic flow in the capillary. This can be done by disposing a conductive member at one or more locations outside and along the buffer column in the capillary. The conductive member may be statically charged or caused to conduct a current to create the external required electric field. The applied external electric field may be adjusted, relative to the external electric field, during IEF necessary to reduce or completely suppress EOF to prevent flow of the buffer. Upon the completion of IEF (irrespective of the method of reducing or removing EOF during IEF), the external electric field is adjusted, relative to the internal electric field, such that the buffer carrying the focused solutes are moved electroosmotically through the capillary past a detection point. The present invention is applicable to internally coated capillary which suppresses EOF even in the absence of the external electric field.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERRICK STEVEN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERNBERG JAMES C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERRICK, STEVEN, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERNBERG, JAMES, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR SEPARATING AND MOBILIZING SOLUTES IN A SOLUTE MIXTUREBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to methods and apparatus for focusing and mobilizing solutes of an aqueous solute mixture. More particularly, the present invention involves the mobilization of focused protein zones past a detector associated with a capillary isoelectric focusing apparatus without relying upon the application of pressure, vacuum, or buffer changes.Description of Relevant Art Recently capillary isoelectric focusing ("IEF") techniques have emerged as a powerful tool for rapidly separating, analyzing and quantitating small quantities of proteins. These techniques are based upon traditional isoelectric focusing principles and are carried out in free solution of amphoteric buffers within a length of capillary tubing. Capillary isoelectric focusing is a form of capillary electrophoresis which separates or fractionates proteins according to their isoelectric point ("pi"). Typically, protein focusing processes are performed in a medium containing a mixture of ampholytes which form a pH gradient extending along the length of the capillary in the presence of an electric field. The IEF process involves applying an electric field through the ampholytes along the interior of the capillary. Under the influence of the electric field, the solutes at one end of the capillary migrate along the capillary length until each solute reaches a location at which the pi of the solute corresponds to the local pH (i.e. a location of zero net charge) . After the migration is complete and all the solutes are stabilized at their respective focused zones, the 

solute zones are mobilized past a detector to determine the relative migration distance or time of each solute. Then, from plots of elution time versus pi of known solutes focused according to the same conditions, the pi corresponding to each unknown protein is determined. Since IEF is a process in which the solutes seek their "focus" position in a separation medium, it is important that the medium remains stationary during migration of the solutes to their respective positions in the medium. A phenomenon which frustrates this objective is electroosmosis flow ("EOF") which inherently occurs in electrophoresis being carried out in silica containing capillary tubes. This phenomenon arises from a potential, termed the zeta potential, which develops between the inner surface of the silica tubing and a diffuse layer in the buffer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A process for isoelectric focusing comprising the steps of: providing a length of capillary having a flow path filled with a buffer suitable for isoelectric focusing; introducing a mixture of solutes into the buffer; applying an internal electric field across the buffer along the flow path of the capillary, said field causing isoelectric focusing of the solutes; applying an external electric field to adjust, relative to the internal field, the electroosmostic flow rate of the buffer in the capillary during application of the internal field for isoelectric focusing.
2. A process as in claim 1 further comprising the step of adjusting the external electric field to reduce the electroosmotic flow during isoelectric focusing of the solutes.
3. A process as in claim 1 further comprising the step of adjusting the external electric field to obtain a desire electroosmotic flow rate after isoelectric focusing thereby to mobilize the isoelectric focused solutes.
4. A process as in claim 1 wherein the external electric field is applied by applying a current through a conductive member disposed outside the flow path and along a section of the length of the capillary.
5. A process as in claim 1 wherein the external field is applied by applying a voltage to an electrically isolated conductive member disposed outside the flow path and at at least one location along the capillary. 


 6. In a capillary isoelectric focusing process in which an internal electric field is applied across a suitable buffer in a length of capillary for isoelectric focusing sample solutes, a detection method comprising the steps of: after isoelectric focusing of the solutes, applying an external electric field, still in the presence of an internal electric field, so as to cause electroosmotic flow of the buffer in the capillary to thereby mobilize the solutes past a detector.
7. A process as in claim 6 wherein the external electric field is applied by applying a current through a conductive member disposed outside the flow path and along a section of the length of the capillary.
8. A process as in claim 6 wherein the external field is applied by applying a voltage to an electrically isolated conductive member disposed outside the flow path and at at least one location along the capillary.
9. A process as in claim 6 wherein the capillary has a coating on its inside wall which substantially suppresses electroosmotic flow in the absence of the external electric field during isoelectric focusing.
10. An apparatus for isoelectric focusing comprising: a length of capillary having a flow path filled with a buffer suitable for isoelectric focusing; a mixture of solutes introduced into the buffer; means for applying an internal electric field across the buffer along the flow path of the capillary, said field causing isoelectric focusing of the solutes; means for applying an external electric field to the buffer; 


 means for adjusting the external electric field, relative to the internal electric field, to reduce the electroosmostic flow rate of the buffer in the capillary during application of the internal field for isoelectric focusing, and for adjusting the external electric field to obtain a desired electroosmotic flow after isoelectric focusing thereby to mobilize the isoelectric focused solutes.
11. An apparatus as in claim 10 wherein said means for adjusting the external electric field reduces the electroosmotic flow during isoelectric focusing of the solutes.
12. An apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the means for applying the external electric field includes a conductive member disposed outside the flow path and along a section of the length of the capillary, and means for applying a current through said conductive member.
13. .An apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the means for applying the external field includes an electrically isolated conductive member disposed outside the flow path and at at least one location along the capillary, and means for applying a voltage to said conductive member.
14. .An apparatus for isoelectric focusing comprising: a length of capillary having a flow path filled with a buffer suitable for isoelectric focusing; a mixture of solutes introduced into the buffer; means for applying an internal electric field across the buffer along the flow path of the capillary, said field causing isoelectric focusing of the solutes; means for applying an external electric field to the buffer to obtain a desired electroosmotic flow after 


isoelectric focusing thereby to mobilize the isoelectric focused solutes.
15. An apparatus as in claim 14 wherein the means for applying the external electric field includes a conductive member disposed outside the flow path and along a section of the length of the capillary, and means for applying a current through said conductive member.
16. An apparatus as in claim 14 wherein the means for applying the external field includes an electrically isolated conductive member disposed outside the flow path and at at least one location along the capillary, and means for applying a voltage to said conductive member.
17. .An apparatus as in claim 14 wherein the capillary has a coating on its inside wall which substantially suppresses electroosmotic flow in the absence of the external electric field.
18. .An apparatus as in claim 17 wherein the means for applying the external electric field includes a conductive member disposed outside the flow path and along a section of the length of the capillary, and means for applying a current through said conductive member.
19. An apparatus as in claim 17 wherein the means for applying the external field includes an electrically isolated conductive member disposed outside the flow path and at at least one location along the capillary, and means for applying a voltage to said conductive member.
20. A method of conducting isoelectric focusing of solutes, the method comprising the steps of: providing a capillary having a coating on its inside wall which substantially suppresses electroosmotic flow 


in the presence of an applied internal electric field, the capillary filled with a buffer suitable for isoelectric focusing and an amount of sample solutes; applying an internal electric field across the buffer along the capillary to cause isoelectric focusing of the solutes; applying an external electric field after said isoelectric focusing, still in the presence of an internal electric field, so as to cause electroosmostic flow of the buffer in the capillary thereby to mobilize the solutes to pass a detector at a desired speed. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
