<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647831</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Driving and detecting circuit of a vibrator
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03B532	H03H902	G01C1956	B06B102	H03H902	G01P904	G01P904	B06B102	G01C1956	H03B532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03B	H03H	G01C	B06B	H03H	G01P	G01P	B06B	G01C	H03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03B5	H03H9	G01C19	B06B1	H03H9	G01P9	G01P9	B06B1	G01C19	H03B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
First switching elements 28, 30 and resistors 36, 38 
are connected to piezoelectric elements 16a, 16b of a 

vibrating gyroscope 12. An oscillation circuit 32 and a 
phase correction circuit 34 are connected between a 

piezoelectric element 16c and the first switching elements 
28, 30. The piezoelectric elements 16a, 16b are connected to 

a differential circuit 40, and an output signal of the 
differential circuit 40 is applied to a sampling hold 

circuit 44 via a second switching element 42. A zero-crossing 
detector 46 is connected to the phase correction 

circuit 34. The first switching elements 28, 30 are turned 
OFF, and the second switching element 42 is turned ON when 

zero-crossing points of driving signal is detected. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MURATA MANUFACTURING CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MURATA MANUFACTURING CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA TAKESHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA, TAKESHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a driving and
detecting circuit of a vibrator, and particularly to a
driving and detecting circuit of vibrator used for a
vibrating gyroscope, an acceleration sensor or a pressure
sensor using a vibrator.Fig. 10 is an illustrative view showing conventional
driving and detecting circuit of a vibrating gyroscope which
is a background of the present invention. A vibrating
gyroscope 1 includes a vibrating body 2 having, for example,
regular triangular prism shape. The vibrating body 2 is
formed with a material that generates a mechanical vibration
such as elinvar. Piezoelectric elements 3a, 3b and 3c are
formed on three side faces of the vibrating body 2. The
piezoelectric elements 3a and 3b are used for driving a
bending vibration to the vibrating body 2, and for detecting
a signal corresponding to a rotational angular velocity
applied to the vibrating gyroscope 1. The piezoelectric 
element 3c is used for feedback when the vibrating body 2 is
self-oscillated.An oscillation circuit 4 and a phase correction circuit
5 are connected between the piezoelectric elements 3a, 3b
and the piezoelectric element 3c. The piezoelectric elements
3a and 3b are connected to a differential circuit 6. The
vibrating body 2 bends and vibrates in a direction
perpendicular to a face of the piezoelectric element 3c by
applying a signal from the oscillation circuit 4. In this
state, signals applied to the piezoelectric elements 3a and
3b are the same signal, and a driving signal component is
not obtained from the differential circuit 6. Since the
vibrating body 2 bends and vibrates in a direction
perpendicular to the face of the piezoelectric element 3c,
signals generated in the piezoelectric elements 3a and 3b
are the same signal, and the signals generated in the
piezoelectric elements 3a and 3b are not obtained from the
differential circuit 6. As such, an output signal from the
differential circuit 6 is zero, and it is known that the
rotational angular velocity is not applied to the vibrating
gyroscope 1.When the vibrating gyroscope 1 rotates on its axis, a
vibrating direction of the vibrating body 2 changes by a
Coriolis force. A difference is produced between output
signals of the piezoelectric elements 3a and 3b by the 
change of vibrating direction, and the difference of the
output signals is obtained from the differential circuit 6.
Since an output signal of the differential circuit 6
corresponds to the rotational angular velocity applied to
the vibrating gyroscope 1, the rotational angular
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A driving and detecting circuit of a vibrator (14) having
plural driving and detecting means (16a, 16b) for using both as driving

and detecting, comprising:

an oscillation circuit (34) for applying driving signals to
said plural driving and detecting means for generating a vibration in

said vibrator;
at least one first switching element (28, 30, 48) for applying
said driving signals having the same level and the same phase

from said oscillation circuit to said plural driving and
detecting means;
a differential circuit (40) for measuring a difference of
output signals between said plural driving and detecting

means;
a second switching element (42) connected to an output side
of said differential circuit;
a sampling hold circuit (44) connected to said differential circuit via said second
switching element; and
a zero-crossing detector (46) for detecting a zero-crossing
point per period of said driving signal applied to said

driving and detecting means, and for opening
said first switching element and closing said

second switching element when said zero-crossing
detector detects the zero-crossing points of said

driving signal.
A driving and detecting circuit in accordance with
claim 1, wherein said vibrator includes a regular triangular

prism shaped vibrating body and piezoelectric elements
formed on three side faces of said vibrating body, and two

of said piezoelectric elements are used as said driving and
detecting means.
A driving and detecting circuit in accordance with
claim 2, wherein said first switching elements are connected

respectively to said two piezoelectric elements, and said
driving signal is applied to said two piezoelectric elements

via said first switching elements.
A driving and detecting circuit in accordance with
claim 2, wherein said driving signal is applied to said two

piezoelectric elements, and said first switching element is
connected between said two piezoelectric elements.
A driving and detecting circuit of a vibrator (14) having
plural driving and detect
ing means (16a, 16b) for using both as driving
and detecting, comprising:


an oscillation circuit (32) for applying driving signals to
said driving and detecting means for generating a vibration in

said vibrator;
at least one first switching element (28, 30, 48) for applying
driving signals having the same level and the same phase

from said oscillation circuit to said plural driving and
detecting means; 
a differential circuit (40) for measuring a difference of
output signals between said plural driving and detecting

means;
a second switching element (50) connected to an output side
of said differential circuit;
a sampling hold circuit (52) connected to said differential circuit via said second,
switching element;
a third switching element (54) connected to an output side
of said differential circuit;
a separate sampling hold circuit (56) connected to said differential circuit via said
third switching element;
a separate differential circuit (58) for measuring an output
difference between said two sampling hold circuits; and
a zero-crossing detector (60, 62) for detecting a zero-crossing
point of said driving signal applied to said driving and

detecting means; and for opening
said first switching element and alternately closing said

second switching element and said third switching element
when said zero-crossing detector

detects the zero-crossing points of said driving signal.
A driving and detecting circuit in accordance with
claim 5, wherein said vibrator includes a regular triangular

prism shaped vibrating body and piezoelectric elements
formed on three side faces of said vibrating body, and two

of said piezoelectric elements are used as said driving and 
detecting means.
A driving and detecting circuit in accordance with
claim 6, wherein said first switching elements are connected

respectively to said two piezoelectric elements, and said
driving signal is applied to said two piezoelectric elements

via said first switching elements.
A driving and detecting circuit in accordance with
claim 6, wherein said driving signal is applied to said two

piezoelectric elements, and said first switching element is
connected between said two piezoelectric elements.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
