<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617750</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTERLOCKED GRIDWORK FOR RETAINING WALLS, AND THE LIKE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02D1720	E02D1720	E02D2902	E02D2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02D	E02D	E02D	E02D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02D17	E02D17	E02D29	E02D29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUANEY PATRICK E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUANEY, PATRICK E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUANEY PATRICK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUANEY, PATRICK E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTERLOCKED GRIDWORK FOR RETAINING WALLS. AND THE LIKEABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE:A gridwork or crib structure is formed from reinforced, injection molded plastic or injection molded structural foam plastic crossbeams, stringers and fascia members by interlocking the members.,and pinning the stringers together to form a structure which can function as a gravity retaining wall to retain earth, as a structural wall, or as a water wall. The individual crossbeams are laid end-to-end on conventional base footings and define elongated slots and holes into which are connected the stringers, which are then locked and pinned together, thereby forming an initial crib or grid, layer at ground level. This crib or grid layer can be built up in height and depth to provide an open structure defining securement channels into which earth is filled. Use of slot and hole connections produce an adjustable interfitted grid which can assume a convex or concave curvature, or the usual linear form, or the grid can form a square corner. Consequently, it is relatively easy to build the crib or grid layers to follow uneven perimeters such as property lines, roads, hill sides, etc. Since the plastic crossbeams and stringers are quite light, it is very easy to erect the crib or grid, compared to working with metal, timber or concrete reinforcement beams. This enables its installation in inaccessible locations, since it does notSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

 require heavy equipment for its construction. Also, the opening in fascia elements of the crib or grid enables planting of vegetation into the earth fill for soil retention or decoration.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:This invention relates to a new and improved structure formed as a gridwork of interlocked, lightweight, injection molded plastic or injection molded structural foam plastic components. The structure may be used as an earth retaining wall by filling earth in between the plastic components of the gridwork, or the structure may be used simply as a structural wall. When used as an earth retaining wall, the earth in the structure can be stabilized by means of growing vegetation, or by means of earth retaining panels, or both. When used in conjunction with closed fascia, the structure can be used as a water wall to protect earthen banks.Prior art structures are stabilized by means of the weight of the concrete, timber, metal beams, etc., and with the weight of the retained earth; hence, the term 'gravity wall' is used to describe these structures. These prior art structures are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS :
CLAIM 1. A gridwork structure suitable for retaining walls, and the like, comprising:
A. a stringer component defining a flexible, beam-shaped cross section, and U-shaped end portions, each end portion defining lockable pivot pin means, adjacent stringers being locked together at their respective adjacent pivot pins;
B. a first crossbeam component providing flexible, upper and lower sides and a connecting intermediate wall, thereby defining a hollow, U-shaped structure, and reinforcing members therebetween, the upper and lower sides defining slots for sliding, adjustable interfitting with the pivot pins of adjacent stringers;
C. a second crossbeam component providing flexible, upper and lower sides and a connecting intermediate wall, thereby defining a hollow, U-shaped structure, and reinforcing members therebetween, the upper and lower sides defining holes for interfitting with the pivot pins of the stringers, the U-shaped end portions of the stringers partially enveloping an interlocking crossbeam; whereby, when the stringer and crossbeam components are assembled: i. a gridwork structure is formed defining a plurality of internal, vertically oriented crib channels which retain earth or land fill, for stabilization into discrete columns; ii. an articulating interfitting is formed between the stringers and crossbeams, thereby enabling the structure: a.) to conform to ground contours and changes thereof; b.) to be adjustable for following variations in terrain;
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 and, c.) to elastically deform in response to changes of internal pressure caused by retained earth or land fill; and, iii. the locked adjacent stringers impart rigidity to the grid structure, and shear resistance is imparted to the stringers.
CLAIM 2. The gridwork structure of Claim 1, comprising a fascia element mounted in a space defined by adjacent stringers and crossbeams, and interlocked therewith, thereby reinforcing the said structure.
CLAIM 3. The gridwork structure of Claim 2, including crossbeams and interlocking, notched stringers, and a corner portion of the structure formed thereby.
CLAIM 4. The gridwork structure of Claim 1, including a plastic fabric wrapped ar-ound a stringer or crossbeam component, the fabric being adapted to penetrate and interlock with backfill or earth which has penetrated therethrough, thereby stabilizing the fabric against lateral movement and further immobilizing the said structure.
CLAIM 5. The gridwork structure of Claim 1, in which the said pivot pin means defines a bore, and adjacent stringers are interlocked by a retaining pin inserted into the bores of corresponding, adjacent pivot pins.
CLAIM 6. The gridwork structure of Claim 5, comprising
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


clip means securing adjacent pivot pins and their retaining pins.
CLAIM 7. The gridwork structure of Claim 1, in which the plastic is selected from the class consisting of PVC, polyethylene and polypropylene.
CLAIM 8. The gridwork structure of Claim 7, in which the said plastic contains a fibrous reinforcement.
CLAIM 9. The gridwork structure of Claim 8, in which the said plastic contains a filler to impart U.V. and anti- oxidant resistance.
CLAIM 10. The gridwork structure of Claim 1, in which the reinforcing members of the crossbeam components comprise integrally formed panels.
CLAIM 11. A method of assembling a plurality of interlocking stringer and crossbeam components to form a gridwork structure for retaining walls, and the like, the said components, comprising:
A. a plastic stringer component detming a flexible, beam- shaped cross section, and U-shaped and portions, each end portion defining lockable pivot pin means, adjacent stringers being locked together at their respective adjacent pivot pins;
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 B. a first plastic crossbeam component providing flexible, upper and lower sides and a connecting intermediate wall, thereby defining a hollow, U-shaped structure, and reinforcing members therebetween, the upper and lower sides defining slots for sliding, adjustable interfitting with the pivot pins of adjacent stringers; and,
C. a second plastic crossbeam component providing flexible, upper and lower sides and a connecting intermediate wall, thereby defining a hollow, U-shaped structure, and reinforcing members therebetween, the upper and lower sides defining holes for interfitting with the pivot pins of the stringers, the U-shaped end portions of the stringers partially enveloping an interlocking crossbeam; the method comprising, assembling the stringer and crossbeam components, thereby: i. forming a gridwork structure defining, a plurality of internal, vertically oriented crib channels which retain earth or land fill, for stabilization into discrete columns; ii. forming an articulating interfitting between the stringers and crossbeams, thereby enabling the structure: a.) to conform to ground contours and changes thereof; b.) to be adjustable for following variations in terrain; and, c.) to elastically deform in response to changes of internal pressure caused by retained earth or land fill; and, iii. locking adjacent stringers, thereby imparting rigidity to the grid structure, and imparting shear resistance to the stringers.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 CLAIM 12. The method of Claim 11, in which the gridwork structure includes fascia elements mounted in a space defined by adjacent stringers and crossbeams, and interlocked therewith, thereby reinforcing the said structure.
CLAIM 13. The method of Claim 12, including crossbeams and notched stringers for interlocking therewith, and a corner portion of the structure formed thereby.
CLAIM 14. The method of Claim 11, including a plastic fabric wrapped around a stringer or crossbeam component, whereby earth or backfill will penetrate and interlock with the fabric, thereby stabilizing the fabric against lateral movement and further immobilizing the sa.α structure.
CLAIM 15. The method of Claim 11, in which the said pivot pin means defines a bore, and adjacent stringers are interlocked by a retaining pin inserted into the bores of corresponding, adjacent pivot pins.
CLAIM 16. The meth:. -. of Claim 15, comprising clip means securing adjacent pivot pins and their retaining pins.
CLAIM 17. The method of Claim 11, in which the reinforcing members of the crossbeam components comprise integrally formed panels.
CLAIM 18. The gridwork structure of Claim 1, in which the
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 stringer has a wall thickness of approximately 1/16 inches, and weighs about four pounds, the first crossbeam has a wall thickness of approximately 1/16 inches, and weighs about three pounds, and the second crossbeam component has a wall thickness of about 3/16 inches and weighs about four pounds.
CLAIM 19. The method of Claim 11, in which the stringer has a wall thickness of approximately 3/16 inches, and weighs about four pounds, the first crossbeam has a wall thickness of approximately 3/16 inches, and weighs about three pounds, and the second crossbeam component has a wall thickness of about 3/16 inches and weighs about four pounds.
CLAIM 20. The plastic fabric of Claim 4, comprising a plastic sheet coextruded with longitudinal reinforcing cables and a plurality of earth engaging pockets integrally formed on the plastic sheet.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
