<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634501</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VACUUM FILM FORMING METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1654	C23C1652	C23C1652	C23C1654	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention aims 
at providing a vacuum film 

forming apparatus not requiring 
substrate temperature varying 

heating and cooling chambers 
and capable of carrying out the 

controlling of the temperature 
of a substrate in minimal 

time, reducing the cost of 
manufacturing the apparatus, 

miniaturizing the apparatus 
and greatly improving the 

productivity. A carry-in and 
carry-out chamber (21), a 

transfer chamber (24), a first 
film formation chamber (26), a 

second film formation chamber 
(29) and a heating chamber 

(32) are provided via gate 
valves (22, 23, 25, 28, 31) 

respectively. In order to form 
a film continuously under 

different processing conditions, 
time to evacuate the film and 

second film formation chambers 
(26, 29) after the formation of 

a film, time to transfer matrix 
array substrate from the first 

film formation chamber (26) 
to the second film formation 

chamber (29) by a substrate 
transfer means, pressure in the transfer chamber, vacuum stand-by time prior to the formation of film and time to 

regulate the pressure of a material gas introduced into the apparatus before the formation of film 
are set to optimum 

levels. A film is formed by setting each film formation pressure to an optimum level, and the controlling of the 
temperature of a substrate is done in minimal time without requiring substrate temperature varying heating and 

cooling chambers. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a vapor deposition
method of forming film on a substrate.In the case where thin film is formed on a substrate
to make a thin film transistor, for example, the
chemical vapor deposition (CVD) apparatus of the
continuous in-line type as shown in FIG. 8 is usually
used.As shown in FIG. 8, this chemical vapor deposition
apparatus has a gate valve 1, to which a carry-in chamber
2 into which a substrate is carried through the gate
valve 1 is connected. A heating chamber 4 in which the
substrate is heated is also connected to the carry-in
chamber 2 through a gate valve 3. Further, a first film
forming chamber 6 in which thin film is formed on the
substrate is connected to the heating chamber 4 through
a gate valve 5 and a cooling chamber 8 in which the
heated substrate is cooled is connected to the first
heating chamber 6 through a gate valve 7. Furthermore,
a second film forming chamber 10 in which thin film is
again formed on the substrate is connected to the cooling
chamber 8 through a gate valve 9 and a carry-out 
chamber 12 out of which the substrate is carried is
connected to the second film forming chamber 10 through
a gate valve 11. A gate valve 13 is attached to the
other side of the carry-out chamber 12.The substrate is set at first on a tray and carried
into the carry-in chamber 2. It is then carried into
the heating chamber 4 while keeping the carry-in chamber
2 vacuum, and it is heated there to a predetermined temperature
and carried into the first film forming chamber
6. Material gas is introduced into the first film forming
chamber 6 at a predetermined temperature to adjust
pressure in the first film forming chamber 6 and thin
film is formed on the substrate while adding high frequency
current or the like to it. After thin film is
thus formed on it in the first film forming chamber 6,
the chamber 6 is exhausted to vacuum and it is then
carried into the cooling chamber 8. The substrate which
has been carried into the cooling chamber 8 is cooled to
a predetermined temperature and carried into the second
film forming chamber 10. Material gas is introduced
into the second film forming chamber 10 at a temperature
lower than that in the first film forming chamber 6 to
adjust pressure in the chamber 10 and thin film is again
formed on the substrate while applying high frequency
power or the like to it. After thin film is thus formed
on the substrate in the second film forming chamber 10,
the chamber 10 is exhausted to vacuum and the substrate
is carried into the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vapor deposition method comprising the steps of:


transporting a substrate having a temperature into a
film forming chamber provided with a substrate heater that

operates at a constant temperature;
controlling the temperature of the substrate by
controlling the pressure within the film forming chamber

within a range of 13.332 Pa (0.1 Torr) to 666.6 Pa (5 Torr)
and/or by controlling the transport time of the heated

substrate; and
vapor-depositing a film on the substrate in the film
forming chamber using a film forming gas.
The vapor deposition method according to claim 1,
wherein, after the step of vapor-depositing the film on the

substrate in the film forming chamber using the film forming
gas, one or more additional films are formed on the substrate

by repeatedly controlling the temperature of the substrate by
controlling the pressure within the film forming chamber

within a range of 13.332 Pa (0.1 Torr) to 666.6 Pa (5 Torr)
and vapor-depositing a film on the substrate in the film

forming chamber using a film forming gas.
The vapor deposition method according to claim 2,
wherein, before forming an additional film on the substrate,

said substrate is transported from said one film forming
chamber into another film forming chamber provided with a

substrate heater that operates at a constant temperature,
wherein the temperature of the substrate is controlled by

controlling the pressure within the other film forming
chamber within a range of 13.332 Pa (0.1 Torr) to 666.6 Pa (5

Torr) and/or by controlling the transport time of the 
substrate from said one film forming chamber into another

film forming chamber and wherein the additional film is
vapor-deposited on the substrate in the other film forming

chamber using a film forming gas.
The vapor deposition method according to claim 3,
wherein said substrate is transported from the one film

forming chamber to the other film forming chamber without
being exposed to air.
The vapor deposition method according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein said vapor deposition is a chemical

vapor deposition.
The vapor deposition method according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein said heater has a heat capacity

larger than that of said substrate.
The vapor deposition method according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein said substrate is disposed to

oppose the heater with a clearance.
The vapor deposition method according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein said heater generates a constant

amount of heat.
The vapor deposition method according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein either one of the films includes a

semiconductor thin film.
The vapor deposition method according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein said substrate is a glass

substrate.
The vapor deposition method according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein said film forming gases contain

silane. 
The vapor deposition method according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein said substrate is spaced from said

heater.
The vapor deposition method according to claim 12,
wherein a clearance between said substrate and said heater is

smaller than 0.3 mm.
The vapor deposition method according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein said film is formed of either one

of amorphous silicon and silicon nitride.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
