<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647120</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXAMINATION OF SUBJECTS USING PHOTON MIGRATION WITH HIGH DIRECTIONALITY TECHNIQUES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2164	A61B1000	A61B500	G01N2147	A61B1000	A61B500	G01N2164	G01N2147	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	A61B	A61B	G01N	A61B	A61B	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	A61B10	A61B5	G01N21	A61B10	A61B5	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and systems are described that examine a subject (8, 70) positioned between input and detection ports of the spectroscopic system applied to the subject. The systems shown include at least one light source (12, 14, 16, 18), radiation pattern controller (85, 120), at least one detector, processor and evaluator. The light source introduces at one or multiple input ports (11, 13, 15, 17), electromagnetic non-ionizing radiation of a known time-varying pattern of photon density of a wavelength selected to be scattered and absorbed while migrating in the subject. The radiation pattern controller controls the time-varying relationship between the introduced patterns (i.e., relative phase, relative amplitude, relative frequency) to achieve a directional pattern of emitted resulting radiation that possesses substantial gradient of photon density. The emitted directional radiation pattern utilizes its gradient of photon density to detect a hidden object (9) while scanning across the examined subject.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NON INVASIVE TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NON-INVASIVE TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANCE BRITTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANCE, BRITTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to spectroscopic examination of
subjects.Traditionally, potentially harmful ionizing
radiation (for example, X-ray or γ-ray) has been used to
image biological tissue. This radiation propagates in the
tissue on straight, ballistic tracks, i.e., scattering of
the radiation is negligible. Thus, imaging is based on
evaluation of the absorption levels of different tissue
types. For example, in roentgenography the X-ray film
contains darker and lighter spots. In more complicated
systems, such as computerized tomography (CT), a cross-sectional
picture of human organs is created by
transmitting X-ray radiation through a section of the
human body at different angles and by electronically
detecting the variation in X-ray transmission. The
detected intensity information is digitally stored in a
computer which reconstructs the X-ray absorption of the
tissue at a multiplicity of points located in one cross-sectional
plane.Near infra-red radiation (NIR) has been used to
study non-invasively the oxygen metabolism in tissue (for
example, the brain, finger, or ear lobe). Using visible,
NIR and infra-red (IR) radiation for medical imaging
could bring several advantages. In the NIR or IR range
the contrast factor between a tumor and a tissue is much
larger than in the X-ray range. In addition, the visible
to IR radiation is preferred over the X-ray radiation
since it is non-ionizing; thus, it potentially causes
fewer side effects. However, with lower energy
radiation, such as visible or infra-red radiation, the 
radiation is strongly scattered and absorbed in
biological tissue, and the migration path cannot be
approximated by a straight line, making inapplicable
certain aspects of cross-sectional imaging techniques.Recently, certain approaches to NIR imaging have
been suggested. One approach undertaken by Oda et al. in
"Non-Invasive Hemoglobin Oxygenation Monitor and
Computerized Tomography of NIR Spectrometry," SPIE Vol.
1431, p. 284, 1991, utilizes NIR radiation in an
analogous way to the use of X-ray radiation in an X-ray
CT. In this device, the X-ray source is replaced by
three laser diodes emitting light in the NIR range. The
NIR-CT uses a set of photomultipliers to detect the light
of the three laser diodes transmitted through the imaged
tissue. The detected data are manipulated by a computer
of the original X-ray CT scanner system in the same way
as the detected X-ray data would be.Different approaches were suggested by S.R.
Arriadge et al. in "Reconstruction Methods for Infra-red
Absorption
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of deriving signals useful to a clinician for
making a diagnosis, the method comprising spectroscopic

examination of a subject positioned between input and detection
ports of a spectroscopic system by introducing into the subject,

simultaneously at multiple input ports placed at selected
locations relative to the subject, electromagnetic non-ionizing

radiation of a wavelength selected to be scattered and absorbed
while migrating in the subject, said radiation being modulated

at a known frequency to obtain a known time-varying pattern of
photon density, the time relationship of said patterns being

selected to form resulting introduced radiation that possesses
substantial gradient in photon density as a result of the

interaction of the simultaneously introduced patterns emanating
from said input ports, said resulting radiation being scattered

and absorbed in migration paths in the subject; detecting over
time, at a detection port placed at a selected location on the

subject, said radiation that has migrated in the subject;
processing signals of said detected radiation in relation to said

introduced radiation to create processed data indicative of the
influence of said subject upon said gradient of photon density

of said resulting radiation; and correlating said processed data
with the locations of said input and detection ports.
A method according to Claim 1, further comprising
arranging said multiple input ports to form a one dimensional or

a two dimensional array.
A method according to Claim 2, wherein said array is
shaped suitably for exa
mination of a selected organ of a human
subject.
A method according to any preceding claim, further
comprising rotating or moving synchronously said input ports to

a different location on a predetermined geometric pattern; 
introducing into the subject, at said different location of said

input ports, electromagnetic non-ionizing radiation of a
wavelength selected to be scattered and absorbed while migrating

in the subject, said radiation at each of said input ports having
a known time-varying pattern of photon density, the time

relationship of said patterns being selected to form resulting
radiation that possesses substantial gradient in photon density

as a result of the interaction of the introduced patterns
emanating from said input ports, said resulting radiation being

scattered and absorbed in migration paths in the subject;
detecting over time, at said detection port placed at a selected

location on the subject, said further introduced radiation that
has migrated in the subject; and processing signals of said

detected radiation in relation to said introduced radiation to
create processed data indicative of the influence of said subject

upon said gradient of photon density.
A method according to any preceding claim, further
comprising providing a second detection port placed on a second

selected location of the subject, to probe a selected quality of
the subject; detecting over time, at said second detection port,

said radiation that has migrated in the subject; processing
signals of said detected radiation in relation to said introduced

radiation to create processed data indicative of the influence
of said subject upon said gradient of photon density; and

correlating said processed data with the locations of said input
and detection ports.
A method according to any of Claims 1 to 4, further
comprising providing multiple detection ports placed at selected

locations of the subject, to probe a selected quality of the
subject; detecting over time, at said multiple detection ports,

said radiation that has migrated in the subject; processing
signals of said detected radiation in relation to said introduced

radiation to create processed data indicative of the influence
of said subject upon said gradient of photon density; and

correlating said processed data with the locations of said input 
and detection ports.
A method according to any preceding claim, further
comprising: moving said (at least one said) detection port to a

different location on a predetermined geometric pattern;
detecting over time, at said different location, said radiation

that has migrated in the subject; processing signals of said
detected radiation in relation to said introduced radiation to

create processed data indicative of the influence of said subject
upon said gradient of photon density; and correlating said

processed data with the locations of said input and detection
ports.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said
modulated radiation when introduced from each of said input ports

includes a selected phase relationship that produces in at least
one direction a steep phase change and a sharp minimum in the

intensity of said radiation.
A method according to Claim 8, wherein said phase
relationship is 180 degrees.
A method according to Claims 8 or 9, wherein said
radiation is modulated at a frequency that enables resolution of

the phase shift that originates during migration of photons in
the subject.
A method according to any of Claims 8, 9 or 10, wherein
said frequency is selected to be up to about 2 x 10
8
Hz.
A method according to any of Claims 8, 9, 10 or 11,
further comprising the steps of scanning electronically said

resulting radiation over the examined tissue by changing the
phase of said modulated radiation introduced from each of said

input ports.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said 
processing step further comprises determining the phase or the

intensity of said radiation altered by scattering and absorption
in the subject.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said
processing step further comprises calculating the absorption

coefficient or the scattering coefficient of the subject.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said
introducing step includes selecting the wavelength of said

introduced radiation to be sensitive to an endogenous pigment or
an exogenous pigment present in the subject.
A method according to Claim 15, wherein said endogenous
pigment or said exogenous pigment includes a fluorescent

constituent sensitive to the introduced radiation, and said
detector further includes an interference filter designed to

block the wavelength of the introduced radiation and pass the
wavelength of fluorescent radiation emitted from said fluorescent

constituent.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein said
correlating step includes imaging the examined subject using an

imaging device connected to said processing means.
A method according to Claim 17, wherein said imaging
device utilizes phase values or intensity values received from

said processing means.
Apparatus for spectroscopic examination of a subject (8),
positioned between input and detection ports of the spectroscopic

system applied to the subject, comprising: at least one light
source (12, 14, 16, 18), operatively connected to an oscillator (22), adapted to

introduce simultaneously, at multiple input ports (11, 13, 15, 17),
electromagnetic non-ionizing radiation modulated at a frequency

of said oscillator to achieve a known time-varying pattern of
photon density and of at least one wavelength selected to be 

scattered and absorbed while migrating in the subject, said input
ports being arranged to be placed at selected locations relative

to the subject to probe a selected quality of the subject;
radiation pattern control means (85, 120), operatively connected to said

at least one light source, adapted to achieve selected time
relationship of said simultaneously introduced patterns to form

resulting introduced radiation that possesses substantial
gradient in photon density as a result of the interaction of the

introduced patterns emanating from said input ports, said
radiation being arranged to be scattered and absorbed in

migration paths in the subject; a detector (24), coupled to a
detection port (19) arranged to be placed at a selected location on

the subject, and adapted to detect over time, radiation that has
migrated in the subject; processing means (30), operatively connected

to said detector, adapted to process signals of said detected
radiation in relation to said introduced radiation to create

processed data indicative of the influence of said subject upon
said gradient of photon density of said resulting radiation; and

evaluation means (240), connected to said processing means for
receiving data therefrom and adapted to examine the subject by

correlating said processed data with locations of said input and
detection ports.
Apparatus according to Claim 19, wherein said multiple
input ports are arranged to form a one dimensional or a two

dimensional array.
Apparatus according to Claim 20, wherein said array
forms a shape suitable for examination of a selected organ of a

human subject.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 19, 20 or 21,

further comprising displacement means adapted to move or rotate
said input ports to another location on a predetermined geometric

pattern.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 19 to 22, further 
comprising at least a second detection port, arranged to be

placed at a second selected location on the subject and connected
to a second detector adapted to detect over time radiation that

has migrated in the subject; said processing means being further
connected to said second detector, and adapted to process signals

of said detected radiation in relation to said introduced
radiation to create processed data indicative of the influence

of said subject upon said gradient of photon density.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 19 to 23, further
comprising displacement means adapted to move at least one of

said detection ports to another location on a predetermined
geometric pattern.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 19 to 24, wherein
said modulated radiation when introduced from each of said input

ports includes a selected phase relationship that produces in at
least one direction a steep phase change and a sharp minimum in

the intensity of said radiation.
Apparatus according to Claim 25, wherein said phase
relationship is 180 degrees.
Apparatus according to Claims 25 or 26, wherein said
radiation is modulated at a frequency that enables resolution of

the phase shift that originates during migration of photons in
the subject.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 25, 26 or 27,
wherein said frequency is up to about 2 x 10
8
Hz.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 25 to 28, wherein
said radiation pattern control means is further adapted to scan

electronically said resulting radiation over the examined subject
by changing the phase of said modulated radiation introduced from

each of said input ports. 
Apparatus according to any of Claims 25 to 29, wherein
said processing means is adapted to calculate processed data that

indicate change in steep phase change or said sharp minimum in
the intensity of said detected radiation that has migrated in the

subject.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 19 to 29, wherein
said processing means is adapted to determine the phase or the

intensity of said detected radiation altered by scattering and
absorption in the subject.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 19 to 31, wherein
said processing means is adapted to calculate absorption

coefficient or scattering coefficient of the subject.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 19 to 32, wherein
the wavelength of said introduced radiation is sensitive to an

endogenous pigment or an exogenous pigment present in the
subject.
Apparatus according to Claim 33, wherein said
endogenous or exogenous pigment includes a fluorescent

constituent sensitive to the introduced radiation, and said
detector further includes an interference filter designed to

block the wavelength of the introduced radiation and pass the
wavelength of fluorescent radiation emitted from said fluorescent

constituent.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 19 to 34, wherein
said evaluation means comprises an imaging device, connected to

said processing means, and adapted to image the examined subject.
Apparatus according to Claim 35, wherein said imaging
device is adapted to create an image based on phase values or

said intensity values of said detected valuation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
