<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648161</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PAGE WIDE INK JET PRINTING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J216	B41J2055	B41J216	B41J2045	B41J2155	B41J2145	B41J2055	B41J2045	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A page wide ink jet printhead (2) employed in a printer for printing characters on a print medium. The print medium progresses in a path through the printer during printing. The page wide ink jet printhead (2) includes print nozzles (26) selectively aligned across the width of the print medium allowing the printhead to remaining stationary; a means for selectively ejecting ink through particular nozzles, which means is formed of a piezoelectric material (8), which has microgrooves (10) therein; ink residing in the microgrooves for ejection therefrom; sidewalls of the microgrooves which act as actuators to cause ink to be ejected from the microgrooves (10) in response to an electrical pulse supplied thereto; and electrical circuitry to appropriately direct the electrical pulse to create an electric field across particular microgrooves to obtain a desired print character formed from ink droplets ejected from the microgrooves.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMPAQ COMPUTER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOOD LOWELL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOOD, LOWELL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method and apparatus for
ink jet printing, and, more particularly, to a method and
apparatus for ink jet printing by a page wide ink jet
printhead.Printers are one of the most popular computer
peripherals. Not surprisingly, therefore, the rapid
growth in acceptance, use, and numbers of computers
during the past fifteen years has fueled the demand for,
and interest in the development of, printers.Presently employed printing techniques may generally
be categorized as either impact printing or non-impact
printing depending upon whether some portion of the
printer "strikes" the print medium upon which characters
are being printed. In an impact printer, some portion of
the printer does strike the medium, e.g., paper. In a
non-impact printer, on the other hand, only ink contacts
the medium. One of the most widely used types of non-impact
printers at the present time is the so-called "ink jet
printer." In ink jet printing, ink is ejected, most
commonly by pressure, through a tiny nozzle to form an
ink droplet that may be deposited on a paper medium. Ink
jet printers have been developed that are capable of
producing highly reproducible and controllable droplets.
Using those printers, it is now possible for a droplet to
be deposited at a location specified by digitally stored
data.Most commercially available ink jet printing systems
may be generally classified as either "continuous jet" or
"drop on demand" type. In a "continuous jet" type ink
jet printing system, ink droplets are continuously
ejected from a printer printhead and either directed to
or away from a paper medium depending on the desired
image to be produced. In such a continuous jet system,
uniform ink droplets are formed from a stream of liquid
continuously issuing from an orifice. A mechanism,
often of an electromechanical material, such as
piezoelectric material, oscillates in response to an
applied voltage to cause break-up of the continuous
stream into uniform droplets of ink and to impart an
electrostatic charge to the droplets. High voltage
deflection plates located in the vicinity of the ejected
ink droplets selectively control the trajectory of the
ink droplets causing the droplets to hit a desired spot
on the paper medium. Since a continuous flow of ink is
employed in this type system, it is referred to as
continuous.In a "drop on demand" type ink jet printing system,
ink droplets are intermittently ejected from a printhead
in response to a specific command related to the image to
be produced. "Drop on demand"
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A page wide ink jet printhead (2) for a printer, for
printing characters across the width of a print medium

which progresses through the printer, the printhead being
arranged for printing without movement of the printhead,

the printhead including:

a slab (8) of electrically deformable material having
a plurality of grooves (10) formed in a surface thereof;
circuitry coupled to said slab for selectively
deforming one or more of said grooves to force ink through

respective nozzles in use; and
a plurality of nozzles (26) in communication with
respective grooves for ejecting ink generally normal to

said surface, wherein said nozzles are offset in the
direction of the grooves at a predetermined resolution

across the width of said printhead; and being characterised
by;
a plurality of channels (12) formed in said slab, each
of said channels being associated with a plurality of said

grooves (10) and formed at an acute angle thereto, for
communicating ink to said grooves.
The ink jet printer of claim 1, wherein said grooves
(10) are separated into sections by said ink channels (12)

formed in said slab, each of said ink channels
interconnecting with adjacent sections of said grooves on

one side and having an ink dam along the opposite side to
inhibit ink flow between the ink channel and the sections

of the groove on said opposite side.
The ink jet printer of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein
said nozzles (26) comprise a material layer (20) formed

over said slab (8) and having holes formed therethrough to
communicate with respective grooves (10). 
The ink jet printhead of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein
said slab (8) comprises a slab of piezoelectric material.
The ink jet printhead of claim 3, wherein said
material layer (20) comprises a polymer material.
The ink jet printhead of any of claims 1 to 5, further
comprising a printed circuit board (6) coupled to said slab

(8).
The ink jet printhead of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein
said circuitry includes metal ridges (22) disposed on said

slab (8) adjacent said grooves (10).
The ink jet printhead of claim 2 or any claim
dependent thereon, wherein said channels (12) are formed

such that an uppermost groove of a first section
longitudinally overlaps a lowermost groove of a second,

adjacent section.
A method of manufacturing a page wide ink jet
printhead (2) according to claim 1, the method including

the steps of:

cutting parallel grooves (10) longitudinally in a PZT
slab (8), said grooves having sidewalls which serve as

actuators for ejection of ink from said grooves in response
to an electrical pulse applied to said sidewalls; and
segregating said grooves (10) into sections, whereby
said sections can be independently fed (12) with ink and

said sidewalls of grooves within said sections
independently actuated in use.
The method of claim 9, wherein said step of segregating
includes cutting ink channels (12) generally across said

grooves of said PZT slab and forming an ink dam (24) along
one side of each of said ink channels. 
The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps
of:


coating metallized ridges (22) separating said grooves
(10) with a metallic conductive layer;
bonding a polymer sheet (20) to said metallized ridges
to cover said grooves;
forming nozzles (26) in said polymer sheet in
communication with said grooves; and
connecting said metallized ridges with flip
chips (18) for delivering selected electrical pulses to

selected ones of said metallized ridges in use.
A method of ejecting ink, from a printhead according
to any of claims 1 to 8, comprising the steps of:


communicating ink with said grooves (10); and
electrically deforming selected ones of said grooves (10)

to force ink in said selected grooves through respective
nozzles (26).
The method of claim 12, wherein the flow of ink
through one end of each groove is prevented.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
