<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650591</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NON-INVASIVE TESTING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2147	G01N33487	G01N2131	G01N3349	G01N2147	G01N2135	G01N2131	A61B500	G01N33487	G01N3349	A61B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	A61B	G01N	G01N	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N33	G01N21	G01N33	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	A61B5	G01N33	G01N33	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A new non-invasive detection method for glucose and other constituents of interest in a sample has been developed. The apparatus and methods of the invention provide an analog of color perception of human vision, preferably in the near infrared region, replacing the spectrophotometers used in other non-invasive near infrared detection methods. A plurality of detector units are used, each covering a broad region of the detected spectrum, paralleling color perception and colorimetry. In some circumstances, a neural net is used for analysis, allowing the system to learn. A novel method for background discrimination is also described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLOCK MYRON J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLOCK, MYRON J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOCK MYRON J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOCK, MYRON J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns the testing
for constituents of interest using radiation,
preferrably near infrared radiation. More
particularly, an apparatus and a method of testing
for constituents such as glucose, alcohol, drugs of
abuse or other materials in a non-invasive manner
have been developed. These methods are particularly
well adapted for use in the home glucose testing
market since they do not require a finger puncture to
obtain a separable blood sample but rather can be
utilized without bodily invasion.Development of non-invasive testing method
has become an important topic in the last several
years. The spread of acquired immunodeficiency
disease syndrome (AIDS), and the associated fear
among public and healthcare personnel of AIDS has
made many people afraid of invasive procedures.
"Invasive procedures," as used herein are procedures
where a sample such as blood is taken from the body
by puncture or other entry into the body before
analysis, while non-invasive procedures do not
require bodily penetration. Not only can diseases
such as AIDS be spread with invasive procedures if
proper precautions are not followed, hepatitis and
other similar blood diseases are more common problems
in this type of testing. For example, a recent
article, "Nosocomiel transmission of Hepatitis B
virus associated with the use of a spring-loaded
finger-stick device," NewEnglandJournalofMedicine
326 (11), 721-725 (1992), disclosed a mini-hepatitis
epidemic in a hospital caused by the improper use of
an instrument for taking blood samples. The nurses 
were unintentionally transmitting hepatitis from one
patient to another with the sampling devise itself.
This type of disease transfer is eliminated with
non-invasive testing.The diabetic population has also been
clamoring for non-invasive test instruments. Many
diabetics must test their blood glucose levels four
or more times a day. The modern battery powered
instruments for home use require a finger prick to
obtain the sample. The extracted blood sample is
then placed on a chemically treated carrier which is
inserted into the instrument to obtain a glucose
reading. This finger prick is painful and can be a
problem when required often. In addition, although
the price has dropped considerably on these
instruments, the cost for the disposables and the
mess and health risks associated with having open
bleeding is undesirable.Accordingly, a number of groups have
recently tried to make non-invasive instruments for
testing a variety of analytes, particularly glucose.
A
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus determining the concentration in a sample of a constituent of
interest which has absorption or reflectance bands in a selected region of the spectrum

comprising:

a sample chamber (30) for confining said sample during said illumination; and detection means
(40) in the form of a plurality of detector units (A,B,C,B/W); and

characterized by:
a light source (10) that illuminates said sample with broad spectrum radiation in
said selected region;
each of said
detector units being responsive to a specific near infrared region of said spectrum and having a partial

overlapping region of spectral response with another of said detector units, said response
from each detector unit being in the form of an output signal; and
analysis means (70) for converting said output signals into a measure of said
concentration.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said selected region of said spectrum is the
near infrared region.
The apparatus of claim 1 when said detection means (40) comprises at least three
detector units (A,B,C) each having a spectral response region centered about a different portion of

said spectrum. 
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said
detector units (A,B,C) each generate signals that are near

infrared analogs of the color receptive elements in
vision.
The apparatus claim 4 wherein said analysis
means (70) generates an output which is a near infrared

analog of a location in a colorimetric three
dimensional space.
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said
detection means further comprises a black/white

luminosity detector which is responsive to and
overlaps the near infrared spectral response of said

detector units.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said
analysis means comprises an artificial neural network (70).
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of
said detector units (40) comprises broad bandpass filters or

comprise silicon photocells.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sample
chamber is arranged for non-invasive measurements on

a portion of a human body, for example a finger. 
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said constituent of interest is selected from
the group consisting of glucose, and glucose indicating constituents,

consisting of drugs of abuse and drugs of abuse indicating constituents.
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a filter unit (50) which has an
absorption at the same spectral bands of said constituent of interest, the absorption of said

filter unit corresponding to at least one order of magnitude greater concentration than the
response of said constituent of interest.
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said filter unit comprises a high
concentration solution of said constituent of interest.
A method for measuring the concentration in a sample of a constituent of
interest which absorbs or reflects light, said method comprising the steps of:


detecting transmitted or reflected radiation from said sample; 
generating at least one signal corresponding to said detected radiation; and
analyzing said signal to measure the concentration of said constituent; and
characterized by:
illuminating said sample with broad spectrum radiation; and
said detecting step includes impinging the radiation transmitted or
reflected from said sample onto a detection array (40) which generates said signal, said detection

array including a plurality of detector units (A,B,C) each responsive to a specific near infrared
region of the

transmitted or reflected spectrum, the spectral response of each of said detector units having
at least partial overlap with the response of at least one other of said detector units.
The method of claim 13 wherein at least three detection units are used in said
detecting step, each detector unit having a peak spectral response in a separate portion of said

spectrum.
The method of claim 14 wherein said analysis step comprises forming from
the output a near infrared analog of a specific position in a three dimension calorimetric

space.
The method of claim 13 wherein said detector units comprise broad bandpass
filters (50). 
The method of claim 13 wherein said
detecting step further comprises the use of a

black/white detector unit (B/W) which is responsive to the
entire spectrum for which said detector units (A,B,C) have a

spectral response.
The method of claim 13 wherein said
analysis step comprises utilizing an artificial

analog of a neural network (70).
The method of claim 18 wherein said
artificial neural network (70) is calibrated and trained

to process said signals to achieve an analog of
color constancy in vision.
The method of claim 13 wherein said method
is used for non-invasive testing for a constituent in

a human body, for example a finger.
The method of claim 20 wherein said
constituent is related from the group consisting of

glucose and glucose indicating constituents,
drugs of abuse and drugs of abuse indicating

constituents.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
