<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620861</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RESTRICTION AMPLIFICATION ASSAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07H2100	C07H2104	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07H	C07H	C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07H21	C07H21	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method, reagent and kit for the the determination of the presence of target nucleotide sequences by restriction amplification. In the process to detect nucleic acid sequences a target molecule containing a specific restriction site is hybridized with a labeled probe containing a sequence homologous to at least 28 bases of the target molecule. The probe is cleaved with a restriction enzyme that releases the probe for detection if the probe hybridizes to the specific target. Thus, the cleaved probe constantly regenerates and is highly detectable if the target sequence is present in the assay.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ONCOR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ONCOR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGE ALBERT L JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGE ALBERT L JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RESTRICTION AMPLIFICATION ASSAY BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention;The present invention relates to methods, reagents and kits for the determination of the presence of target nucleotide sequences. In particular, the present invention relates to a method for conducting an assay for the presence of a specific target nucleotide sequence in a sample containing an unknown quantity of said specific target nucleotide sequence and to probes for use in such an assay.Description of the Prior Art;In the technology of manipulating genetic material or in evaluating the genetic character of an organism, it is often desirable to ascertain if a particular gene or part of a gene is present in an organism or in an extracellular extract of genetic material from that organism. Since any gene or gene portion is, in essence, a specific sequence of nucleotide bases forming all or part of a polynucleotide molecule, it is possible to directly test the sample polynucleotide to discover if the specific sequence of nucleotide bases forming the gene is present in the sample.Interest in specific sequences of nucleotide bases may involve detecting the presence of pathogens, determining the presence of alleles, detecting the presence of lesions in a host genome and detecting a particular mRNA or the modification of a cellular host, to name only a few illustrative examples. Genetic diseases such as Huntington Chorea, muscular dystrophy, phenylketonuria, thalassemias and sickle cell anemia can be diagnosed by the analysis of an individual's DNA. Furthermore, 

 diagnosis or identification of viruses, viroids, bacteria, fungi, protozoa or any other plant or animal life form can be determined by hybridization assays with nucleotide probes. Nucleic acid detection assays of various types have been documented in the literature. These types of assays, and in particular those requiring detection of polynucleotides, are based on the purine-pyrimidine base pairing properties of complementary nucleic acid strands in DNA-DNA or DNA-RNA duplexes. This base-pairing process most frequently occurs through formation of hydrogen bonds in the pairing of adenosine-thymine (A-T) and guanosine-cytosine (G-C) bases in double-stranded DNA; adenosine-uracil base pairs may additionally be formed by hydrogen bonding in DNA-RNA hybrid molecules. Base pairing of nucleic acid strands for determination of the presence or absence of a given nucleotide sequence involving sample nucleotide sequences and a probe nucleotide sequence is commonly referred
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for detecting the presence of a nucleic acid sequence which contains a scissile linkage that is cleavable by a cleaving enzyme in a biological sample, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) providing an oligonucleotide which comprises a nucleic acid sequence and a scissile linkage that is substantially complementary to a nucleic acid target sequence, said oligonucleotide having a detectable marker attached thereto in a reaction mixture;
(b) adding a cleaving enzyme to said reaction mixture which is able to cleave the scissile linkage if said target sequence and said oligonucleotide hybridize;
(c) hybridizing said reaction mixture; and
(d) detecting the cleaved detectable marker in the presence of the uncleaved oligonucleotide having a detectable marker attached thereto.
2. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said oligonucleotide comprises a single-stranded DNA sequence.
3. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said cleaving enzyme is selected from the group consisting of Aat IX, Ace I, Ace III, Aha II, Alu I, Aoc I, Apa I, ApaL I, Ava I, Bal I, Bam HI, Bel I, Bgl I, BssH II, BεtE II, Cla I, Dra I, Eco52 I, Eco RI, Eco RII, Rco RV, Fsp I, Hae III, Hha I, Hind IXI, Hpa I, Kpn I, Ksp I, Nci I, Mst II, Nae I, Pst I, Puv I and XJa I. 


 4. The method according to Claim 10, wherein said hybridization is carried out at 37°C.
5. The method according to Claim 4, wherein said hybridization is carried out between 1 to 4 hours.
6. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said reaction mixture further comprises a buffering system, and said buffering system comprises a MgCl
2
, NaCl, tris (hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-hydrochloride (TRIS-HCl) , dithiothreitol (DTT) and bovine standard albumin (BSA) .
7. The method according to Claim 6, wherein said buffering system comprises 10 mM NaCl, 10 mM tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-hydrochloride (TRIS- HCl) pH 7.7, 10 mM MgCl
2
, 1 mM DTT and 100 μg/ml BSA.
8. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said detectable marker in said oligonucleotide is a ligand which can serve as a specific binding pair member to a labeled compound selected from the group consisting of an antibody, fluorescer, chemiluminescer, enzymes, biotin and mixtures thereof.
9. The method according to Claim 8, wherein said oligonucleotide is between about 10 mer to 40 mer.
10. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said oligonucleotide is a partial hairpin oligonucleotide.
11. The method according to Claim 10, wherein said cleaving enzyme is Fokl.
12. The method according to Claim 1, further 


 comprising the step of adding to said hybridization reaction mixture a terminating solution, and said terminating solution comprises 80% formamide, 15 mM tris(hydroxymethyl) minomethane-hydrochloride (TRIS- HC1) , pH 7.6, 1 mM EDTA, 0.1% w/v bromophenol blue and 0.1% w/v xylene cyanole FF.
13. A method of detecting in a sample the presence of a nucleic acid sequence which contains a scissile linkage that is cleavable by a cleaving enzyme, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) forming a reaction mixture by denaturing a target nucleic acid sequence containing a scissile linkage in the presence of a partial hairpin oligonucleotide having a detectable marker attached thereto and which contains a scissile linkage and is substantially complementary to the nucleic acid sequence of the target molecule;
(b) adding a cleaving enzyme to said denatured mixture; (c) permitting said reaction mixture to hybridize whereby the cleaving enzyme will release the detectable marker from said oligonucleotide sequence; and
(d) detecting the cleaved detectable marker in the presence of the uncleaved partial hairpin oligonucleotide having a detectable marker attached thereto.
14. The method according to Claim 13, wherein said target molecule comprises a single- stranded or a double-stranded DNA sequence.
15. The method according to Claim 13, wherein said partial hairpin oligonucleotide comprises a partial single-stranded DNA sequence that is 


 complementary to said target sequence.
16. The method according to Claim 13, wherein said cleaving enzyme is a restriction enzyme selected from the group consisting of Bhvl, BJ vII, Fokl, Hgal , Hphl , MJboII, Mnll , SfaNI , Taqll , Tthlllll and HinGuI .
17. The method according to Claim 13, wherein said reaction mixture further comprises a buffering system, and said buffering system comprises a MgCl
2
, NaCl, tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane- hydrochloride (TRIS-HCl) , dithiothreitol (DTT) and bovine standard albumin (BSA) .
18. A method for detecting the presence of nucleic acid sequence which contains a scissile linkage that is cleavable by a cleaving enzyme in a biological sample, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) hybridizing a target molecule having a scissile linkage to a labeled oligonucleotide probe that has a complementary sequence to said target and a detectable marker to provide a probe:target duplex;
(b) cleaving said duplex at the scissile linkage:
(c) recycling the target molecule;
(d) reconstituting a scissile linkage site on said oligonucleotide; and
(e) detecting said cleaved oligonucleotide probe.
19. The method according to Claim 17, wherein said oligonucleotide probe is a partial hairpin oligonucleotide comprising a nucleotide sequence that is substantially complementary to the target molecule. 


 20. The method according to claim 17, wherein said cleaving step (b) is carried out with a restriction enzyme, and said restriction enzyme is selected from the group consisting of Aat II, Ace I, Ace III, Aha II, Alui I, Aoc I, Apa I, ApaL I, Ava I, Bal I, Bam HI, Bel I, Bgrl I, BssH II, BstE II, Cla I, Dra I, Eco52 I, Eco RI, Eco RII, Eco RV, Fsp I, ffae III, Hha I, Hind III, Hpa I, Kpn I, Ksp I, Nci I, Mst II, Nae I, Pst I, Puv I, and Xba I.
21. The method according to Claim 17, wherein said hybridization is carried out at a temperature to enhance the efficiency of said cleaving enzyme and the hybridization of the oligonucleotides.
22. The method according to Claim 17, wherein said cleaving step (b) is further carried out in a buffering system, and said buffering system c o m p r i s e s a M g C l 
2
 , N a C l , tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-hydrochloride (TRIS- HCl) , dithiothreitol (DTT) and bovine standard albumin (BSA) .
23. The method according to Claim 21, wherein said buffering system comprises 100 mM NaCl, 10 mMtris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-hydrochloride (TRIS- HCl) , pH 7.7, 10 mM MgCl
2
, 1 mM DTT and 100 μg/ml BSA.
24. The method according to Claim 17, wherein said oligonucleotide is less than 100 mer.
25. The method according to Claim 17, further comprising the step of adding to said hybridization reaction mixture a terminating solution, and said terminating solution comprises 80% formamide,
15 mM tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-hydrochloride 


 (TRIS-HC1) , pH 7.6, 1 mM EDTA, 0.1% w/v bromophenol blue and 0.1% w/v xylene cyanole FF.
26. A method for cleaving an oligonucleotide comprising providing an oligonucleotide having a partially double-stranded recognition and cleavage site and adding to said oligonucleotide a sufficient amount of a restriction enzyme in the presence of a solvent that can enhance the cleavage of said partially double- stranded recognition and cleavage site.
27. The method according to Claim 25, wherein said solvent is selected from the group consisting of glycerine, glycerol, dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylformamide and formamide.
28. The method according to Claim 25, wherein said restriction enzyme is a ClassII enzyme. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
