<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629791</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fluid mount for engines and the like.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16F1304	F16F1324	F16F1500	F16F1500	F16F1502	F16F1502	F16F15023	F16F15023	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16F13	F16F13	F16F15	F16F15	F16F15	F16F15	F16F15	F16F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fluid mount 
(20)
 provides a flexible connection and fluid effects 
such as damping and/or fluid inertia for a supported member 
(22)
 attached to 
a supporting member 
(24)
 in a singular and unitary package. The fluid 
mount 
(20)
 includes a beam 
(34)
 and a laminated elastomer and shim 
construction bonded thereto, defining variable volume fluid chambers 
(44, 46, 
48, 50)
 and interconnecting fluid passageways 
(52, 54).
 Fluid effects are 
provided in both a radial translational mode (loading at 
R
) and a rotational 
mode (loading at 
T
) to suppress vibrations of the supported member 
(22).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LORD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LORD CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERBST PAUL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERBST, PAUL T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the area of mounts for attaching a supported 
member to a supporting member. Specifically, the invention relates to the 
area of fluid and elastomer mounts for providing vibration attenuation of the 
vibration emanating from a supported member. Fluid mounts for attachment between a supporting member and a 
supported member are taught in US Patent 4,811,919 to Jones, the disclosure 
of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In Jones '919, the fluid inertia 
within the mount can be tuned to provide amplified counter inertial forces 
that coincide with an operating frequency of a vibrating aircraft engine. 
However, in order to produce these fluid forces the beam 11 of mount must 
be loaded in a particular direction such that fluid is transferred from chamber 
40 to chamber 41 through tube 45. This can only be accomplished by 
translation of stub shaft 10 toward frame 20 in a vertical direction thus urging 
fluid to flow through tube 45. Torsional or cocking rotation of the Jones '919 
mount will not set the fluid in motion through tube 45 and hence, no 
damping or inertial effects will be obtained. US Patent 2,705,118 to Beck, the disclosure of which is also hereby 
incorporated by reference, discloses a mounting arrangement that 
incorporates fluid damping in either a torsional mode or a vertical mode, 
depending on the orientation of the mounts, but not in both orientations at 
once. Beck '118 describes a fluid torque restraint in Fig. 4, wherein mounts 
are located on opposite sides of the torque axis of gear box 17. When torque is 
applied, fluid 6 in chambers 5 and conduits 9 are placed in compression. This 
provides a high degree of torque restraint, i.e., a high torsional stiffness. 
However, when the gear box 17 is subjected to vertical translational loads, 
fluid is free to flow through conduit 9 and valve 10, thus providing damping 
and a soft translational stiffness. In the Fig. 3 embodiment, contrarily, the 
mount arrangement imparts a high vertical stiffness yet provides a low 
rotational or torsional stiffness. When the engine 11 is subjected to rotational 
or torsional loading, fluid is free to flow through conduit 9 and valves 10, 
thus providing fluid damping and a low torsional stiffness. However, the  
 
Beck '118 device cannot provide damping in both the vertical 
and rotational modes simultaneously. Further, the mounts in 
Beck must be spaced on opposite sides of the torque axis of 
the supported body. US Patent 4,881,712 to Lun discloses an engine mount

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A unitary fluid and elastomer mount comprising: 

(a) a beam having a length, width and thickness, 
a first end having tapering surfaces, a second end 

spaced along the length of said beam and having 
tapering surfaces, said beam including means for 

attaching to a supported member; 
(b) elastomer means partially forming a first 
variable-volume chamber and a second variable-volume 

chamber adjacent said first end of said beam and 
attached to the tapering surfaces thereof and at least 

partially defining a third variable-volume chamber and 
a fourth variable-volume chamber adjacent said second 

end of said beam and attached to the tapering surfaces 
thereof, said elastomer means adjacent to means being 

adjacent to said means for attaching to supporting 
member; 
(c) at least one fluid passageway, fluidically 
interconnecting at least two selected from the group 

of: said first variable-volume chamber, said second 
variable-volume chamber, said third variable volume 

chamber and said fourth variable-volume chamber; 
 
whereby radial and torsional loading causes fluid to 

flow through said at least one fluid passageway, 
creating a fluid effect. 
A unitary fluid and elastomer mount for attaching 
a supported member to a supporting member, comprising: 


(a) a beam having a length, width, and thickness, 
a first end, a second end spaced apart from said first 

end along said length, and means for attaching to said 
supported member on said beam, said first end is on a 

 
first side of said means for attaching and said second 

end is on an opposite side of said means for attaching; 
(b) a first elastomer and a second elastomer both 
attached to said length of said beam on said first end, 

said first elastomer member at least partially defining 
a first variable-volume chamber, said second elastomer 

member at least partially defining a second variable-volume 
chamber; 
(c) a third elastomer and a fourth elastomer both 
attached to said length of said beam on said second 

end, said third elastomer at least partially defining 
a third variable-volume chamber, said fourth elastomer 

at least partially defining a fourth variable-volume 
chamber; 
(d) a first fluid passageway fluidically 
interconnecting said first variable-volume chamber and 

second variable-volume chamber; 
(e) a first amount of fluid contained within and 
substantially filling said first and second variable 

volume chambers and said interconnecting first fluid 
passageway; 
(f) a second fluid passageway fluidically 
interconnecting said third variable-volume chamber and 

said fourth variable volume chamber; 
(g) a second amount of fluid contained within and 
substantially filling said third and fourth variable-volume 

chambers and said interconnecting second fluid 
passageway; 
 
whereby torsional rotation of said beam about an axis 

(A) extending across said width of said beam and 
translational loading of said beam both cause said 

fluid to flow through said first and said second fluid 
 

passageways creating at least one from the group of 
fluid effects consisting of fluid damping and fluid 

inertia. 
A fluid and elastomer mounting according to claim 
2 wherein said beam has a tapered surfaces on said first end 

and said second end and said first, second, third, and 
fourth elastomers are bonded to said tapered surfaces. 
A fluid and elastomer mounting according to claim 
1 or claim 3 wherein said tapered surfaces on said first end 

and said second end of said beam are positioned at an 
included angle of approximately 22 degrees. 
A fluid and elastomer mounting according to any 
one of the preceding claims wherein said first, second, 

third, fourth elastomers are manufactured from natural 
rub
ber, high temperature natural rubber, or silicone 
elastomer having a static secant shear modulus in the range 

of 50-250 psi. 
A fluid and elastomer mounting according to any 
one of claims 1 to 4 wherein said first, second, third, and 

fourth elastomers are manufactured from laminated shim and 
elastomer construction. 
A fluid and elastomer mounting according to any 
one of the preceding claims including a mechanical volume 

compensator for compensating for fluid expansion within said 
mounting. 
A unitary fluid and elastomer mount according to 
any one of the preceding claims wherein said means for 

attaching to said supported member is a conebolt. 
A unitary fluid and elastomer mount according to 
any one of the preceding claims wherein said fluid effect is 

selected from a tuned fluid inertia effect and a tuned fluid 
damping effect. 
A unitary fluid and elastomer mount according to 
claim 9 wherein said fluid inertia is tuned to provide a 

fluid notch that substantially coincides with a predominant 
operating frequency. 
A unitary fluid and elastomer mount according to 
claim 10 wherein said fluid inertia tuned to provide a notch 

at between about 40 and 90 Hz. 
A unitary fluid and elastomer mount according to 
any one of the preceding claims further including a fluid 

which has a density of 0.064 lb./in.³ and a kinematic 
viscosity of about 2 Cs. 
A unitary fluid and elastomer mount according to 
any one of the preceding claims wherein said elastomer means 

are precompressed to prevent unloading. 
A unitary fluid and elastomer mount according to 
any one of the preceding claims wherein said beam is 

circular in shape. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
