<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631541</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MAINTAINING THE CONFIDENTIALITY OF PRINTED INFORMATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31B2300	B31B2300	B31B4100	B31B4100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31B	B31B	B31B	B31B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31B23	B31B23	B31B41	B31B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for maintaining the confidentiality of information contained in a printed document is accomplished by enclosing the document (72) in an envelope (74), or similar enclosure, before the document is discharged from the apparatus (12). The apparatus (12) generally includes: a printer (14), which may be a facsimile machine, photocopier, or computer printer; a document positioner (20) for positioning the document, so that the document may be enclosed in an envelope; and a document encloser (38), which encloses the document in the envelope so that the document may later be removed from the envelope for viewing only by the intended recipient. The functions and sequencing of the apparatus are controlled by a suitable control system (10). A label printer (50), for printing the name of the intended recipient on the envelope, or the other desired information, may also be included.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GORDIAN HOLDING CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GORDIAN HOLDING CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENE MORTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENE MORTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MAINTAINING THE CONFIDENTIALITY OF PRINTED INFORMATIONCROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONThis is a continuation-in-part of prior United States application Serial Number 07/810,289, filed December 19, 1991.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to maintaining the confidentiality of information, and more particularly to an apparatus, method and product produced by such method for ensuring the maintenance of the confidentiality of printed information for the particular purposes described below.With the advent of the automated office, maintaining the confidentiality of the content of printed matter, such as the content of correspondence, contracts, financial data, and the like, has become increasingly difficult. Because of the ease with which identical copies of such documents can be made with various equipment, such as facsimile machines, photocopiers and computer printers, the need has arisen for a means for reducing the risk that confidential information contained in such documents will be accidentally or intentionally 

 read by unauthorized personnel before such documents reach the intended recipient.One attempt to resolve this problem, at least from the standpoint of maintaining the confidentiality of documents printed on a facsimile machine, is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,912,761. The apparatus and method described therein is designed to deter the "casual" reader r interposed between the receiver of the transmission, and the intended recipient, from reading the document. Specifically, the document is divided into two separate documents which are individually unreadable in an easy and straight forward manner. The two separate documents are transmitted in sequence. The portions are then reconstituted at the receiving end by the intended recipient by using a transparency overlay process with the two portions. The patterning at the transmitting end may be accomplished by an optical filtering process or alternatively may be computer generated manipulating a pre-input document to produce the two portions for printing and transmission.This system is, however, intended to deter only the "casual" reader as the separate documents are only unreadable in an "easy and straight forward manner." Moreover, the system requires scrambling and unscrambling of the original document. As this system only deters the "casual" reader, the need still exists for an apparatus and method which maintains the document in its original form while deterring unauthorized persons from viewing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. An apparatus for maintaining the confidentiality of information contained in a printed document comprising:
means for printing said document;
means for positioning said document such that the document may be enclosed in an envelope;
means for enclosing said document in said envelope such that said document may later be removed from said envelope; and
means for controlling said printing, positioning, and enclosing means.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said enclosing means further comprises means for fabricating said envelope.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said positioning means further comprises means for positioning said document between first and second envelope paper webs. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said enclosing means further comprises means for separating said envelope from said first and second envelope paper webs.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said enclosing means further comprises means for printing information on said envelope.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said fabricating means further comprises means for sealing said first and second envelope paper webs together to form an envelope around said document.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said sealing means further comprises:
means for applying adhesive to said first or second envelope paper webs; and
means for applying pressure to said first and second envelope paper webs.
'
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said sealing means further comprises means for heating said adhesive.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said pressure is applied by seal pressure rollers. 


 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said separating means further comprises means for cutting through said first and second envelope paper webs.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said positioning means further comprises means for depositing said document on a feed chute, said chute having sufficient angle such that said document slides down said chute and on to said second envelope paper web by gravitational force, said document stopping where said second envelope paper web comes essentially in contact with said first envelope paper web.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, said first and second envelope paper webs having right and left margins, said margins having spaced holes therethrough and being detachably connected to opposite sides of each web, further comprising means for separating said margins from said envelope paper webs.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said margin separating means further comprises means for applying a force to said detachable connection sufficient to cause said margin to detach from said envelope paper webs without tearing said envelope paper webs.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said margin separating means further comprises means for cutting said detachable connection prior to, or simultaneously with, the application of said force. 


 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said document printing means comprises a facsimile machine, a photocopier, or a computer printer.
16. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said positioning means further comprises means for positioning said document in between first and second straight sides of a single U-shaped envelope web, said U-shaped web also having a vertex located between said first and second sides.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said enclosing means further comprises means for separating said U-shaped web from an envelope supply web.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said enclosing means further comprises means for printing information on said envelope.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said fabricating means further comprises means for sealing said first and second sides of said U-shaped web together to form an envelope around said document.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said sealing means further comprises:
means for applying adhesive to said first or second sides of said U-shaped web; 


 means for folding said U-shaped web along said web's vertex; and
means for applying pressure to said first and second sides of said U-shaped web.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said sealing means further comprises means for heating said adhesive.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said means for application of pressure comprises pressure rollers.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said document printing means comprises a facsimile machine, a photocopier or a computer printer.
24. An apparatus for maintaining the confidentiality of information contained in a printed document comprising:
a base;
a document positioner mounted to said base wherein said positioner positions said document such that said document may be enclosed in an envelope; 


 a document encloser which is adjacent to said document positioner wherein said encloser encloses said document in said envelope such that said document may later be removed from said envelope; and
a document printer which is adjacent to said positioner; and
a controller which controls the functions and sequencing of said document positioner, said document positioner, document encloser and document printer.
25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said document encloser further comprises an envelope fabricator wherein said fabricator fabricates said envelope and encloses said document in said envelope.
26. An apparatus for maintaining the confidentiality of information in a printed document by fabricating an envelope around said document comprising:
a machine frame;
a document feed chute mounted to said machine frame on which said document is deposited and is angled such that said document may slide by gravitational force, in a plane 



 which defines a machine direction plane, from said chute to a point at which a first envelope paper web meets a second envelope paper web;
upper envelope supply roller, around which
5 a supply of upper envelope paper for said first envelope web is wound, wherein said upper envelope supply roller is rotatably mounted to said frame;
lower envelope supply roller, around which
10 a supply of lower envelope paper for said second envelope web is wound, wherein said lower envelope supply roller is rotatably mounted to said frame;
right and left tractor feeds mounted to 15 said frame each tractor feed having a series of pins, spaced at the same intervals as said margin holes such that said pins slideably engage said holes of said tractor feed's respective margin such that said envelope paper 20 webs move in the direction in which said pins move;
a seal pressure roller mechanism mounted to said frame comprising a seal pressure frame; left and right margin pressure rollers rotatably 25 and adjustably mounted to said seal pressure frame; center roller actuator adjustably mounted to said seal pressure frame; center roller frame 


 adjustably mounted to said center roller actuator; said center pressure roller rotatably and adjustably mounted to said center roller frame;
a paper cutter, positioned to detach said envelope from said first and second webs, said cutter comprising a cutting mechanism frame mounted to said frame; a paper cutter actuator adjustably mounted to said paper cutter frame; and a paper cutter blade mounted to said paper cutter actuator;
a control system adapted to control said tractor feed's functions and sequencing, said seal pressure roller's functions and sequencing, and said paper cutter's functions and sequencing.
27. The apparatus of claim 26 further comprising a label printer mounted to said frame whereas said label printer prints desired information on said outside surface of the envelope and said control system is further adapted to control said label printer's functions and sequencing.
28. The apparatus of claim 26 further comprising a seal heater mounted to said frame wherein said control system is further adapted to control said seal heater's function and sequencing. 


 29. The apparatus of claim 26 further comprising right and left margin debris tractor feeds mounted to said frame each having a series of pins spaced at intervals the same as said margin holes such that said pins slideably engage said margin holes, each debris tractor feed being positioned on an angle away from the center of said first and second webs, wherein said angle is sufficient to separate said margins from said webs without distorting or tearing said envelope paper webs and wherein said control system further controls the functions and sequencing of said debris tractor feeds.
30. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising left and right margin separation blades, each margin blade having a cutting surface wherein each margin blade is mounted to said frame such that said cutting surfaces assist in the separation of said margins from said first and second webs.
31. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said positioning means further comprises means for positioning said document at a vertex formed in an envelope web segment by a document insertion blade.
32. A method for maintaining the confidentiality of information contained in a printed document comprising the steps of:
printing said document; 


 positioning said document such that the document may be enclosed in an envelope;
enclosing said document in said envelope such that said document may later be removed from said envelope; and
controlling said printing, positioning, and enclosing steps.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein said enclosing step further comprises the step of fabricating said envelope.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein said positioning step further comprises positioning said document between first and second envelope paper webs.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein said enclosing step further comprises the step of separating said envelope from said first and second envelope paper webs.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein said enclosing step further comprises the step of printing information on said envelope.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein said fabricating step further comprises the step of sealing said first and second envelope paper webs together to form an envelope around said document. 


 38. The method of claim 37, wherein said sealing step further comprises the steps of:
applying adhesive to said first or second envelope paper webs; and
applying pressure to said first and second envelope paper webs.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein said sealing step further comprises the step of heating said adhesive.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein said pressure is applied by seal pressure rollers.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein said separating step further comprises the step of cutting through said first and second envelope paper webs.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein said positioning step further comprises the step of depositing said document on a feed chute, said chute having sufficient angle such that said document slides down said chute and on to said second envelope paper web by gravitational force, said document stopping where said second envelope paper web comes essentially in contact with said first envelope paper web. 


 43. The method of claim 42, said first and second envelope paper webs having right and left margins, said margins having spaced holes therethrough and being detachably connected to opposite sides of each web, further comprising the step of separating said margins from said envelope paper webs.
44. The method of claim 43, wherein said margin separating step further comprises the step of applying a force to said detachable connection sufficient to cause said margin to detach from said envelope paper webs without tearing said envelope paper webs.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein said margin separating step further comprises the step of cutting said detachable connection prior to, or simultaneously with, the application of said force.
46. The method of claim 45, wherein said document printing is performed by a facsimile machine, photocopier or computer printer.
47. The method of claim 33, wherein said positioning step further comprises the step of positioning said document in between first and second sides of a single U-shaped envelope web, said U-shaped web also having a vertex located between said first and second sides. 


 48. The method of claim 47, wherein said enclosing step further comprises the step of separating said U-shaped web from an envelope supply web.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein said enclosing step further comprises the step of printing information on said envelope.
50. The method of claim 49, wherein said fabricating step further comprises the step of sealing said first and second sides of said U-shaped web together to form an envelope around said document.
51. The method of claim 50, wherein said sealing step further comprises the steps of:
applying adhesive to said first or second sides of said U-shaped web;
folding said U-shaped web along said web's vertex; and
applying pressure to said first and second sides of said U-shaped web.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein said sealing step further comprises the step of heating said adhesive.
53. The method of claim 52, wherein said application of pressure is applied by pressure rollers. 


 54. The method of claim 53, wherein said document printing is performed by a facsimile machine, photocopier or computer printer.
55. The method of claim 33, wherein said positioning step further comprises the steps of positioning said document at a vertex formed in an envelope web segment by a document insertion blade.
56. A document enclosed in an envelope provided by the methods of claim 33.
57. A document enclosed in an envelope provided by the method of claim 47.
58. A document enclosed in an envelope produced by the method of claim 55. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
