<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629321</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CIRCUIT, COUNTER AND FREQUENCY SYNTHESIZER WITH ADJUSTABLE BIAS CURRENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K1900	H03K1900	H03L716	H03L718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03L	H03L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K19	H03K19	H03L7	H03L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN FREDERICK L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN, FREDERICK, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
CIRCUIT, COUNTER AND FREQUENCY SYNTHESIZER WITH ADJUSTABLE BIAS CURRENTTechnical Field This invention relates generally to electronic circuits, and more specifically to a circuit having adjustable bias current.BackgroundIn existing emitter-coupled logic circuits, circuit loads are implemented with either fixed value resistors or multiple forward- biased diodes. Neither of these techniques are ideal for low supply voltage (e.g, less than 5 volts) circuits, which must operate over a wide range of input frequencies. Bias current and, therefore, operating speed in circuits employing fixed resistor loads can be adjusted only over a narrow range. In circuits with diode loads, the bias current can be adjusted. However, associated with the diode is a large voltage drop (about 0.8 volt per diode) which limits the utility of a diode-load circuit in low voltage systems. A need thus exists for a circuit which can overcome these problems, facilitating the design of low voltage circuits having minimum power dissipation.Summary of the InventionBriefly, according to the invention, an electronic circuit having adjustable bias current comprises a load stage comprising a field-effect transistor. The load stage includes an adjustment terminal responsive to an adjustment voltage for controlling the load resistance of the field-effect transistor. The electronic circuit also includes a bias current generator means for generating the bias current supplied to the electronic circuit. Finally, the electronic circuit includes a current steering means for controlling the amount of bias current supplied to the load stage. 

Brief Description of the DrawingsFIG. 1 is a block diagram of a circuit in accordance with the invention.FIG. 2 is a schematic of a NAND implementation of the present invention.FIG. 3 is a schematic of the NAND circuit of FIG.2 with a self-biased current source for controlling the BIAS and ADJ terminals of the NAND circuit in accordance with the present invention. FIG. 4 is a schematic of a radio in accordance with the invention.Detailed Description of the Preferred EmbodimentReferring now to the drawings and specifically to FIG. 1 , there is shown a block diagram of a circuit with adjustable bias current 100 in accordance with the invention. Circuit 100 consists of an adjustable bias current generator 124, a load stage such as a pair load structure 116 and a current steering means such as current steering circuit 122. Current steering circuit 122 is used for steering substantially all of the bias current
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. An electronic circuit having adjustable bias current, comprising: a load stage comprising a field-effect transistor, the load stage having an adjustment terminal responsive to an adjustment voltage for controlling the load resistance of the field-effect transistor; a bias current generator means for generating the bias current supplied to the electronic circuit; and a current steering means, for controlling the amount of bias current supplied to the load stage.
2. The electronic circuit having adjustable bias current of claim 1 , wherein the circuit is an emitter-coupled logic (ECL) circuit.
3. The electronic circuit having adjustable bias current of claim 2, wherein the current steering means forms a logic circuit selected from the logic circuit group of NAND, NOR, AND, EXCLUSIVE-OR and OR.
4. The electronic circuit having adjustable bias current of claim 3, wherein the bias current generator is responsive to a bias current adjustment voltage for controlling the amount of bias current supplied to the electronic circuit. 

5. An electronic circuit having adjustable bias current, comprising: a load stage having a plurality of field-effect transistors, the load stage having an adjustment terminal responsive to an adjustment voltage for controlling the load resistance of the field- effect transistors; a bias current generator having a bias adjustment terminal responsive to a bias current adjustment voltage for generating the bias current supplied to the electronic circuit; and a current steering means for controlling the amount of bias current supplied to each of the plurality of field-effect transistors. 

6. A counter assembly having minimum power dissipation, comprising: a counter, comprising: an electronic circuit having adjustable bias current , including: a load stage comprising a load device; a current steering means coupled to the load stage for controlling the amount of bias current to be supplied to the load device; and a bias current generator coupled to the current steering means for controlling the amount of bias current supplied to the electronic circuit; and a delay estimator coupled to the counter for estimating the propagation delay of the counter and providing a reference output signal which has a value corresponding to the propagation delay of the counter, the bias current generator adjusts the amount of bias current supplied to the electronic circuit in response to the reference output signal. 

7. A synthesizer, comprising: a reference oscillator; a phase detector coupled to the reference oscillator; and a divider circuit coupled to the phase detector, the divider circuit comprising an electronic circuit having adjustable bias current, comprising: a load stage having a field-effect transistor, the load stage having an adjustment terminal responsive to an adjustment voltage for controlling the load resistance of the field-effect transistor; a bias current generator having a bias adjustment terminal responsive to a bias current adjustment voltage for generating the bias current supplied to the electronic circuit; and a current steering means for controlling the amount of bias current supplied to the field-effect transistor. 

8. A synthesizer, comprising: a reference oscillator; a phase detector coupled to the reference oscillator; and a counter coupled to the phase detector, the counter comprising: an electronic circuit having adjustable bias current, including: a load stage comprising a load device; a current steering means coupled to the load stage for controlling the amount of bias current to be supplied to the load device; and a bias current generator coupled to the current steering means for controlling the amount of bias current supplied to the electronic circuit; and a delay estimator circuit coupled to the counter for estimating the propagation delay of the counter and providing a reference output signal which has a value corresponding to the propagation delay of the counter, the bias current generator adjusts the amount of bias current supplied to the electronic circuit in response to the reference output signal. 

9. A radio, comprising: a receiver; and an electronic circuit having adjustable bias current coupled to the receiver, comprising: a load stage comprising a field-effect transistor, the load stage having an adjustment terminal responsive to an adjustment voltage for controlling the load resistance of the field- effect transistor; a current steering means coupled to the load stage for controlling the amount of bias current to be supplied to the field- effect transistor; and a bias current generator means coupled to the current steering means for controlling the amount of bias current supplied to the electronic circuit.
10. The radio of claim 9, wherein the electronic circuit further comprises: a means coupled to the load stage and bias current generator for generating a bias current adjustment voltage as a function of the adjustment voltage. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
