<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653821</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reflective digitally tunable laser
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L3300	H01S5026	H01L3300	G02B634	H01S540	H01S500	H01S5028	G02B634	H01S500	H01S514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01S	H01L	G02B	H01S	H01S	H01S	G02B	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L33	H01S5	H01L33	G02B6	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	G02B6	H01S5	H01S5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tunable laser formed on a semiconductive wafer 
comprising a plurality of monolithically integrated 

optical amplifiers and a planar optical multiplexer is 
disclosed. According to the invention, one of the optical 

amplifiers is activated by energy, which amplifier 
produces a signal. The signal is carried along a 

waveguide associated with the optical amplifier and enters 
a reflective Dragone router, which is the preferred 

optical multiplexer. The reflective Dragone router 
functions, in conjunction with the activated optical 

amplifier, to define a wavelength selective optically 
transmissive pathway to create lasing action. Facet 

mirrors are cleaved in the semiconductive wafer defining 

the lasing cavity which includes the optical amplifiers, 
associated waveguides and the reflective Dragone router. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMINOW IVAN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIRNGIBL MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMINOW, IVAN P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIRNGIBL, MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Information transfer over an optical fiber
transmission system can be increased by optical wavelength
division multiplexing (WDM). In WDM systems, a number of
different wavelength optical signals, known as "channels,"
are transmitted in parallel along a single fiber.
Multiplexing requires that there be a way of conveniently
producing optical energy at different wavelengths
corresponding to the channels of a WDM system. To produce
a cost effective WDM system, components must be fabricated
to provide reproducible and exact channel spacing.An ideal source of such optical energy is a laser. A
laser which is potentially suitable for WDM applications
is the tunable semiconductor laser. Such a laser is tuned
by injecting current into part of the laser cavity, which
injection changes the refractive index of the waveguide.
However, the tuning range is limited and exact tuning
versus current characteristics are difficult to predict
and are subject to aging. Woodward et al., "Effects of
Aging on the Bragg Section of DBR Laser," IEEE Photon.
Tech. Lett., 5(7) at 750-52 (1993).Another approach for producing a suitable WDM energy
source is to monolithically integrate optical amplifiers
with a planar optical multiplexer on a semiconductive
wafer. The optical cavity, which includes a multiplexer
and a gain section, is defined by two cleaved facets.
When one of the amplifiers is turned on, it will receive
optical feedback that has been filtered by the
multiplexer. Above the lasing threshold, lasing will
occur at the cavity resonant wavelength nearest peak
filter transmission. This wavelength will shift by
exactly one multiplexer channel spacing if the neighboring
amplifier is pumped instead. The device can be digitally
tuned to the desired wavelength channel by driving the
appropriate gain section. Tuning is now no longer limited 
by the obtainable change in refractive index, but only by
the gain bandwidth of the amplifier. Furthermore, channel
spacings are very accurate because each individual
amplifier "sees" the same diffractive element.The multiple array grating integrated cavity (MAGIC)
laser is an example of the above described laser. See
Soole et al., "Multistripe Array Grating Integrated Cavity
(MAGIC) Laser: A New Semiconductor Laser for WDM
Applications," Elect. Lett., 28(19) at 1805-07 (1992);
Soole et al., "Wavelength-selectable Laser Emission from a
Multistripe Array Grating Integrated Cavity Laser," Appl.
Phys. Lett., 61(23) at 2750-52 (1992); Poguntke et al.,
"Simultaneous Multiple Wavelength Operation of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laser (1), comprising:

a first reflective surface (13) formed in a semiconductive
wafer;
a second reflective surface (15) formed in the
semiconductive wafer at a position spaced from the first

reflective surface;
a first plurality of waveguides (5
1-N
) formed in the
semiconductive wafer connecting the first reflective surface to a

free space region (9);
a wavelength selective device (7) formed in the
semiconductive waf
er, wherein the wavelength selective device
comprises the free space region and a second plurality of

waveguides (12), each waveguide (12) of the second plurality of waveguides having a different length, the second
plurality of waveguides collectively defining an optical grating (11),

where the optical grating is connected, at one end, to the second
reflective surface (15) and at the other end to the free space region (9);
one or more controllable optical amplifiers (3
1-N
) formed in
one or more of the waveguides (5
1-N
) of the first plurality of
waveguides, the one or more optical amplifiers having an active

state for providing optical gain and a gate state wherein the
optical amplifier is not optically transmissive to the first

reflective surface; and
a means (4) for selectively providing bias current to one
of the one or more optical amplifiers to place the one optical

amplifier in the active state, 
where the said one active optical amplifier, the waveguide in
which it is formed and the wavelength selective device define a

wavelength selective optically transmissive pathway to generate
lasing action (16;17;18) and where the lasing wavelength is determined by

the said one optical amplifier which is in the active state.
The laser of claim 1 where the wavelength selective
device has a free spectral range greater than or equal to the

product of the number of discrete laser wavelengths and the
desired channel spacing.
The laser of claim 1 where light (18) is emitted from the
laser at the second reflective surface (15) at a single location (50) from

one of the waveguides (12) of the second plurality of waveguides.
The laser of claim 1 where at least one of the
reflective surfaces further comprises a wavelength selective

mirror.
The laser of claim 1 where the one or more optical
amplifiers have a peaked gain profile. 
A method for generating laser light comprising:

providing a first reflective surface (13) in a
semiconductive wafer;
providing a second reflective surface (15) in the
semiconductive wafer at a position spaced from the first

reflective surface;
providing a first plurality of vaveguides (5
1-N
) in the
semiconductive wafer, which waveguides connect the first

reflective surface to a free space region (9);
providing a wavelength selective device (7) in the
semiconductive wafer, wherein the wavelength selective device

comprises the free space region (9) and a second plurality of
waveguides (12), each waveguide (12) of the second plurality of waveguides having a different length, the

second plurality of waveguides collectively defining an optical grating (11),
where the optical grating is connected, at one end, to the second

reflective surface (15) and at the other end to the free space region (9);
providing one or more controllable optical amplifiers (3
1-N
)
formed in one or more of the waveguides of the first plurality of

waveguides, each of the one or more optical amplifiers having an
active state for providing gain and a gate state wherein the

optical amplifier is not optically transmissive to the first
reflective surface;
selectively providing energy to one of the one or more
optical amplifiers to place the one optical amplifier in the

active state;
defining a wavelength selective optically transmissive
pathway including the said one active optical amplifier, the waveguide in 

which the said one active optical amplifier is formed and the wavelength
selective device; and
generating lasing action (16;17;18) in the defined pathway at a
lasing wavelength determined by the said one optical amplifier which

is in the active state.
The method of claim 6 further comprising emitting laser
light (18) at the second reflective surface (15) at a single location (50) from

one of the waveguides (12) of the second plurality of waveguides.
The method of claim 6 where providing a first and
second reflective surface further comprises providing at least

one reflective surface that is a wavelength selective mirror.
The method of claim 6 where providing one or more
controllable optical amplifiers comprises providing one

or more controllable optical amplifiers with a peaked gain
profile.
A method for making a laser (1) comprising:

forming a wavelength selective device (7) in a
semiconductive wafer, wherein the wavelength selective device

includes a free space region (9) and a plurality of waveguides (12), each
waveguide (12) of said second plurality of waveguides having a different length, the second plurality of waveguides (12)

collectively defining an optical grating (11), and the optical grating
is connected at one end to the free space region; 
forming a plurality of input waveguides (5
1-N
) in the
semiconductive wafer which connect to the free space region;
forming one or more controllable optical amplifiers (3
1-N
) in
one or more of the waveguides of the plurality of input

waveguides by appropriately doping the waveguides in a suitable
manner with semiconductors;
forming a device (4) for selectively providing energy to
the one or more optical amplifiers; and
cleaving the semiconductive wafer at two spaced
locations to form a first (13) and second facet mirror (15), where the

first facet mirror (13) is connected to the wavelength selective
device (7) by the input waveguides (5
1-N
) containing the one or more optical
amplifiers (3
1-N
) and the second facet mirror (15) is connected to the
second plurality of waveguides (12) defining the optical grating.
The method of claim 10 further comprising coating the
second facet mirror with an anti-reflection material (50) at a single

location associated with one of the waveguides (12) defining the
optical grating.
The method of claim 10 further comprising forming the
one or more optical amplifiers so that they have a peaked gain

profile. 
A method of forming two lasers (1) comprising:

forming a wavelength selective device in a
semiconductive wafer, wherein the wavelength selective device

includes a first (9) and second (9) free space region and a plurality of
waveguides (12), each waveguide (12) having a different length, the

plurality of waveguides collectively defining an optical grating,
and the optical grating is connected at each end to the free

space regions;
forming a plurality of input waveguides (5
1-N
) in the
semiconductive wafer which connect to the first free space

region;
forming a plurality of output waveguides (5
1-N
) in the
semiconductive wafer which connect to the second free space

region;
forming one or more controllable optical amplifiers (3
1-N
)
in one or more of the waveguides of the plurality of input

waveguides (5
1-N
) and in one or more of the waveguides of the plurality
of output waveguides (5
1-N
) by appropriately doping the waveguides in a
suitable manner with semiconductors;
forming a device (4) for selectively providing energy to
the one or more optical amplifiers;
cleaving the semiconductive wafer at two spaced

locations to form a first (13) and second (13) facet mirror, where the
first facet mirror is connected to the wavelength selective

device by the input waveguides (5
1-N
) containing the optical amplifiers
and the second facet mirror is connected to the wavelength selective

device by the output waveguides (5
1-N
) containing the optical amplifiers; and
cleaving the semiconductive wafer through the optical grating to form a
third (15) and fourth (15) facet mirror, where the first (13) and third (15) facet mirror define a first

lasing cavity and the second (13) and fourth (15) facet mirror define a second lasing cavity, the
first and second lasing cavity being of equal size.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
