<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615420</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STATIC BRAKE FOR SOLID BLOCK CHEMICAL DISPENSERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47L1544	A47L1544	B01F100	B01F100	B08B1300	B08B1300	D06F3902	D06F3902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47L	A47L	B01F	B01F	B08B	B08B	D06F	D06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47L15	A47L15	B01F1	B01F1	B08B13	B08B13	D06F39	D06F39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECOLAB INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECOLAB INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOCHE DANIEL K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRANDPREY GREG M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAVORATA JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEKARNA MATTHEW D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOCHE, DANIEL, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRANDPREY, GREG, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAVORATA, JOHN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEKARNA, MATTHEW, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STATIC BRAKE FOP. SOLID BLOCK CHEMICAL DISPENSERSField of the Invention The invention generally relates to chemical dispensing systems, and more particularly is a static brake for cast solid block chemical products, which can be employed in a solid block chemical dispenser for slowing a generally downward gravitationally driven movement of a solid chemical block composition placed in the open receptacle of the dispenser.Background of the Invention Industrial warewashing and laundry machines generally comprise a wash tank which contains a cleaning solution for the wash process. In this process, the wash load is contacted with the cleaning solution and subsequently with rinse water which falls into the wash tank. With each cycle, the cleaning power of the cleaning solution is reduced, first because some is exhausted by the soil removing process and, second, because it is diluted with rinse water. The cleaning solution is therefore recharged from time to time by adding fresh cleaning liquid from a dispenser system which usually provides a concentrated aqueous solution of an alkaline and/or surfactant based chemical composition. These chemical compositions are typically provided in solid form and are stored in the dispenser housing.A number, of techniques are known for converting the solid chemicals into a concentrated solution, dependent on the solid. For example, solid powder chemicals can be dissolved by placing them on a sieve and spraying water onto the sieve from below. Alternatively, the powder material can be dissolved in a dispenser of the "water-in-reservoir" type, in which the powder material is submerged under water, which thereafter becomes bloated or even saturated with the powder. When more water is added, the excess solution flows into an overflow pipe leading to the washing machine. It is also possible to use solid detergent 

 materials in the form of briquettes in the water-in- reservoir type of dispenser.A more recent type of solid chemical is the solid case or block form, in which a solid block is formed by pouring a concentrated aqueous slurry into a container, in which it solidifies upon cooling as a result of the hydration of the salts in the composition. Some solid blocks cast in containers require dispensing systems in which solvent is sprayed onto the block while it is inside the container, thereby dissolving the exposed surface to form a concentrated solution. When the solid blocks are not used in the same container in which they were cast, various dispensing systems can be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A static brake for slowing the generally downward gravitationally driven movement of a solid chemical block composition when placed in a dispenser, said static brake comprising:
(a) a horizontal base frame defining a perimeter and a central opening therein;
(b) a plurality of rigid blade members extending from said horizontal base frame in a generally perpendicular direction to said horizontal base frame, said blade members rigidly attached to said horizontal base frame; wherein said blade members have an inwardly directed tapered edge extending from said perimeter of said horizontal base frame into said opening.
2. The static brake of claim 1, wherein said static brake is made of a metallic substance.
3. The static brake of claim 2, wherein said static brake is made of stainless steel.
4. The static brake of claim 1, wherein said tapered edge of said blade members is formed with a taper angle of about 60° to about 85°.
5. The static brake of claim 1, wherein said horizontal base frame comprises a portion of a housing of a solid block chemical dispenser.
6. The static brake of claim 1, comprising four blade members, each blade member having a triangular tapered edge and a support member.
7. A solid block chemical dispensing system, comprising:
(a) dispenser for dispensing an aqueous 


 chemical solution to a utilization point from a solid block chemical composition, said dispenser comprising:
(i) a housing having an inner surface and an outer surface, said housing defining a substantially enclosed inner cavity comprising a storage portion and a collector portion, said housing also defining an upwardly disposed access port; (ii) a flat horizontal screen support mounted in the storage portion of said housing-; and
(iii) a spray nozzle mounted on said inner surface of said housing; and (b) a static brake disposed within said housing of said dispenser above said screen support for slowing the generally downward gravitationally driven movement of a solid block chemical composition when placed in the inner cavity of said dispenser, said static brake comprising:
(i) a horizontal base frame defining a perimeter and a central opening therein; and (ii) a plurality of rigid blade members extending from said horizontal base frame in a generally perpendicular direction to said horizontal base frame, said blade members rigidly attached to- said horizontal base frame, said blade members having an inwardly directed tapered edge extending from said perimeter of said horizontal base frame into said opening; wherein said static brake prevents a solid block chemical composition from striking said screen support mounted in the storage portion of said housing when said solid block is placed in said dispenser.
8. The dispensing system of claim 7, wherein said spray nozzle is mounted in the storage portion of said 


housing on the inner surface of said housing.
9. The dispensing system of claim 7, wherein said spray nozzle is mounted in the collector portion of said housing below said screen support on the inner surface of said housing.
10. The dispensing system of claim 7, wherein said dispenser further comprises a door operatively engaged to the housing and positioned across the upwardly disposed access port.
11. The dispensing system of claim 7, wherein said dispenser further comprises a plurality of lip members protruding from the inner surface of said housing for supporting a container having a solid block chemical composition within the container.
12. The dispensing system of claim 7, wherein said static brake is made of a metallic substance.
13. The dispensing system of claim 12, wherein said static brake is made of stainless steel.
14. The dispensing system of claim 7, wherein said tapered edge of said blade members is formed with a taper angle of about 60° to about 85°.
15. The dispensing system of claim 7, wherein said static brake comprises four blade members, each blade member having a triangular tapered edge and a support member.
16. A solid block chemical dispensing system, comprising:
(a) a dispenser for dispensing an aqueous chemical solution to a utilization point from a 


 solid block chemical composition, said dispenser comprising:
(1) a housing having an inner surface and an outer surface, said housing defining a substantially enclosed inner cavity comprising a storage portion and a collector portion, said housing also defining an upwardly disposed access port;
(ii) a flat horizontal screen support mounted in the storage portion of said housing; and
(iii) a spray nozzle mounted on said inner surface of said housing; and (b) a static brake disposed within said housing of said dispenser above said screen support for slowing the generally downward gravitationally driven movement of a solid block chemical composition when placed in the inner cavity of said dispenser, said static brake comprising a plurality of rigid blade members attached to said housing inner surface, said blade members having a support and a triangular tapered edge extending inwardly from said inner surface; wherein said static brake prevents a solid block chemical composition from striking said screen support mounted in the storage portion of said housing when said solid block is placed in said dispenser.
17. The dispensing system of claim 16, wherein said dispenser further comprises a plurality of lip members protruding from the inner surface of said housing for supporting a container having a solid block chemical composition within the container.
18. The dispensing system of claim 16, wherein said static brake is made of a metallic substance. 


19. The dispensing system of claim 16, wherein the static brake is made of stainless steel.
20. The dispensing system of claim 16, wherein said blade members are formed with a taper angle of about 60° to about 85°.
21. A method of dispensing a chemical solution to a utilization point from a solid block chemical composition disposed in a container having an open face and covered by a lid, comprising the steps of:
(a) removing a lid from a container;
(b) inverting the container over an upwardly , disposed access port of a dispenser such that an open face of the container is down, said dispenser comprising a housing defining an inner cavity having a storage portion and a collector portion, said dispenser having a static brake for slowing the downward gravitationally directed movement of a solid block when it is released from said container into said dispenser, said static brake disposed within said housing on a flat horizontal screen support, said static brake comprising:
(i) a horizontal base frame defining a perimeter and a central opening therein;
(ii) a plurality of rigid blade members extending from said horizontal base frame in a generally perpendicular direction to said horizontal base frame, said blade members rigidly attached to said horizontal base frame, said blade members having an inwardly directed tapered edge extending from said perimeter of said horizontal base frame into said opening;
(c) allowing the solid block to fall from the container as a single unit into the dispenser, said solid block sliding downwardly against said blade members which stop said solid block before it 


 reaches said screen support; and
(d) spraying water upon the solid block, thereby dissolving the chemical in contact with the water which then passes through the screen support to the collector portion of the housing and is directed to a utilization point.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein said container having an open face surrounds and is in contact with said solid block chemical on all but one surface thereof, the cross-sectional area of the open face sufficient to allow passage of the entire solid block therethrough.
23. The method of claim 21-, wherein upon insertion of the solid block into the dispenser, the solid block is separated from the container and inserted into the dispenser through the access port and retainably held by said blade members of said static brake at least about 2 inches above said horizontal screen support.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein said solid block comprises a cast solid detergent block.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein said solid block comprises a cast solid warewash or laundry detergent composition.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein said solid block comprises a concentrated solid lubricant composition.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein said solid lubricant is a conveyor lubricant.
28. The method of claim 21, wherein said static brake is ae of a metallic substance. 


29. The method of claim 28, wherein said static brake is made of stainless steel.
30. The method of claim 21, wherein said tapered edge of said blade members is formed with a taper angle of about 70° to about 80°.
31. The method of claim 21, wherein said static brake comprises four blade members, each blade member having a triangular tapered edge and a support member.
32. A method for slowing the generally downward gravitationally driven movement of a solid chemical block composition when placed in a dispenser, comprising the step of disposing a static brake in a dispenser, said static brake comprising:
(a) a horizontal base frame defining a perimeter and a central opening therein; and (b) a plurality of rigid blade members extending from said horizontal base frame in a generally perpendicular direction to said horizontal base frame, said blade members rigidly attached to horizontal base frame, said blade members having an inwardly directed tapered edge extending from said perimeter of said horizontal base frame into said opening; wherein said tapered edge of said blade members contacts and penetrates the solid chemical block to slow the generally downward movement of the solid chemical block.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein said static brake is made of a metallic substance.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein said static brake is made of stainless steel. 


 35. The method of claim 32, wherein said tapered edge of said blade members is formed with a taper angle of about 60° to about 85°.
36. The method of claim 32, wherein said horizontal base frame comprises a portion of a housing of a solid block chemical dispenser.
37. The method of claim 32, wherein said static brake comprises four blade members, each blade member having a triangular tapered edge and a support member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
