<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648471</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Package with surgical suture material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1704	A61B1704	A61B1706	A61B1706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A package with surgical suture material consists of a base plate 
(1), a cover plate (30) and a closure plate (50). The thread 

(20) of a needle/thread combination is placed on the base plate 
(1) in several coils (24), whereby it travels through a thread 

guide (10, 12) and whereby in the lower region of the base plate 
(1) the individual coils are laid spaced apart, so that the 

innermost coil (25) is the one nearest to the front end (21) of 
the thread. The needle (22) is held by a needle holder (26). 

Arranged in the lower region of the cover plate (30) are brake 
strips (32, 33) which press against the lower regions at least 

of the outer coils (24) of the thread (20) when the cover plate 
(30) is folded onto the base plate (1). In the finished folded-together 

state the closure plate (50) covers the cover plate 
(30). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHICON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHICON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUNKEN DIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUNKEN, DIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a package with surgical suture
material.Surgical suture material is used in the form of threads provided
with needles, i.e. needle/thread combinations, and optionally
also in the form of individual threads in pre-cut lengths.
Various types of material are available for the threads, such as
for example silk, polyamides, polypropylene or interwoven
polyester and resorbable materials, in various thread
thicknesses and thread lengths. As needles, a number of
different straight and bent needles are used, which differ in
needle size, needle thickness and type of section.The package of surgical suture material has to guarantee that
the contents remain safe and sterile. Usually, a sterile inner
package is enclosed by an outer cover which keeps the inner
package sterile until it is torn open and removed during an
operation. The inner package, which is designated in the
following as "package", should allow the surgical suture
material to be removed rapidly and without complication. In
particular, the thread to be removed should not become entangled
or entwined, and moreover, it is to be ensured that the thread,
after its removal, does not have a tendency to resume the shape
which it assumed whilst in the package ("thread memory"). There are packages for a needle/thread combination which satisfy
these requirements by keeping the thread in an extruded plastic
channel. Kinks in the thread which promote the thread memory
effect are thus avoided. To remove, the thread is pulled out
from the plastic channel.It is a disadvantage with the previously known package that it
is costly as a result of the expensive channel. It also does not
follow the trend of avoiding plastic waste.US-A-4700833, on which the preamble of claim 1 is based,
discloses a suture winding card comprising a base panel and a
plurality of flaps extending from and foldable over the base
panel to cover and secure a suture thread coil disposed thereon.
One of the flaps includes a plurality of triangularly shaped
flap portions which can be selectively folded to form a pocket
for receiving the end of a suture needle. It is the object of the invention to provide a package with
surgical suture material, which can be manufactured
inexpensively, does not cause any unnecessary plastics waste and
permits a simple and reliable removal of the contained
needle/thread combination.This object is achieved by a package with surgical suture
material having the features of claim 1. Advantageous versions
arise from the dependent claims.The package
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Package with surgical suture material, comprising

(a) an essentially rectangular base plate (1) with a first
long side (2), a second long side (3), a top short

side (4) and a bottom short side (5), wherein there is
a thread guide (10, 12) in the proximity of the top

short side (4) and a needle holder (26),
(b) a needle/thread combination (20, 22) with a needle
(22) attached to one end (21) of the thread, wherein

the thread (20) is laid in several coils (24) on one
face of the base plate (1) and travels through the

thread guide (10, 12), and wherein the needle (22) is
held by the needle holder (26),
(c) a cover plate (30) which is connected to the base
plate (1) and can be folded onto said face of the base

plate (1), at least partially covering the base plate
(1) in the lower region, and
(d) a closure plate (50) which is connected to the second
long side (3) of the base plate (1) and is foldable

onto the base plate (1), wherein the closure plate
(50) at least partially conceals with its lower region

the cover plate (30) folded onto said face of the base
plate (1),
characterized in that
(e) the needle holder (26) is arranged beneath the thread
guide (10, 12) on said face of the base plate (1),
(f) in the lower region of the base plate (1), the
individual coils (24) of the thread (20) are laid

spaced apart, so that the innermost coil (25) is the
one nearest to said end (21) of the thread, and
(g) at least one brake strip (32, 33) is arranged in the
lower region of the cover plate (30), which strip is

foldable onto the cover plate (30) and, when the cover
plate (30) is folded over, presses against the lower 

regions at least of the outer coils (24) of the thread
(20).
Package with surgical suture material according to claim 1,

characterized in that
 at the top short side (4) of the base
plate (1) there is arranged a first flap (10), foldable

onto said face of the base plate (1), which with a guide
piece (12) arranged underneath forms the thread guide.
Package with surgical suture material according to claim 2,

characterized in that
 the guide piece is a ramp (12), cut
out of the base plate (1), which is raisable about a fold

line (14) running along the lower side of the ramp (12).
Package with surgical suture material according to one of
the preceding claims, 
characterized in that
 the cover plate
(30) is connected to the first long side (2) of the base

plate (1).
Package with surgical suture material according to claim 4,

characterized in that
 a second flap (16) which can be
folded onto said face of the base plate (1) is arranged at

the bottom short side (5) of the base plate (1).
Package with surgical suture material according to claim 4
or 5, 
characterized in that
 two brake strips (32,33) are
provided which are formed in one piece with the cover plate

(30) at its bottom side and which can be folded onto the
cover plate (30) along fold lines (34, 35) facing each

other in a manner of a V.
Package with surgical suture material according to one of
the preceding claims, 
characterized in that
 at the top side
(40) of the cover plate (30) there is formed a strip (42)

which presses against the base plate (1) when the cover
plate (30) is folded. 
Package with surgical suture material according to one of
the preceding claims, 
characterized in that
 the needle
holder (26) has a piece of foam which is glued onto said

face of the base plate (1) and provided with a slit (28)
for the needle (22).
Package with surgical suture material according to one of
the preceding claims, 
characterized in that
 another needle
is attached to the opposite end of the thread and is

likewise held by the needle holder (26).
Package with surgical suture material according to one of
the preceding claims, 
characterized in that
 a closure strip
(62, 68), which engages at a counterpart (66, 69) in the

region of the first long side (2) of the base plate (1), is
formed at the free long side (60) of the closure plate

(50).
Package with surgical suture material according to one of
the preceding claims, 
characterized in that
 the closure
plate (50) extends over the entire length of the base plate

(1) and has an aperture (52) in its upper region which
allows the needle (22) or needles to be removed.
Package with surgical suture material according to one of
claims 1 to 10, 
characterized in that
 the closure plate
extends over the entire length of the base plate (1) and is

divided into two, wherein the upper part can be folded away
from the base plate in order to allow the needle or needles

to be removed.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
