<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646081</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AMPHIBIOUS VEHICLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60F300	B60F300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60F	B60F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60F3	B60F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An amphibious vehicle is disclosed. The vehicle includes a land motive device (24) and a marine motive device (54). An engine is positioned within the vehicle to provide power to the land motive device and the marine motive device. A directing device (50) operatively connected to the engine directs engine power selectively to one of the land motive device, the marine motive device, and the combination of the land motive device and marine motive device. An engine management arrangement (220) defines a pair of relationships of various engine operating parameters. One of the relationships defines engine operation when the engine power is directed to the land motive device. Another of the relationships defines engine operation when the engine power is directed solely to the marine motive device.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AQUASTRADA INTERNAT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AQUASTRADA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERE GARY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLDER RUSSELL L JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUSETTI LOUIS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMSEY RAY JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERE, GARY, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLDER, RUSSELL, L., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUSETTI, LOUIS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMSEY, RAY, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In general, the present invention relates to an amphibious
vehicle. More particularly, the present invention relates
to a vehicle which may be adjusted for land operation and
marine operation.Designed to operate both on land and in water, amphibious
vehicles have been developed over the years. All previous
attempts to mass produce such vehicles have failed because
they centered around adapting, modifying, or augmenting
vehicles originally designed for either land or water. For
example, the attempts have included modifying an ordinary car,
truck or military platform in an attempt to produce a
seaworthy vehicle. The modified car or truck, while providing
a vehicle which may be used both on land and in water,
included several limitations which reduce the effectiveness
of the vehicle during marine operation. The modified military
vehicles were constructed using hardware which provided an
amphibious vehicle more suitable to marine operation than
land.U.S. Patent No. 3,903,831 discloses an amphibious vehicle
which may function as a motor home on land and as a houseboat
on water. The disclosed vehicle includes retractable wheels 
and a slidable hatch panel for covering the rear wheels. The
vehicle is converted from land operation to marine operation
by driving the vehicle into the water and manually shifting
into a neutral gear, inserting a key and unlocking the wheels,
engaging a switch to raise the wheels, and turning the key
to lock the wheels in the raised position. An outboard prop
powers the vehicle during marine operation.The disclosed vehicle may be converted between land and marine
operation. However, the process is both manually intensive
and substantially time consuming. The operator must first
drive into the water until the vehicle floats, and then
interrupt forward progress to shift gears and raise and lock
the suspension. The steps must be repeated in reverse to
convert the vehicle from marine operation to vehicle
operation.The sliding hatch covers are included for streamlining the
hull and covering the rear wheels. While designed to improve
buoyancy of the vehicle, the covers are prone to debris
contamination and impact misalignment, substantially reducing
the effectiveness of the covers. Further, the design and
weight of the drive and suspension system yield a vehicle
which is expensive to manufacture, has high maintenance costs,
and limited economy and maneuverability. Thus, the disclosed
amphibious vehicle includes several features which
substantially detract from the buoyancy of the

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An amphibious vehicle, having a vehicle body (12),
and further comprising:


(a) means (54) for providing marine motive force;
(b) means (51,52) for providing land motive force
including a plurality of wheels (22) having

ground-engaging tyres (24) with a resilient
exterior side surface, and a plurality of wheel

suspensions (70,71) each associated respectively
with corresponding ones of the wheels (22);
(c) means (78,82) for retracting each of the wheel
suspensions into the interior of the body (21) to

a raised position; 
characterised by
:
(d) each of the wheel suspensions (70,71) being
extendable through an associated opening (18) in

a wall of the vehicle body (21); and by
(e) in the raised position of the retracting means
(78,82) the side surface of each tyre engages the

exterior surface of the body (21) at the opening
(18) to substantially inhibit the passage of water

through the opening.
An amphibious vehicle according to claim 1 in which the
body (12) of the vehicle has a waterline (20) extending

along the body (12) at a location corresponding generally to
the level of the surface of water when the vehicle is afloat

in water.
An amphibious vehicle according to claim 1 or claim 2
further comprising secondary securing means (116) in

addition to the retracting means (78,82) for locking the
wheel suspensions (70,71) in the raised position retracted

into the interior of the body (12).
An amphibious vehicle according to any preceding claim
further comprising a manually actuable switch (34)

positioned within the vehicle for activation by an operator 
of the vehicle for initiating a transition between land

operation and marine operation.
An amphibious vehicle according to claim 4 further
comprising a vehicle transition control arrangement (220)

operatively connected to the retracting means (78,82) for
automatically converting the operation of the vehicle

between land operation and marine operation, the vehicle
transition control arrangement (220) being configured for

receiving input from the switch (34) and controlling the
conversion of the operation of the vehicle in response to

the the input.
An amphibious vehicle according to any preceding claim
further comprising an engine (46) positioned within the

vehicle to provide power to the land motive means (51,52)
and the marine motive means (54), and means (50) for

directing engine power selectively to one of the land motive
means (51,52), the marine motive means (54), and the

combination of the land motive means and the marine motive
means.
An amphibious vehicle according to claim 6 in which the
engine (46) has a single output and the means (50) for

directing engine power selectively directs the single output
to one of the land motive means (51,52), the marine motive

means (54), and the combination of the land motive means and
the marine motive means.
An amphibious vehicle according to any preceding claim
further comprising an operator actuable control (28) for

operation of the vehicle, which control is formed having
various controlling positions which are substantially

similar when engine power is directed to any of the land
motive means (51,52), the marine motive means (54), and the

combination of the land motive means and the marine motive
means. 
An amphibious vehicle according to any preceding claim
in which the retracting means (78,82) includes one or more

collars (75,76) to which the wheel suspensions (70,71) are
secured, each of which collars (75,76) circumscribes a

suspension rod (74) on which it is longitudinally slidable,
and at least one fluid drive ram (78) for sliding the

collars (75,76) longitudinally along the rod (74).
An amphibious vehicle according to any preceding
claim further comprising:

   secondary securing means (116) in addition to the
retracting means (78,82) for locking the wheel

suspensions (70,71) in at least one of a lowered
position with the ground engaging tyres (24)

exposed for engaging the ground and a raised
position retracted into the interior of the body

(12), the secondary securing means (116) being
operable independently of operation of the

retracting means (78,82) and including at least
one fluid operated ram (126), the secondary

securing means (116) being positioned to lock the
retracting means (78,82) and prevent it from

moving the wheel suspensions (70,71) when the
latter are positioned in one of the raised and

lowered positions.
An amphibious vehicle according to any preceding claim
further comprising means for automatically filling with a

hydrophobic substance a space between two parts of each of
said suspensions (70, 71) which may otherwise be exposed to

water when the wheel suspensions are retracted.
An amphibious vehicle according to any preceding claim
further comprising means for automatically filling with a

hydrophobic substance a space between two parts of each of
said suspensions (70, 71) which may otherwise be exposed to

water during marine operation of the vehicle. 
A method for converting an amphibious vehicle according
to claim 4 or any one of claims 5 to 12 as dependent from

claim 4 from a land configuration for land operation to a
marine configuration for marine operation, the method being


characterised by
 the steps of:

(a) manually activating the operator actuable switch
(34) to shift the vehicle from the land configuration to the

marine configuration;
(b) automatically directing engine power to the
combination of the land motive means (51,52) and the marine

motive means (54) once the switch (34) has been manually
activated;
(c) guiding the vehicle into a body of water
(d) determining the entrance of the vehicle into the
body of water;
(e) automatically directing engine power solely to the
marine motive means (54) once the vehicle has entered the

body of water; and
(f) automatically retracting the suspensions (70,71)
into the interior of the body (21) of the vehicle
A method according to claim 13 as dependent from claim
11 in which the retracting step (f) further includes

automatically filling with a hydrophobic substance a space
between two parts of each of said suspensions (70,71) which

may otherwise be exposed to water after completion of the
retracting step (f).
A method for converting an amphibious vehicle according
to claim 4 or any one of claims 5 to 12 as dependent from

claim 4 from a marine configuration for marine operation to
a land configuration for land operation, the method

preferably being in accordance with claim 11 or claim 12,
the method being 
characterised by
 the steps of:

(a) manually activating the operator actuable switch
(34) to shift the vehicle from the marine configuration to

the land configuration;
(b) automatically directing engine power to the 
combination of the land motive means (51,52) and the marine

motive means (54) once the switch (34) has been manually
activated;
(c) guiding the vehicle out of a body of water
(d) determining the egress of the vehicle from the body
of water;
(e) automatically directing engine power solely to the
land motive means (51,52); and
(f) automatically extending the suspensions (70,71)
through the openings (18) to an extended position.
A method according to claim 15 as dependent from claim
12 in which the extending step (f) further includes

automatically filling with a hydrophobic substance a space
between two parts of each of said suspensions (70,71) which

may otherwise be exposed to water during marine operation of
the vehicle.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
