<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652391</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Preselect shift strategy using stored energy
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H6128	F16H6132	F16H6330	F16H6320	F16H6308	F16H6330	F16H6128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H61	F16H61	F16H63	F16H63	F16H63	F16H63	F16H61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shifting mechanism (25) is disclosed for shifting a shift rail (11) in a 
transverse (Y-Y) direction. The mechanism includes a shift finger (23) movable 

in both the transverse and axial (X-X) directions. The shift rail (11) defines a 
first blocker surface (59), and axially adjacent thereto a recess (63) in which is 

disposed a compression spring (71). When the shift finger (23) is positioned in 
a first axial position (FIG. 6), the shift finger engages the spring (71), and 

movement of the shift finger in the first transverse direction preloads the spring 
before the shift rail moves in the first transverse direction. In a second axial 

position (FIG. 9), the shift finger engages the first blocker surface (59), whereby 
movement of the shift finger in the first transverse direction results in 

corresponding movement of the shift rail in the first transverse direction. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALANDA MYKOLAS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEEBY JON ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALANDA, MYKOLAS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEEBY, JON ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a shifting mechanism of the "X-Y" type 
for use with a shift bar housing assembly of a mechanical change-gear 
transmission, and more particularly, to such a mechanism of the type which is 
automatically or semi-automatically shifted, on a transmission which otherwise 
would be, or could be, manually shifted. Shift bar housing assemblies for mechanical change-gear transmissions 
usually comprise a plurality of generally parallel, independently transversely 
movable shift bars, which are to be selected, and moved transversely, to effect 
engagement/disengagement of a particular gear ratio. Such shift-bar housing 
assemblies are well known to those skilled in the art, as may be seen by 
reference to U.S. Patent Nos. 2,951,392; 4,567,785; and 4,873,881, all of 
which are assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Typically, such shift bar housing assemblies have been manually 
controlled, and operated by a shift finger fixed to a directly mounted shift lever, 
or to the cross-shaft of a remotely controlled shifting mechanism. Automatic 
and semi-automatic mechanical transmissions, based upon generally standard 
mechanical transmissions, but provided with electric or pneumatic actuators, are 
now well known in the prior art, as may be seen by reference to U.S. Patent 
Nos. 4,361,060 and 4,648,290, the latter of which is assigned to the assignee 
of the present invention. Also now well known in the prior art are automatically controlled "X-Y" 
type shifting mechanisms, wherein a shift finger is automatically moved in the 
axial (X-X) or rail selection direction, and then in the transverse (Y-Y) or gear 
engagement/disengagement direction. It will be understood by those skilled in  
 
the art that reference herein to the "transverse" and "axial" directions pertains 
to the shifter, and does not necessarily imply any particular direction on either 
the transmission or the vehicle. Also known are single shaft shifting 
mechanisms, as may be seen by reference to U.S. Patent No. 4,920,815, which 
is assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Frequently, such an automatic or semi-automatic X-Y shifting mechanism 
is applied to a non-synchronous mechanical change-gear transmission. As used 
herein, the term "non-synchronous" will be understood to refer to a mechanical 
change-gear transmission of the type not equipped with synchronizers (or with 
less than extremely accurate synchronizers). In a typical X-Y shifting mechanism, there is a strategy for gear 
preselectio
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A shifting mechanism (25) for controlling the shifting of change gears of a 
mechanical change-gear transmission of the type having at least one shift rail 

(11) movable in a first transverse direction (Y-Y) in relation to said 
mechanism from a gear-disengaged position to a first gear-engaged position; 

said shifting mechanism comprising a shift finger assembly (39) including a 
shift finger (23) movable in said first transverse direction (Y-Y), and movable 

in an axial direction (X-X) which is substantially perpendicular to said first 
transverse direction (Y-Y); said shift rail (11) defining a first blocker surface 

(59) whereby, when said shift finger (23) is in engagement with said first 
blocker surface (59) and moves in said first transverse direction (Y-Y), said 

shift rail (11) is also moved in said first transverse direction (Y-Y); said 
mechanism characterized by: 


(a) first resilient energy-storage means (71) disposed axially adjacent said 
first blocker surface (59) and being pre-loadable in said first transverse 

direction (Y-Y); 
(b) said shift finger (23) being axially movable between first and 
second axial positions, whereby: 


(i) in said first axial position said shift finger (23) is in engagement 
with said first resilient energy-storage means (71), and 

movement of said shift finger in said first transverse direction 
(Y-Y) pre-loads said first energy-storage means before said 

shift rail (11) moves in said first transverse direction (Y-Y); and 
(ii) in said second axial position said shift finger (23) is in 
engagement with said first blocker surface (59), whereby 

movement of said shift finger in said first transverse direction  
 

(Y-Y) results in corresponding movement of said shift rail in said 
first transverse direction. 
A shifting mechanism (25) as claimed in claim 1, characterized by said shift 
rail (11) being movable in a second transverse direction (Y-Y) from said gear-disengaged 

position to a second gear-engaged position. 
A shifting mechanism (25) as claimed in claim 2, characterized by said shift 
finger (23) being movable in said second transverse direction (Y-Y), and said 

shift rail (11) defining a second blocker surface (61) whereby, when said shift 
finger (23) is in engagement with said second blocker surface (61) and 

moves in said second transverse direction (Y-Y), said shift rail (11) moves in 
said second transverse direction (Y-Y). 
A shifting mechanism (25) as claimed in claim 3, characterized by said shift 
rail (11) including second resilient energy-storage means (73) disposed axially 

adjacent said second blocker surface (61) and being pre-loadable in said 
second transverse direction (Y-Y). 
A shifting mechanism (25) as claimed in claim 4, characterized by, in one of 
said first and second axial positions, said shift finger (23) is in engagement 

with said second blocker surface (61), and in the other of said first and 
second axial positions, said shift finger (23) is in engagement with said 

second energy-storage means (73), and movement of said shift finger in said 
second transverse direction (Y-Y) pre-loads said second energy-storage 

means before said shift rail (11) moves in said second transverse direction 
(Y-Y). 
A shifting mechanism (25) as claimed in claim 4, characterized by said shift 
rail (11) defining a first recess (63) disposed axially adjacent said first blocker  

 
surface (59), and d
efining a second recess (65) disposed axially adjacent 
said second blocker surface (61), said first energy storage means (71) being 

disposed in said first recess (63), and said second energy storage means 
(73) being disposed in said second recess (65). 
A shifting mechanism (25) as claimed in claim 6, characterized by said first 
and second energy storage means comprising first (71) and second (73) 

compression spring members, respectively, disposed in said first (63) and 
second (65) recesses, respectively. 
A shifting mechanism (25) as claimed in claim 7, characterized by said first 
(63) and said second (65) recesses cooperating with said shift rail (11) to 

define first (67) and second (69) means operable to restrain movement of 
said first (71) and said second (73) compression spring members, 

respectively, in said transverse direction (Y-Y). 
A method of manufacturing a shifting mechanism for controlling the shifting of 
change gears of a mechanical transmission of the type having at least one 

shift rail, the shift rail (11) movable in a transverse direction (Y-Y) from one 
gear-engaged position to another gear-engaged position, the method 

characterized by: 

(a) providing said shift rail (11) with a first blocker surface (59), and first resilient 
energy-storage means (71) disposed axially adjacent said first blocker 

surface (59); 
(b) providing a shift finger (23) in a first axial position and which is 
moveable in said first transverse direction (Y-Y) to preload said first 

resilient energy-storage means (71) prior to movement of said shift rail 
out of said one gear-engaged position;  

 
(c) mounting said shift rail (11) to permit it to move from said one gear-engaged 
position to a gear-disengaged position in response to the 

bias of said first resilient energy-storage means (71); 
(d) mounting said shift finger (23) in order to permit it to move in an axial 
direction (X-X) from said first axial position to a second axial position in 

engagement with said first blocker surface (59) and to move 
in said transverse direction (Y-Y) to move said shift rail (11) to said 

another gear-engaged position. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
