<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645581</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multi-stage combustion system for externally fired power plants
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F22B3500	F01K324	F23C1022	F23J700	F23J1502	F01K300	F23L1504	F22B3500	F23C600	F23J700	F23J1500	F23L1500	F23C1000	F23C1000	F23C604	F23J1504	F23J1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F22B	F01K	F23C	F23J	F23J	F01K	F23L	F22B	F23C	F23J	F23J	F23L	F23C	F23C	F23C	F23J	F23J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F22B35	F01K3	F23C10	F23J7	F23J15	F01K3	F23L15	F22B35	F23C6	F23J7	F23J15	F23L15	F23C10	F23C10	F23C6	F23J15	F23J15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-stage combustion apparatus (100) and method for 
use with externally fired power plants (109) that allows the 

temperature of the heat released at any stage (106,107,108) to be 
matched to the thermal characteristics of the working 

fluid from the power plant. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXERGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXERGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KALINA ALEXANDER I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KALINA, ALEXANDER I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and systems for
combusting fuel to supply heat to boilers and
superheaters of externally fired power plants.Combustion systems currently used for externally
fired power plants can be divided into two categories:
systems in which air fed into the combustor is preheated
and systems in which air is not preheated. A combustion
system with air preheating allows for higher efficiency
of the power system because the heat is released in a
temperature range above the temperature at which flue
gases are utilized to preheat oncoming air, e.g., usually
in a temperature range above approximately 371°C (700°F)Two known types of combustion processes include
pulverized coal combustion systems (in which combusted
coal is micronized into a thin powder) and fluidized bed
combustion systems. Pulverized coal combustion systems
are usually used only for burning coal (which, unlike
other types of fuel, can be ground into thin powder).
The thin coal powder is typically burned with at least
15-20% of excess air to provide complete combustion. The
removal of heat is performed by special tubes surrounding
the flame zone. In these tubes, the working fluid
(usually water) is boiling, thus preventing the tubes
from overheating and burning. The temperature of
combustion typically is very high so that environmentally
hazardous nitrogen oxide (NOx) gases are produced as a
by-product. The high combustion temperature also
prevents removal of environmentally hazardous sulfur
gases, e.g., through limestone addition.In fluidized bed combustion systems, different
forms of solid fuel can be combusted. The fuel is 
usually fed into the combustion zone mixed with
limestone; the purpose of the limestone is to remove
sulfur gases. As in the pulverized coal system, the fuel
is typically burned with at least 15-20% of excess air to
provide complete combustion. Special cooling tubes which
acquire heat in such combustors are located directly in
the combustion zone, thus providing effective cooling.
As a result, fluidized bed combustion systems can combust
fuel at temperatures of approximately 870°C (1600°F). At such
temperature limestone absorbs sulfur gases and NOx gases
are not produced from air. However, because the bulk of
the heat is released by a single cooling of flue gas from
870°C (1600°F) to approximately 371°C (700°F), there is not enough
released heat for reheating the working fluid in the
power cycle, thereby decreasing the efficiency of the
power system.GB 1496116 discloses a process for burning fuel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for supplying heat to an externally fired power system comprising the
steps of:


supplying a stream of pre-heated air and a portion of the total amount of
combustion fuel to a first combustion chamber,
combusting the mixture of pre-heated air and combustion fuel to form a first flue
gas stream,
the amount of said combustion fuel supplied to said first combustion chamber
being chosen such that the temperature of said first flue gas stream is below the

temperature at which NO
x
 gases form;
thereafter transferring heat from said first flue gas stream to a working fluid
stream from an externally fired power system;
combusting the remaining combustion fuel in a series of one or more successive
combustion steps to form in each step a flue gas stream using the flue gas stream created

in the immediately preceding combustion step,
the amount of combustion fuel in each successive combustion step being chosen
such that the temperature of the flue gas stream created by the combustion step is below

the temperature at which NO
x
 gases form,
the sum of the temperature rises associated with each combustion step being
equal to the temperature rise associated with combusting all of said combustion fuel in a

single combustion step using the minimum amount of air necessary for combustion; and
thereafter transferring heat from each successive flue gas stream to a working fluid stream
from said externally fired power system.
The method of claim 1 further comprising transferring heat from the last flue gas
stream to an incoming air stream to pre-heat said air stream; and

   releasing said last flue gas stream to the atmosphere. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising adding limestone to the combustion
fuel in the last combustion step to remove sulfur gases.
The method of claim 1 further comprising removing sulfur gases by scrubbing
the last flue gas stream.
The method of claim 1 further comprising diverting a portion of said pre-heated
air stream and combusting said portion with said combustion fuel in one or more of said

combustion steps.
The method of claim 1 wherein the temperature of each of said flue gas streams
is no greater than about 926°C (1700°F) to prevent formation of NO
x
 gases.
The method of claim 1 wherein the overall excess of air with respect to the total
amount of combustion fuel consumed is about 5-7%.
A method for supplying heat to an externally fired power system according to
claim 1, characterised in that the remaining combustion fuel is combusted in two

successive combustion steps.
The method of claim 8 further comprising transferring heat from said third flue
gas stream to an incoming air stream to pre-heat said air stream; and

releasing said third flue gas stream to the atmosphere.
The method of claim 8 comprising adding limestone to the combustion fuel in
said third combustion chamber (105).
The method of claim 8 further comprising removing sulfur gases by scrubbing
said third flue gas stream. 
The method of claim 8 further comprising diverting a portion of said pre-heated
air stream and combusting said portion with said combustion fuel in one or more of said

combustion steps.
The method of claim 8 wherein the temperature of each of said flue gas streams
is no greater than about 924°C (1700°F) to prevent formation of NO
x
 gases.
The method of claim 8 wherein the overall excess of air with respect to the total
amount of combustion fuel consumed is about 5-7%.
The method of claim 8 further comprising combusting a mixture of said third
flue gas stream and a fourth portion of said combustion fuel in a fourth combustion

chamber (110) to form a fourth flue gas stream.
The method of claim 15 further comprising transferring heat from said fourth
flue gas stream to an incoming air stream to pre-heat said air stream; and

releasing said fourth flue gas stream to the atmosphere.
The method of claim 15 comprising adding limestone to the combustion fuel in
said fourth combustion chamber (110).
The method of claim 15 further comprising removing sulfur gases by scrubbing
said fourth flue gas stream.
The method of claim 15 further comprising diverting a portion of said pre-heated
air stream and combusting said portion with said combustion fuel in the third or fourth

combustion step.
The method of claim 15 wherein the temperature of each of said flue gas streams
is no greater than about 924°C (1700°F) to prevent formation of NO
x
 gases. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the overall excess of air with respect to the total
amount of combustion fuel consumed is about 5-7%.
Apparatus for supplying heat to an externally fired power system comprising:

a pre-heater (102) for pre-heating an incoming air stream using heat transferred
from a flue gas stream;
a first combustion chamber (103) for combusting a mixture of pre-heated air and
a portion of the total amount of combustion fuel to form a first flue gas stream;
a meter for selecting the amount of said combustion fuel supplied to said first
combustion chamber such that the temperature of said first flue gas stream is below the

temperature at which NO
x
 gases form;
a first heat exchanger (106) positioned downstream of said combustion chamber for transferring heat from said first flue
gas stream to a working fluid stream from an externally fired power system;
one or more additional combustion chambers (104,105,110) arranged in series
for combusting the remaining combustion fuel in a series of one or more successive

combustion steps to form in each step a flue gas stream using the flue gas stream created
in the immediately preceding combustion step;
one or more meters for selecting the amount of combustion fuel in each
successive combustion step such that the temperature of the flue gas stream created by

the combustion step is below the temperature at which NO
x
 gases form,
the sum of the temperature rises associated with each combustion step being
equal to the temperature rise associated with combusting all of said combustion fuel in a

single combustion step using the minimum amount of air necessary for combustion; and
one or more additional downstream heat exchangers (107, 108, 111) for
transferring heat from each successive flue gas stream to a working fluid stream from

said externally fired power system.
The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising means for adding limestone to the
combustion fuel in the last combustion chamber to remove sulfur gases.
The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising a scrubber for scrubbing the last
flue gas stream to remove sulfur gases. 
The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising means for diverting a portion of
said pre-heated air stream to one or more of said combustion chambers for combustion

with said combustion fuel.
The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the temperature of each of said flue gas
streams is no greater than about 924°C (1700°F) to prevent formation of NO
x
 gases.
The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the overall excess of air with respect to the
total amount of combustion fuel consumed is about 5-7%.
The apparatus of claim 22 wherein at least one of said combustion chambers
comprises a fluidized bed combustion chamber.
Apparatus for supplying heat to an externally fired power system according to
claim 22 characterised in that there are two additional combustion chambers.
The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising means for adding limestone to the
combustion fuel in said third combustion chamber to remove sulfur gases.
The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising a scrubber for scrubbing said third
flue gas stream to remove sulfur gases.
The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising means for diverting a portion of
said pre-heated air stream to one or more of said combustion chambers for combustion

with said combustion fuel.
The apparatus of claim 29 wherein the temperature of each of said flue gas
streams is no greater than about 924°C (1700°F) to prevent formation of NO
x
 gases.
The apparatus of claim 29 wherein the overall excess of air with respect to the
total amount of combustion fuel consumed is about 5-7%. 
The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said third combustion chamber comprises a
fluidized bed combustion chamber.
The apparatus of claim 22 characterised in that there are three additional
combustion chambers.
The apparatus of claim 36 further comprising means for adding limestone to the
combustion fuel in said fourth combustion chamber (110) to remove sulfur gases.
The apparatus of claim 36 further comprising a scrubber for scrubbing said
fourth flue gas stream to remove sulfur gases.
The apparatus of claim 36 further comprising means for diverting a portion of
said pre-heated air stream to one or more of said combustion chambers for combustion

with said combustion fuel.
The apparatus of claim 36 wherein the temperature of each of said flue gas
streams is no greater than about 924°C (1700°F) to prevent formation of NO
x
 gases.
The apparatus of claim 36 wherein the overall excess of air with respect to the
total amount of combustion fuel consumed is about 5-7%.
The apparatus of claim 36 wherein said fourth combustion chamber (110)
comprises a fluidized bed combustion chamber.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
