<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646000</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITIONS USING MICROENCAPSULATED NEUTRALIZING ANTIBODIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K916	A61K916	A61K951	A61K951	A61K952	A61K952	A61K3800	A61K3800	A61K3812	A61K3813	A61K3819	A61K3819	A61K4748	A61K4748	C07K1618	C07K1624	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K47	A61K47	C07K16	C07K16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Compositions useful in treating immune modulated disease comprising an anticytokine antibody or immune active drug capable of modifying cytokine activity or modulating the immune system microencapsulated with a biodegradable nonantigenic material, such as albumin or PLGA. When the composition is introduced into a subject, it is phagocytosed by the target organ, the target organ digests the microsphere, releasing the drug or an active form or fragment thereof intracellularly. The drug then modifies the target organ function, thereby modulating it's activity. A method is disclosed for preparation of the microencapsulated composition.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MERCER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORPORATION OF MERCER UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
D SOUZA MARTIN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OETTINGER CARL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER JAMES CAMERON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
D'SOUZA, MARTIN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OETTINGER, CARL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER, JAMES CAMERON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
<COMPOSmONS USING MICROENCAPSULATEDNEUTRALIZING ANTIBODIESCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION1 0 This application is a continuation-in-part application of co-pending application United States Serial Number 07/977,057, filed 16 November, 1992.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to the field of drug delivery systems. More particularly, the present invention relates to a method for microencapsulating drugs using1 5 biodegradable nonantigenic materials and also to microencapsulated compositions that are targeted either to macrophages, other phagocytic cells of the immune system, or a diseased organ, which phagocytize the microspheres and digest the coating, releasing the intact drug or active fragment thereof intracellularly or at the site of attachment Such compositions are useful in treating and preventing disease.20 BACKGROUND OF THE ARTDrug delivery technology can bestow new leases on the lives of seemingly ineffective or inefficient drugs by targeting them specifically to sites of action. In this manner, unwanted systemic side effects are obviated and dose requirements are substantially reduced. Macrophage mediated delivery of drugs has been suggested as an alternative for treatment 2 5 of several types of diseases. Modern immunology has acknowledged the importance of the monocyte and its mature counterpart, the macrophage as the prime antigen presenting cell in immune interactions. As an extension of this function it can be theorized that macrophages may be utilized to present immunoactive drugs to relevant components of the immune 

system such as lymphocytes in an effort to modulate their function.Systemic elimination systems developed by the body to attack and eliminate foreign material include macrophages and Kupffer cells. For me purposes of the present invention the term macrophage includes Kupffer cells, when appropriate. Macrophages are cells widely distributed in many tissues of the body including lympho-hemopoietic organs, skin, gut, other portals of entry and the nervous system. They are found in direct contact with the blood (monocytes, sinus-lining Kupffer cells) or extravascular space, and undergo complex migrations as they enter tissues after production mainly within the bone marrow of the adult. As mobile and long-lived cells the mononuclear phagocytes play central roles as effector cells in inflammatory reactions and cell mediated immune responses. Monocytes produced in the bone marrow are released into the blood stream where they circulate with an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A drug delivery system capable of targeting an organ or phagocytic cell line of the immune system whereby a drug is encapsulated within a biodegradable nonantigenic material, the biodegradable material comprising a material selected from the group consisting of synthetic polymers and proteins.
2. The drug delivery system of Claim 1, wherein the biodegradable material is selected from the group consisting of albumin, poly DL(lactic co-glycolic acid) and globulin.
3. The drug delivery system of Claim 1 , wherein the target organ is selected from die group consisting of macrophages, Kupffer cells, dendritic cells, lymphocytes, diseased organ, or any phagocytic cell type.
4. The drug delivery system of Claim 1, wherein the drug microencapsulated is selected from the group consisting of antibodies, peptides, protease inhibitors, insulin, dideoxynucleasides, proteins, chemicals, biologicals, hormones, prohormones, viruses, attenuated virus, bacterial products, intracellularly active enzymes or enzyme inhibitors.
5. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the antibody microencapsulated is selected from the group consisting of polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal antibodies, and mixtures of each.
6. The drug delivery system of Claim 5, wherein the antibody microencapsulated is prepared against any of the group of hormones consisting of cytokines and lymphokines.
7. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is cyclosporin.
8. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is interleukin-1 receptor antagonist.
9. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is interleukin-1 converting enzyme.
10. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is macrophage colony stimulating factor.
11. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is tumor 


necrosis factor alpha.
12. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is any cytokine or lymphokine.
13. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is methotrexate.
14. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is zidovudine.
15. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is gangciclovir.
16. The drug delivery system of Claim 4, wherein the drug microencapsulated is an antiretroviral/viral agent.
17. The drug delivery system of Claim 1, wherein the encapsulated inhibiting drug has a diameter of from about 0.22 micron to about 10 microns.
18. The drug delivery system of Claim 1, wherein the encapsulated inhibiting drug has a diameter of from about 0.22 micron to about 0.8 microns.
19. A drug delivery system for targeting a drug for uptake into by a target organ of Claim 3, such that the drug is transported intracellularly into the target organ whereupon the drug is released, comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a drug encapsulated by a biodegradable nonantigenic encapsulating material.
20. The delivery system of Claim 19, wherein the encapsulating material is selected from the group consisting of albumin, poly DLflactic co-glycolic acid) and globulin.
21. A therapeutic preparation useful for treating an immune modulated disease, comprising an effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and neutralizing antibody or a mixture of neutralizing antibodies immunoreactive with a cytokine microencapsulated by a biodegradable material comprising a material selected from the group consisting of synthetic polymers and proteins.
22. A method comprising administering to a subject having an immune modulated disease a composition comprising a therapeutically effective dose of neutralizing antibody or a mixture of neutralizing antibodies immunoreactive with a cytokine microencapsulated 


by a biodegradable material comprising a material selected from the group consisting of synthetic polymers and proteins so as to modulate cytokine production.
23. A method for treating an immune modulated disease which is responsive to reduction of cytokines, comprising encapsulating neutralizing antibody or a mixture of neutralizing antibodies immunoreactive with a cytokine within a biodegradable material comprising a material selected from the group consisting of synthetic polymers and proteins to inhibit cytokine production to form a microencapsulated antibody; and, administering the microencapsulated antibody to an animal such that the microencapsulated antibody is engulfed by the target organ of Claim 3, the microcapsule is digested, resulting in the release of the antibody intracellularly.
24. The method of Claim 23, wherein die animal is a human.
25. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is a gram negative bacteremia.
26. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is gram negative septic shock.
27. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is endotoxin shock.
28. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is a gram positive bacteremia.
29. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is gram positive septic shock.
30. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is a systemic fungal infection.
31. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is a glomerulonephritis.
32. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is systemic lupus erythematosus.
33. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is rheumatoid arthritis. 


34. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is vasculitis.
35. The metiiod of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is siogrens syndrome.
36. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is Wegeners granulomatosis.
37. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is acute organ transplant rejection.
38. The method of Claim 23, wherein the immune modulated disease is uveitis.
39. The method of Claim 23, wherein the biodegradable material is selected from the group consisting of albumin, globulin and PLGA and me target organ is a macrophage.
40. A method of delivering a drug to the central nervous system via transport by a target organ, comprising microencapsulating a drug within a biodegradable nonantigenic material; administering the composition to a subject; entrapping the composition; transporting the drug across the blood brain barrier witiiin the target organ; digesting the biodegradable material; and, releasing an active form of me drug.
41. A composition useful as induction therapy for improved organ transplant, comprising a drug capable of modulating immune function or inhibiting cytokine activity encapsulated by a biodegradable nonantigenic material such that when the composition is administered to a subject the composition is entrapped the target organ and the biodegradable material is digested releasing an active form of the drug.
42. A therapeutic preparation useful for treating an immune modulated disease, comprising an effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and wherein the compound microencapsulated is insulin, peptides, protease inhibitors, dideoxynucleasides, proteins, chemicals, biologicals, hormones, prohormones, viruses, attenuated virus, bacterial products, intracellularly active enzymes or enzyme inhibitors, cytokines, or lymphokines microencapsulated by a biodegradable material comprising a material selected from the group consisting of synthetic polymers and proteins.
43. A therapeutic preparation of Claim 42 wherein the biodegradable material is selected from the group consisting of albumin, globulin, and PLGA. 


44. A method comprising administering to a subject having an immune modulated disease a composition using a therapeutic preparation of Claim 43 and administering the microencapsulated compound to an animal such that the microencapsulated compound is engulfed by the target organ in the animal, whereby the target organ digests the biodegradable compound, resulting in the release of die compound inside die target organ.
45. The method of Claim 44, wherein the animal is a human.
46. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is systemic inflammatory response syndrome.
47. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is a glomerulonephritis.
48. The metiiod of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is systemic lupus erythematosus.
49. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is rheumatoid arthritis.
50. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is vasculitis.
51. The metiiod of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is siogrens syndrome.
52. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is Wegeners granulomatosis.
53. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is acute organ transplant rejection.
54. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is human immunodeficiency virus syndrome.
55. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is cytomegalovirus.
56. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is any retro viral infection. 


57. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is a bacterial or fungal infection.
58. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated process is induction therapy following any organ or bone marrow transplant.
59. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated process or disease involves the phagocytic cell lines of the immune system.
60. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated process or disease is cancer.
61. The method of Claim 44, wherein the immune modulated disease is uveitis.
62. The method of Claim 44, wherein die microencapsulated material is used to activate die immune system tiiereby causing destruction of the tumor.
63. The method of Claim 44, wherein die drug microencapsulated is cyclosporin.
64. The method of Claim 44, wherein the drug microencapsulated is interleukin-1 receptor antagonist
65. The method of Claim 44, wherein the drug microencapsulated is interleukin-1 converting enzyme.
66. The method of Claim 44, wherein the drug microencapsulated is macrophage colony stimulating factor.
67. The method of Claim 44, wherein the drug microencapsulated is tumor necrosis factor alpha.
68. The method of Claim 44, wherein the drug microencapsulated is any cytokine or lymphokine.
69. The method of Claim 44, wherein the drug microencapsulated is metiiotrexate.
70. The method of Claim 44, wherein the drug microencapsulated is zidovudine.
71. The method of Claim 44, wherein the drug microencapsulated is gangciclovir.
72. The method of Claim 44, wherein the drug microencapsulated is an antiretroviral/viral agent 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
