<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655751</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A coaxial cable and core and a method for manufacturing the same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01B1118	H01B1118	H01B1300	H01B13016	H01B1306	H01B1314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01B	H01B	H01B	H01B	H01B	H01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01B11	H01B11	H01B13	H01B13	H01B13	H01B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention comprises an electrical cable core with one or 
more of various electrical characteristics (such as the electrostatic capacity, 

characteristic impedance, and propagation delay time) controlled (e.g., made 
uniform) in the lengthwise direction of the cable, and a method for 

manufacturing the same. The invention further comprises a coaxial cable in 
which said core is used. This cable core is achieved by means of a computer 

that computes the difference in the event that a difference is produced 
between a specific predetermined electrostatic capacity per unit of length for 

the core and the measured value for electrostatic capacity per unit of length of 
the cable. If a difference is detected, extrusion apparatus applying a second 

dielectric layer is controlled by the control apparatus so that the thickness of 
the dielectric layer is modified to deliver the desired electrical properties. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JUNKOSHA CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JUNKOSHA CO. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEO MONBARA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEO, MONBARA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns a cable core with electrical 
characteristics being uniform in the lengthwise direction. The present 
invention also concerns a coaxial cable in which said core is used and a 
method for manufacturing the same. Conventional coaxial cables often use an open-cell porous expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene material (hereinafter referred to ePTFE), for example, 
as the dielectric layer. One common construction method with this type of 
coaxial cable employs a strip of ePTFE tape wrapped around the outside of an 
internal conductor in a spiral to form a dielectric layer. An external conductor 
layer, consisting of a braided conductor or similar structure, is then positioned 
around the outside of the dielectric layer, and the outside of this external 
conductor layer is then covered with an insulator as needed. The dielectric 
layer of such a coaxial cable has excellent dielectric characteristics in that its 
dielectric constant is low and its dielectric loss tangent is also small, so these 
cables are often used for high-speed digital signal transmission in a variety of 
applications, such as in computers. From the standpoints of higher signal 
transmission speed, noise elimination, etc., there is a need for further 
enhancement of various electrical characteristics of such coaxial cables, e.g., 
their electrostatic capacity, characteristic impedance, and propagation delay 
time, etc. However, the strip of ePTFE tape that serves as the dielectric layer in 
such a coaxial cable tends to be very susceptible to plastic deformation by 
external forces. For instance, it can be flattened out by tension while it is 
being wound in a spiral around the outside of the internal conductor, which 
leads to local changes in the dielectric constant. Other areas of concern 
include the tape overlap width varying during spiral winding, or the tape being 
flattened out during the positioning of the external conductor layer of the 
coaxial cable. These and other such problems make it difficult to achieve  
 
uniformity in the lengthwise direction of the coaxial cable for electrical 
properties (e.g., the dielectric constant) of this dielectric layer. In an effort to ameliorate the above-mentioned flattening with the 
dielectric layer during the positioning of the external conductor layer of the 
coaxial cable and other such problems, coaxial cables have been developed in 
which a second dielectric layer composed of a thermoplastic resin in the form 
of a relatively thin tape (hereinafter sometimes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical cable core comprising 
   a conductor; 

   a first dielectric layer that covers the conductor; and 
   a second dielectric layer that covers the outside of the first 

dielectric layer; 
   wherein said cable core is characterized by the fact that the 

thickness of the second dielectric layer is controlled in a lengthwise direction 
so that at least one property from among electrostatic capacity, characteristic 

impedance, and propagation delay time is made uniform in the lengthwise 
direction. 
The cable core of claim 1 wherein the core is surrounded by an 
external conductor layer and an insulation covering to form a coaxial cable 

assembly. 
The cable core of claim 1 wherein the first dielectric layer 
comprises a tape wrapped around the conductor. 
The cable core of claim 3 wherein the second dielectric layer 
comprises a continuous resin layer surrounding the first dielectric layer. 
A coaxial cable comprising 
   a conductor; 

   a first dielectric layer that covers the conductor; 
   a second dielectric layer that covers the outside of this first 

dielectric layer; and 
   an external conductor layer that envelops the second dielectric 

layer; 
   wherein said coaxial cable is characterized by the fact that the 

thickness of the second dielectric layer is changed along a lengthwise 
direction of the cable so that at least one property from among electrostatic 

capacity, characteristic impedance, and propagation delay time is controlled in 
the lengthwise direction of the cable. 
The coaxial cable of claim 5 wherein the second dielectric layer 
comprises a continuous resin layer applied in varying thicknesses over the first 

dielectric layer. 
The coaxial cable of claim 6 wherein the resin layer comprises an 
extrudable thermoplastic resin. 
The coaxial cable of claim 6 wherein the second dielectric layer is 
changed along the lengthwise direction of the cable so that one property from 

 
among electrostatic capacity, characteristic impedance, and propagation delay 

time is maintained uniform over the lengthwise direction of the cable. 
A method for manufacturing a coaxial cable core, which comprises 

(i) an extrusion step in which a coaxial cable core is molded by 
extruding a second dielectric layer composed of a thermoplastic resin such 

that it covers the outside of a first dielectric layer that covers a conductor; 
(ii) a measurement step in which at least one property of the 
coaxial cable core is measured; 
(iii) a computation step in which the measured property is 
compared with a predetermined value for that property; and 
(iv) a control step in which the flow of thermoplastic resin 
extruded in the above-mentioned extrusion step is controlled based on an 

output signal from the computation step, and the thickness of the above-mentioned 
second dielectric layer is thereby regulated. 
The method of claim 9 that further comprises 
   a measurement step whereby the properties of the coaxial cable 

core that are measured comprise the electrostatic capacity per unit of length of 
the cable core and the outside diameter of the cable core. 
The method of claim 10 that further comprises 
   a computation step in which any difference calculated between a 

specific predetermined property of the coaxial cable core electrostatic capacity 
per unit of length for the coaxial cable core and the value for electrostatic 

capacity per unit of length obtained in the measurement step. 
The method of claim 9 that further comprises 
   a control step whereby the flow of resin is controlled by varying the 

amount of resin extruded. or the pressure at which the resin is extruded. 
The method of claim 9 that further comprises 
   a control step whereby the flow of resin is controlled by varying the 

pressure at which the resin is extruded. 
The method of claim 9 that further comprises 
   providing a first dielectric layer comprising a tape of dielectric 

material wrapped around the conductor. 
The method of claim 9 that further comprises a control step 
whereby the thickness of the second dielectric layer is further regulated by 

adjusting a rate at which the first dielectric layer passes through the extruder. 
A method for manufacturing a cable core, which comprises 
(i) an extrusion step in which a cable core is molded by 
extruding a second dielectric layer composed of a thermoplastic resin such 

that it covers the outside of a first dielectric layer that covers a conductor; 
(ii) a measurement step in which at least one property of the 
coaxial cable core is measured; 
(iii) a computation step in which the measured property is 
compared with a predetermined value for that property; and 
(iv) a control step in which a rate at which the first dielectric layer 
passes through the extruder in the above-mentioned extrusion step is 

controlled based on an output signal from the computation step, and the 
thickness of the above-mentioned second dielectric layer is thereby regulated. 
The method of claim 16 that further comprises 
   a measurement step whereby the properties of the cable core that 

are measured comprise the electrostatic capacity per unit of length of the 
cable core and the outside diameter of the cable core. 
The method of claim 17 that further comprises 
   a computation step in which any difference calculated between a 

specific predetermined property of the cable core electrostatic capacity per 
unit of length for the cable core and the value for electrostatic capacity per unit 

of length obtained in the measurement step. 
The method of Claim 16 that further comprises 
   a control step whereby the thickness of the second dielectric layer 

is further regulated by adjusting a rate at which flow of thermoplastic resin is 
extruded. 
The method of claim 16 that further comprises 
   a control step whereby the flow of resin is controlled by varying the 

pressure at which the resin is extruded. 
The method of claim 16 wherein 
   a rate at which the first dielectric layer passes through the extruder 

is varied to regulate the thickness of the second dielectric layer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
