<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644041</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tape laying machine.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C7004	B29C7038	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C70	B29C70	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved tape laying machine for depositing and compacting 
composite plastic tape (23) onto a work surface, for producing a plastic article, 

has a presser shoe member (73) for applying and compacting a strip of composite 
plastic tape onto a work surface (78), and a tail compaction member (90) for 

compacting the tail of the strip of composite plastic tape that are independently 
actuated, coordinately movable and linked to each other. The tail compaction 

member has a roller that engages the strip of tape substantially rearward of the 
point where the centerline of the presser shoe member intersects the compacted 

tape applied to the work surface as the presser shoe member is in compaction 
engagement with the tape. The tail compaction member roller then moves along 

a straight line path on the tape as the presser shoe member progressively retracts 
from compaction engagement with the composite plastic tape. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CINCINNATI MILACRON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CINCINNATI MILACRON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIMSHAW MICHAEL N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIMSHAW, MICHAEL N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON, DAVID A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to machines for laying and compacting 
composite tape, especially where compacting tape tails, i.e., trailing sections of 
tape strips which are narrower than full tape width. In the field of advanced composites, where a composite tape of fibre 
reinforced resin is laid on a tool to create laminated structures such as aircraft 
parts, it is necessary to lay progressive runs of tape at angles other than 90° and 
0° with the tool. When laying cross plies, for example at 45°, it is often necessary 
to cut the end of the tape strip at some angle other than 90° with the tape length, 
and a problem may arise when a primary compacting member spans adjacent 
pieces, which are carried on a backing. US-A-4557783 addresses the problem of tail compaction in a 
composite tape laying machine. The machine and compaction device are shown 
herein as Prior Art Figs. 1, 2a, 2b, and 2c. The entire disclosure and teaching of 
the '783 patent is expressly incorporated herein by reference. Prior art Figure 1 
depicts a high rail gantry tape laying machine 10 wherein a tape laying head 11 
is transported coordinately on horizontal side rails 12 and transverse gantry rails 
13 under a program commanded by a numerical control (NC) unit 14. A 
contoured tape laydown surface 15, or tool, is positionable with respect to the 
tape laying head 11 to form laminated composite structures. The tape laying head 
11 comprises, in part, a main frame 16 supporting a tape supply reel 17. The 
supply reel 17 carries a tape structure 18 comprising a filamentous composite tape 
and a paper backing. The tape structure 18 is trained under a tape compactor 
unit 19 and backing is accumulated on a take-up reel 20, in a manner well-known 
in the art. The tape laying head 11 is movable along a vertical, or Z-axis 21 to 
adapt to changing tool heights along the tape path, and the entire tape head 11 
is rotatable around the vertical axis 21. Figure 2a depicts a schematic of the tape 
laying head 11 movable in a direction "X" with respect to a tool 22. The tape 
laying head 11 has a supply reel 17 which feeds out a tape structure 18 comprising 
a composite tape 23 releasably attached to a backing 24 such as a paper strip. 
The tape structure 18 feeds through a cutter unit 25 and tape guide chute 26 to  
 
its lowermost position, adjacent the tool 22, where it then passes under a presser 
shoe or primary compactor 27 of the tape compactor unit 19. As the tape 23 is 
pressed against the laydown surface 28 of the tool 22, the backing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A machine for laying plastic tape (23) on a work surface (78) to 
produce a plastic article comprising: 

   a head assembly (60) comprising a presser assembly (61) having a 
housing (62), a presser member (73) movably supported in the housing and spring 

means (79, 80, 81) in said housing for yieldably biasing a pressing face (75a) of 
the presser member away from the housing, a tape compaction means (90) 

adjacent said presser member (73) movable to and from compaction engagement 
with the tape; means (79, 80, 81, 91) for applying biasing force to the tape 

compaction means for compacting tape onto the work surface; means for 
controlling the biasing force applied to the tape compaction means; and means 

(64, 66, 67, 91, 93) for moving the tape compaction member to and from 
engagement with the tape independently of and coordinated with the vertical 

movement of the presser member to and from a tape depositing position on the 
work surface (78), said engagement of the tape by the tape compaction means 

(90) first occurring at a point significantly rearward of the centerline (72) of said 
presser member (73). 
A machine according to Claim 1 wherein the presser member (73) 
comprises a plurality of wafer-like plates (75) having flat parallel opposite faces 

stacked in face-to-face array and movably supported in the housing; said plates 
having a tape presser face (75a) extending from said housing (62) and a biasing 

portion (75b) extending into said housing. 
A machine according to one of Claims 1 and 2 further comprising a 
sensor means coupled to the spring means for sensing and measuring the fluid 

pressure therein and producing a signal in relation to the fluid pressure. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
tape compaction member comprises a roller member (90, 138) for compaction 

engagement with the tape. 
A machine according to Claim 1 wherein the means for moving the 
tape compaction means to and from engagement with the tape includes a cam 

means (97, 150, 151) associated with the housing for controlling movement of the 
tape compaction member (90) and a cam follower (96, 149) coupled to said tape 

compaction member and engaging said cam means. 
A machine according to Claim 1 further comprising a means for 
aligning said tape compaction means with contour changes occurring across the 

tape width, whereby said engagement occurs at a point substantially coincident 
with the intersection of said centerline (72) with the tape applied to the work 

surface (78) upon retraction of the presser member (73) from the work surface. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims further 
comprising a means (91) for coupling the tape compaction means to said presser 

shoe member for coordinated movement of said means and said member into and 
out of tape laying and compaction engagement with the tape. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims further 
comprising a means for aligning said tape compaction means with contour 

changes occurring across the tape width. 
A tape laying machine having a tape head (60) movable along a 
horizontal path for depositing composite tape on a work surface, wherein the 

head includes an assembly (61) of tape on a backing transported to a tape 
laydown point (88), at which point the tape is pressed to the surface and the 

backing is separated from the tape, and wherein the head also includes shoe 
 

means (73) having a substantially vertical centerline (72) movable with respect to 
the head and means for causing the backing to follow shoe means movement, the 

improvement comprising: 
   a horizontal reference plane (89) defined on the work surface; 

   a housing (62), mounted to said tape laying head, and movable 
therewith along said reference plane; 

   a first slider (70), movably mounted to a vertical track on said housing; 
   a second slider (67), movably mounted to a horizontal track on said 

housing; 
   means (64, 65, 66) for moving said second slider in forward and 

reverse directions; 
   means (79, 80, 81) for biasing said shoe means against said backing; 

   a first elongate link (91), having opposite ends, and pivotally connected 
at one end (92) to said first slider (70) about a horizontal pivot axis; 

   a tail compaction roller (90), rotatably journalled at the other end of 
said first elongate link (91), about a horizontal roller axis and positioned between 

said backing and said tape; 
   a second elongate link (93), having opposite ends, and pivotally 

connected at one end (94) to said second slider (67) about a horizontal pivot axis; 
   means for pivotally connecting the other end (95) of said second 

elongate link to said first elongate link (91) about a horizontal pivot axis; 
   cam means (97) on said housing for controlling at least a portion of 

movement of said tail compaction roller (90); 
   cam follower means (96) on said first elongate link for contacting said 

cam means during said portion of movement of said tail compaction roller; 
   lifting means (64, 65, 66) engaging said first slider for lifting said shoe 

means against said biasing means; and 
   means (93) coupled to said first elongate link for moving said roller 

into and out of engagement with the tape;
 

   wherein the pivot axes (92, 95) and the roller axis (90) are parallel to 
one another; and 

   wherein the means coupled to said first elongate link produces motion 
of said link to raise and lower said first slider and said motion, raising said first 

slider, causes said lifting means to engage the shoe means for lifting said shoe 
means as said roller moves along a path having a horizontal component of 

movement toward the vertical centerline; and 
   wherein, as the second slider continues movement in the direction 

away from said means for moving said second slider, the first slider will continue 
to move upwardly, in a coordinated manner, thereby causing the lifting means to 

lift said shoe means, while the backing follows the shoe means, and the tail 
compaction roller will move forward into contact with the tape at the tape 

laydown point. 
A machine according to Claim 9 further comprising a means for 
aligning said tape compaction roller with contour changes occurring across the 

tape width. 
A machine according to Claim 9 wherein said shoe means comprises 
a plurality of wafer like plate segments having a flat parallel opposite faces 

stacking in face-to-face array, said segments having a tape presser face and a 
biasing portion. 
A machine according to Claim 11 further comprising a means for 
aligning said tape compaction roller with contour changes occurring across the 

tape width. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
