<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624251</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SAMPLE DISPERSING APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR USE WITH PYROLYSIS FURNACE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F27D300	F27D316	F27D318	F27D700	F27D702	F27D2100	F27D2100	G01N100	G01N100	G01N3112	G01N3112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F27D	F27D	F27D	F27D	F27D	F27D	F27D	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F27D3	F27D3	F27D3	F27D7	F27D7	F27D21	F27D21	G01N1	G01N1	G01N31	G01N31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for dispersing a sample in a process stream is disclosed. The apparatus comprises a conduit (101) which receives a sample at a first end (130) and passes the sample to a pyrolysis furnace (160) through second end (104). Port (140) is provided to admit a carrier gas. Dispersing device (110), preferably consisting of quartz wool, distributes the sample throughout the conduit (101), so that the sample may be heated by the pyrolysis furnace (160) without coking. The method comprises the steps of receiving a sample in a conduit (101), intercepting the sample within the conduit and dispersing it uniformly throughout the conduit, and engaging the dispersed sample with the pyrolysis furnace (160).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKER HUGHES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKER HUGHES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SZINYEI W JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SZINYEI W JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SAMPLE DISPERSING APPARATUS A D METHOD FOR USE WITH PYROLYSIS FURNACEFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe field of the invention relates generally to an apparatus and method for detecting the concentration of a fluid. Specifically, the present invention relates to an apparatus and method for dispersing a sample containing sulfur, nitrogen and other fluid compounds prior to engaging the sample with a pyrolysis furnace.CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION The present application is a continuation-in-part application of the application of W. Jay Szinyei, U.S.Serial No. 828,019, filed January 30, 1992, entitled SAMPLE DISPERSING APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR USE WITH PYROLYSIS FURNACE.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONChemical plants, oil refineries and other industrial facilities produce fluids which present health and safety problems. In some situations, even small amounts of the fluid, for example, a few parts per million or even a few parts per billion, can constitute serious health, safety and environmental problems. Also, such fluids and gases can be a danger to workmen in the vicinity of the facility. The difficulties in detecting and determining the presence of a selected fluid in a process stream or in the environment is exceedingly difficult due to the extensive nature and the large size of industrial plants. Thus, the detection and monitoring of fluids associated with industrial plants is highly advantageous with respect to health, safety, and environmental concerns. Further, the detection and monitoring of industrial fluids can prevent other dangers such as ignition, plant failure and the like. Further, the need to detect particular constituents in a process stream can be based on product quality, process 

control, regulatory requirements and financial considerations. Particular fluid constituents of interest are, for example, hydrogen sulfide and nitrogen oxides. Industrial monitoring equipment exists for all phases of industry. Particularly, a variety of equipment is available using colorimetric methods. Colorimetric monitoring is utilized in process streams and associated atmospheres in and about industrial facilities. The colorimetric equipment and methods that are prevalent include absolute darkness techniques, tape difference techniques and analog first derivative techniques. Typically using colorimetric equipment, an ambient atmosphere is passed through the apparatus whereby the fluids in question react with a color-altering material. The magnitude of the color change is proportional to the concentration of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An apparatus for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment comprising:
(a) a conduit having a first end for receiving the sample and a second end through which the sample emanates from said conduit, a pyrolysis furnace is operatively associated with the second end of said conduit; and
(b) a dispersing device for affecting the sample to distribute the sample throughout said conduit downstream of said dispersing device.
2. An apparatus for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for mixing a carrier gas with the sample prior to engaging said dispersing device.
3. An apparatus for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment as defined in claim 1 wherein said dispersing device is within said conduit.
4. An apparatus for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment as defined in claim 3 wherein said dispersing device engaged within said conduit comprises quartz wool.
5. An apparatus for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment as defined in claim 3 wherein said dispersing device engaged within said conduit comprises ceramic material.
6. An apparatus for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment as defined in claim 1 further comprising a spacing device for displacing said conduit from a pyrolysis furnace.
7. An apparatus for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment as defined in claim 6 wherein said spacing device comprises a cylindrical sleeve which engages 


therein said conduit.
8. An apparatus for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment as defined in claim 2 wherein said means for mixing a carrier gas with the sample comprises a tee having a first inlet, a second inlet and an outlet for accepting the sample through said first inlet, for accepting the carrier gas through said second inlet and egressing the mixture of sample and carrier gas through the outlet.
9. A method for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving a sample into a first end of a conduit having a channel there through,
(b) dispersing the sample throughout the cross section of the conduit,
(c) engaging the dispersed sample in the channel of the conduit with a pyrolysis furnace for initiating pyrolization.
10. A method for dispersing a sample in a process stream or environment as defined by the steps of claim 9 wherein the step of dispersing the sample throughout the cross section of the conduit comprises engaging the sample with quartz wool.
11. A method for dispersing a sample for use in combination with a pyrolosis furnace for measuring the concentration of a fluid in a process stream or environment comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving a sample in a conduit,
(b) intercepting the sample for dispersing, disseminating, evaporating or strewing the sample uniformly throughout the conduit, and
(c) engaging the uniform sample with the pyrolosis furnace for initiating the pyrolization. 


12. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein the step of intercepting the sample further comprises the steps of:
(a) engaging the sample with a material porous enough or loose enough to provide the sample to flow there through in a uniform manner, and
(b) disengaging the sample from the material.
13. The method as defined in claim 12 wherein the step of engaging the sample further comprises the step of dispersing the sample over the surface area of the porous material.
14. A method as defined in claim 11 wherein the step of engaging the uniform sample with the pyrolosis furnace further comprises the step of interjecting the sample to be uniform across the reach or diameter of the conduit.
15. A method as defined in claim 14 wherein the step of interjecting sample further comprises interjecting the sample to be essentially linear across the reach or diameter of the conduit.
16. A method as defined in claim 11 wherein the step of engaging the uniform sample with the pyrolosis furnace further comprises the step of interjecting the sample to be uniform across the center or radius of the conduit.
17. A method as defined in claim 16 wherein the step of interjecting sample further comprises interjecting the sample to be essentially Gaussian across the center or radius of the conduit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
