<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0374740</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEMICONDUCTOR WAFER CARRIER DESIGN
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2167	H01L21673	H01L21677	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A carrier-susceptor (40) for use in a continuous chemical 
vapor deposition reactor system (10) serves as a carrier, cover 

and heat susceptor for a semiconductor wafer being processes 
through the reactor system (10). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHII, KAORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILKINSON, THOMAS F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to semiconductor wafer carriers and 
more particularly to carriers and carrier lid configurations for 
use in continuous chemical vapor deposition reactors. A continuous chemical deposition reactor may be a stand-alone 
process system with a continuous semiconductor wafer flow. Basic 
subsystems in such a system may include a wafer handling, a 
reaction chamber, a gas flow system, a cooling system, and an 
electrical system. The wafer handling system may include wafer loaders and 
unloaders, wafer carriers, and a track for moving a wafer through 
the reactor chambers. The reactor chamber subsystem is the site for processing the 
semiconductor wafer. Each chamber may include a gas supply inlet, 
a chamber housing, heat lamps and exhaust. The gas flow subsystem supplies the reactant gases to each 
chamber, and may include valves, flow controllers and an exhaust 
system. The cooling subsystem assists in maintaining the process 
temperature and reduces the heat radiation to the surrounding 
components. Both air flow and water flow may be used in the 
cooling subsystem.  The electrical subsystem provides subsystem control and 
powers the reactor, and may include power supplies, motors, 
sensors, valves, and one or more computer/controller. A basic reactor and process may be as follows. A 
semiconductor wafer is loaded onto a carrier which enters one end 
of the reactor through a port and is moved successively through 
the various chambers and out the other end of the reactor through 
another port. The reactor may not be physically closed, but has 
gas seals at each end and in between each chamber of the reactor. 
As an example, a reactor may include eight chambers in which the 
first chamber consists of a nitrogen seal, the second chamber is a 
preheat chamber, the next four chambers may be deposition 
chambers, then a cool-down chamber, and the last chamber is a 
nitrogen seal. A typical gas supply system may supply gases for two 
different deposition processes which may be directed into any of 
the deposition chambers. Each chamber is effectively divided into 
two portions, a top portion and a bottom portion by the wafer 
carriers and spacers between each wafer carrier. The junctions 
between the chambers effectively isolate one chamber from the 
other by the flow of gases or the exhaust gases from the chambers.  The invention relates to susceptor or wafer carriers and 
carrier lid configurations used in multi-chamber continuous 
chemical vapor deposition reactors. A semiconductor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A semiconductor wafer carrier for use in a continuous 
chemical vapor deposition reactor, comprising: 

a generally rectangular body of a high temperature material 
having first and second major faces, said first major face having 

a recess formed in and extending across said first major face, 
a generally circular opening extending from the surface of 

said recess through the carrier and opening through the second of 
said major face of the carrier, 

a lip extending from sides of the generally circular opening 
for holding a semiconductor wafer, and 

a lip shaped to fit in the recess formed in and extending 
across said first major face to cover a semiconductor wafer 

residing in said generally circular opening. 
2. The carrier according to Claim 1, wherein the lip extending 
from the sides of the generally circular opening extend from the 

sides of the opening adjacent said second major face. 
3. A semiconductor wafer carrier, having an under side and an 
upper side, for use in a continuous chemical vapor deposition 

reactor, comprising: 
a generally rectangular body of a high temperature material 

having two major faces, 
an opening through the carrier corresponding to the shape of 

a semiconductor to be mounted in the carrier; 
means for mounting a semiconductor wafer, having a flat 

orientation edge in said opening through said carrier; 
a recess in the upper side of said carrier; 

a lip extending from sides of the opening through the carrier 
for holding a semiconductor wafer; and 

a lid having a shape corresponding to the recess in the upper 
side of said carrier 
for covering and transmitting heat to said 
semiconductor wafer. 
4. The carrier according to Claim 3, wherein the semiconductor 
wafer to be mounted on the carrier has a flat orientation edge and 

the opening through the carrier has a flat edge region to 
correspond with the flat edge on the semiconductor wafer. 
5. The carrier according to Claim 3, wherein the carrier is 
moved through a reactor on tracts, said carrier having generally 

circular grooves on two side to mate with and on which to be moved 
through the reactor. 
6. The carrier according to Claim 3, wherein the lid and carrier 
have rounded corners to prevent stress due to the heating of the 

lid and carrier during processing of the semiconductor device 
during processing. 
7. A semiconductor wafer carrier, having an under side and an 
upper side, for use in a continuous chemical vapor deposition 

reactor, comprising: 
a generally rectangular body of a high temperature material 

having two major faces, 
an opening through the carrier corresponding to the shape of 

a semiconductor to be mounted in the carrier; 
means for mounting a semiconductor wafer, having a flat 

orientation edge in said opening through said carrier; 
a recess in the upper side of said carrier; 

a lip extending from sides of the opening through the carrier 
for holding a semiconductor wafer; and 

a lid having a shape corresponding to the recess in the upper 
side of said carrier for covering and transmitting heat to said 

semiconductor wafer, said lid and carrier have matching tapers to 
facilitate lid alignment on the carrier. 
8. The carrier according to Claim 13, wherein the carrier is 
moved through a reactor on tracts, said carrier having generally 

circular grooves on two side to mate with an on which to be moved 
through the reactor. 
9. A semiconductor wafer carrier-susceptor for use in a 
continuous chemical vapor deposition reactor, comprising a 

generally rectangular body of a high temperature material having 
two major faces, one major face having a recess formed in and 

extending across said one major face, two sides of said recess 
having lips extending out from the sides of the recess forming two 

tracks in the sides of the recess such that a semiconductor 
wafer may be placed in the tracks in the recess and held therein 

when the carrier-susceptor is positioned with the recess and said 
 

one major face in a downward position, said carrier-susceptor also 
having circular grooves extending across two ends of said one 

major face. 
10. The carrier-susceptor according to Claim 9, wherein the 
tracks are open at the side of the carrier-susceptor to allow 

loading of the semiconductor wafer into the side of the 
carrier-susceptor. 
11. A semiconductor wafer carrier-susceptor for use in a 
continuous chemical vapor deposition reactor, comprising a 

generally rectangular body of a high temperature material having 
two major faces, and a plurality of securing pins, said securing 

pins extending through the carrier-susceptor and comprising a 
vertical part and a horizontal part, said horizontal part 

extending above one surface of the carrier-susceptor and used to 
secure a semiconductor wafer to said one surface of the 

carrier-susceptor. 
12. The carrier-susceptor according to Claim 11, wherein aid 
securing pins extend through holes in the carrier-susceptor and 

are movably secured therein by a pivot pin such that the securing 
pin pivots about the pivot pin allowing the horizontal part of the 

securing pin to move against and secure a semiconductor wafer on 
the one surface of the carrier-susceptor. 
13. The carrier-susceptor according to Claim 11, wherein there 
are at least three securing pins spaced around an area larger than 

the semiconductor wafer to be secured to the carrier-susceptor, 
each pen is secured so that it will pivot toward the center of the 

area on which the semiconductor wafer is to be mounted. 
14. A semiconductor wafer carrier-susceptor, having an under 
side and an upper side, for use in a continuous chemical vapor 

deposition reactor, comprising a generally rectangular body of a 
high temperature material having two major faces, means for 

mounting a semiconductor wafer, having a flat orientation edge, on 
the under side of the carrier-susceptor independent of the 

orientation of the semiconductor wafer flat edge. 
15. The carrier-susceptor according to Claim 14, wherein the 
semiconductor is mounted in a recess on the under side of the 

carrier-susceptor. 
16. The carrier-susceptor according to Claim 15, wherein the 
recess has two sides extending to the two edges of the 

carrier-susceptor and two other sides formed in the underside of 
the carrier-susceptor, said two other sides two sides of said 

recess having lips extending out from the sides of the recess 
forming two tracks that a semiconductor wafer may be placed in the 

tracks in the recess and held therein. 
17. The carrier-susceptor according to Claim 14, wherein said 
means for mounting a semiconductor wafer to the under side of the 

carrier-susceptor includes a plurality of securing pins, said 
securing pins extending through the carrier-susceptor and 

comprising a vertical part and a horizontal part, said horizontal 
part extending above one surface of the carrier-susceptor used to 

secure a semiconductor wafer to said one surface of the 
carrier-susceptor. 
18. A method of mounting two semiconductor wafers on a 
semiconductor carrier, which carrier is used to mount a 

semiconductor of a diameter larger than said two semiconductor 
 

wafers, comprising the steps of: 
placing the two semiconductor wafers diagonally across the 

carrier: and 
securing the semiconductor wafers to the carrier at least 

three points around the perimeter of the semiconductor wafer. 
19. The method according to Claim 18, wherein the semiconductor 
wafers are placed diagonally across the carrier at an angle 

between 10 and 15 degrees. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
