<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656551</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ferrule holder for temperature compensated fiber Fabry-Perot filters.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B634	G02B634	G02B638	G02B638	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A Fibre Fabry-Perot filter (FPF) having a ferrule holder comprising:
 

a body having a core (35) to contain the ferrule (10), a peripheral 
portion (36) surrounding the core, core 

and peripheral portion extending the length of the body, a duct being provided through the 
core to contain the ferrule and being shaped to provide flats for 

three-point contact between 
the ferrule and the core and sized to provide a close fit with the 

ferrule at the passageway flats 
while allowing rotation of the ferrule in the duct; and

 
means for securing the ferrule (24A,24B,24C) in the passageway to 

establish three-point contact between the 
ferrule and the holder body

 
the core preferably being of a material having a thermal expansion coefficient substantially 

matched to that of the ferrule. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICRON OPTICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICRON OPTICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER CALVIN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER JEFFREY W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER,CALVIN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER,JEFFREY W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is in the field of fibre optics and relates specifically to ferrule holders 
and ferrule alignment fixtures useful for making low-loss optic fibre connections and 
particularly useful in fibre Fabry-Perot filters (FFPs). The holders and fixtures of this 
invention are also useful in temperature compensated FFPs. Transmission of information by light over optical fibres is widely used in long-haul 
telecommunication systems. Optical signals are generated, transported along optical fibres 
and detected to regenerate the original electronic signal with as little change as possible. 
Fibre transmission media are combined with electronic signal processing resulting in lowered 
cost and high quality digital transmission. In general, fibre optic systems require fibre connectors for precise alignment of optic 
fibre ends within the system. One technique for making fibre connections employs fibre 
ferrules which are cylindrical, typically glass, elements supporting optic fibres in an axially 
passageway with a fibre end flush with one end of the ferrule. Connections are made by 
aligning ferrules with fibre ends opposed in an alignment fixture. Fibre optic system applications require direct optical processing of signals without 
conversion to electronic signals necessitating optical signal processors such as amplifiers, 
multiplex/demultiplexes, splitters, couplers, filters, equalisers, and switches adapted for use 
with optical fibres. Economical, low-loss, easily and reproducibly manufactured, single-mode 
optical fibre filters, adaptable to a desired bandwidth, FSR (Free Spectral Range) and finesse, 
are important components for such fibre optic systems. A fibre Fabry-Perot (FFP) 
interferometric filter is such a filter. FFPs with optical properties suitable for telecommunication applications employing 
fibre ferrules to create optical cavities have been described. These FFPs contain fibre ferrule 
assemblies with aligned optical fibre extending through the ferrules forming an optically 
continuous path containing a tunable optical cavity. Two highly reflective, preferably plane-parallel 
mirrors, in the ferrule assembly transverse to the fibre path create the optical cavity. 
Ferrules are supported in precision fixtures with fibres aligned to maximise signal 
transmission through the assembly. This design eliminates the need for collimating and 
focusing lenses, improves stability and optical performance and makes the FFPs compatible 
with single-mode optical fibres and other fibre devices. 
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A ferrule holder comprising: 
a body having a core which is the portion of the body in contact with the ferrule and a 

peripheral portion around the periphery of the core both portions extending the length 
of the body, a passageway through the core body extending the length of the body, 

the passageway shaped to provide flats for three-point contact between the ferrule and 
the body core and sized to provide a close fit with the ferrule at the passageway flats 

yet allowing rotation of the ferrule in the passageway; and 
means for securing the ferrule in the passageway to establish three-point contact 

between the ferrule and the holder body. 
2. A ferrule holder according to claim 1 wherein the core portion of the holder body in 
contact with the ferrule comprises a material having a thermal expansion coefficient 

substantially matched to that of the thermal expansion coefficient of the ferrule 
material. 
3. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim wherein the entire body, both core 
and peripheral portion, are fabricated from a low-ex
pansion metal alloy having a 
thermal expansion coefficient that is within about a factor of two higher or lower than 

that of the ferrule material. 
4. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim wherein the peripheral portion is 
made of a metal having a thermal expansion coefficient greater than or equal to about 

10 ppm/°C and the core is made of a low-expansion metal alloy having a thermal 
expansion coefficient less than or equal to 8 ppm/°C. 
5. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim wherein the ferrules are made of 
Pyrex™, the core of the holder is made of Kovar™ and the peripheral portion of 

the holder is made of stainless steel. 
6. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim wherein the entire holder body or 
the body core is fabricated from a low-expansion metal alloy having a thermal 

expansion coefficient at room temperature of between about 5.4 and about 1.8 ppm/° 
C. 
7. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim wherein the entire body or the 
body core is fabricated from the low-expansion metal alloy Kovar™. 
8. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim wherein the means for securing the 
ferrule in the passageway comprises a means for applying a force on the ferrule 

substantially perpendicular to its longitudinal axis, the point of application of the 
force being positioned with respect to the passageway flats such that on application of 

the force three-point contact is established between the ferrule and the holder. 
9. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim which comprises a plurality of 
tapped screw holes along the length of the body each extending from the outer surface 

of the body into the core such that a screw tightened into any of the holes will 
function as a means for applying a force to the ferrule and each screw hole aligned in 

the body along the length of the passageway positioned with respect to the 
passageway flats such that on application of the force three-point contact is 

established between the ferrule and the holder. 
10. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim wherein the means for securing the 
ferrule in the passageway also comprises a displaceable ferrule retention element 

having an upper side and a lower side having a flat, the element positioned in the 
holder body intermediate between a ferrule in the passageway and the means for 

applying a force to the ferrule, the inner side of the retention element forming a 
portion of the shaped passageway and providing a flat in the passageway wherein 

when the force is applied the ferrule retention element is displaced toward the ferrule 
with the flat of its lower side contacting the ferrule and urging the ferrule in turn to 

contact the other two passageway flats to establish three-point contact between the 
ferrule and the core and thereby secure the ferrule in the passageway. 
11. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim wherein the ferrule retention 
element is made of the same material as the core. 
12. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim wherein the ferrule retention 
element is a resiliently displaceable arm integrally formed with the core, the lower 

side of which forms a portion of the passageway and provides a flat in the 
passageway. 
13. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim which comprises 
a body having a core extending the length of the body and a peripheral portion around 

the periphery of the core which also extends the length of the body, a passageway 
through the body core for receiving a ferrule extending the length of the body, shaped 

to provide three flats positioned equiangularly around the passageway and sized to 
provide a close fit with the ferrule yet allowing rotation of the ferrule in the 

passageway to provide three-point contact between the ferrule and the body core; 
a displaceable ferrule retention element having an upper and a lower side with a flat 

region thereon positioned in the holder body with the inner side of the retention 
element forming a portion of the shaped passageway and providing one of the three 

flats in the holder passageway; and 
a plurality of tapped holes for receiving screws in the holder body substantially 

aligned along the length of the body passageway extending from the body surface into 
the body core communicating with the ferrule retention element; 

wherein tightening a screw in a screw hole applies a force substantially perpendicular 
to the longitudinal axis of the ferrule displacing the ferrule retention element such that 

the flat of its lower side contacts a ferrule in the passageway and urges the ferrule in 
turn to contact the passageway flats to establish three-point contact with the holder 

 
and thereby secure the ferrule in the passageway and wherein the body core is made 

of a material having a thermal expansion coefficient substantially matched to that of 
the thermal expansion coefficient of the ferrule material. 
14. A ferrule holder according to any preceding claim comprising a means at one 
longitudinal end for receiving and bonding to a piezoelectric transducer. 
15. A ferrule holder according to claim 14 wherein the means for receiving and bonding 
to a piezoelectric transducer is a flange the outer diameter of which is sized for 

insertion in the passageway of a cylindrical piezoelectric transducer. 
16. A ferrule holder according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the means for receiving and 
bonding to a piezoelectric transducer comprises a plurality of brackets extending 

outward from the body and substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the 
body. 
17. A ferrule holder according to any of claims 14 to 16, further comprising a flange 
extending outward from the holder body at the longitudinal end comprising the means 

for receiving and bonding to a piezoelectric transducer the flange sized to receive a 
sleeve. 
18. A fibre Fabry-Perot filter (FFP) which comprises: 
a fibre ferrule assembly forming an optical cavity therein which comprises a first and 

a second ferrule each of which have an internal and an external longitudinal end, each 
of which has a substantially axial bore therethrough for receiving an optical fibre and 

a mirror transverse to the axial bore and the optical fibre therein, the reflective surface 
of the mirror facing the internal end of the ferrule; the ferrules positioned with 

internal ends opposed forming the optical cavity between opposing reflective surfaces 
of the mirrors; and 

a fixture for holding the ferrules of the ferrule assembly with axial fibres in 
substantial alignment which comprises two ferrule holders each having an internal 

and external end and each having a passageway for receiving a ferrule, the holders 
connected to each other with internal ends opposed and spaced with respect to each 

other such that ferrules inserted, aligned and secured in the holders form the ferrule 
assembly and its optical cavity; 

wherein the ferrule holders are ferrule holders according to any preceding claim. 
19. An FFP according to claim 18 which is tunable by varying the length of the optical 
cavity, the fixture further comprising a piezoelectric transducer connecting the two 

ferrule holders such that the distance between the internal ends of the ferrules can be 
varied by application of a voltage to the piezoelectric transducer. 
20 An FFP according to either of claims 18 or 19 wherein each holder comprises a flange 
at its internal end around the body passageway having an inner diameter sized to 

allow passage of a ferrule and an outer diameter sized to engage the piezoelectric 
transducer passageway facilitating bonding of the piezoelectric transducer between 

the holders and protecting the optical cavity from excess adhesive. 
21. An FFP according to any of claims 18 to 20 wherein each holder further comprises a 
plurality of brackets extending outward from its body, each substantially 

perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the holders, the brackets of each holder 
symmetrically disposed around that axis and adapted for receiving and bonding to a 

longitudinal end of a piezoelectric transducer, the brackets of opposed holders in the 
fixture aligned to receive and bond a piezoelectric transducer there between forming a 

piezoelectric transducer bridge between the ferrule holders. 
22. An FFP according to any of claims 18 to 21 having two symmetrically disposed 
piezoelectric transducer bridges. 
23. An FFP according to any of claims 18 to 22 further comprising a means for 
selectively adjusting the thermal expansion coefficient of the filter after it has been 

constructed. 
24. An FFP of according to any of claims 18 to 23 which is mounted on a circuit board 
and wherein the FFP is miniaturised having a height of about 6.8 cm or less. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
