<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610401</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR INTERCONNECTING ELECTRONIC PRODUCTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q914	H04Q914	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q9	H04Q9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A switching network (10) includes a plurality of nodes (32), one node connected to a product (S, A, L) of different electronic product groups on display. Each node (32) includes a satellite node microprocessor (42) and a cooperating product selector switch (46) for selectively actuating the cooperating connected electronic product (S, A, L). An indicator lamp (48) is also provided at each node (32). Illumination of the lamp (48) indicates an operating condition of the electronic product (S, A, L) connected to the node (32). Further, each node (32) includes an address memory (44) to identify the node and the connected electronic product (S, A, L). The satellite node microprocessors (42) of each node (32) are operatively connected by a bus (34, 38, 40) to a central control unit (12). The central control unit (12) includes a host microprocessor (14) for supervising all network functions and product selectors (64) for actuating selected electronic products (S, A, L) connected to the nodes (32). A method of interconnecting selected electronic products (S, A, L) to establish a product system is also provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUDIO AUTHORITY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUDIO AUTHORITY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERTZ JONATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERTZ, JONATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR INTERCONNECTING ELECTRONIC PRODUCTSTechnical FieldThe present invention relates generally to retail selling of consumer electronics and, more particularly, to an advanced switching network for interconnecting selected products of different electronic product groups on display to allow active demonstration.Background of the InventionRetailers largely rely upon active demonstrations to present electronic consumer products and, particularly, audio and video entertainment products to customers. Such active demonstrations allow the customers to explore product features, directly compare products and match customer needs and desires with the available products. Accordingly, active demonstrations are very effective in facilitating sales of consumer electronic products.Presently, there are two standard types of product demonstration switchers. The first is the master control panel type. This type of switcher has displays and controls on a single, localized panel and is best suited for demonstration by a sales person. The displays on this type of product demonstration switcher typically include the current product selections and the system configuration, that is, how current selections are interconnected. The displays may also include prices and 

 product installation information.The controls of the master control panel type of product demonstration switcher allow one to select particularproducts for demonstration. Additionally, the controls typically allow individual product comparisons as well as system or group product comparisons. An input means is often provided for entering product brands, model numbers, prices, installation information, etc. into the system. In advanced systems, provision may also be made for the transfer of information to the store point-of-sale system or electronic cash register for use in transacting any sale. The major drawback to this type of demonstration switcher is that it is not amenable to direct operation by customers without supervision from sales personnel. Many customers find this limitation inconvenient and annoying. Some may even choose to do their shopping at competing retailers that have a demonstration switcher more adapted to their direct control (e.g. a button-per-product type demonstration switcher; see below) .The second type of demonstration switcher may be called the "button-per-product" type. Demonstration switchers of this type are better understood and adapted for self-service by customers. A typical system includes a pushbutton
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A switching network for interconnecting selected products of different electronic product groups on display, comprising: a plurality of nodes including point- of-display switching means for selectively activating said products for purposes of demonstration, one node and point of display switching means being positioned adjacent each product; a control unit including control means for supervising all network functions; a central switching means for selectively activating any of said products on display and activatable by said point of display switching means; and bus means for operatively connecting said plurality of nodes with said central control unit; said network being further characterized by: having both point-of-display switching means and central switching means whereby a multi-product system is established for active demonstration of the selected electronic products. 


 2. The switching network set forth in Claim 1, wherein said central switching means includes a control terminal operatively connected to said control unit, said control terminal including product selector means for activating selected products connected to said nodes.
3. The switching network set forth in Claim 1, wherein each node further includes a node microprocessor in two-way communication with said control means and an address memory to identify said node and connected electronic product.
4. The switching network set forth in Claim 3, wherein said communication between said control means and said node microprocessor is expressed in serial binary form.
5. The switching network set forth in Claim 3, wherein each said node further includes an indicator lamp, illumination of said lamp indicating current selection of said electronic product connected to said node.
6. The switching network set forth in Claim 1, wherein said control means includes a host microprocessor and a node communications multiplexer for directing communications from said host microprocessor along said bus means to said plurality of node microprocessor.
7. The switching network set forth in Claim 6, wherein said control means further includes means for addressing said plurality of nodes.
8. The switching network set forth in Claim 6, wherein said control means further includes means for confirming that any one of said nodes is connected to an electronic product. 


 9. The switching network set forth in Claim 8, wherein said means for confirming includes a probe amplifier.
10. The switching network set forth in Claim 1, wherein said control means includes means for providing power to two and only two electronic products connected to said nodes so as to allow instantaneous comparison of the two powered products while also conserving power.
11. The switching network set forth in Claim 1, wherein said electronic product groups include sources, amplifiers and speakers and said bus means includes a source bus, an amplifier bus and a speaker bus.
12. The switching network set forth in Claim 1, wherein said bus means provides for all signal paths to and from an electronic product including product input and output signals, product power supply and all network control signals.
13. A switching network for interconnecting selected products of different electronic product groups on display, comprising: a plurality of nodes, each node including terminal means for operatively connecting each node to one electronic product, a cooperating product selector switch for selectively activating said cooperating connected electronic product; a central control unit including a host microprocessor for supervising all network functions; and bus means for operatively connecting said nodes with said central control unit; said network being characterized by; 


 each of said nodes including a node microprocessor connected in communication with said host microprocessor of said central control unit. whereby a multi-product system is established for active demonstration of the selected electronic products.
14. The switching network set forth in Claim 13, further including a control terminal operatively connected to said central control unit, said control terminal including product selector means for activating selected products connected to said nodes.
15. The switching network set forth in Claim 14, wherein each node further includes an address memory to identify said node and connected electronic product and a switching means to connect said electronic product to said bus means; and said central control unit further includes a node communications multiplexer for directing communications from said host microprocessor along said bus means to said node microprocessors and means for addressing said nodes.
16. The switching network set forth in Claim 15, wherein said bus means includes a bus for each group of electronic products being displayed.
17. The switching network set forth in Claim 16, wherein said electronic products include sources, amplifiers and speakers and said bus means includes a source bus, an amplifier bus and a speaker bus.
18. The switching network set forth in Claim 17, wherein said bus means provides for all signal paths to and from an electronic product 


 including product input and output signals, product power supply and all network control signals.
19. The switching network set forth in Claim 15, wherein each said node also includes an indicator lamp, illumination of said lamp indicating current selection of said electronic product connected to said node.
20. A method of interconnecting selected products of different electronic product groups on display utilizing a switching network including a plurality of nodes, one node operatively connected to each product on display, and a central control unit operatively connected to said nodes, said method being characterized by the steps of: assigning an unique address number to each node and, therefore, each connected electronic product; polling said nodes for work in order to solicit request for service messages from said nodes to said central control unit; sending product control commands to said nodes from said central control unit in response to request for service messages; interconnecting those electronic products selected by product control commands; whereby a multi-product system is established for active demonstration of the selected electronic products.
21. The method set forth in claim 20, further including polling said nodes to solicit address request messages from said nodes to said central control unit.
22. The method set forth in Claim 20, 


further including confirming the presence of an electronic product connected to a node.
23. The method set forth in Claim 20, further including returning said switching network to its last operative configuration stored in the central control unit.
24. The method set forth in Claim 20, further including acknowledging a product control command by sending a command acknowledgement message from said node to said central control unit.
25. The method set forth in Claim 20, further including maintaining power to two and only two electronic products in a single product group so as to allow instantaneous comparison of the two powered products while also conserving power.
26. A switching network for connecting selected products of different electronic product groups on display, comprising: a plurality of nodes, each product on display being operatively connected to one node; a central control unit including a master control means for supervising all network functions; and bus means for operatively connecting said plurality of nodes with said central control unit; said network being characterized by: slave control means at each node in two-way communications with said master control means; whereby a multi-product system is established for active demonstration of the selected electronic products. 


 27. A method of interconnecting selected products of different electronic product groups on display utilizing a switching network including a plurality of nodes, one node operatively connected to each product on display, a central control unit with a master control means, a control terminal, and slave control means at each node, said method being characterized by the steps of: assigning an unique address number to each node and, therefore, each connected electronic product; monitoring said control terminal for product selections by means of said master control means;
sending product control commands to said nodes from said central control unit in response to product selections made at said control terminal; and interconnecting those electronic products selected by product control commands from said master control means to said slave control means; whereby a multi-product system is established for active demonstration of the selected electronic products. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
