<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635740</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Field installable optical fiber connectors
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B636	G02B638	G02B638	G02B636	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical fiber connector (11) for terminating an 
optical fiber which has a ferrule or plug member (12) located 

therein. The plug member has a bore (18) extending therethrough 
and an optical fiber stub (19) fixed in the bore extending from the 

front face (21) of the plug to a point within the bore intermediate 
its ends. One or more channel members (22) in the plug overlap the 

end of the stub within the plug. The channel members provide, 
in effect, a receptacle for excess index matching gel (32) when the 

fiber being terminated is inserted from the rear of the bore 
and pressed forward to compress the gel. Crimping members (27) are 

mounted on the rear of the plug and are adapted to grip the 
protection coating (31) of the fiber being terminated to fix the 

fiber and the plug relative to each other. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optical fiber connectors and,
more particularly, to such connectors adapted for ready
installation in the field.The termination of an optical fiber with a
connector in a field environment generally is a costly and
labor intensive process, and has thus slowed the acceptance
of fiber optics in both local and wide area networks, as
well as in other applications. Additionally, connectors for
use in forming terminations of the fiber are generally of
such a nature that only limited numbers of individual fibers
can be terminated in, for example, a day. Connectors
presently in use often require that special tools be present
at the job site. Thus, where the fiber end being connected
is held within the connector by means of an ultra-violet or
heat cured epoxy, a source of ultra-violet light or of heat
must necessarily form a part of the tool kit of the
technician making the termination. Also, the use of epoxy
is time consuming. Generally, when, for example, a heat
cured epoxy has been applied, the entire connector assembly
must be heat cured for several minutes, and then several
more minutes are involved until the assembly is cooled
sufficiently for the fiber tip to be polished.The prior art is rife with connector designs that
have been proposed and marketed and that are aimed at
increasing installation efficiency through reduction or
elimination of one or more of the aforementioned problems.
Once such approach involves the use of a hot melt glue 
instead of a heat cured epoxy to affix the fiber to the
connector. In this arrangement, the technician places the
connector in a heater for a short time to melt a premeasured
amount of glue previously placed within the connector. The
fiber is then inserted, and, after the connector has cooled
for a short time, the tip of the fiber can be polished.
Such a hot melt connector has been found to reduce the time
involved to completion, and is relatively simple to
assemble. However, it is not recommended for use in
installation subject to high temperatures. Another approach
to the elimination of dependence upon epoxy to affix the
fiber to the connector or termination has been the use of
crimp-on connectors which form a mechanical connection
between the connector and the fiber. Unless the crimping
portion grasps the fibers firmly, pistoning of the fiber may
occur, and the integrity of the connector jeopardized.In all of the foregoing arrangements, it is
necessary, after the fiber is affixed in place, to cleave
and polish that end of the fiber intended
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical fiber connector (11) for terminating the end of an optical
fiber (29), said connector comprising:


a body portion (13) having a bore (14) extending therethrough and front
and rear ends;
attaching means (17) for attaching the connector (11) to a mating
member;
a plug member (12) mounted in said bore(14), said plug member having a front face (21) and a rear face (23)
and having a fiber receiving means comprising an axial bore (18)

extending therethrough from said front face (21) to said rear face (23), said plug
member (12) having an exterior surface extending from said front face (21) to said rear

face (23); and
an optical fiber stub (19) in said axial bore (18) extending from the
region of said front face (21) toward said rear face (23) along a portion of the length of

said axial bore (18), said stub (19) having a front end (28) adjacent said front face (21)
and a rear end (24) located within said axial bore (18);
characterised by
said plug member (12) having at least one channel (36) formed therein in
communication with said axial bore (18) and with said bore (14) of said body portion

(13), said channel (36) extending obliquely from a region adjacent said rear end (24) of
said stub (19) to said bore (14) of said body portion (13).
An optical fiber connector as claimed in claim 1 wherein there is a
plurality of channels (36) extending from a region adjacent said rear end of said stub radially

outward therefrom to the exterior of said plug member.
An optical fiber connector as claimed in claim 1 wherein said axial
bore has an enlarged section (37) adjacent said rear face of said plug member.
An optical fiber connector as claimed in claim 1 wherein said front
face of said plug and said front end of said stub together form a substantially planar

surface. 
An optical fiber connector as claimed in claim 1 wherein said front
face of said plug member has a cup-shaped recess (38) therein coaxial with said axial bore,

and a focusing member (39) disposed within said recess.
An optical fiber connector as claimed in claim 1 further comprising
means for affixing an optical fiber (29), the optical fiber having a protective coating (31) thereon

and an end portion (33) stripped of said protective coating disposed in said axial bore (18) with
said end portion (33) meeting said rear end (24) of said stub (19) and separated therefrom by a thin

layer of index matching material (32), said fiber having transmission characteristics
substantially identical to the transmission characteristics of said stub, wherein said

affixing means are attached to the rear face (23) of said plug.
An optical fiber connector as claimed in claim 6, wherein said means
for affixing comprises a crimping member (27) extending from said rear face (23) of

said plug (12) adapted to grasp the protective coating (31) of the fiber (29) being
terminated.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
