<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655770</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vacuum inlet
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J4904	H01J4940	H01J4902	H01J4934	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J49	H01J49	H01J49	H01J49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sample inlet apparatus comprises a sample source (1) and 
a first enclosure (3), connected to the sample source via a 

first inlet means (2). An analyser enclosure (7) is connected to 
the first enclosure via a second inlet means substantially 

in alignment with the first inlet means (5). Also provided is 
a second enclosure (10), connected to the analyser enclosure via 

a third inlet means (9) substantially in alignment with the 
first and second inlet means and means (4,8,11) for maintaining the 

first and second enclosures at a pressure lower than the 
sample source and higher than that of the analyser 

enclosure in use, whereby a molecular beam (6) of sample 
molecules is generated along the axis of the inlet means 

alignment. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KORE TECH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KORE TECHNOLOGY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLOCK STEPHEN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLOCK, STEPHEN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the interfacing of a gaseous
source of sample material to an analyzer that requires a
vacuum to operate.Some analytical instruments require a high vacuum for
successful operation, for example mass spectrometers. At
the same time it is sometimes necessary to admit a certain
amount of a gaseous sample for analysis from a high
pressure region, often at atmospheric pressure. Any such
inlet material needs to be pumped away by the high vacuum
pump in order to maintain the vacuum required by the
analyser. It is a feature of most vacuum pumps that they
pump at a roughly constant volume flow rate and that the
higher the flow rate required the more expensive the pump.
This implies that a given mass flow rate is more expensive
to pump away if the pressure at which the pump is operating
is lower. For example, a vacuum pump operating at 10-5 mbar
would have to have 10 times the volume rate capacity of a
pump operating at 10-4 mbar in order to achieve the same
mass flow rate.In principle sample gas could be admitted from the
high pressure source to the vacuum system through a single
very small aperture with a single high vacuum pump
operating at the pressure of the analyser. Such a leak
would however have to be very small indeed and therefore
difficult to interface to the source of analytical
material. For example, suppose that the available pump
capacity is 400 litre/sec (say a turbo-molecular pump
weighing 20 pounds and costing some £4000), the analyser
requires to be at 10-5 mbar to operate successfully and the
inlet is an aperture from atmospheric pressure straight
into the vacuum. The effective pumping speed at atmospheric
pressure is approximately 400 litre/sec ÷ 108, the pressure
ratio, which equals 4 µlitre/sec. A thin aperture from
atmosphere to vacuum allows a volume flow rate of 200 x A
m3/sec where A is the cross sectional area of the aperture 
in square meters. This implies an aperture area of 20µm2,
or an aperture diameter of ∼5µm. Difficulties would arise
because of the tendency of the leak to block, particularly
if there are condensable components in the analytical
stream. There may also be other reasons why the sampling
aperture may not be this small. For example, in the
particular case of sampling from an inductively coupled
plasma, the sampling aperture must be larger than the
plasma boundary layer in order to sample the plasma
effectively (see J.A. Olivares and R.S. Houk, Anal. Chem.
57 p2674, 1985) leading to an aperture typically 0.5 to 1
mm. Often the pressure is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sample inlet apparatus comprising:

a sample source (1);
a first enclosure (3), connected to the sample source
via a first inlet means (2);
an analyser enclosure (7), connected to the first
enclosure via a second inlet means (5,15) substantially in

alignment with the first inlet means;
a second enclosure (10), connected to the analyser
enclosure via a third inlet means (9) substantially in

alignment with the first and second inlet means; and
means (4,11) of maintaining the first and second
enclosures at a pressure lower than the sample source and

higher than that of the analyser enclosure in use, whereby
a molecular beam (6) of sample molecules, which may contain a proportion of ionic species, is generated along

the axis of the inlet means alignment.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second inlet
means (5) comprises a single inlet (5), the third inlet

means also comprises a single inlet (9), and the ratio of
the distances between the two single inlets and the first

inlet means (2) is substantially the same as the ratio of
their diameters.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second inlet
means (5,15) comprises two aligned inlets (5,15), the first

inlet (5) connecting the first enclosure (3) to the second
enclosure (10) and the second inlet (15) connecting the

second enclosure (10) to the analyser enclosure (7).
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus
further comprises a third enclosure (10), a further

pressure maintaining means (11) of maintaining the third
enclosure at a pressure lower than the first enclosure (3)

and higher than the analyser enclosure (7), the second
inlet means (5,15) comprising two aligned inlets (5,15), 

the first inlet (5) connecting the first enclosure to the
third enclosure, and the second inlet (15) connecting the

third enclosure to the analyser enclosure (7).
The apparatus of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the third
inlet means (9) comprises a single inlet (9), and the ratio

of the distances between the third inlet means and the
first inlet means (2) and between the second inlet (15) of

the second inlet means (5,15) and the first inlet means and
the ratio of their diameters are substantially the same.
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the
sample source (1) includes means for atmospheric pressure

ionisation so that the molecular beam (6) includes a
proportion of ions.
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims, wherein
there is further provided means (12,13) for extracting ions

from the molecular beam (6) within the analyser chamber
(7).
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein means
for ionisation is provided within the analyser enclosure

(7).
The apparatus of any of claims 6 to 8, wherein the
analyser chamber (7) contains a mass spectrometer.
The apparatus according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein the apparatus includes a time-of-flight

spectrometer.
A method of supplying a sample of molecules or ions to
an analyser enclosure (7) under vacuum, the method

comprising the steps of:

forming a molecular beam (6) which includes the sample
and in which the density of molecules is at least an order 

of magnitude higher than the density of molecules in the
background vacuum of the analyser enclosure;
directing the molecular beam across the analyser
enclosure and through an aperture (9) into a pumping

enclosure (10) where the background pressure is higher but
nevertheless a vacuum exists sufficient that the mean free

path of the background gas molecules is significantly
greater than a dimension of the aperture, the aperture

being placed and being of such dimensions so as to allow
free passage of the bulk of the molecular beam whilst at

the same time being sufficiently small that,
notwithstanding the pressure being higher in the pumping

enclosure than in the analyser enclosure, the mass flow
rate of gas backstreaming from the pumping enclosure to the

analyer enclosure through the aperture is substantially
less than the mass flow rate of the portion of the

molecular beam passed through the aperture in the opposite
direction.
The method of claim 11, wherein the sample is at first
supplied to a first enclosure (3) at low pressure and

wherein the flow into the first enclosure occurs as a
supersonic expansion, the molecular beam (6) being formed

by an aperture (5) positioned within the supersonic
expansion.
The method of claim 11, wherein the molecular beam (6)
is formed by passing sample molecules through a tube, the

length of the tube being much greater than its diameter,
the diameter being smaller than the mean free path of

sample molecules in the tube.
The method of any of claims 11 to 13, wherein the
sample molecules are partially ionised by atmospheric

pressure ionisation prior to passing through the first
inlet means (2). 
The method of any of claims 11 to 13, wherein the
molecular beam (6) is ionised within the analyser enclosure

(7).
The method of claim 14 or claim 15, wherein ions are
extracted from the molecular beam (6) within the analyser

enclosure (7).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
