<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649481</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF ASCERTAINING RELAXATION AND SHRINKAGE BEHAVIOUR OF TEXTILE FABRICS AND TEXTILE PRODUCTS AND THE EQUIPMENT FOR CARRYING OUT THIS PROCESS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06B2102	D06B1900	D06B2310	D06F2500	D06B2300	D06F2500	D06B2100	D06B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06B	D06B	D06B	D06F	D06B	D06F	D06B	D06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06B21	D06B19	D06B23	D06F25	D06B23	D06F25	D06B21	D06B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of ascertaining relaxation and shrinkage behaviour of textile fabrics and textile products where a sample is separately submitted to a short complete washing cycle in a whirling hot washing bath and to a few short complete treatment cycles in a whirling hot water bath, each cycle being finished by a short hydroextraction of the sample and drying in a hot air stream, the method being performed during incessant movement of the yarns at cross-over points and flexing of the yarns in the textile structure of the sample. An apparatus for performing the method of the invention which comprises a vertical perforated drum (1) containing at least (2) radially arranged partitions dividing the drum into two or more chambers and rotatable in two directions, arranged in a heat insulated protecting casing (7), covered by a lid (8), a means which can give the drum alternately a rotational motion or an oscillating motion, an air heater (11) connected over inlets (12) to the inside of the casing (7), above each chamber, and a water heater (15) connected to the casing via a water inlet and outlet pipe (18).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAITECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAITECH, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUSEK ZDENEK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUSEK, ZDENEK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a method for ensuring rapid relaxation
and shrinkage of textile fabrics and textile products
particularly of woven and knitted ones, as well as
an equipment for carrying out this method. This method is
also suitable for ascertaining textile fabrics' and
textile products' tendencies to spiraling and twisting
and changes in appearence as pilling etc. The method of
obtaining rapid relaxation and shrinkage of textile
fabrics and textile products is based upon the principle
of quick repeated washing, rinsing, hot water treatment
and drying of a textile fabric reference sample. The
object of the invention is primarily the determination of
parameters for carrying out the finishing treatment of
the textile fabric and checking of the shrinking potential
at any step when processing or using textiles.It is generally known that both woven and knitted fabrics
have, after the final processing of the same, a certain,
in many cases a very considerable, shrinking potential.
This becomes apparent in not set goods as a gradual
shrinkage of the textile fabric when both relaxation of
the tension of the textile fabric structure and the
shrinkage of threads occur. This problem is rather important
with knitted fabrics where without finding out the
final shrunk state of the knitted fabric, the so called
fully relaxed state, the properties of the same knitted
fabrics can not be characterized since these otherwise
may be different and depend on the relaxation state of
the knitted fabric. The importance of finding this state
of total relaxation, has been established in a great
number of studies which have been very well summarized in
the research study G. Bühler and H. Haid "Dimensionsstabilität
von Maschenwaren - aus der Sicht von Forschung
und Entwicklung", Wirkerei und Strickerei - Technik 34, 
12, 1984, 1201-1204, and 35, 1, 1985, 42-49 (1). This
study is very complete and has 138 references. For determining
the knitted fabric reference state there are
recommended different methods of washing and drying the
textile sample by using household washing machines at
present. Based upon the extensive experimental work of
the IIC institute, it has been recommended for achieving
the relaxation state of the knitted fabric, i.e. its
reference state, to carry out at least one complete
washing cycle and four rinsing cycles with drying in
between by using a household washing mashine requiring
approx. 8.5 hours time. The course of knitted fabric
shrinkage and the dependence of the same on the number of
washing cycles
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of ascertaining relaxation and shrinkage behaviour of textile fabrics
and textile products as well as their tendencies to spirality, twisting and changes in

appearance, such as pilling, comprising subjecting a sample of the textile product to
alternately humidifying and drying procedures, characterized in washing the sample

in a hot washing bath containing a detergent, rinsing it a few times, hydroextracting
and air drying the sample, followed by a few treatment cycles, where the sample is

rinsed in water, hydroextracted and air dried, the time of the washing cycle being 10
to 240 seconds, each rinsing cycle being performed during 5 to 120 seconds in a hot

water bath, the time of each hydroextraction of the sample being 10 to 120 seconds
and all drying being performed in an air stream of maximum temperature

compatible with the sample textile type during 30 to 480 seconds, the sample being
made to oscillate with a frequency of at least 1 cycle per second during all washing

and rinsing and to whirl during air stream drying, thereby incessantly moving the
yarns at cross-over points and flexing the yarns in the textile structure of the sample.
A method of claim 1, characterized in that the washing cycle is performed in a
bath containing a detergent or a wetting agent at maximum possible temperature

compatible with the textile type of the sample.
The method of claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the washing cycle is performed
until all additives have been washed from the sample.
The method of any of claims 1-3, characterized in that the rinsing cycles after the
washing are repeated until practically all detergent and wetting agent have been

removed from the sample. 
The method of any of claims 1-4, characterized in that the
sample is dried until it contains less moisture than the

regain of the sample at standard atmosphere of 20°C, 65%RH.
The method of claim 5, characterized in that the sample
is dried until it contains less moisture than half of the

regain of the sample at standard atmosphere of 20°C, 65%RH.
The method of any of claims 1- 6, characterized in that
the shrinkage of the sample is determined by measuring the

dimensions of the sample before the washing cycle and after
the last treatment cycle.
The method of claim 1, characterized in that the sample
is made to oscillate with a frequency of at least 2, especially

at least 3.5, cycles per second.
The method of claim 8, characterized in that the sample
is made to oscillate with a frequency of at most 15, preferably

at most 10, especially at most 8, cycles per second.
The method of claim 1, characterized in that the
sample is made to oscillate in a perforated drum (1) 

containing at least 2 radially arranged partitions dividing the drum into two or more
chambers (2-6) with an amplitude of about  360° / n

 , n being the number of partitions
dividing the drum into chambers.
An apparatus for performing the method of ascertaining relaxation and
shrinkage behaviour of textile fabrics and textile products as well as their tendencies

to spirality, twisting and changes in appearance, such as pilling, according to any of
claims 1-10, which comprises a vertical perforated drum (1), rotatable in two

directions and arranged in a heat insulated protecting casing (7), characterized in
that the casing is covered by a lid (8), and that the apparatus comprises means which

can give the drum alternately a rotational motion or an oscillating motion, an air
heater (11), and a water heater (15) connected to the casing via a water inlet and

outlet pipe (18), the drum containing at least 2 radially arranged partitions dividing
the drum into two or more chambers (2-6), the air heater (11) being connected to the

inside the of casing (7) over inlets (12), one for each chamber and ending above the
drum.
An apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that pumps (16, 17) are
arranged between the water heater (15) and the water inlet and outlet pipe (18).
An apparatus according to claim 11 or 12, characterized in that the perforated
drum is divided by partitions into 4-10, preferably 5-7, independent chambers (2-6).
An apparatus according to any of claims 11-13, characterized in that the lid (8)
is equipped with an inspection window (13) of transparent material.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
