<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642371</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REMOTE CONTROL SYSTEM FOR RASTER SCANNED VIDEO DISPLAY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F41G326	G06F3033	F41G300	A63F1312	A63F1302	A63F902	A63F902	A63F1304	A63F1312	G06F3037	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F41G	G06F	F41G	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F41G3	G06F3	F41G3	A63F13	A63F13	A63F9	A63F9	A63F13	A63F13	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is a remote control targeting and control system for use with a standard raster scanned television (70) and an associated gaming unit (60). The remote control system includes a mobile transceiver (10), and a fixed transceiver (50) which communicates with the gaming system (60). The system implements a simple communication system which allows the mobile transceiver (10) to ordinarily transmit position data and to periodically transmit button press data. The mobile transceiver (10) includes an electro-optic detector for observing when a scan line crosses a target area (74). Each time a scan line is detected, the mobile transceiver (10) transmits a pulse to the fixed unit (50), based upom which the gaming unit (60) translates the pulse into position data based on the time of its detection. The button press data is transmitted synchronously with the raster scanned television in that the fixed transceiver is caused to transmit a single pulse during each vertical retrace of the television.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEGA ENTERPRISES KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEGA ENTERPRISES, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRAN KENNETH J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRAN, KENNETH, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to video 
input devices and more particularly to a remote 
aiming/input apparatus comprised of a mobile transceiver 
and a fixed transceiver for use with a raster scanned 
video terminal and a gaming unit. A standard television is an example of a raster 
scanned video terminal. An image is formed on a video 
terminal of this type by using a video signal to control 
an electron beam which scans across the video terminal, 
line after line, and frame after frame. The electron beam 
scans from left to right, and from top to bottom. After 
the electron beam completes a particular horizontal scan 
line, the electron beam is blanked and then quickly 
retraced to the left side to begin the next scan line. 
After an entire frame has been scanned, the electron beam 
is blanked and then returned to the upper left corner of 
the video terminal. In the video signal, the video data for a single 
frame is preceded by a vertical blanking pulse and, each 
scan line of the frame is preceded by a horizontal 
blanking pulse.  
 There are known video control systems which 
determine the position of a target area of a television 
screen that is focused onto a photosensor contained in a 
user-controlled aiming unit. The known systems typically 
operate by measuring the time between the beginning of a 
new frame (i.e. the vertical blanking pulse) and the 
photosensor's detection of a horizontal scan line (image 
data) in the target area. Using appropriate software or 
firmware, it is a relatively simple matter to translate 
the time measurement into location data. One such system 
is the GENESIS 16 BIT MEGA SYSTEM ® and an associated 
LIGHT PHASER ®, both manufactured by Sega Corporation. The Sega LIGHT PHASER transmits video data to 
the GENESIS 16 BIT MEGA SYSTEM via a cable. Thus, a user 
is somewhat limited in terms of mobility and must always 
be conscious of the cable. Other systems have eliminated the cable hook-up 
and substituted an infrared IR system wherein the 
user-controlled aiming unit transmits image data to a 
separate IR receiver which is hard wired to the main video 
control unit. However, the known systems are complicated 
and relatively expensive. Typically, such known IR 
systems send image data and button press data in data 
blocks which are asynchronous with the television. Such 
asynchronous data blocks are typically relatively 
complicated, requiring header data to identify the 
beginning of a new data block, and dedicated bit positions 
with regard to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A video system comprising: 

an electronic gaming unit (60) which executes a game 
program and which generates a video signal in response 

thereto; 
a raster scanned video display terminal (70) which 
displays a video image in response to said video signal; 
a remote control system for controlling the game 
program including a fixed transceiver (50) and a mobile 

transceiver (10) including at the least one button which 
may be activated by a user and means for generating button-press 

data in response thereto, characterised in that the 
raster scanned video display terminal (70) displays the 

video image by using two alternating time phases, an image 
phase during which horizontal scan lines are displayed and 

a blank phase during which the display is blank; in that 
the fixed transceiver has a transmission means for 

transmitting time phase information denoting the blank 
phase and a receiving means for receiving data; and in that 

the mobile transceiver includes optical sensor means (20) 
for observing a target area on the raster scanned video 

display terminal, receiving means for receiving the time 
phase information from the transmission means of the fixed 

transceiver, and a transmission means for transmitting 
data, said mobile transceiver transmitting the button-press 

data during the blank phase in response to the time phase 
information only and transmitting the image position data 

during the image phase. 
The video system of claim 1, wherein the transmission 
means of the mobile and fixed transceivers (10,50) are 

comprised of IR transmitting diodes and wherein the 
reception means of the mobile and fixed transceivers are 

comprised of IR sensitive diodes. 
The video system of claim 1, wherein the transmission 
means of the fixed transceiver (50) transmits only a single 

pulse at the beginning of the blank phase.  
 
The video system of claim 3, wherein the means for 
generating button-press data is comprised of a means for 

detecting the single pulse transmitted by the fixed 
receiver (50) and a means for generating the button-press 

data based on the buttons which are depressed when the 
means for detecting detects the single pulse. 
The video system of claim 4, wherein the button-press 
data is a pulse-train comprising a series of pulses, the 

number of pulses representing which of the buttons were 
depressed. 
A method of synchronizing remote control signals in a 
video gaming system in which a gaming computer (60) 

generates a raster scanned image on a video display 
terminal (70), using two separate time phases to display 

said video image, an image phase during which horizontal 
scan lines are displayed and a blank phase during which the 

display is blank, the method comprising the steps of: 

placing a fixed transceiver (50) for transmitting 
information and for receiving data in proximity to the 

video display terminal (70) and in electronic communication 
with the gaming computer; 
providing a mobile transceiver (10), including at the 
least one button which may be activated by a user to 

generate button-press data, an optical sensor to observe a 
target area on the video display terminal (70), electronics 

connected to said optical sensor to generate positional 
data, a receiver for receiving the information from said 

fixed transceiver and a transmitter for transmitting 
button-press and positional data to the fixed transceiver; 
transmitting time phase information from the fixed 
transceiver (50) to the mobile transceiver (10), the 

information indicating when the blank phase begins; and 
transmitting button-press data, based on the time 
phase information, so that button-press data is transmitted 

only during the blank phase and the positional data is 
transmitted only during the image phase. 
A remote control system for use with a raster scanned 
video terminal and a gaming unit which drives said video 

terminal comprising: 

a fixed transceiver (10) which communicates with the 
gaming unit; and a mobile transceiver (50) having at least 

one button characterised in that the fixed transceiver 
includes an IR receiver which receives data and transmits 

such data to the gaming unit and an IR transmitter (34,35) 
which transmits a single retrace pulse in response to a 

signal provided by the gaming unit at a beginning of a 
vertical retrace of said video terminal; and in that the 

mobile transceiver (10) includes an IR receiver (22) which 
receives the single retrace pulse from the IR transmitter 

of said fixed transceiver (50) and, in response thereto, 
transmits data representative of whether or not the at 

least one button is depressed, whereby the gaming unit can 
determine if the user has depressed the at least one button 

at the end of each vertical retrace of said video terminal. 
The remote control system of claim 7, wherein the 
mobile transceiver (10) further includes an electro-optic 

means for detecting when a horizontal scan line of said 
video terminal crosses a target area of said video terminal 

and for providing a scan line detection signal in response 
thereto, at the IR transmitter of the mobile transceiver 

normally transmitting a horizontal scan pulse in response 
to the scan line detection signal unless the IR receiver of 

the mobile transceiver has received the single retrace 
pulse, whereupon the IR transmitter of the mobile 

transceiver instead transmits data representative of 
whether or not the at least one button is depressed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
