<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639390</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and device for measuring squareness of ice skate blades.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63C300	A63C300	A63C310	G01B500	G01B500	G01B524	G01B5245	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63C	A63C	A63C	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63C3	A63C3	A63C3	G01B5	G01B5	G01B5	G01B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ice skate blade squaring device (10) comprises a 
squaring body (1) which is removably mountable to an ice 

skate blade (7). The squaring body includes a standard 
squaring line across one face thereof. Arranged on each 

end of the squaring line are sets of graduations which 
are utilized in determining the out of squareness of the 

skate blade. An angle (3) is provided which is magnetically (19) 
attachable to the skate blade. The angle is designed to 

abut against the face of the squaring body having the 
squaring indica (39,43) thereon. Once the angle is abutted to 

the squaring frame, a visual determination of the 
intersection of a free edge of the angle with the 

squaring indicia (39,43) permits a simple and accurate 
determination of the out of squareness of the ice skate 

blade. In another embodiment, a squaring body (51) includes 
an arm pivotally (53) mounted thereto. The arm supports a 

dial indicator (79) which assists in determining the 
squareness of the skate blade. The squaring body and arm 

maintain a dial indicator parallel to the skate blade 
side surface to assure accuracy in determining out of 

squareness. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEN ROBERT H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEN, ROBERT H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN ROBERT H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN, ROBERT H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an ice skate blade 
squaring device and method and, in particular, a device 
designed to indicate the squareness of an ice skate blade 
edge. In the prior art, various devices have been proposed 
to determine squareness or perpendicularity of surfaces. 
In one type, a dial indicator is placed against a surface 
for which squareness is to be measured. United States 
Patent No. 1,345,597 to Jantsch et al teaches a 
perpendicularity indicator using a dial indicator to 
measure the perpendicularity of an object. United States 
Patent No. 5,133,135 to Durfee, Jr. discloses an angled 
gauge also utilizing a dial indicator to determine the 
squareness of surfaces on a work piece. In the field of ice skate blades, United States 
Patent No. 4,161,822 teaches a skate blade analyzer for 
determining the tangent or high point of the edge of the 
ice skate blade. Determination of the tangent enables a 
skate sharpener to change the location of the tangent 
point, if necessary, to improve the skater's performance. In preparing ice skate blades for skating, it is 
important to make the ice skate blade edge square or 
perpendicular with respect to the blade side surface. 
When the blade edge of an ice skate is out of square, the  
 
skater must overcompensate through excessive leaning in 
one direction or the other. The degree of leaning is 
dependent on the amount the blade is out of square. This 
overcompensation and excessive leaning contributes to 
skate release and an increased incidence of falling due 
to the shift in body weight. Prior art methods employ a crude visual test to 
determine skate blade squareness. For example, a coin 
such as a quarter is placed on the skate blade edge and 
a visual comparison is made with respect to the quarter 
and the blade side surface to judge squareness of the 
blade. However, these prior art methods are subject to 
error and inaccuracy and fail to give a consistent and 
accurate reading of the perpendicularity of the skate 
blade edge with respect to the skate blade side. In view of the disadvantages of prior art methods, 
a need has developed to provide improved devices and 
methods for determining the squareness or 
perpendicularity of ice skate blade edges. It is a first object of the present invention to 
provide a method and device for measuring the squareness 
of ice skate blades. Another object of the present invention is to 
provide a device and method for measuring the squareness 
of ice skate blades which provides high accuracy. It
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
comprising: 


a) a frame, said frame having a plurality of 
squareness indicia on a face thereof, said frame 

including means for removably mounting said frame onto a 
portion of said ice skate blade such that said squareness 

indicia are perpendicular to a side of said ice skate 
blade; and 
b) means removably mountable to a skate blade 
edge of said ice skate for indicating squareness of said 

blade edge in conjunction with said squareness indicia. 
The ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
of claim 1 wherein said means for removably mounting said 

frame further comprises a slot in a portion of said frame 
for receiving said portion of said ice skate blade and 

means for securing said portion of said ice skate blade 
in said slot. 
The ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
of claim 2 wherein said frame includes an elongated 

member having said face thereon and a body attached to 
said elongated member, said body generally bisecting said 

elongated member and including both said slot and said 
means for securing said portion of said ice skate blade 

in said slot. 
The ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
of claim 2 wherein said means for securing said portion 

of said ice skate blade comprises a set screw threadably 
mounted on said frame and extending into said slot for 

contact with one side of said ice skate blade, tightening 
 

of said set screw forcing the other side of said ice 
skate blade against a side of said slot. 
The ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
of claim 3 wherein said means for securing said portion 

of said ice skate blade comprises a set screw mounted on 
said body and extending into said slot for contact with 

one side of said ice skate blade, tightening of said set 
screw forcing the other side of said ice skate blade 

against a side of said slot. 
The ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
of claim 1 wherein said means for indicating squareness 

comprises: 

i) an angle having first and second legs, said 
first leg designed to rest on said blade edge and said 

second leg having a predetermined width such that a free 
edge thereof aligns with at least one of said squareness 

indicia; and 
ii) a magnet attached to said first leg for 
removably mounting said first leg to said blade edge. 
The ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
of claim 6 wherein said plurality of squareness indicia 

comprises: 
   an indicia line extending substantially across 

said face and a pair of sets of graduations, wherein said 
pair are spaced apart from each other, each set of 

graduations being symmetrical about said indicia line. 
The ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
of claim 3 wherein said means for indicating squareness 

comprises: 

i) an angle having first and second legs, said 
first leg designed to rest on said blade edge and said 

second leg having a predetermined width such that a free 
 

edge thereof aligns with at least one of said squareness 
indicia; and 
ii) a magnet attached to said first leg for 
removably mounting said first leg to said blade edge. 
The ice skate blade squaring measuring device of 
claim 8 wherein said plurality of squareness indicia 

comprises: 
   an indicia line extending substantially across 

said face and a pair of sets of graduations, wherein said 
pair are spaced apart from each other, each set of 

graduations being symmetrical about said indicia line. 
The ice skate blade squaring measuring device of 
claim 9 wherein said indicia line is spaced from said 

slot a predetermined distance and said second leg has a 
height substantially equal to said predetermined 

distance. 
An ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
comprising: 


a) a frame, said frame including an elongated 
member having a body and a face with a standard line 

thereon and a pair of spaced apart sets of graduations, 
said body including a slot therein to receive an ice 

skate blade, said body including a set screw extending 
into said slot for aligning said ice skate blade 

perpendicular to said standard line; and 
b) an angle, said angle having a first leg 
with a magnet thereon to removably attach said first leg 

to said ice skate blade, said angle having a second leg 
sized to align with said standard line when said skate 

blade is square, intersection of a free edge of said 
first leg and said pair of spaced apart graduations 

determining a degree of out of squareness of said ice 
skate blade. 
A method of determining the squareness of an ice 
skate blade comprising the steps of: 


a) establishing a standard line generally 
perpendicular to a side of said ice skate blade, said 

standard line including two sets of graduations, each 
said set arranged symmetrically about said standard
 line, 
said sets being spaced apart from each other, each 

gradation spaced from adjacent graduations and having a 
predetermined squareness value, 
b) producing a squaring line based upon the 
perpendicularity of a side of said ice skate blade and an 

edge thereof; 
c) visually comparing said squaring line to 
said standard line for intersection of said squaring line 

with a gradation of each set of graduations; 
d) totalling the number of graduations between 
said intersection and said standard line for each set of 

graduations; and 
e) determining a value of squareness based on 
the total number of graduations and said predetermined 

squareness value. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said 
predetermined squareness value is .001 inch for each 

graduation. 
An ice skate blade squareness measuring device 
comprising: 


a) a body, said body having an slot through a 
portion thereof; said slot including opposing faces; 
b) means for engaging said ice skate blade in 
said slot; 
c) an arm pivotally attached to said body; 
d) a dial indicator; and 
e) means for mounting said dial indicator to 
said arm so that a distal end thereof can rotate and 

contact a portion of an edge of said ice skate blade to 
measure out of squareness. 
The ice skate blade squareness of claim 14 
wherein said slot extends between a pair of legs of said 

body and said means for engaging comprises: 

i) a threaded through hole in one of said 
legs; said through hole terminating at one of said 

opposing faces; 
ii) a set screw having threads complementary to 
said threaded through hole, a distal end of said set 

screw engaging a side surface of said ice skate blade so 
that an opposite side surface of said ice skate blade 

contacts the other one of said opposing faces of said 
slot. 
The ice skate blade squareness of claim 14 
further comprising: 


a) a threaded hole in said body; 
b) a through hole in said arm aligned with 
said threaded hole; 
c) a threaded fastener extending through said 
through hole in said arm and engaging said threaded hole 

in said body; and 
d) biasing means for biasing said arm against 
said body. 
The ice skate blade squareness of claim 16 
wherein said means for biasing is a spring disposed 

between a head of said threaded fastener and said arm. 
The ice skate blade squareness of claim 14 
wherein said means for mounting said dial indicator 

further comprises an opening in through said arm, said 
 

opening having an axis parallel to at least of one of 
said opposing faces of said slot, said opening engaging 

a portion of said dial indicator so that a distal end 
thereof can pivot and contact a portion of an edge of 

said skate blade. 
The ice skate blade of claim 18 further 
comprising a set screw extending through a portion of 

said arm for contacting said portion of said dial 
indicator and retaining said portion of said dial 

indicator in said opening. 
The ice skate blade squareness of claim 14 
wherein said arm has an upper and lower face, at least 

said lower face being generally perpendicular to at least 
one of said opposing faces of said slot. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
