<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638650</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Self-contained biological indicator
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q122	A61L220	C12Q122	A61L220	A61L226	A61L226	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	A61L	C12Q	A61L	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	A61L2	C12Q1	A61L2	A61L2	A61L2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-contained biological indicator includes an outer 
container that is translucent and liquid impermeable. The 

container is normally closed by a vapor-permeable, microorganism-impermeable 
closure and contains a source of 

viable microorganisms, a culture medium, a composition 
that decomposes hydrogen peroxide, and a detector that 

undergoes a visible change in response to growth of the 
microorganisms. In operation, the indicator is first 

subjected to a sterilization cycle in a hydrogen peroxide 
sterilizer. Without opening the outer container, the 

microorganism source, culture medium, and hydrogen 
peroxide-decomposing composition are brought into contact. 

The indicator is placed in an incubator, after which the 
detector responds to any microorganism growth, indicative 

of incomplete sterilization. But for the hydrogen 
peroxide-decomposing composition, hydrogen peroxide that 

becomes bound to the microorganism support during 
sterilization, could kill the microorganisms afterwards, 

yielding a false indication of complete sterilization. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a biological indicator, more
specifically to a self-contained biological indicator for
a hydrogen peroxide sterilizer or a hydrogen peroxide
plasma sterilizer.Biological indicators (or "sterility indicators") are
devices that are used to test the efficacy of sterilizers,
such as those that are commonly used in hospitals for
sterilizing medical instruments, glassware, etc. The
indicators include a source of microorganisms, a culture
medium, and a detector to indicate the presence or absence
of viable microorganisms. The culture medium may also
serve as the detector, with formation of a cloudy
suspension indicating growth of microorganisms. In
practice, the source of microorganisms, typically an
absorbent paper strip that has been impregnated with a
predetermined concentration of live microorganisms, is
subjected to a sterilization process. Thereafter, the
microorganism impregnated strip is placed in a sterile
culture medium and incubated for a predetermined time at
an appropriate temperature. At the end of the incubation
period, the detector is used to determine whether any
microorganisms survived the sterilization process. In
some indicators, microorganism survival, which means the
sterilization was incomplete, is shown by a change in
color of the detector. To simplify the sterilization test process and minimize
the risk that external contamination would affect the test
results, the elements of the biological indicator -
microorganisms, culture medium, and detector - have
sometimes been packaged in a way that permits the
microorganism source, culture, and indicator to be
combined without exposing the biological indicator to the
non-sterile surroundings. A number of these so-called
"self-contained biological indicators" (SCBI) have been
described in the patent literature.U.S. Patent 3,440,144, issued April 22, 1969, to H. W.
Anderson discloses an SCBI that includes a heat-sealed bag
which contains a sterilized culture medium in a closed
ampule and source of bacterial spores on a piece of
absorbent paper. The ampule has a spout that can easily
be broken without removing the ampule from the bag. The
bag is placed in a sterilizer along with items to be
sterilized. After the sterilization is complete, the
spout is broken off and the culture medium contacts the
absorbent paper. The still-sealed bag is then placed in
an incubator for a predetermined time, sufficient to
permit any surviving spores to give a visual indication.U.S. Patent 3,661,717 issued May 9, 1972, to Robert L.
Nelson,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sterility indicator for a hydrogen peroxide
sterilizer comprising a translucent, liquid impermeable

outer container, having an opening and
a vapor-permeable, microorganism-impermeable closure therefor,

and containing:

a) a source of viable microorganisms,
b) at least one closed inner container containing a
liquid culture medium that, with incubation, is capable of

promoting growth of the viable microorganism and a
composition that is capable of decomposing hydrogen

peroxide,
c) means actuable externally to the outer container
for opening the at least one closed inner container to

permit the source of microorganisms, culture medium, and
hydrogen peroxide-decomposing composition to be brought

into contact, and
d) a detector contained in at least one of the
containers and capable of undergoing a visible change in

response to growth of the microorganism.
The sterility indicator of claim 1 in which the source
of viable microorganisms comprises an absorbent strip

inoculated with spores.
The sterility indicator of claim 1 in which the liquid
culture medium and hydrogen peroxide-decomposing

composition are contained in separate containers.
The sterility indicator of claim 1 in which the
hydrogen peroxide-decomposing composition comprises

catalase. 
The sterility indicator of claim 4 in which the
catalase is in the form of a freeze-dried powder.
The sterility indicator of claim 1 in which the
hydrogen peroxide-decomposing composition comprises a

metal catalyst.
The sterility indicator of claim 6 in which the metal
is selected from the group consisting of platinum,

palladium, and iron.
A test pack for a hydrogen peroxide sterilizer
comprising:


a) a housing having an inner volume and a first
opening for communication between the inner volume and the

outside of the housing; and
b) a divider that divides the inner volume into two
sections that communicate through a second opening,


i) a first section that is between the opening
and a blind reservoir and that contains a

hydrogen peroxide absorber and a chemical
indicator responsive to contact with hydrogen

peroxide and
ii) a second section that is the blind
reservoir and that contains a sterility

indicator of claim 1.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
