<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621461</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fibre optic current transducer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01D526	G01D534	G01R1524	G01R1524	G02F101	G02F101	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01D	G01D	G01R	G01R	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01D5	G01D5	G01R15	G01R15	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sensor assembly (1) comprises an optical fibre 
(4) and a transducer (23) arranged to apply transverse 

strain to a localised portion (24) of the fibre. 
Birefringence effects induced by the fibre strain are 

remotely sensed to obtain a signal representative of 
the transducer input which in turn is connected to a 

current sensing coil (34) thereby enabling electric 
current in a conductor (32) to be remotely sensed. 

The localised portion (24) of the fibre (4) is 
stripped to remove an outer jacket and is embedded in 

a relatively rigid matrix material. Damage to the 
fibre and the effects of creep are thereby avoided. 

The resulting sensor (36) is particularly suited to 
the measurement of high currents in power distribution 

systems. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOCAS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOCAS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTCHER STEVEN JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOBBY JAMES DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTCHER, STEVEN JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOBBY, JAMES DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to fibre optic sensors and 
in particular but not exclusively to sensors for 
remotely measuring electric current. It is known from US4173412 to utilise 
birefringence effects to measure transverse strain in 
a single mode optical fibre wound around an expanding 
mandrel by observing the change in polarisation state 
of light transmitted through the fibre. Such 
birefringence effects can be detected in several ways 
but typically light with a fixed polarisation state is 
input to the fibre and the output is analysed using a 
polarising beam splitter producing components with 
mutually orthogonal polarisation. The relative 
amplitudes of the components are processed to provide 
an output representative of the value of strain. It is also known to provide transducers 
responsive to various physical parameters and operable 
to apply stress to the fibre thereby enabling the 
value of the parameter to be remotely sensed by 
observing the resulting strain in the fibre. Sensors in which fibres are found around a 
mandrel have several disadvantages. Winding the coil 
must be done with great care since the fibre will 
break if wound to less than a minimum bend radius, 
typically several millimetres, and this also limits 
the extent to which such sensors may be miniaturised. A further disadvantage is that in winding the 
fibre into a coil the fibre is placed in a helically 
sprung state in which the fibre is both transversely 
and longitudinally strained thereby inducing a 
background level of birefringence which tends to vary 
with age due to creep effects. The background level  
 
also tends to be unpredictable in magnitude from one 
winding to another such that the sensors are 
inherently non-reproducible. A further disadvantage results from longitudinal 
strain being applied to the fibre in addition to 
transverse strain thereby complicating the nature of 
the birefringence effect produced whereas for 
simplicity, predictability and linearity in the 
observed effects it is preferable for a short linear 
length of fibre to be transversely strained. It is also known from US 4,753,507 to apply 
transverse strain to a fibre by means of a transducer 
provided with jaws which grip and compress the fibre. 
Such arrangements tend to damage the fibre and 
introduce a phase lag between transducer movement and 
fibre strain due to deformation of the outer jacket 
material of the fibre. It is also known from GB-A-2208711 to provide a 
sensor in which the fibre is embedded in a body formed 
of an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sensor (36) comprising an optical fibre 
(11) and a transducer (33) operable to produce a 

variable transverse strain in a localised portion (24) 
of the fibre in a manner respresentative of the value 

of a physical parameter to be sensed whereby in use 
light transmitted through the fibre undergoes a change 

of polarisation state which is detectable to obtain an 
output (43) representative of the parameter, the fibre 

comprising an inner core encased by a cladding layer 
of different refractive index from that of the core 

and an outer jacket of relatively deformable material, 
characterised in that the localised portion of the 

fibre does not include the jacket but is embedded in a 
first body (22) of a relatively rigid first matrix 

material and the transducer is cooperable with the 
first body so as to produce strain in the localised 

portion of the fibre by applying stress to the first 
body. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
first matrix material comprises an epoxy resin. 
A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein adjacent portions (30,31) of the fibre 

projecting from the first body adjacent to the 
localised portion are embedded in respective second 

and third bodies (28,29) of a relatively resilient 
second matrix material. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the 
second matrix material is an elastomer. 
A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the localised portion extends linearly. 
A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 

wherein the fibre comprises an output end (9) which in 
use receives light transmitted through the localised 

portion and wherein the fibre includes at least one 
curved portion (38) intermediate the localised portion 

and the output end. 
A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the fibre is a single mode fibre having a 

silica core and a doped silica cladding layer (20). 
A sensor as claimed in claim 7 wherein the 
jacket is formed of acrylate. 
A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the transducer comprises sensing means (34) 

responsive to the sensed parameter and an actuator 
(23) operable to apply stress to the first body in 

response to the output of the sensing device. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 9 comprising a 
rigid substrate (2) to which the localised portion is 

secured by the first body and a clamp (25) operable 
between the actuator and the substrate to apply a 

clamping force compressing the first body therebetween. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 10 wherein the 
clamp comprises adjustment means (27) operable to 

adjust the clamping force. 
A sensor as claimed in any of claims 10 and 
11 wherein the fibre has an input end (8) coupled to a 

polarising device (10) mounted on the substrate and 
operable to conduct light of constant polarisation 

state into the fibre. 
A sensor as claimed in any of claims 10 to 12 
wherein the fibre has an output end (9) coupled to a 

polarising beam splitter (39) mounted on the substrate 
and operable to split light emergent from the output 

end into components having mutually orthogonal planes 
of polarisation. 
A sensor as claimed in any of claims 9 to 13 
wherein the actuator comprises an electrostrictive 

device (23). 
A sensor as claimed in any of claims 9 to 14 
wherein the sensing means is a sensing device (34) 

responsive to electric current in a conductor (32) 
whereby the sensed parameter constitutes the value of 

electric current. 
A method of sensing a physical parameter 
comprising the steps of transmitting light through an 

optical fibre (4), operating a transducer (33) to 
produce a variable transverse strain in a localised 

portion (24) of the fibre in a manner representative 
of the value of the physical parameter and detecting a 

change in polarisation state in the transmitted light 
to obtain an output representative of the parameter, 

the fibre comprising an inner core encased by a 
cladding layer (20) of different refractive index from 

that of the core and an outer jacket (19) of 
relatively deformable material, wherein the transducer 

is operated so as to apply stress to a first body (22) 
of a relatively rigid first matrix material in which 

the localised portion is embedded without including 
the jacket to thereby produce strain in the localised 

portion. 
A method as claimed in claim 16 including the 
 

step of conducting light of constant polarisation 
state into an input end (8) of the fibre via a 

polarising device formed integrally with the sensor. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 16 and 
17 including the step of splitting light emergent from 

an output end of the fibre into components having 
mutually orthogonal planes of polarisation and 

transmitting the respective components to a receiver 
(40,41,42). 
A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 18 
including the step of conducting light transmitted 

through the localised portion to an output end (9) of 
the fibre via a curved portion (38) of the fibre. 
A method of forming a sensor (36) from an 
optical fibre (4) having an inner core encased by a 

cladding layer (20) of different refractive index from 
that of the core and an outer jacket (19) of 

relatively deformable material, the method including 
the steps of removing the jacket from a localised 

portion (24) of the fibre, embedding the localised 
portion in a first body (22) of a relatively rigid 

first matrix material and operatively coupling an 
actuator (23) to the first body such that the actuator 

is operable to produce a variable transverse strain in 
the localised portion in a manner representative of 

the value of a physical parameter to be sensed whereby 
in use light transmitted through the fibre undergoes a 

change of polarisation state which is detectable to 
produce an output representative of the parameter. 
A method as claimed in claim 20 including the 
step of embedding adjacent portions (30,31) of the 

fibre located adjacent to the localised portion in 
 

respective second and third bodies (28,29) of a 
relatively resilient second matrix material. 
A method as claimed in claim 21 including the 
step of securing the first, second and third bodies to 

a rigid substrate (2). 
A method as claimed in claim 21 including the 
step of clamping the actuator relative to the 

substrate such that a clamping force is continuously 
applied to the first body via the actuator. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
