<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613150</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor memory device and data erase method for it
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C1616	H01L2170	H01L29788	H01L2966	H01L29792	H01L27115	H01L27115	H01L218247	G11C1606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C16	H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L27	H01L27	H01L21	G11C16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor memory device comprises a plurality of 
word lines (WL1, WL2), a plurality of bit lines (BL1, BL"), 

a plurality of memory cells (MC11, MC12) each includes a 
transistor (9) formed on a first semiconductor region (3) 

and having a floating gate (6), a control gate (8) connected 
to one of said word lines, a source region (5s) and a drain 

region (5d) connected to a first end of one of said bit 
lines, and further comprises a source line (SL) having a 

first capacitance thereof different from a second 
capacitance which is associated with said bit lines (BL1, 

BL2) and having a first end thereof connected to said source 
region, a first bias means (14) for charging said bit liens 

and said source line via said first semiconductor region to 
a high voltage level (Vcc) during a first time period and 

supplying a low voltage level (Vss) to said first 
semiconductor region during a second time period thereafter, 

wherein said low voltage level causes a voltage difference 
and a current between said source and drain region according 

to a difference between said first and second capacitance, 
by which current electrons are injected to said floating 

gate. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARA HIDEKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARA, HIDEKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory
device and data erase method for it, in particular, to a
Flash type Electrically Erasable and Programable Read Only
Memory (Flash EEPROM) and a data erase method for Flash
EEPROM.Among the EEPROM devices, a certain type of device
called Flash EEPROM which is capable of erasing data in a
number of memory cells at the same time so as to achieve
high speed operation has been developed. An example of the
Flash EEPROM devices is described in N. Kodama, K. Saitoh,
H. Shirai, T. Okazawa and Y. Hokari, "A 5V only 16 Mbit
Flash EEPROM Cell Using Highly Reliable Write/Erase
Technologies", VLSI SYMP. 1991, pp. 75-76. According to
that, a memory cell comprises a N-channel MOS transistor
with a stacked type gate including a control gate and a
floating gate, a write operation is achieved by using the
channel hot electron (CHE) injection to the floating gate
whereas an erase operation is achieved by using the Fowler-Nordheim(FN)
tunnelling effect in which electrons are
transported from the floating gate to a source region or a
substrate. In S. Aritome, R. Shirota, R. Kirisawa, T.
Endoh, R. Nakayama, K. Sakui and F. Masuoka, "A RELIABLE BI-POLARITY
WRITE/ERASE TECHNOLOGY IN FLASH EEPROMs", IEDM 90,
pp.111-114, there is proposed another Flash EEPROM device 
in which the FN tunnelling is applied to a write operation
as well as an erase operation.However, these Flash EEPROM devices have had in common
a basic problem that some memory cell transistors are over-erased
during the erase operation. In order to prevent it,
a pre-write/erase-verify method has been adopted as
described in, for example, NIKKEI MICRODEVICE, march, 1990,
pp. 72-76, or Japanese patent application, publication
number: 01-273296. This problem and the pre-write/erase-verify
method will be described with reference to Figure 9-12.Figure 9 shows a typical structure of memory cell
transistors used in a Flash EEPROM. Figure 10 shows
threshold voltages of the memory cell transistors. While a
non-written memory cell transistor has a threshold voltage
of about 2V, since electrons are transported to a floating
gate by a CHE injection or an FN tunnelling during a write
operation, a written memory cell transistor has a threshold
voltage of about 7V. In this case, the power supply voltage
of the device is 5V as shown in Figure 10. So that when a
memory cell is selected and a control gate of a memory cell
transistor becomes at 5V, the memory cell transistor becomes
conductive or non-conductive in accordance with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor memory device comprising:

a) a plurality of word lines (WL1, WL2);
b) a plurality of bit lines (BL1, BL2); and
c) a plurality of memory cells (MC11, MC12) each including a
transistor (9) formed on a first semiconductor region (3) of a

first conductivity type and having a floating gate (6), a
control gate (8) connected to one of said word lines, a source

region (5s) of a second conductivity type connected to a first
end of a source line (SL) and a drain region (5d) of said

second conductivity type connected to a first end of one of
said bit lines, characterized by
d) a first capacitance associated with said source line (SL)
being different from a second capacitance which is associated

with said bit lines (BL1, BL2)
e) a first bias means (14), and
f) a control means (18) for outputting a signal (S3) to said
first bias means,

wherein said first bias means is activated by said signal
becoming active to bias said first semiconductor region (3) at

a high voltage level (Vcc) to charge said bit lines and said
source line in a first time period, and wherein said first

bias means is subsequently deactivated by said signal becoming
inactive to supply a low voltage level (Vss) to said first

semiconductor region during a second time period, thereby
establishing a volt
age difference and a current between
said source and drain regions according to said 

difference between said first and second capacitances, whereby
electrons are injected into said floating gates.
The semiconductor memory device as claimed in claim
1, further comprising:


a) a first switching means (22) for connecting a second end
of said source line to a first high impedance node (NS)

during said first time period, and
b) a second switching means (21) for connecting a second end
of each of said bit lines (BL1, BL2) to a second high

impedance node (ND1, ND2) corresponding thereto during said
first time period.
The semiconductor memory device as claimed in claim
2, wherein said transistor stores data as a threshold

voltage thereof which is determined by a voltage of said
floating gate, and wherein

said voltage of said floating gate during said second time
period determines an amount of said electrons which are

injected to said floating gate.
The semiconductor memory device as claimed in claim
3, further comprising a word driver (11), wherein

said control means (18) activates said word driver during
said second time period, said word driver drives said

control gate, said amount of said electrons being controlled
by the level of said control gate.
The semiconductor memory device as claimed in claim
4, wherein

said control circuit outputs said first and second signal
repeatedly and alternately in several times. 
A data erase method for a semiconductor membory device
which comprises:


a) a plurality of word lines (WL1, WL2);
b) a plurality of bit lines (BL1, BL2); and
c) a plurality of memory cells (MC11, MC12) each including a
transistor (9) formed on a first semiconductor region (3) of a

first conductivity type and having a floating gate (6), a
control gate (8) connected to one of said word lines, a source

region (5s) of a second conductivity type connected to a first
end of a source line (SL) and a drain region (5d) of said

second conductivity type connected to a first end of one of
said bit lines, characterised in that
d) a first capacitance associated with said source line (SL)
being different from a second capacitance associated with said

bit lines (BL1, BL2), and
e) a first bias means (14),
f) wherein said first bias means (14) is activated by a
control signal (S3) becoming active to bias said first

semiconductor region (3) at a high voltage level (Vcc) to
charge said bit lines and said source line in a first time

period, and wherein said first bias means (14) is subsequently
deactivated by said signal becoming inactive to supply a low

voltage level (Vss) to said first semiconductor region during
a second time period, thereby establishing a voltage

difference and a current between said source and drain regions
according to said difference between said first and second

capacitances, whereby electrons are injected into said
floating gates.
The data erase method as claimed in claim 6, wherein

a) a first switching means (22) connects a second end of
said source line to a first high impedance node (NS) during

said first time period, and
b) a second switching means (21) connects a second end of
each of said bit lines (BL1, BL2) to a second high impedance

node (ND1, ND2) corresponding thereto during said first time
period.
The data erase method as claimed in claim 7, wherein
said transistor stores data as a threshold voltage thereof

which is determined by a voltage of said floating gate, and
wherein

said voltage of said floating gate during said second time
period determines an amount of said electrons which are

injected to said floating gate.
The data erase method as claimed in claim 8, wherein
said semiconductor memory device further comprises a word

driver (11), wherein

a control means (18) activates said word driver during said
second time period, said word driver drives said control

gate, said amount of said electrons being controlled by the
level of said control gate.
The data erase method as claimed in claim
9, wherein

said control circuit repeatedly alternately activates said
first bias means for charging said bit lines and said source

line to said high voltage level and deactivates said first 
bias means for supplying said low voltage level to said

first semiconductor region.
The device and said method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the semiconductor of a first conductivity type is a p-type semiconductor, and the semiconductor of a second conductivity type is an n-type semiconductor.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
