<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651930</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMAGING SYSTEM AND DEVICE HAVING A SIMPLIFIED ELECTRODE DESIGN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27146	H01L27146	H04N100	H04N100	H04N530	H04N530	H04N5335	H04N5335	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	H04N1	H04N1	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A simplified layered imaging stack capable of bearing a latent photostatic image comprising only a single segmented electrode on one side of the stack, rather than plate electrodes on each side of the stack. Appropriate sizing of the segmented electrodes enables individual electrodes to serve at different times as either the ground reference formerly provided by the electrode on the other side of the stack, or the collector of charge carriers representing the latent photostatic image. The imaging stack may be used with a variety of types of imaging systems, and in flat or cylindrical configurations.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARAJ NAOUM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON OWEN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POTTS JOHN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARAJ, NAOUM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON, OWEN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POTTS, JOHN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMAGING SYSTEM AND DEVICE HAVING A SIMPLIFIED ELECTRODE DESIGNTechnical Field This invention relates to systems for producing images, and especially those systems which use photoconductive materials to absorb radiation to create a latent image, followed by a selective detection of the latent image in the photoconductive material.Background One type of imaging system employs photoconductive materials to absorb incident radiation representative of an image of an object. Suitable photoconductive materials will absorb the radiation and produce electron-hole pairs (charge carriers) which may be separated from each other by an electric field applied across the photoconductor, creating a latent image at the surface of the photoconductor (which is typically a thin planar layer). A narrow beam of scanning radiation substantially completes discharge of the photoconductor, by creating motion of a second set of charge carriers. The distribution of these second charge carriers in the plane of the photoconductor is affected by the distribution of the first charge carriers, i.e., by the latent image. The motion of the second charge carriers is detected and digitized in an appropriate circuit, and thus the latent image is captured in digital form. In one specific embodiment, the photoconductor is part of a multilayer structure comprising two electrodes, between which are the photoconductive layer and an insulating layer. A high voltage power supply maintains electric fields in the structure during exposures to the incident radiation and the scanning radiation (although not necessarily the same field strength is present during each exposure). An example of this type of system is taught in U.S. Patent 4,176,275 (Kom et al.).A second and closely related approach, known as the air-gap photoinduced discharge (PID) method, employs air as the insulating layer, and requires that a uniform separation be maintained between the two electrodes, typically by high-precision mechanical or piezoelectric devices. A corona charges the surface of the photoconductor prior to exposure to radiation, producing an electric field in the material. Thus, the incident radiation partially discharges the surface to 

produce a latent image, and the read-out signal is induced by the charge motion under the influence of the residual electric field in response to the scanning radiation. Such a system is described in Rowlands et al., Med. Phys. 18(3), May/Jun 1991 at 421-431. Various methods for scanning the latent image exist. For example, the method
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A system for producing an image created by radiation incident upon an imaging device, comprising:
(a) an imaging device comprising, in this order, a photoconductive insulative layer having a certain thickness, an electrically blocking layer, and a single conductive layer which consists essentially of a segmented array of at least one group of elongated, striped, conductive electrodes lying in a first direction;
(b) means for charging a first surface of the photoconductive insulative layer such that first charge carriers created in the imaging device by first incident radiation are subsequently separated to create a first current, resulting in the formation of a latent electrostatic image near the charged first surface of the photoconductive insulative layer;
(c) a scanner which, in a first time-ordered pattern, utilizes a second incident radiation to initiate a second current, comprising second charge carriers, within the imaging device; and
(d) detection electronics connected to, and sensitive to motion of the second charge carriers in, each electrode; in which:
(e) the scanner scans the array in a second direction; and
(f) each conductive electrode of a group is addressed in a second, time-ordered pattern such that only one electrode in a group is monitored at one time for motion of the charge carriers, while adjacent electrodes of that group are held at a voltage level representing a virtual ground as measured relative to the monitored electrode, and the detection electronics interprets a coincidence of the first and second patterns as a pixel of the image created by the radiation. 2. The system of claim 1 in which the imaging device additionally comprises, in order before the photoconductive insulative layer, an insulative protective layer.
3. The system of claim 1 in which each electrode of the array has a width substantially less than the thickness of the photoconductive insulative layer; 4. The system of claim 1 in which each electrode has a width less than seven times the thickness of the photoconductive layer.
5. The system of claim 1 in which the first and second directions are substantially different from each other. 


 6. The system of claim 5 in which the first and second directions are substantially perpendicular to each other.
7. The system of claim 1 in which the electrodes of the conductive layer are semitransparent, and the second radiation is incident upon the array of conductive electrodes prior to being incident upon the photoconductive insulative layer.
8. The system of claim 1 in which more than one pixel, as measured in the second direction, is produced in a single electrode, by means of an intensity- modulated laser. 9. The system of claim 1 in which the second radiation is a continuous laser beam.
10. The system of claim 1 in which the first and second radiations have substantially different wavelengths.
11. The system of claim 1 in which the first and second radiations have substantially similar wavelengths.
12. The system of claim 1 in which the first radiation is ray radiation and each electrode has a width of between approximately 10 to 2Cκ. microns.
13. The system of claim 1 in which the first radiation is one of ultraviolet, visible, and infrared radiations. 14. The system of claim 1 in which the second radiation is one of ultraviolet, visible, and infrared radiations.
15. The system of claim 1 in which the imaging device is substantially a flat plate.
16. The system of claim 1 in which the imaging device is generally cylindrical.
17. An imaging device for use in a system for producing an image created by a first incident radiation, the system including:
(a) means for charging the imaging device;
(b) a scanner which, in a first time-ordered pattern, produces a second radiation incident upon the imaging device; and
(c) detection electronics connected to, and sensitive to motion of charge carriers in, an electrode attached to the imaging device; in which the first incident radiation is incident upon a first surface of a photoconductive insulative layer such that first charge carriers created in the imaging device by first incident radiation are subsequently separated to create a first current, resulting in the formation of a latent electrostatic image near the charged first surface of the photoconductive 


 insulative layer, and the second incident radiation initiates a second current, comprising second charge carriers, within the imaging device; the imaging device being characterized by comprising, h ft order, a photoconductive insulative layer having a certain thickness, an electrically blocking layer, and a single conductive layer which consists essentially of a segmented array of at least one group of elongated, striped, conductive electrodes lying in a first direction; and further characterized in that when each conductive electrode of a group is addressed by detection electronics in a second, time-ordered pattern, such that the detection electronics addresses one electrode of a group at a time to monitor for motion of charge carriers, while adjacent electrodes of that group are held at a voltage level representing a virtual ground as measured relative to each addressed electrode, then a coincidence of the first and second patterns may be interpreted by the detection electronics as a pixel of the image created by the radiation.
18. The imaging device of claim 17, in which each stripe of the array of electrodes has a width substantially less than the thickness of the photoconductive insulative layer 19. The imaging device of claim 17 in which each electrode has a width less than seven times the thickness of the photoconductive layer.
20. The imaging device of claim 17 in which the electrodes of the conductive layer are semitransparent, such that radiation may energize the imaging device through the array of conductive electrodes prior to being absorbed in the photoconductive insulative layer.
21. The imaging device of claim 17 in which the imaging stack is capable of producing a latent image produced by x-ray radiation, and each electrode has a width of between approximately 10 to 200 microns.
22. The imaging device of claim 17 in which the imaging stack is capable of producing a latent image produced by ultraviolet, visible or infrared radiation.
23. The imaging device of claim 17 in which the imaging device is substantially a flat plate.
24. The imaging device of claim 17 in which the imaging device is generally cylindrical. . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
