<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615100</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dehumidifier
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L3704	F24F100	B01D5326	B01D5326	H01L3700	F24F500	F24F100	F24F500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	F24F	B01D	B01D	H01L	F24F	F24F	F24F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L37	F24F1	B01D53	B01D53	H01L37	F24F5	F24F1	F24F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dehumidifier of the present invention 
includes: a first frame (1); a second frame (2) formed inside 

of the first frame (1), having a first opening (7) and a second 
opening (6); and a unit (5) for allowing air to flow from the 

first opening (7) to the second opening (6), wherein the second 
frame (2) has a hollow substrate (11), a thermoelectric element (13) 

formed on a surface of the hollow substrate (11) directly, a 
pair of electrodes (14,15), connected to the thermoelectric 

element (13), for supplying an electric current to the 
thermoelectric element (13
), and the thermoelectric element (13) 
causes a temperature difference between the outer 

surface and the inner surface of the second frame (2). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a dehumidifier, 
and more particularly to a dehumidifier electrically 
dehumidifying the air using a thermoelectric 
element. In conventional dehumidifiers equipped with a 
freezing cycle unit including a compressor, a condenser, 
a decompressor, an evaporator, and the like, humid 
air is cooled below the dew point by a heat exchanger 
to be dehumidified. Such conventional dehumidifiers 
have the following problems: Each component of the freezing cycle unit of 
such a conventional dehumidifier is large in size and 
heavy in weight; in addition, pipelines are required 
for connecting the respective components. This makes 
it difficult to obtain a small-sized and light-weight 
dehumidifier. The conventional dehumidifier causes a 
large noise because of its driving portion such as a 
compressor, an air blower, and the like. Furthermore, 
when the evaporator is frosted, defrosting is required. 
As dehumidification is interrupted while defrosting, 
operating efficiency of the dehumidifier is decreased.  
 From US-A-3,126,710 a thermoelectric dehumidifier and reheater is known. This 
dehumidifier includes two sets of base plates with fins which are provided between 
side walls of a casing. These base plates function as partitions for the air passageway, 
so as to form three compartments. The moist air is cooled and dehumidified 
in the center of the three compartments and is then exhausted through the side 
compartments. The two partitions formed by the sets of base plates are provided by 
the casing in order to form the intake channel and exhaust channels. A Peltier 
element is used as a thermoelectric element. It is disadvantagous with such a partitioned structure that the manufacturing process 
is complicated and requires a combination of partitions to form said structure. In 
addition the heat conduction efficiency is low because this structure requires a silicon 
compound between the walls of the partitions. From US-A-3,024,616 another dehumidifier making use of a Peltier element is 
known. This dehumidifier is also formed in a partitioned structure and therefore 
shows similar disadvantages as the dehumidifier according to US-A-3,126,710. It is the object of the present invention to provide a dehumidifier which overcomes 
the above disadvantages of the prior art. This object is achieved by a dehumidifier 
according to claim 1 and a method for dehumidifying air according to the claim 8 
of the appended claims. The subclaims define advantageous embodiments of the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dehumidifier for dehumidifying air by cooling the air with a thermoelectric 
element, comprising a first frame (1), a second frame (2) formed inside 

of the first frame, having a first opening (9) and a second opening (8) and 
means (5) for allowing air to flow from the first opening (9) to the second 

opening (8),
 
characterized in that
 
the first frame (1) encloses the second frame (2) except for at least one of 

the first and the second openings (9, 8) and forms an outer air channel surrounding 
the second frame (2), the second frame (2) substantially consists of 

a hollow substrate (11), a thermoelectric element (13) which is made of an 
Ettingshausen element directly formed on a surface of the hollow substrate 

(11), and a pair of electrodes (14,15) which is connected to the thermoelectric 
element (13) for supplying an electric current to the thermoelectric 

element (13), and in that the thermoelectric element (13) causes a temperature 
difference between the outer surface and the inner surface of the 

hollow substrate (11) of the frame (2).  
 
A dehumidifier according to claim 1, wherein the 
second frame (2) has a plurality of magnetic thin 

films (12) provided on the surface of the hollow 
substrate (11) so that magnetic lines of force are 

formed in a direction substantially perpendicular to  
 

a direction of an electric current flowing through the 
thermoelectric element (13). 
A dehumidifier according to claim 2, wherein the 
Ettingshausen element is a ribbon-shaped Ettingshausen 

element, spirally provided on the surface of the 
hollow substrate (11) and each of the magnetic thin 

films (12) is disposed on the surface of the hollow 
substrate (11) between adjacent portions of the spiral 

of the Ettingshausen element. 
A dehumidifier according to claim 3, wherein the width 
of the Ettingshausen element (13) becomes progressively 

larger in a direction from the first opening (7) 
to the second opening (6). 
A dehumidifier according to one of the claims 1 to 4, 
wherein the second frame (2) is a cylindrical frame, 

and wherein the inner diameter of the second frame (2) 
becomes progressively smaller in a direction from the 

first opening (7) to the second opening (6). 
A dehumidifier according to one of claims 1 to 5, 
wherein a fin (3) for cooling air is provided inside 

of the second frame (2). 
A dehumidifier according to one of the claims 1 to 6, 
wherein a fin (4) for releasing heat generated in the 

second frame (2) is provided between the first frame 
(1) and the second frame (2). 
A method for dehumidifying air by using a dehumidifier 
according to one of the claims 1 to 7, the method 

including the steps of:
 
   supplying a predetermined electric current to the 

Ettinghausen element (13) via the pair of electrodes 
(14, 15) so as to cause a temperature difference  

 
between an outer surface and an inner surface of the 

second frame (2),
 
   allowing air to flow from the first opening (7) to the 

second opening (6) through the second frame (2) so as 
to be dehumidified, and
 
when the second frame (2) is frosted, supplying an 

electric current in an opposite direction to that of 
the predetermined current via the pair of electrodes 

(14,15). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
