<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616391</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Lever-type connector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R13629	H01R13629	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To fit male and female connector housings together 
without tilting, an inner bottom surface of a hood portion 

of a male connector housing has step portions formed at 
the four respective corner portions, and a recessed 

portion having a lower height than the step portions. The 
female connector housing can be fully inserted because of 

a gap provided between a bulged portion of the female 
connector housing and the recessed portion. The female 

connector housing, when further inserted, slides at its 
opposite ends to change its posture so that male and 

female terminals are completely connected together. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a connector, and more particularly
to a connector of the type having a connection
effected using a lever.Connectors utilizing levers have an advantage in that
connection and disconnection can be effected with a small
force. This has been applied particularly to multipole connectors.
The fundamental construction of such connectors is
known and described in Japanese Patent Unexamined Publication
No. 4-62772 as follows: a number of male terminals are
provided in a male connector housing serving as a receiving
connector housing. A number of female terminals are provided
in a female connector housing to be inserted into the
male terminals. A lever with cam grooves for effecting leverage
is pivotally mounted on the male connector housing,
and engagement projections are provided on a central portion
of a lower portion of a cover mounted on the female
connector housing.The engagement projections of the cover are respectively
engaged in the cam grooves of the lever for connecting
the two connector housings together. In this condition,
the lever is pivotally movable. As a result, the cover and
the female connector housing are inserted into the male
connector housing by a cam action of the cam grooves so
that the male and female terminals of the two connector
housings are connected together against a mechanical insertion
resistance, thus completing the connection of the two
connector housings.The group of terminals provided in each connector housing
are not always of the same type and are not always arranged
and distributed uniformly. For example, a so-called
hybrid type is shown in Fig. 7A in which a smaller number
of power terminals la and a larger number of signal terminals
1b are provided in a male connector housing 1. In such
a type, when a female connector housing 2 is to be inserted 
into a male connector housing 1, a large unbalance of a mechanical
insertion resistance may occur between the right
and the left regions of the group of terminals 1a, 1b.If such insertion resistance unbalance is encountered,
the female connector housing 2 is inserted in a tilted manner,
as shown in Fig. 7A, so that the opposite end edges of
the female connector housing 2 interfere with an inner surface
of the male connector housing 1 at two points, which
are designated, respectively, by reference characters X and
Y in Fig. 7B.The female connector housing 2 is generally made of a
synthetic resin material. An engagement projection 4 engaged
in a cam groove 3a of a lever 3 is provided at a central
position
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A connector comprising:

a male connector housing (10) for housing a plurality
of male terminals (12);
a female connector housing (20) for housing a plurality
of female terminals to be respectively connected to said

male terminals (12); and
lever means (30, 31), fitted to one of the male connector
housing (10) and the female connector housing (20),

for urging one of the male connector housing (10) and the
female connector housing (20) to engage the other one of

the male connector housing (10) and the female connector
housing (20);

characterised in that

said connector is of a type having an uneven distribution
of insertion resistance between one end of the male

connector housing (10) with a respective end of the female
connector housing (20) and the other end of the male connector

housing (10) with a respective other end of the female
connector housing (20); and
wherein furthermore levelling means are provided for
allowing one of the male connector housing (10) and the female

connector housing (20) to deform in at least a central
location of said one connector housing when said lever

means (30, 31) urges said one of the male connector housing
(10) and the female connector housing (20) to engage the

other one, and for allowing one of the male connector housing
(10) and the female connector housing (20) to move into

a levelled position relative to the other one of the
male connector housing (10) and the female connector housing

(20).
The connector of claim 1, wherein the levelling
means comprises at least one step portion (15; 45) formed 

on at least one of the male connector housing (10) and the
female connector housing (20).
The connector of claim 2, wherein the levelling
means further comprises a recessed portion (16; 46) formed

on at least one of the male connector housing (10) and the
female connector housing (20).
The connector of claim 2, wherein at least one step
(15; 45) portion is formed at each opposite end of the respective

connector housing.
The connector of claim 4, wherein one step portion
(15; 45) is formed in each corner of the respective connector

housing.
The connector of claim 2, 4 or 5, wherein the step
portion (15; 45) has a height approximately 0.5 to 0.7 mm

higher than the recessed portion (16; 46).
The connector of anyone of claims 2 to 6, wherein
the step portion (15; 45) and the recessed portion (16; 46)

are formed on the male connector housing (10).
The connector of anyone of claims 1 to 7, wherein
the male terminals (12) comprise power terminals (12a) positioned

on one end of the male connector housing (10) and
signal terminals (12b) positioned on the other end of the

male connector housing (10), the power terminals (12a) having
a larger size than the signal terminals (12b).
The connector of anyone of claims 1 to 7, wherein
the male terminals (12) are arranged in an uneven distribution.
The connector of anyone of claims 1 to 9, wherein
the levelling means comprises at least one guide rib on one 

of the male connector housing (10) and the female connector
housing (20) and at least one guide groove (42) on the

other one of the male connector housing (10) and the female
connector housing (20).
A connector comprising:

a male connector housing (10) for housing a plurality
of male terminals (12);
a female connector housing (20) for housing a plurality
of female terminals to be respectively connected to

said male terminals (12); and
a lever (30) fixed to one of the male connector housing
(10) and the female connector housing (20), the lever

urging one of the male connector housing (10) and the female
connector housing (20) to engage the other one;

characterised in that

said connector is of a type having an uneven distribution

of insertion resistance between one end of the male
connector housing (10) with a respective end of the female

connector housing (20) and the other end of the male connector
housing (10) with a respective other end of the female

connector housing (20); and
a step portion (15; 45) is formed on at least one of
the male connector housing (10) and the female connector

housing (20), the step portion (15; 45) contacting a portion
of the other one of the male connector housing (10)

and the female connector housing (20) and allowing at least
one of the male connector housing (10) and the female connector

housing (20) to deform in a central location when
said lever (30) urges said one of the male connector housing

(10) and the female connector housing (20), the step
portion (15; 45) allowing the at least one of the male connector

housing (10) and the female connector housing (20)
to move into a levelled position.
The connector of claim 11, wherein the step portion
(15; 45) forms a recessed portion (16; 46) on the at 

least one of the male connector housing (10) and the female
connector housing (20), the recessed portion (16; 46) further

allowing the at least one of the male connector housing
(10) and the female connector housing (20) to deform.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
