<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641411</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODULAR ROOF STRUCTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04B702	E04B702	E04B706	E04B706	E05F1500	E05F1518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E05F	E05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04B7	E04B7	E04B7	E04B7	E05F15	E05F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A roof structure (10) is formed with first (12) and second (14) Y-shaped modular construction members. The first construction (12) is comprised of first (12a), second (12b) and third (12c) branches of substantially equal length. The second construction members (14) are comprised of fourth (14a), fifth (14b) and sixth (14c) branches of substantially equal length. The first (12a) and fourth (14a) branches are coupled together along a common axis to define an apex (22) or ridge of the roof structure. The second (12b), third (12c), fifth (14b) and sixth (14c) branches are coupled between the apex (22) and respective first (C), second (D), third (E) and fourth (F) corners of a rectangular base frame (30). At least one gable (32) is positioned intermediate the first (12) and second (14) construction members. In one embodiment, an intermediate section (50) of the roof structure (10) is lengthwise adjustable to adjust the length of the roof structure (10) along the aforementioned common axis. The roof structure (10) of the present invention is adapted to accomodate a foldable or inflatable roof cover.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUANG YEN T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUANG, YEN T.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUANG YEN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUANG, YEN T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionModular Roof Structure Technical FieldThis invention relates generally to roof struc¬ tures and in particular to a roof structure formed with modular Y-shaped components.Background ArtRoof structures are typically formed by install¬ ing roof trusses or joists at spaced intervals along the structural walls of a building. Conventional roof struc¬ tures require multiple components to be assembled in order to form the roof structure-Disclosure of the InventionIn accordance with the present invention, a building roof structure is comprised of a base frame having first, second, third and fourth corners, a first structural member having first, second and third branches intercon¬ nected to define a Y-shape with respective predetermined space angles between adjacent ones of the first, second and third branches; and a second structural member having fourth, fifth and sixth branches interconnected to define a Y-shape with respective predetermined space angles between adjacent ones of the fourth, fifth and sixth branches. The first and fourth branches are coupled along a common axis to define an apex of the roof structure. The second, third, fifth and sixth branches are coupled between the apex and the respective first, second, third and fourth corners of the base frame.In accordance with a unique feature of the invention, an intermediate section of the roof structure is lengthwise adjustable along an axis parallel to the aforementioned common axis. In one embodiment, the intermediate section includes first and second members defining an intermediate portion of the apex, the first 

member being adjustable with respect to the second member along the common axis. The intermediate portion further includes third, fourth, fifth and sixth members. The third member is adjustable with respect to the fourth member along a first axis parallel to the common axis, to define an intermediate portion of a first side of the base frame. The fifth member is adjustable with respect to the sixth member along a second axis parallel to the common axis, to define an intermediate portion of a second side of the base frame, opposite from the first side thereof. The interme¬ diate section is therefore lengthwise adjustable.Brief Description of DrawingsFIG. 1 is a perspective view of a modular roof structure, according to the present invention;FIG. 2A is a detailed view of a turnbuckle screw type connector used in the roof structure of FIG. 1;FIG. 2B is a detailed view of a slip in lock type connector as an alternate to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A building roof structure, comprising: a base frame having first, second, third and fourth corners; a first construction member having first, second and third branches interconnected to define a Y- shape with respective space angles between adjacent ones of said first, second and third branches; and a second construction member having fourth, fifth and sixth branches interconnected to define a Y-shape with respective space angles between adjacent ones of said fourth, fifth and sixth branches, said first and fourth branches being coupled along a common axis to define an apex of said roof structure, said second, third, fifth and sixth branches being coupled between said apex and the respective first, second, third and fourth corners of said base frame.
2. The roof structure of Claim 1 wherein each one of said first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth branches is tubular.
3. The roof structure of Claim 2 wherein said base frame is comprised of first, second, third and fourth edge beams interconnected to define a rectangular shape.
4. The roof structure of Claim 1 further including reinforcing means for reinforcing the structural integrity of said roof structure.
5. The roof structure of Claim 4 wherein said reinforcing means includes connecting means for intercon¬ necting said second, third, fifth and sixth branches intermediate said base frame and said apex. 


 6. The roof structure of Claim 4 wherein said reinforcing means includes first, second, third and fourth reinforcing members extending between said apex and the respective first, second, third and fourth corners.
7. The roof structure of Claim 1 further including a section intermediate said first and second construction members.
8. The roof structure of Claim 7 wherein said intermediate section is lengthwise adjustable to adjust the length of said roof structure along said common axis.
9. The roof structure of Claim 8 wherein said intermediate section includes first and second members defining an intermediate portion of said apex, said first member being adjustable with respect to said second member along said common axis, said intermediate section further including third, fourth, fifth and sixth members, said third member being adjustable with respect to said fourth member along a first axis parallel to said common axis, to define an intermediate portion of a first side of said base frame, said fifth member being adjustable with respect to said sixth member along a second axis parallel to said common axis, to define an intermediate portion of a second side of said base frame, opposite from said first side, whereby said intermediate section is lengthwise adjustable.
10. The roof structure of Claim 9 wherein each of said first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth members is a beam with opposed side flanges defining a channel between the corresponding opposed side flanges, said first member being telescoped within the channel of said second member, said third member being telescoped within the channel of said fourth member, said fifth member being telescoped within the channel of said sixth member. 


 11. The roof structure of Claim 7 wherein said intermediate section includes first, second, third and fourth members, said first and second members extending between said apex and respective opposed first and second sides of said base frame to define a first gable, said third and fourth members extending between said apex and the respective opposed first and second sides of said base frame to define a second gable.
12. The roof structure of Claim 11 further including means for adjusting the distance between said first and second gables along said common axis, whereby said intermediate section is lengthwise adjustable.
13. The roof structure of Claim 1 further including first, second, third, fourth and fifth coupling members, said first coupling member being coupled between said first and fourth branches, said second, third, fourth and fifth coupling members being coupled between the respective second, third, fifth and sixth branches and the respective first, second, third and fourth corners.
14. The roof structure of Claim 1 further including a foldable cover adapted to envelope said roof structure.
15. The roof structure of Claim 14 wherein said cover is comprised of first and second side panels adapted to cover respective first and second sides of said roof structure and first and second end panels adapted to cover respective first and second ends of said roof structure, said first end panel being formed with said first side panel and being detachably secured to said second side panel, said second end panel being formed with said second side panel and being detachably secured to said first side panel. 


 16. The roof structure of Claim 15 further including first securing means for detachably securing said first end panel to said second side panel and second securing means for detachably securing said second end panel to said first side panel.
17. The roof structure of Claim 16 wherein said first securing means is comprised of first zipper means and said second securing means is comprised of second zipper means.
18. The roof structure of Claim 1 further including an inflatable cover adapted to envelope said roof structure, said cover having at least one valve which is connectable to a gas source for inflating said cover. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
