<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635801</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
External storage device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K19077	B42D1510	G06K700	G06K700	G06K19077	B42D1510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	B42D	G06K	G06K	G06K	B42D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K19	B42D15	G06K7	G06K7	G06K19	B42D15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An comprises an external storage device and an external 
storage device unit, wherein an external storage device main 

includes, a thin type external storage device module formed 
into a one-side sealed package from a storage medium series 

element containing at least one non-volatile semiconductor 
memory device, and a flat type external connection terminal 

connected to an input / output terminal of the storage medium 
series element and led and exposed to a backside of the 

external storage device module, and an external storage device 
unit includes, an external storage device main detachable 

section for engaging, insertedly attaching and detaching the 
external storage device main, an resilient contact 

electrically connecting to the external connection terminal of 
the external storage device main to be mounted, and at least a 

part of circuit function for driving and controlling the 
storage medium series element. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to this external storage devices that are releasably
or exchangeably used for storage equipment and external storage medium devices.Two types of storage devices, or memory elements, that are capable of recording
and saving various data have been utilized. One is incorporated and fixed within
storage equipment or devices, and the other is releasably or exchangeably incorporated
in storage equipment or devices. In the latter type, the external storage device, for
example, a floppy disk can freely be attached or detached by a one touch operation.
The floppy disks, being storage mediums, can separately be used depending on purpose
and object. This therefore produces easier data reduction with optional classification,
recording, and saving. However, a problem arises in the floppy disks described. First,
the data occasionally disappears when recording or saving the data to produce the
disadvantage of less reliability. Second, the floppy disk has a slow access time. Also,
when employing smaller sized floppy disks in response to a miniaturization goal, the
storage area of the storage medium is correspondingly smaller thereby reducing storage
capacity. This results in an adverse effect in realizing both the compact size and high
capacity. On the other hand, in semiconductor memory devices used as an external
storage device, such as IC memory cards, the problems of floppy disks, such as low
reliability on recording and saving data and slow access time, can largely be overcome.
In general, IC memory cards comprise a functional circuit in which circuit components
containing semiconductor memory devices or elements are mounted on a substrate. A
resin case incorporates the functional circuit as an inside attachment. A cover covers
and seals an opening surface of the resin case, and external connection terminals, such
as two piece connectors, are attached on one edge of the resin case and electrically
connect the functional circuit and the storage equipment.However, IC memory cards are assembled with a large number of components
and parts. Thus, a relatively complicated structure is required impacting the thickness 
of the IC memory card, resulting in difficulty in realizing a compact size. Further,
disadvantages arise in practical use because of lower cost performance and production
yields in mass producing, in addition to the decreased releasability or fluctuated
releasability to the storage equipment and device.FR-A-2 686 172 discloses an IC card processing assembly being capable of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An external storage device unit assembly (7) being capable of receiving a card shaped
external storage device main assembly (1') which can store data, the said card shaped external

storage device main assembly (1') comprising a storage element containing at least one flash-type
non-volatile semiconductor memory device (2) capable of electrically storing data, and a

flat type connection terminal formed on a surface of the card shaped external storage device
main assembly (1'), the external storage device unit assembly (7) comprising:


means for engaging, insertedly and rigidly attaching and detaching the external storage
device main assembly;
a resilient contact (7a) electrically connecting to the connection terminal of the
external storage device main assembly (1'); and,
means (7d) for driving and controlling the storage element, the driving and controlling
means (7d) being capable of causing the flash type non-volatile semiconductor memory device

to (2) receive, store, and output the data, and the driving and controlling means (7d) having at
least an IC.
An external storage device unit assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the external
storage device unit assembly (7) having a card shape.
An external storage device unit assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the external
storage device unit assembly (7) having a space for receiving the card shaped external storage

device main assembly (1') therein.
An external storage device unit assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the card
shaped external storage device unit assembly (7) having an opening of the space for receiving

the card shaped external storage device main assembly (1') being formed on a side face of the
card shaped external storage device unit assembly (7).
An external storage device unit assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein a thickness of
the card shaped external storage device unit assembly (7) is about 3.3mm. 
An external storage device unit assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the external
storage device main assembly (1') has a size less than half in area of a card size area specified

in JEIDA standards.
An external storage device unit assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the resilient
contact (7a) is connected to the means (7d) for driving and controlling the storage element in

the external storage device unit assembly (7).
An external storage device unit assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the flash type
non-volatile semiconductor memory device (2) of the external storage device main assembly

(1') is a NAND flash type non-volatile semiconductor memory device (2), and the driving and
controlling means (7d) being capable of causing the NAND flash type non-volatile

semiconductor memory device (2) to receive, store, and output the data.
An external storage device unit assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the means for
driving and controlling (7d) and the flash type non-volatile semiconductor memory device (2)

of the external storage device main assembly (1') are capable of being connected so that the
data to be stored being directly communicated through the resilient contact (7a) and the

connecting terminal.
An external storage device unit assembly as claimed in claim 1, further comprises a
micro-switch system for switching electricity supplying to the card shaped external storage

device main assembly.
An external storage device (8) for storing data, comprising:

external storage device unit assembly (7) according to any of claims 1 to 10 and an
external storage device main assembly (1'), the external storage device main assembly

including,

a thin type external storage device module (1a) comprising:

a substrate (3) having a first face and a second face, a wiring pattern formed on
the first face, and the substrate having at least a through hole; 
a storage element containing at least one flash type non volatile semiconductor
memory device (2) capable of being electrically written the data to be stored,

the storage element having an input/output terminal, and the input/output
terminal connected with the wiring pattern;
a sealing resin formed on the first face of the substrate (3) so as to seal the
storage element; and
a flat type external connection terminal (16) formed on the second face of the
substrate (3), and the flat type external connection terminal (1b) connected to

the wiring pattern via the through hole,
the external storage device main assembly further including a card shaped support (6)
having a recess for placing the thin type external storage device module (1a) so that the

second face of the substrate (3) is exposed to a surface of the support
An external storage device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the external storage device
main assembly (1') is formed in a card shape.
An external storage device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the external storage device
main assembly (1') and the external storage device unit assembly (7) are respectively formed

in a card shape.
An external storage device as claimed in claim 13, wherein the card shape external
storage device unit assembly (7) has a recessed portion corresponding to shape and dimension

of the card shape external storage device main assembly (1') on its surface, the card shape
external storage device main assembly (1') being rigidly and detachably engaged with the card

shape card shape external storage unit assembly (7) at the recessed portion, whereby the
external storage device is formed in a card shape.
An external storage device as claimed in claim 13, wherein the card shape external
storage device unit assembly (7) has an insertion and extraction section for attaching the card

shape external storage device main assembly (1') from a side face of the card shape external

storage device unit assembly (7). 
An external storage device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the storage device series
element of the external storage device main assembly (1') comprises an anti-electrostatic

element.
An external storage device as claimed in claim 11, wherein a surface of the external
connection terminal (1b) of the external storage device main assembly (1') is coated with a

gold plated layer.
An external storage device as claimed in claim 13, wherein the card shape external
storage device main assembly (1') has a thickness of less than 1mm.
An external storage device as claimed in claim 12, wherein the external storage device
unit assembly (7) interfaces with the external storage device main assembly (1').
An external storage device as claimed in claim 11,

   wherein the first face of the substrate (3) having a first region and a second region, and
the wiring pattern formed on the first face which extends from the first region to the second

region,

   wherein the storage element mounted in the first region of the first face of the substrate
(3), and the input/output terminal connected with the wiring pattern in the first region, and

   wherein the sealing resin formed only on the first region of the first face of the
substrate (3) so as to seal the storage element.
An external storage device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the external storage device
module is placed into the recess of the support (6) so that a surface of the flat type external

connection terminal (1b) is substantially flushed with the surface of the support (6).
An external storage device as claimed in claim 21, wherein the storage element
mounted on the substrate (3) by flip chip bonding.
An external storage device as claimed in claim 20, wherein the storage element ounted
on the substrate (3) by wire bonding.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
