<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612331</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF PRODUCING POLYSACCHARIDE FOAMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L1516	A61L1528	A61L1542	C08J900	C08J900	C08J930	C08L500	C08L500	C08L504	C08L508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	C08J	C08J	C08J	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L15	A61L15	A61L15	C08J9	C08J9	C08J9	C08L5	C08L5	C08L5	C08L5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of producing a polysaccharide foam is provided. The method comprises mechanically foaming an aqueous solution of a soluble polysaccharide and thereafter reacting the foam to produce stable foam. Typically, the soluble polysaccharide is an alginate, hyaluronate, carrageenans, chitosan or starch.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALBANY INT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALBANY INTERNATIONAL CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKIS GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EAGLES DANA BURTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAGOORT THOMAS HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEFFERY ANDREW BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERMINGIS CONSTANTINOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKIS, GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EAGLES, DANA, BURTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAGOORT, THOMAS, HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEFFERY, ANDREW, BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERMINGIS, CONSTANTINOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD OF PRODUCING POLYSACCHARIDE FOAMSDESCRIPTIONThe present invention relates to a method of producing polysaccharide foams; in particular alginate, chitosan starch and hyaluronate foams. The invention also embraces polysaccharide foamed materials produced in accordance with the method of the invention and wound dressings, foamed cell culture replicating media, barrier media for preventing tissue adherence and other absorbent aterials comprising such foams.Alginates, particularly calcium alginates and converted calcium alginates, have long been known for their ability to form fibres and yarns which can be knitted into fabrics or formed into noπwoven materials primarily for use as swabs or dressings for medical, surgical or other purposes. 
For instance, British Patent Specification No. 1283399 describes and claims a method of preparing a εolublized calcium-containing alginate material which comprises acidifying calcium alginate with a calculated quantity of acid sufficient to remove a desired amount of calcium, reacting the acidified calcium alginate with an excess of base selected from amαonia, amines and substituted amines and washing the solubilized calcium-containing alginate to remove the excess of baεe.This material may be formed into a number of pieces of gauze which can then be further treated as described in the specification.British Patent Specification No. 1394742 relates to a surgical dressing material comprising a layer of knitted gauze adhered to a layer of fibrous backing material, the gauze comprising alginate material and the dressing material being of lower flexibility and stretchability than the gauze itself. 
British Patent Specification No. 1570485 relates to an absorbent material for aqueous luids which comprises an open cell foam containing within the cells a hydrophilic gel having specific properties. Typical of the hydrophilic gels is alginates. The specification describes the incorporation of these materials in a reticulated foam; the gel being contained within the cells of the foam thus providing an absorbent material.United States Patent Specification No. 4,421,583 relates to a non-woven alginate fabric useful as a wound dressing made by spreading a tow of calcium alginate filaments into a flow of water, over-feeding the spread filaments onto a water pervious support so that the filaments cross over each other, and drying the ilaments so that they became bonded to each other at their points of contact where they cross over. The filaments used have preferably been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
- 29 - CT-AIMS
1. A method of forming a polysaccharide foam, which method comprises preparing an aqueous solution including a soluble polysaccharide and thereafter mechanically foaming the solution.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the foam is produced by beating or otherwise mechanically agitating the material to cause the polysaccharide solution to foam.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the relative violence and/or period of the agitation or mechanical action is used to provide control over the foam pore size.
4. A method as claimed in claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the foam pore size is controlled in the range 5 - 500 μ. 

- 30 -
5. A method as claimed in any proceeding claim wherein the polysaccharide is selected from a soluble polysaccharide salt, a soluble alginate, a soluble hyaluronate, alginic acid, hyaluronic acid, carrageenans, chitosan, starch, amylose and amylopecti .
6. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the polysaccharide is chitosan foamed in an acidic solutio .
7. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the acid is removed or neutralised after foaming.
8. A method as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the acid is removed by volatilisation.
9. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the acid is acetic acid.
10. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the polysaccharide is starch, amylose or araylopectin foamed in a basic solution. 


 - 31 -
11. 
A
 method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein a foaming agent is included in the aqueous solution to assist in foaming the solution.
12. A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein the foaming agent is a surfactant.
13. A method as claimed in claim 12 wherein the surfactant is an ionic or non-ionic surfactant.
14. A method as claimed in Claim 11, Claim 12 or Claim 13 wherein the foaming agent is selected from sodium stearate, sodium dodecyl sulfate, alpha olefin sulfonates (commercially avaoiable under the trade name "Siponate 301-10"), sulfoalkyl amide, monocarboxyl coco imidazoline compounds, dicarboxyl coco imidazoline compounds, sulfated fatty polyoxyethylene quaterazy nitrogen coumpounds, octylphenol ethoxylate (commercially available from Rohm 
&
 Haas under the trade name TRITON X-100), modified linear aliphatic polyethers and sorbitan esters. 

- 32 -
15. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein a plasticizer is included in the aqueous solution.
16. A method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the plasticizer is selected from glycerol, glucose, polyhydric alcohols, triethanolamine and εtearates.
17. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein an oligomeric or polymeric foam modifier is included in the aqueous solution.
18. A method as claimed in Claim 17 wherein said foam modifier is selected from polyethylene glycol, guar gum albumin, gelatin, carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, polyacrylamide, polyacrylic acid, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyoxazoline and polyet-hyeneimine.
19. A method as claimed in Claim 17 or Claim 18 wherein the foam modifier is polyethylene glycol functionalised with vinyl groups, and the foam is irradiated to cause or allow polymerisation of the functionalised polyethylene glycol to form a polymer network in the foam. 


 - 33 -
20. 
A
 method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein t
h
e aqueous solution of polysaccharide includes a oam stabilizer to stabilize the resultant foam.
21. A method as claimed in Claim 20 wherein the foam stabilizer is selected from ammonium stearate, dodecyl alcohol, tθtradecanol, hexadecanol, tridecyloxpolyethanol and polyoxyethylated oleyla in .
22. A method as claimed in Claim 20 or Claim 21 wherein the polysaccharide foam, including foam stabilizer, is air dried after formation.
23. A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the resultant foam is cross-linked or coagulated to form a dimensionally stable foam.
24. A method as claimed in Claim 23 wherein the polysaccharide is selected from alginic acid, hyaluronic acid, a soluble alginate salt, a soluble hyaluronate salt and other soluble polysaccharides containing exchangeable counter-cations, and the 


 - 34 - cross-linking is effected by reacting the foamed polysaccharide with di- or tri-valent cations.
25. A method as claimed in Claim 24 wherein the polysaccharide foam is immersed in or sprayed with a solution of said di- or tri-valent cations.
26. A method as claimed in Claim 24 wherein an insoluble carbonate or hydrogen carbonate salt having one or more di- or tri-valent cations is homogeneously dispersed in the foamed polysaccharide, and the foaro is subsequently treated with a strong acid thereby to liberate carbon dioxide as a gas and the cations which then cross-link with the polysaccharide.
27. A method as claimed in Claim 26 wherein the strong acid has a concentration up to IN, typically 0.1 0.2N.
28. A method as claimed in Claim 26 or 27 wherein calcium carbonate is used as an insoluble carbonate salt. 

29. A method as claimed in any of Cla s 24 to 28 wherein the cations are selected from Ca2+(aq) , Fe2+(aq) and Fe3+(aq).
30. A method as claimed in any of Claims 24 to 29 wherein the cross-linked foam is "converted" by treatment with an aqueous solution of a reagent having solubilising mono-valent cations so that a proportion of the cross-linking di- or tri-valents cations in the foam are replaced by the mono-valent cations thereby imparting a degree of solubility in the foam.
31. A method claimed in Claim 30 wherein the reagent is selected from sodium acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid.
32. A method as claimed in Claim 30 or claim 31 wherein the treatment is performed at a pH in the range 4 -7.
33. A method as claimed in Claim 23 wherein the polysaccharide is chitosan, and the chitosan foam is coagulated by a treatment with base. 

- 36 -
34. A method as claimed in Claim 33 wherein said base is sodium hydroxide solution.
35. A method as claimed in Claim 23 wherein the polysaccharide is chitosan, and the chitosan foam is cross-linked by ionic bonding by treatment with an aqueous solution of polyvalent anions.
3 . A method as claimed in Claim 35 wherein one or more of sodium sulfate, octyl sulfate, lauryl sulfate, hexadecylεulfate, tripolyphosphate, pyrophospate and octapolyphospate are used as a source of polyvalent anions.
37. A method as claimed in Claim 23 wherein the polysaccharide is chitosan, and the chitosan foam is cross-linked by covalent bonding by treatment with a dialdehyd .
38. A method as claimed in Claim 37 wherein said dialdehyde is selected from glyoxal, glutaraldehyde and dialdehyde starch. 

- 37 -
39. A method as claimed in Claim '23 wherein the polysaccharide is starch, and the starch foam is coagulated by treatment with aqueous axmnonium sulfate.
40. A method as claimed in Claim 23 where the polysaccharide is starch, and the starch foam is cross-linked by treatment with formaldehyde.
41. A method as claimed in Claim 40, wherein said treatment is performed in the liquid or gaseous phase.
42. A method as claimed in Claim 40 or Claim 41 wherein said treatment is performed in an alcohol solvent.
43. A method as claimed in any of Claims 23 to 42 wherein the cross-linked or coagulated polysaccharide foam is dried in air.
44. A method as claimed in Claim 43 wherein the dry, cross-linked or coagulated foam is washed with water and then redried. 


 - 38 -
45. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the aqueous solution of polysaccharide further comprises one or more ingredients selected from particulate fillers, barium sulfate, pulp-like fibres of cellulose or other fibrous materials, and moisture retaining or reinforcing filler materials.
46. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the foam is bleached.
47. A method as claimed in claim 46 wherein the bleach is included in the aqueous solution of polysaccharide.
48. A method as claimed in Claim 46 or Claim 47 wherein the bleach is selected from hydrogen peroxide and sodium hypochlorite.
49. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the foam, when wet, is cast as a layer or as a shaped article. 

- 39 -
50. A method as claimed in Claim 49 wherein the foam is cast in the form of buttons, beads, balls, cylinders or hemispheres or i the shape of a part of a human or animal body.
51. A -method as claimed in Claim 49 wherein the foam is cast as a layer on substrate.
52. A method as claimed in Claim 51 wherein the substrate is a woven or non-woven fibrous article, a film, a foam or another layer of polysaccharide.
53. A method as claimed in Claim 52 wherein the other layer of polysaccharide foam has a different mean pore size and/or pore size distribution from the first mentioned foam cast thereon.
54. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the foam is cast as a thin foam layer having a thickness of up to about 1 mm.
55. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 - 53 wherein the foam is cast as a thick foam layer having a thickness of up to about 5 cm. 


 - 40 -
56. A method as claimed in Claim 55 wherein the thick foam layer has an interior layer of "collapsed" foam and the foam material juxtaposed the surface of the foam is not significantly collapsed.
57. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein a beneficial agent formulation is included in the aqueous solution.
58. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 - 56 wherein the foam is sprayed with or immersed in a solution containing a beneficial agent formulation.
59. A method as cl med in Claim 57 or Claim 58 wherein the beneficial agent formulation is in solid, particulate form which is dispersed throughout the structure of the foam.
60. A method as claimed in Claim 57 or Claim 58 wherein the formulation includes a beneficial agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient therefor. 

61. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 - 56 wherein living cells capable of producing a beneficial agent formulation are dispersed in the structure of the foam.
62. A polysaccharide foam produced in accordance with a method as claimed in any of Claims 1 - 56.
63. A wound dressing comprising a polysaccharide foam as claimed in Claim 62.
64. A cell culture replicating medium comprising a polysaccharide foam as claimed in Claim 62.
65. A cell culture replicating medium as claimed in Claim 64 having cells to be replicated disposed in the pores of the foam.
66. A cell culture replicating medium as clai-med in Claim 64 or claim 65 wherein the cell culture replicating medium constitutes an implant. 

67. A barrier medium for preventing tissue adherence comprising a polysaccharide foam as claimed in claim 62.
68. A delivery device for deliverying a beneficial agent to an environment of use, wherein said delivery device comprises a foam produced in accordance with a method as claimed in any of Claims 57 - 61.
69. A delivery device as elai-med in Claim 68 wherein the beneficial agent formulation can be delivered transdermally.
70. A polysaccharide foam, wound dressing, cell culture replicating medium, barrier medium or delivery device as claimed in any of Claims 62 - 69 including a wet foam; wherein the wet foam is stored under pressure.
71. A polysaccharide foam, wound dressing, cell culture replicating medium, barrier medium or delivery device aβ claimed in Claim 70 wherein the wet foam is stored in a pressurised dispenser. 

72. A polysaccharide foam, wound dressing, cell culture replicating medium, barrier medium or delivery device as claimed in Claim 71 wherein said pressurised dispenser is a spray can.
73. A polysaccharide foam, wound dressing, cell culture replicating medium, barrier medium or delivery device as claimed in any of Claims 70 - 72 wherein the wet foam is incorporated with a propellant.
74. A polysaccharide foam, wound dressing, cell culture replicating medium, barrier medium or delivery device as claimed in Claim 73 wherein the propellant is selected from a gaseous lower alkane propellant, nitrogen and carbon dioxide. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
