<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640220</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING USING PATTERN RECOGNITION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5055	G01R3354	G01R3356	G01R3354	G06T100	G06T500	G06T500	G06T100	A61B5055	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	G01R	G01R	G01R	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	G06T1	G06T5	G06T5	G06T1	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV WASHINGTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH JUSTIN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, JUSTIN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and in
particular to the application of pattern recognition methods to MRI.In a typical medical application of MRI, a patient is placed within the bore
of a large, donut-shaped magnet. The magnet creates a static magnetic field that
extends along the long (head-to-toe) axis of the patient's body. An antenna (e.g., a
coil of wire) is also positioned within the bore of the large magnet, and is used to
create an oscillating radiofrequency field that selectively excites hydrogen atoms
(protons) in the patient's body into oscillation. The oscillating field is then turned
off, and the antenna is used as a receiving element, to detect the proton oscillations
as a function of position within the body. Typically, the intensity of the
oscillations is measured throughout a two-dimensional plane. When the intensities
are displayed as a function of position in this plane, the result is an image that
often bears a striking resemblance to the actual anatomic features in that plane.The intensity of proton oscillations detected at a given point in the patient's
body is proportional to the proton density at that point. Because different types of
tissues have different proton densities, different tissue types usually have different
image intensities, and therefore appear as distinct structures in the MR image.
However, the signal intensity also depends on physical and chemical properties of
the tissues being imaged. In a simplified model of MRI, the detected signal
intensity, as a function of position coordinates x and y in the plane being imaged,
is proportional to 
(1 - e-TR/T1) e -TE/T2
The parameters TR (recovery time) and TE (echo delay time) are under the control
of the operator of the MR imaging system, and are constants for any given image.
However, T1 and T2 are functions of the tissue under examination, and therefore
vary with position in the x-y plane. By suitable selection of parameters TR and
TE, either the T1 or the T2 term in Equation 1 can be made to dominate, thereby
producing so-called "T1 - weighted" and "T2 - weighted" images, respectively.One of the more important medical uses to which MRI has been put to date
is to noninvasively scan a portion of a patient's body, in an attempt to identify
benign or malignant tumors. When MRI is used in this fashion, it is necessary to
have some methodology for concluding that a given portion of an MR image
represents tumor, as opposed to other tissue types such as fat, cyst, etc. One
known approach
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to produce an
image of a body, the method comprising the steps of:


using an MRI apparatus to produce a training set comprising one or more
training samples, the training set being formed from a plurality of congruent first

images of a training region of the body, each first image being produced using an
MRI pulse sequence different from the pulse sequences used to produce the other

first images, each first image comprising an array of pixels, each training sample
comprising a spatially aligned set of pixels from each first image;
using an MRI apparatus to produce a test set comprising a plurality of test
samples, the test set being formed from a plurality of congruent second images of a

test region of the same body, the second images being produced using the same
MRI pulse sequences as the first images, each second image comprising an array of

pixels, each test sample comprising a spatially aligned set of pixels from each
second image;
producing similarity data indicating, for each test sample, the degree of
similarity between the test sample and the training samples; and
producing a display based upon the similarity data.
The method of Claim 1, wherein the training set comprises a
plurality of training samples.
The method of Claim 2, wherein for each test sample, the similarity
data is produced by determining similarity values that represent the similarity

between each training sample and the test sample, and then selecting the greatest
similarity value.
The method of Claim 2, wherein for each test sample, the similarity
data is produced by determining the similarity of the test sample to an average of

the training samples. 
The method of Claim 1, wherein the MRI pulse sequences comprise
a T1-weighted pulse sequence, a multiple spin echo pulse sequence, and an STIR

pulse sequence.
The method of Claim 1, wherein the step of producing a display
comprises displaying a selected one of the second images, and visually highlighting

those portions of the selected second image that correspond to the test samples
having the highest degree of similarity.
The method of Claim 6, wherein that the selected second image is
display
ed using a grey scale, and wherein the highlighting is performed in color.
The method of Claim 1, wherein the first and second images are the
same as one another, the training and test sets being formed from different portions

thereof corresponding to the training and test regions respectively.
The method of Claim 1, wherein the first and second images are
different from one another, and wherein the training region and test region

comprise different portions of the body.
The method of Claim 9, wherein the first and second images are
produced using the same MRI apparatus.
The method of Claim 1, wherein the first and second images are
different from one another, and wherein the training region and test region

represent the same region of the body, the first and second images being produced
at different times.
The method of Claim 1, wherein the display identifies the test
samples having the highest degree of similarity to the training samples.
The method of Claim 1, comprising the further steps of converting
the similarity data into a similarity image.
The method of Claim 13, comprising the further step of combining
the similarity image with one of the second images to produce the display. 
The method of Claim 14, wherein the similarity image comprises a
plurality of pixels, and wherein the combining step comprises adjusting the

intensity of the pixels of the similarity image that are above a predetermined
threshold to produce a modified similarity image, and subtracting the modified

similarity image from the selected second image.
The method of Claim 1, wherein each pixel comprises a pixel value
corresponding to the intensity of a magnetic resonance signal from a corresponding

position within the body, wherein the training set includes at least one spatial
correlation image corresponding to and congruent with one of the first images, the

spatial correlation image comprising an array of spatial correlation pixels, each
spatial correlation pixel having a pixel value that is a predetermined function of

one or more neighboring pixel values in said corresponding one first image,
wherein each training sample comprises a spatially aligned set of pixels from each

first image and from each first spatial correlation image, wherein the test set
includes at least one second spatial correlation image corresponding to and

congruent with one of the second images, the second spatial correlation image
comprising an array of second spatial correlation pixels, each second spatial

correlation pixel having a pixel value that is a predetermined function of one or
more neighboring pixel values in said corresponding second image, each test

sample comprising a spatially aligned set of pixels from each second image and
from each second spatial correlation image.
The method of Claim 16, wherein said predetermined function is an
average value function.
The method of Claim 16, wherein two spatial correlation images are
generated for each of the first and second images, one in which the spatial

correlation pixel values are averages of the first nearest neighbor pixels, and the
other in which the spatial correlation pixel values are averages of the second

nearest neighbor pixels.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
