<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652131</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vehicle seat with extruded frame members
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60N268	B60N268	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60N	B60N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60N2	B60N2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vehicle seat in which the cushion frame is formed by 
extruded frame members that are extruded as a long rail and 

then cut to the desired length for the seat assembly. The 
remaining components of the seat frame are universal and can 

be used with a seat of any width. The seat structure enables 
the seat manufacturer to stock a minimum number of components 

for seats of varying widths and can easily change from 
production of seats of one width to seats of a different width. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOOVER UNIVERSAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOOVER UNIVERSAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYAN THOMAS M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYAN, THOMAS M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to vehicle seats and in
particular to seats having elongated frame members made by
extrusion, cut to length and assembled to slide rails to reduce
the total number of components in the seat and to enable the
use of the same components in seats of different widths.Vehicle seats are typically constructed with a frame
having three major components. At the base of the seat, the
frame forms a pair of slide tracks with one slide track
extending fore and aft along each lateral side of the seat.
Each slide track includes a fixed rail mounted to a vehicle
body and a slide rail movable fore and aft upon the fixed rail.
A latch mechanism is provided to lock the slide rail in an
adjusted position. The slide rail may include a riser which
extends upwardly for attachment of additional frame components
to the slide tracks. In any case, a cushion frame, generally
rectangular in shape, is attached to the slide rails and
supports a horizontal seat cushion.The rectangular cushion frame typically carries a web, mat
or spring suspension spanning laterally across the frame which
in turn supports a foam pad. The suspension transfers the
seating load to the side fore and aft extending members of the
rectangular cushion frame. A portion of this seating load is
then transferred to the front and rear lateral frame members
of the cushion frame as a horizontal force component. The
horizontal force applied to the front and rear lateral frame
members of the cushion frame is contained within the 
rectangular cushion frame and is not transferred to the slide
rails.A back frame forms the third major component of the seat
frame and is attached either to the slide rails or to the rear
of the cushion frame. The back frame extends generally
upwardly from the cushion frame and is generally rectangular
in shape but may taper upwardly. A spring wire suspension
extends vertically or horizontally across the frame to support
a seat back foam pad. The back frame is often pivotally
mounted for rotation about a transverse axis at the lower end
of the back frame. A recliner mechanism is provided to lock
the back frame in an adjusted position.The cushion frame is typically formed of several stamped
metal components which are welded together to form the
rectangular frame. The frame generally includes front and rear
laterally extending frame members and left and right fore and
aft extending frame members. For each different size seat
produced by a manufacturer, different length frame members are
needed. A seat manufacturer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vehicle seat having a generally horizontal
cushion section (12) and opposite lateral sides;

   a frame for said section comprising a pair
of elongated frame members (46,47) arranged in a spaced and

generally parallel relation with each other, each of said frame
members (46,47) having a pair of ends and being substantially

straight between said ends, means (40,42) connected to and
extended between said frame members so as to maintain said

frame members in said spaced parallel relation with each other,
each of said frame members being of a structural load carrying

shape and having a uniform cross section enabling forming of
said frame members of extrusion of long members which can be

cut into the desired lengths for the frame members of said
section; characterised in that:


each of said frame members extends laterally of the
seat, is hollow and has projection means (54,56,68,70) which

extends in a direction away from the other one of said frame
members; and by
a load supporting web (72) having ends and
extending between said frame members, said web having mounting

means (74,76) secured to the ends thereof for coupling with
said projection means (54, 56, 68, 70) to mount said web to

said frame members and to maintain said web in a generally taut
condition between said frame members, said frame members

constituting the sole support for said web on said frame.
A seat according to claim 1 further comprising:

a pair of fore and aft extending slide tracks (28,
40), one slide track of said pair of slide tracks being

disposed on each lateral side of said seat, each slide track
including a fixed rail (28) adapted to be mounted to a vehicle

body and a slide rail (40) movable fore and aft along said
fixed rail; and
the ends of said frame members (46, 47) being
connected to said slide rails (40) whereby said slide rails

form said means connected to and extending between the ends of
said frame members so as to maintain said frame members in said 

spaced parallel relation with each other.
A seat according to claim 2 wherein said means for
connecting said frame members (44, 46) at said ends to said

slide rails (40) includes a pair of connecting blocks (80) with
one connecting block disposed at each end of one of said frame

members, said connecting blocks (80) being attached to said
slide rails (40) and the ends of said one frame member being

coupled to said connecting blocks through a telescopic coupling
between said one frame member and said connecting

blocks.
A seat according to claim 3 wherein said one frame
member (44) is bonded to said connecting blocks (80) by an

adhesive.
A seat according to claim 3 or 4 wherein said
connecting blocks (80) are hollow bodies and the ends of said

one frame member are disposed within said hollow connecting
blocks.
A seat according to claim 3, 4 or 5 wherein said
connecting blocks (80) have uniform cross sections along

lengths of said connecting blocks enabling said connecting
blocks to be extruded as a long member and cut to desired

lengths.
A seat according to claim 3 or 4 wherein said one
frame member (138) is an elongated hollow body open at said

ends and a portion (182) of each connecting block (170) is
telescoped into the open ends of said one frame member.
A seat according to claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6
wherein one of said frame members (44) has an elongated

triangular hollow body (47) with three sides with one of said three
sides (52) being inclined downwardly and toward said other

frame member (46).
A seat according to claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 
wherein one of said frame members (46) has an elongated

quadrilateral hollow body (58) having four sides with one of
said four sides (44) being inclined downwardly and toward said

other frame member (44).
A seat according to claim 1, 2, 3, 4, or 7 wherein
one of said frame members (138) has an elongated hollow body

(144) with a pair of channels (146, 148) extending lengthwise
therethrough with said channels being separated by a wall

(150).
A seat according to claim 1 or 10 wherein said
frame members (136, 138) of said pair of frame members are

substantially identical to one another in cross section.
A seat according to claim 5 further comprising a
generally upright back section (14) and wherein said connecting

blocks connect said rear frame member to said slide rails, said
connecting blocks extending upwardly above said rear frame

member and forming a mounting boss (88) for attaching said back
section to said connecting blocks.
A seat according to claim 12 wherein said back
section (14) is pivotally mounted for rotation about a pivot

axis and further comprising recliner means (96-132) for holding
said back section in an adjusted angular position and for

selectively releasing said back section for rotation to change
the adjusted angular position of said back section, said

recliner comprising a selectively variable length mechanism
(104) having first and second spaced ends, said first end (102)

being coupled to said back section at a location spaced from
said pivot axis and said second end being coupled to one of

said slide rails (40) adjacent to said front frame member by
said means (43) for connecting said frame members to said slide

rails.
A seat according to claim 13 further comprising one
of said selectively variable length mechanisms disposed along

each side of said seat. 
A seat according to claim 10 wherein said
connecting blocks each have a forked body (182) with a pair of

extending tines (184, 186) with one of said tines being
inserted into each of said channels (144, 148) in said one

frame member whereby said connecting blocks form said means for
connecting said one frame member to said slide rails at said

ends of said one frame member.
A vehicle seat according to claim 15 wherein said
front and rear frame members are identical with one another,

said seat comprising four said connecting blocks with two
connecting blocks being attached to each of said slide rails

and spaced from one another, whereby said connecting blocks
form said means for connecting said frame members to said slide

rails at said ends of said frame members so as to maintain said
frame members in said spaced parallel relation with each other.
A vehicle seat according to any one of the
preceding claims wherein said frame is a cushion frame.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
