<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618430</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor processing technique, including pyrometric measurement of radiantly heated bodies
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B362	G01J500	G01J500	G01J510	H05B362	G01J510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	G01J	G01J	G01J	H05B	G01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B3	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	H05B3	G01J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a process for heating, e.g., a semiconductor wafer within a processing 
chamber, the wafer is exposed to a flux of electromagnetic radiation from lamps 

energized by alternating electric current. The surface temperature of the wafer is 
measured, and responsively, the radiation flux is controlled. The temperature 

measurement procedure includes collecting radiation propagating away from the 
wafer in a first light-pipe probe, collecting radiation propagating toward the wafer in 

a second light-pipe probe, and detecting radiation collected in the respective probes. 
This procedure further involves determining, in the signal received from each probe, 

a magnitude of a time-varying component resulting from time-variations of the 
energizing current, and combining at least these magnitudes according to a 

mathematical expression from which the temperature can be inferred. At least some 
of the radiation collected by the second probe is collected after reflection from a 

diffusely reflecting surface. The second probe effectively samples this radiation 
from an area of the diffusely reflecting surface that subtends a solid angle Ω₂ at the 

wafer surface. The first probe effectively samples radiation from an area of the 
wafer that subtends a solid angle Ω₁ at the first probe. The radiation sampling is 

carried out such that Ω₂ is at least about Ω₁. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIORY ANTHONY THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIORY, ANTHONY THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of pyrometry, and more particularly, to
pyrometric observation of radiantly heated semiconductor wafers within reactors or
furnaces designed for rapid thermal processing.In rapid thermal processing (RTP), workpieces such as semiconductor
wafers can be subjected to specified temperature cycles of arbitrary complexity. For
this reason, RTP is useful for carrying out thermally dependent processes, such as
diffusion and annealing, in the course of manufacturing integrated circuits.
However, some of these processes require the temperature to be controlled within
limits as small as ± 10°C or less. Such fine control is possible only if the wafer
temperature can be measured to precision that is comparably high. Although
thermocouples installed directly on the wafers will give precise temperature
measurements, the instrumented wafers will generally be unsuitable for forming into
integrated circuits. If thermocouples are installed on only a few wafers in each
batch, individual variations between wafers and between locations within the RTP
reactor may cause unacceptable deviations between the actual and inferred
temperatures of the non-instrumented wafers.Optical pyrometry is a useful alternative to direct instrumentation of the
wafers within the reactor. One pyrometric technique has been described in U.S
Patent No. 5,154,512, issued to C.W. Schietinger et al. on October 13, 1992. This
technique is schematically illustrated in FIG. 1. According to this technique, a first
light-pipe probe 10 is provided, having an input aperture that faces wafer 20, and a
second probe 30 is provided having an aperture that faces one of opposing lamp
banks 40, which are typically linear arrays of quartz-tungsten-iodine lamps situated
outside of processing chamber 50. First probe 10 samples radiation emitted and
reflected by the wafer and directs the sampled radiation into detector 60. Second
probe 30 samples radiation emitted by the lamps and directs the sampled radiation
into the detector. Probe 30 receives radiation both in a direct path from the lamps
and also by reflection from reflector 80. The emissivity ε of the wafer is inferred
from the probe signals, and then the wafer temperature is inferred from the Planck
radiation law, which relates the wafer thermal emittance w, the wafer emissivity ε,
and the wafer temperature T. As noted, the first probe signal is a sum of emitted and reflected
radiation. Information sufficient to resolve the emitted and reflected components is
available because
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for heating a body, comprising the steps of exposing the
body to a controllable flux of electromagnetic radiation from at least one lamp

energized by time-varying electric current, measuring the surface
temperature of the body, and in response to the temperature measurement,

controlling the flux of radiation, wherein the measuring step comprises:

a) collecting radiation emitted and reflected by the body in a first light-pipe
probe and detecting said radiation, leading to a first probe signal

denoted S
1,
b) collecting a portion of radiation propagating toward the body in a
second light-pipe probe, said portion comprising radiation reflecting from a

diffuseively refelctive surface, and detecting said radiation, leading to a
second probe signal denoted S
2
;
c) determining magnitudes of time-varying components of S
1
 and S
2
,
said magnitudes respectively denoted ΔS
1
 and ΔS
2
; and
d) mathematically combining S
1
, S
2
, ΔS
1
, and ΔS
2
 such that a
temperature of the body is calculated,

   CHARACTERIZED IN THAT

e) in step (a), the first probe effectively samples radiation from an area
of the body that subtends a solid angle Ω
1
 at the first probe;
f) in step (b), the second probe effectively samples radiation from an
area of the diffusively reflective surface that subtends a solid angle Ω
2
 at the
nearest surface of the body wherein the second probe effectively samples

radiation from an area of the diffusively reflective surface that is at least
about ten times the body area effectively sampled by the first probe and

wherein the area sampled by the second probe is sufficient to approximate
hemispherical reflectivity.
Process of claim 1, wherein the radiation portion of step (b) includes
radiation directly incident on the second probe from the lamp.
Process of claim 1, wherein the body has first and second opposing
principal surfaces, in the exposing step lamp radiation is directly impinged only on

the first principal surface, the diffusively reflective surface is situated adjacent the
second principal surface, and the second probe is situated intermediate the

diffusively reflective surface and the second principal surface. 
Process of claim 3, wherein the second probe includes a conical end
portion directed toward the diffusively reflective surface, said end portion has a

frosted surface, and step (b) comprises collecting radiation that impinges on the
frosted surface from all azimuthal directions and is scattered by the frosted surface.
Process of claim 3, wherein the second probe includes at least one
horizontal segment extending parallel to the second principal surface, the horizontal

segment has a surface portion facing the second principal surface that is at least
partially diffusively reflective, and step (b) comprises collecting radiation scattered

by the diffusively reflective surface portion.
Process of claim 1, wherein the body has at least a first principal
surface, in the exposing step lamp radiation is directly impinged at least on the first

principal surface, the diffusively reflective surface is situated adjacent the first
principal surface, the lamp is situated substantially within a plane intermediate the

diffusively reflective surface and the first principal surface, and the second probe is
situated intermediate the lamp plane and the first principal surface.
Process of claim 6, wherein the second probe includes at least one
horizontal segment extending parallel to the second principal surface, the horizontal

segment has a surface portion facing the first principal surface that is at least
partially diffusively reflective, and step (b) comprises collecting radiation scattered

by the diffusively reflective surface portion.
Process of claim 1, wherein:

each probe has a forward and a backward hemispherical receptivity and
an isotropy parameter defined as the ratio of the backward to the forward receptivity;
step (d) comprises calculating an effective reflectivity 
r
 of the body that
depends upon the ratio 
R
 defined by the expression 
R
 =  Δ
S
1
 / Δ
S
2
 ; and
step (d) further comprises correcting the ratio 
R
 for the existence of at
least one isotropy parameter that is greater than zero.
Process of claim 1, wherein step (c) is carried out by calculating the
time-dependent second moments of 
S
1
 and 
S
2
, leading to calculations of Δ
S
1
 and
Δ
S
2
, respectively. 
Process of claim 1, wherein:

the second probe effectively samples radiation from an area of the
diffusively reflective surface that includes at least two points at least 1 cm apart;
the second probe collects radiation from a respective cone emanating
from each said point, each said cone having a central core that contains 50% of the

total power radiated into the cone; and
said central cores have the same angular orientation and substantially
differ only in their translational positions.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
