<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642081</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL STORAGE SYSTEM AND METHOD HAVING ALTERNATING DEFERRED UPDATING OF MIRRORED STORAGE DISKS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F306	G06F306	G06F1120	G06F1120	G06F1200	G06F1200	G06F1216	G06F1216	G11B2700	G11B2700	G11C2900	G11C2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G11B	G11B	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F11	G06F11	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G11B27	G11B27	G11C29	G11C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fault-tolerant high performance mirrored disk subsystem is 
described which has an improved disk writing scheme that 

provides high throughput for random disk writes and at the same 
time guarantees high performance for disk reads. The subsystem 

also has an improved recovery mechanism which provides fast 
recovery in the event that one of the mirrored disks fails and 

during such recovery provides the same performance as during 
non-recovery periods. 
Data blocks or pages which are to be written to disk are 
temporarily accumulated and sorted (or scheduled) into an order 

(or schedule) which can be written to disk efficiently, which 
in a preferred embodiment is in accordance with the physical 

location on disk at which each such block will be written. 
This also generally corresponds to an order which is 

encountered by a write head during a physical scan of a disk. 
The disks of a mirrored pair are operated out of phase with 

each other, so that one will be in read mode while the other is 
in write mode. Updated blocks are written out to the disk that 

is in write mode in sorted order, while guaranteed read 
performance is provided by the other disk that is in read mode. 

When a batch of updates has been applied to one disk of a 
mirrored pair, the mirrored pair switch their modes, and the 

other disk is updated. Preferably the updates are kept in a 
non-volatile memory, which furthermore advantageously may be 

made fault-tolerant as well. 
During recovery a pair of spare alternating mirrored disks is 
introduced to which new updates are directed, while a 

background scan process copies data from the surviving disk to 
the new mirrored pair. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHIDE, ANUPAM KESHAV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIAS, DANIEL MANUEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLYZOIS, CHRISTOS ALKIVIADIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to fault tolerant digital 
storage disk systems and more particularly to digital storage 
disk systems of the mirrored disk type in which reliability is 
provided by storing digital information in duplicate on two 
separate storage disks. As the requirements for On-Line Database Transaction Processing 
(OLTP) grow, high transaction rates on the order of thousands 
of transactions per second must be supported by OLTP systems. 
Furthermore, these applications call for high availability and 
fault tolerance. In applications such as OLTP, a large fraction 
of the requests are random accesses to data. Since a large 
fraction of the data resides on disks, the disk sub-systems 
must therefore support a high rate of random accesses, on the 
order of several thousands of random accesses per second. 
Furthermore, the disks need to be fault tolerant to meet the 
availability needs of OLTP. Whenever a random access is made to a disk, in general the disk 
must rotate to a new orientation such that the desired data is 
under a disk arm and the read/write head on that disk arm must 
also move along the arm to a new radial position at which the 
desired data is under the read/write head. Unfortunately 
performance of this physical operation, and therefore random 
disk Input/Output (I/O) performance is not improving as fast as 
other system parameters such as CPU MIPS. Therefore, 
applications such as OLTP, where random access to data 
predominates, have become limited by this factor, which is 
referred to in this art as being disk arm bound. In systems 
which are disk arm bound, the disk cost is becoming an ever 
larger fraction of the system cost. Thus, there is a need for a  
 
disk sub-system which can support a larger rate of random 
accesses per second with a better price-performance 
characteristic than is provided by traditional disk systems. Both mirrored disk systems and RAID disk systems (for Redundant 
Array of Independent Disks) have been used to provide fault 
tolerant disk systems for OLTP. In a mirrored disk system, the 
information on each disk is duplicated on a second (and 
therefore redundant) disk. In a RAID array, the information at 
corresponding block locations on several disks is used to 
create a parity block on another disk. In the event of 
failure, any one of the disks in a RAID array can be 
reconstructed from the others in the array. RAID architectures 
require less disks for a specified storage capacity, but 
mirrored disks generally perform better. In an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem for storing data 
blocks of digital information for a computer system, 

comprising: 
a mirrored pair of disks for storing data blocks of 

digital information in duplicate on both disks of said 
mirrored pair; 

a controller for said mirrored pair of disks, said 
controller having a memory; 

said controller temporarily accumulating data blocks 
provided by said computer system in said memory until 

storage thereof in duplicate on both disks of said 
mirrored pair; 

said controller scheduling said data blocks accumulated in 
said memory in an order for efficient writing to said 

mirrored pair of disks; 
said controller having a first mode of operation in which 

one disk of said mirrored pair is in write mode while the 
other disk of said mirrored pair is in read mode and a 

second mode of operation in which said one disk is in read 
mode while said other disk is in write mode; 

said controller copying from said memory onto said one 
disk during said first mode of operation data blocks in 

scheduled order that have not been already written to said 
one disk and copying from said memory onto said second 

disk during said second mode of operation data blocks in 
scheduled order that have not been already written to said 

other disk;
 

said controller operating said mirrored pair of disks in 
said first mode of operation during spaced time intervals 

and in said second mode of operation during at least a 
portion of the time between said spaced time intervals; 

and 
said controller providing a requested data block to said 

computer system from said memory if said requested data 
block is in said memory, and otherwise from said other 

disk if said mirrored pair of disks is operating in said 
first mode of operation and from said one disk if said 

mirrored pair of disks is operating in said second mode of 
operation, 

whereby data blocks are written onto said mirrored pair of 
disks in scheduled order without interference from or with 

the reading of data blocks requested by said computer 
system. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said controller is implemented by software 

in said computer system and said memory of said controller 
is a portion of the general storage resources of said 

computer system. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said controller and memory are implemented 

with dedicated hardware. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said memory is non-volatile. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said memory is fault-tolerant. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said first mode of operation is scheduled 

to start periodically. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said data blocks are scheduled in an order 

which corresponds to a physical scan of an entire disk. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said controller makes a single scan 

through accumulated data blocks in scheduled order during 
said first mode of operation before changing modes. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said controller also has a third mode of 

operation during which both of said disks of said mirrored 
pair are in read mode and a requested data block may be 

retrieved from either of said disks of said mirrored pair 
in the event said requested data block is not in said 

memory. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 9 wherein said controller operates said mirrored 

pair of disks in said third mode of operation whenever 
said first mode of operation is terminated prior to a next 

scheduled start of said second mode of operation and 
whenever said second mode of operation is terminated prior 

to a next scheduled start of said first mode of operation. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 9 wherein during said third mode of operation, when 

a data block is requested by said computer system and is 
not present in said memory, said controller determines 

which one of said disks in said mirrored pair can deliver 
said requested data block in the shortest time and 

retrieves said requested data block from said determined 
disk. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said controller also has a fourth mode of 

operation during which both of said disks of said mirrored 
pair are operated in write mode. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 9 wherein said controller operates said mirrored 

pair of disks in said fourth mode of operation whenever 
all data blocks in scheduled order at the start of said 

first mode of operation have not been written to said one 
disk by the time said second mode of operation 
is 
scheduled to start again and whenever all data blocks in 

scheduled order at the start of said second mode of 
operation have not been written to said other disk by the 

time said first mode of operation is scheduled to start 
again. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 1 wherein said subsystem includes a spare pair of 

storage disks and in the event that only one of said disks 
of said mirrored pair remains operational, said controller 

augments said mirrored pair with said spare pair during a 
recovery mode of operation. 
A fault-tolerant disk storage subsystem as defined in 
Claim 14 wherein said controller during said recovery mode 

of operation places said disk that remains operational in 
read mode continuously until all blocks on said remaining 

operational disk have been transferred either to said 
memory or to one or both of the disks of said spare pair, 

at which time said spare pair replaces said mirrored pair, 
said remaining operational disk becomes a spare disk and 

said recovery mode of operation terminates. 
A method of storing data blocks of digital information 
received from a computer system in a storage subsystem 

having a mirrored pair of storage disks and for retrieving 
data blocks from said storage subsystem upon request from 

said computer system, comprising the steps of: 
temporarily accumulating a group of data blocks to be 

stored;
 

scheduling said accumulated group of data blocks in an 
order for efficient writing to said mirrored pair of 

disks; 
operating said mirrored pair of disks in a first mode of 

operation in which one disk of said mirrored pair is in 
write mode while the other disk of said mirrored pair is 

in read mode and in a second mode of operation in which 
said one disk is in read mode while said other disk is in 

write mode; 
copying onto said one disk during said first mode of 

operation ordered data blocks in said accumulated group 
that have not been already written to said one disk; 

copying onto said other disk during said second mode of 
operation ordered data blocks in said accumulated group 

that have not been already written to said other disk; 
operating said mirrored pair of disks in said first mode 

of operation during spaced time intervals and in said 
second mode of operation during at least a portion of the 

time between said spaced time intervals; and 
retrieving a data block requested by said computer system 

from said accumulated group if said requested data block 
is in said accumulated group, and otherwise from said 

other disk if said mirrored pair of disks is operating in 
said first mode of operation and from said one disk if 

said mirrored pair of disks is operating in said second 
mode of operation, 

whereby data blocks are written onto said mirrored pair of 
disks in scheduled order without interference from or with 

the reading of data blocks requested by said computer 
system. 
A method of storing data blocks of digital information as 
defined in Claim 16 and further comprising the step of 

deleting from said accumulated group any data blocks that 
have been written to both of said disks of said mirrored 

pair. 
A method as defined in Claim 17 and further comprising the 
step of associating first and second flags with each 

accumulated data block in said group, said first flag 
associated with any particular data group indicating 

whether or not said particular data group has been copied 
to said one disk and said second flag associated with said 

particular data group indicating whether or not said 
particular data group has been copied to said other disk. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
