<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642720</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DATA COMMUNICATION RECEIVER HAVING BURST ERROR PROTECTED DATA SYNCHRONIZATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B726	H04B726	H04J306	H04J306	H04L7033	H04L7033	H04L708	H04L708	H04L2722	H04L2722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04J3	H04J3	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A data communication receiver (106) providing burst error protected data synchronization comprises a receiver portion (804) for receiving and detecting synchronization data and message information. The synchronization data comprises at least first and second synchronization code words separated by a predetermined transmission time interval. A synchronization correlator (818, 1310 or 1330) correlates for the first synchronization code word, and in the absence of correlating the first synchronization code word, correlates for the second synchronization code word, thereby insuring synchronization with the received message information.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELUCA MICHAEL JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLARD DAVID FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELUCA, MICHAEL, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLARD, DAVID, FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DATA COMMUNICATION RECEIVERHAVING BURST ERROR PROTECTEDDATA SYNCHRONIZATIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONFIELD OF THE INVENTION:The present invention relates generally to the field of data communication receivers, and more particularly to a data communication receiver having burst error protected data synchronization.DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART: There are numerous data communication devices available in the marketplace today. An example of one such data communication device is a data communication receiver, such as an alphanumeric paging receiver. Such paging receivers have previously provided data communication capability by utilizing well known paging signaling protocols, such as the the POCSAG signaling protocol. While the POCSAG signaling protocol has provided a satisfactory level of performance for short message data transmission, there are encountered several problems with respect to long message data transmissions. Among these problems are early cancellation of message reception due to burst errors encountered on the transmission channel which corrupts the received data, and a limited battery saving duty cycle . When long messages are to be routinely processed, it is more desirable to extend operating battery life by increasing the battery saving duty cycle, i.e. the ratio of the time the receiver is off to the time the receiver is on. However, by providing longer receiver operating battery lives by increasing the battery saving duty cycle, the problem of burst error corruption of the received data makes it more difficult for the data receiver to obtain synchronization with the transmitted message information, even in satisfactory signal conditions. There 

is a need to provide a data communication receiver which has burst error protected data synchronization within a signaling protocol which offers improved receiver operational battery life and long message transmission capability.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn accordance with one aspect of the present invention, a data communication receiver which provides burst error protected data synchronization comprises a receiver portion for receiving and detecting data synchronization and message information, the data synchronization information comprising at least first and second synchronization code words separated by a predetermined time interval, a correlator, coupled to the receiver portion, correlates the detected first and second synchronization code words, and generates in response thereto first and second coded correlation detection signals. A block
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A data communication receiver, providing burst error protected data synchronization, comprising: a receiver portion for receiving and detecting synchronization data and message information, the synchronization data comprising at least first and second synchronization code words separated by a predetermined transmission time interval; means, coupled to said receiver portion, for correlating the detected first and second synchronization code words, and for generating in response thereto first and second coded correlation detection signals; means responsive to the first coded correlation detection signal, for generating a first block start signal, said means, being further responsive, in the absence of the first coded correlation detection signal, to the second coded correlation detection signal for generating a second block start signal; message decoding means, responsive to the first and second block start signals, for decoding the detected message information; and display means, coupled to said message decoding means, for displaying the decoded message information.
2. The data communication receiver according to claim 1, wherein the second synchronization code word is different than the first synchronization code word.
3. The data communication receiver according to claim 2, wherein the second synchronization code word is the complement of the first synchronization code word. 


4. The data communication receiver according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined time interval corresponds substantially to the average burst error duration expected on a data channel.
5. The data communication receiver according to claim 1, wherein the first and second block start signals identify a substantially identical point in time where message information decoding is to begin.
6. The data communication receiver according to claim 1, wherein the message information is transmitted in a sequence of frames including synchronization data and message information, and the synchronization data further includes frame information designating a frame number, and wherein the data communication receiver further comprises: battery saving means, for controlling the supply of power to said receiver portion; code memory means, for storing a predetermined frame number to which the data communication receiver is assigned; and frame word decoder means, responsive to the first and second block start signals and to the detected frame number, for generating a frame decode signal when the detected frame number matches the predetermined frame number, said battery saving means being responsive to the frame decode signal, for maintaining power to said receiver portion to enable the reception of the message information during the assigned frame. 


7. The data communication receiver according to claim 1, wherein the first and second coded synchronization code words are selected from a plurality of synchronization code words which designate message information transmission rates, and wherein said correlation means further generates a data rate signal indicative of the expected message information transmission rate.
8. The data communication receiver according to claim 7 wherein the data synchronization information further includes at least third and fourth synchronization code words separated by a second predetermined transmission time interval, and which are transmitted subsequent to the transmission of the first and second synchronization code words, and wherein the data communication receiver further comprises second means, responsive to the data rate signal, for correlating the third and fourth synchronization code words at the expected message information transmission rate, and for generating in response thereto third and fourth coded correlation detection signals, said generating means being further responsive to the third coded correlation detection signal, for further generating a third block start signal, said generating means being further responsive, in the absence of the third coded correlation detection signal, to the fourth coded correlation detection signal for generating a fourth block start signal, wherein said message decoding means, is further responsive to the tl ~d and fourth block start signals, for decoding the del . ted message information, and wherein said display means displays the decoded message information.
9. The data communication receiver according to claim 8 wherein the transmission rate of the first and 


second synchronization code words is the same as the message transmission rate.
10. The data communication receiver according to claim 8 wherein the transmission rate of the first and second synchronization code words is less than the message transmission rate.
11. The data communication receiver according to claim 8, wherein the third and fourth block start signals identify a substantially identical point in time where message information decoding is to begin. 

12. A data communication system providing burst error protected data synchronization, comprising: transmitting means comprising means for receiving message information designated for a data communication receiver, means for generating at least first and second synchronization code words, means for formatting the first and second synchronization code words with a predetermined time interval therebetween to derive synchronization data, said formatting means further formatting the synchronization data with message information, means for transmitting the synchronization data and message information on a data channel; and a data communication receiver comprising a receiver portion for receiving and detecting the transmitted synchronization data and message information; means, coupled to said receiver portion, for correlating the detected first and second synchronization code words, and for generating in response thereto first and second coded correlation detection signals; means responsive to the first coded correlation detection signal, for generating a first block start signal, said means, being further responsive, in the absence of the first coded correlation detection signal, to the second coded correlation detection signal for generating a second block start signal; message decoding means, responsive to the first and second block start signals, for decoding the detected message information; and display means, coupled to said message decoding means, for displaying the decoded message information.
13. The data communication receiver according to claim 12, wherein the second synchronization code word is different than the first synchronization code word. 


14. The data communication receiver according to claim 13, wherein the second synchronization code word is the complement of the first synchronization code word.
15. The data communication receiver according to claim 12, wherein the predetermined time interval corresponds substantially to the average burst error duration expected on the data channel.
16. The data communication receiver according to claim 12, wherein the first and second block start signals identify a substantially identical point in time where message information decoding is to begin. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
