<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612861</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for magnetron-enhanced plasma-assisted chemical vapor deposition.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1604	C23C1604	C23C1644	C23C1644	C23C16455	C23C16455	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plasma CVD reactor (30) and associated 
process use magnetic field (B) enhancement (54-55) to 

provide high quality, very high deposition rate 
metal, dielectric and conformal semiconductor films 

(5). The reactor and process are designed for 
automated, high-throughput, in-line small dimension 

VLSI integrated circuit fabrication, and are 
applicable to multistep in-situ processing. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOSTER ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAYDAN DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOMEKH SASSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG DAVID NIN-KOU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOSTER, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAYDAN, DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOMEKH, SASSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, DAVID NIN-KOU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In one aspect, the present invention relates to 
magnetron-enhanced plasma-assisted chemical vapor 
deposition (CVD) reactors and associated methods for 
performing high rate deposition of dielectric, 
semiconductor and conductor films. In addition, the 
technique can be used for low temperature nitridation 
and oxidation. In still other aspects, the invention 
relates to apparatus and methods for performing in-situ 
multiple integrated circuit processing steps, and to 
deposition techniques for implementing conformal 
coatings and planarization. The early gas chemistry deposition techniques which were 
applied to semiconductor integrated circuit fabrication 
used thermally-activated chemistry to deposit from a gas 
onto a heated substrate. Such chemical vapor deposition 
(CVD) of a solid onto a surface involves a heterogeneous 
surface reaction of gaseous species that adsorb onto the 
surface. The rate of film growth and the film quality 
depend on the surface temperature and on the gaseous 
species available.  More recently, plasma-enhanced low temperature deposition 
(and etching) techniques have been developed for 
depositing diverse materials, including metals such as 
aluminum and tungsten, dielectric films such as silicon 
nitride and silicon dioxide, and semiconductor films such 
as silicon. The plasma used in the plasma-assisted CVD processes is a 
low pressure reactant gas discharge which is developed in 
an RF field. The plasma is, by definition, an electrically 
neutral ionized gas in which there are equal number 
densities of electrons and ions. At the relatively low 
pressures used in plasma-assisted CVD, the discharge is 
in the "glow" region and the electron energies can be 
quite high relative to heavy particle energies. The very 
high electron temperatures increase the density of 
disassociated species within the plasma which are 
available for deposition on nearby surfaces (such as substrates). 
The enhanced supply of reactive free radicals 
makes possible the deposition of dense, good quality films 
at lower temperatures and at faster deposition rates 
(300-400 Angstroms per minute) than are possible using 
purely thermally-activated processes (100-200 Angstroms 
per minute). However, the deposition rates available 
using plasma-enhanced processes are still relatively low. 
In addition, there are other difficulties associated with 
chemical vapor deposition and plasma-enhanced CVD 
processes. These difficulties are discussed below.  Using plasma-assisted chemical vapor deposition,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for depositing a selected film on a 
substrate from a reactant gas plasma, comprising 

placing the substrate on a cathode within a vacuum 
processing chamber and forming a deposition reactant 

gas plasma within the chamber while applying a magnetic 
field substantially parallel to the substrate to form 

the film on the substrate. 
A method for depositing a selected film on a 
substrate from a reactant gas plasma, comprising placing 

the substrate on a cathode within a vacuum processing 
chamber and forming a deposition reactant gas plasma 

within the chamber while applying a magnetic field 
substantially parallel to the substrate to form the 

film on the substrate, the magnetic field being variable 
to control the film deposition rate and bombardment 

energy. 
A method of plasma vapor deposition, comprising 
providing a substrate support electrode in a vacuum 

processing chamber, evacuating the chamber, introducing 
reactant deposition gas to the chamber, and applying RF 

power to the chamber to generate a plasma from the 
reactant gas adjacent the electrode surface, applying a 

magnetic field to the chamber from an external source to 
provide an electron-trapping field adjacent the electrode 

to establish a selected chemical reaction of the 
substrate surface with the reactant gas plasma. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the pressure is 
varied to control the profile of the deposited film by 

in-situ physical sputtering of the film. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the magnetic field 
is varied to control film characteristics. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the magnetic field 
is varied to control film stress. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the magnetic field 
is changed from low to high frequency during deposition 

to control stress in the deposited film. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein a mixed high and low 
frequency magnetic field is used to control stress in 

the deposited film. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein etching reactant gas 
is added to the reactant gas to simultaneously etch 

the depositing film. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein etching reactant gas 
is added to the reactant gas to simultaneously etch 

the depositing film to control the film growth rate. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein etching reactant 
gas is added to the reactant gas to simultaneously etch 

the depositing film to control the film growth rate and 
step coverage profile. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein etching gas is added 
to the reactant gas to simultaneously etch the depositing 

film and thereby control the film growth rate; then the 
ratio of deposition gas flow to etching gas flow to the 

chamber is decreased to etch the deposited film. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the reactant gas 
is of composition selected to deposit a film selected 

from dielectric, metal and semiconductor compositions. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the reactant gas 
is of composition selected to deposit a dielectric 

film selected from silicon nitride, silicon oxynitride 
and silicon dioxide. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the film is selected 
from silicon nitride, silicon oxynitride and silicon 

oxide and wherein the deposition parameters are adaptable 
for providing a deposition rate of at least about 

5,000 Angstroms per minute. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the reactant gas 
flow rate and the magnetic field intensity are 

selected to deposit silicon nitride at a rate of 
up to at least about 5,000 Angstroms per minute. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the reactant gas 
is silane and nitrogen for depositing a silicon 

nitride film of low hydrogen content and wherein the 
reactant gas flow rate and the magnetic field intensity 

are selected to provide a silicon nitride deposition 
rate of up to at least about 5,000 Angstroms per minute. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the reactant gas 
flow rate and the magnetic field intensity are selected 

to deposit silicon oxynitride at a rate of up to at 
least about 5,000 Angstroms per minute. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein the reactant gas 
flow rate and the magnetic field intensity are selected 

to deposit silicon dioxide at a rate of up to at least 
about 5,000 Angstroms per minute. 
A silicon nitride film formed from a magnetic 
field-enhanced reactant gas plasma on a supporting 

substrate structure, characterized by hydrogen film 
content of less than about 13%, a wet buffered hydrogen 

fluoride etch rate of less than about 100 Angstroms 
per minute, and film stress of about 1 x 10¹⁰ dyne/cm². 
A silicon oxynitride film formed from a magnetic 
field-enhanced reactant gas plasma on a supporting 

substrate structure, characterized by hydrogen film 
content of less than about 8%, a wet buffered hydrogen 

fluoride etch rate of less than about 400 Angstroms per 
minute and film stress of about 1 x 10¹⁰ dyne/cm². 
A silicon dioxide film formed from a magnetic 
field-enhanced reactant gas plasma on a supporting 

substrate structure, characterized by a wet buffered 
hydrogen fluoride etch rate of less than about 1,100 

Angstroms per minute and film stress of about 
5 x 10⁹ dyne/cm². 
A vacuum reactor system for selectively depositing 
conductor, insulator or metal films on a substrate, 

comprising a vacuum chamber having a gas inlet adapted 
for introducing reaction gas into the chamber; an 

electrode mounted within the chamber and having at least 
one surface adapted for mounting a substrate thereon; 

vacuum means coupled to the chamber via an exhaust 
outlet; an RF power supply coupled to the electrode for 

generating a plasma in the reactant gas for deposition 
on a surface of the substrate; and magnetic field means 

for establishing a magnetic field substantially parallel 
to and adjacent to the electrod
e. 
The reactor system of Claim 23, in which the 
magnetic field means is adapted for varying the 

intensity of the magnetic field. 
The reactor system of Claims 23 or 24 in which 
the magnetic field means comprises a pair of coil 

electromagnets which are external to the chamber. 
The reactor system of Claims 23 or 24 in which 
the chamber is cylindrical and the magnetic field 

means comprises a pair of spaced coil electromagnets 
which are substantially concentric with the chamber 

and spaced a selected distance for providing a uniform 
magnetic field parallel to the chamber axis. 
The reactor system of Claim 23 in which the gas 
inlet includes a ring manifold configured to direct 

inlet gas flow toward the substrate. 
The reactor system of Claim 27 in which the chamber 
exhaust outlet is aligned with the substrate and the ring 

manifold for establishing gas flow across the substrate 
and through the ring to the exhaust outlet. 
The reactor system of Claim 23 in which the 
electrode is of polygonal cross section and has at 

least two surfaces adapted for mounting substrates. 
The reactor system of Claim 27 in which a gas inlet 
and chamber exhaust outlet are provided for each 

electrode substrate-mounting surface. 
A vacuum reactor system for selectively depositing 
conductor, insulator or metal films on a substrate, 

comprising a vacuum chamber having a gas inlet adapted 
for introducing reaction gas into the chamber and 

including a ring manifold configured to direct inlet gas 
flow toward the substrate; an electrode mounted within 

the chamber and having at least one surface adapted for 
mounting a substrate thereon; vacuum means coupled to 

the chamber via an exhaust outlet aligned with the 
substrate and the ring manifold for establishing gas flow 

across the substrate and through the ring to the exhaust 
outlet; an RF power supply coupled to the electrode for 

generating a plasma in the reactant gas for deposition 
on a surface of the substrate; and magnetic field means 

for establishing a magnetic field substantially parallel 
to and adjacent to the electrode, the magnetic field 

means comprising a pair of spaced coil electromagnets 
which are substantially concentric with the chamber and 

 
spaced a selected distance for providing a uniform 

magnetic field of variable intensity parallel to the 
substrate. 
A vacuum reactor system for selectively depositing 
conductor, insulator or metal films on a substrate, 

comprising a vacuum chamber having a gas inlet adapted 
for introducing reaction gas into the chamber and 

including a ring manifold configured to direct inlet 
gas flow toward the substrate; an electrode mounted 

within the chamber and having at least one surface adapted 
for mounting a substrate thereon; vacuum means coupled 

to the chamber via an exhaust outlet aligned with the 
substrate and the ring manifold for establishing gas 

flow across the substrate and through the ring to the 
exhaust outlet; an RF power supply coupled to the 

electrode for generating a plasma in the reactant gas 
for deposition on a surface of the substrate; and 

magnetic field means for establishing a magnetic field 
substantially parallel to and adjacent to the electrode, 

the magnetic field means comprising permanent magnet 
means positioned for providing a uniform magnetic field 

parallel to the substrate. 
The vacuum reactor system of Claims 23, 31 or 32 
further adapted for introducing reaction gas into the 

chamber to etch the substrate simultaneously or 
separately with film deposition thereon. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
