<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652671</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mapping colour digital image.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T500	G06T500	G09G506	G09G506	H04N152	H04N152	H04N164	H04N164	H04N964	H04N964	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G09G	G09G	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T5	G06T5	G09G5	G09G5	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for digital video imaging is provided for 
mapping a digitized image defined by at least a first and second color 

component (66,68),comprising selecting a dither 
pattern (70); selecting a 

complementary dither pattern (72); generating an altered first color 
component (80) from the first color component and the dither pattern; and 

generating an altered second color component (82) from the second color 
component and the complementary dither pattern. Thus for example, 

complementary dither patterns (70,72) are applied to green and magenta 
components of the image. The complement nulls out the dither pattern from 

visual perception. Green and magenta color components of the image 
switching out of phase with one another cancel dither frequency from 

luminance. Chrominance alternatively switches between green and magenta, 
thereby substituting chrominance noise for luminance noise and also 

thereby effectively reducing overall perceived image noise. In a 
preferred embodiment the patterns are applied to permit rapid palette 

mapping with an improved palette, wherein the number of color states are 
non-integer powers of two (eg 7, 9 and 4 states of red, green and blue 

respectively). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDGAR ALBERT DURR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDGAR ALBERT DURR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the processing of digital images for 
colour display systems, and more particularly mapping an input colour 
image to an output colour image. In digital video technology, analog images, either stored or live, 
are electronically "captured" by video digitizing equipment into a series 
of digital numbers, each corresponding to a different one of a plurality 
of picture elements or "pixels" which comprise the image. Each such 
number carries information about the color components which, when 
combined, comprise the color of the particular pixel. Due to limited system memory, the number of possible colors is 
limited to a finite number or "palette" of colors. A digital color 
monitor is normally provided for converting these numbers into visible 
pixels which, in the aggregate, form a digitized video image on the 
screen corresponding to the analog image. During the aforementioned capture of video images, the video 
monitor is used to focus, frame, and adjust color. Only after capture 
and a long palette mapping procedure can the image be seen on the 
computer monitor using a color look-up table. The long time required to 
map an analog image into the finite digital palette precludes the use of 
the computer monitor as the live monitor. Thus, in prior art procedures, 
a system operator must own and run both a video monitor and a computer 
monitor, resulting in unnecessary duplication of hardware expenses. More 
seriously, however, differences in color between the video and computer 
monitors are not visible while the image is being adjusted, and most 
video monitors do not show the edges of the image for accurate framing. A common problem in image display briefly mentioned above is to 
"map" a full color image to a printer, display, or memory capable of only 
a limited number of colors. The process of reducing the image to contain 
only colors in the aforementioned set of limited colors or "palette" is 
known in the art as mapping to a palette. A typical digital display 
might, for example, have 256 palette colors whereby a single digital byte 
would represent one pixel in the mapped image.  Several methods are known in the art for mapping. In one form 
known as dithering, a dither pattern is added to the pure image, and each 
pixel of the summed image is rounded to the nearest color in the palette. 
Turning to Fig. 4, illustrated therein is an example of dithering for the 
simple case of a single scan line signal 50 of a monochrome image having 
only two colors in the palette
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for mapping an input digital image defined by at least 
first and second color components (66, 68) to an output digital image 

also defined by at least first and second color components (80, 82), said 
method comprising the steps of: 

   selecting a dither pattern (70) and a complementary dither pattern 
(72); 

   generating the first color component of said output image from said 
first color component of the input image and said dither pattern; and 

   generating the second color component of said output image from 
said second color component of the input image and said complementary 

dither pattern. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said step of generating the first 
color component of said output image comprises adding the dither pattern 

to the first color component of the input image. 
The method of Claim 2 wherein said step of generating the second 
color component of said output image comprises adding the c
omplementary 
dither pattern to the second color component of the input image. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said input image and 
said output image are both defined by first, second and third colour 

components, and said method further comprises the step of: 
   generating the third color component of said output image from said 

third color component of the input image and said complementary dither 
pattern. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein said input image and 
said output image are both defined by at least a first, second, and third 

color component, each having a corresponding first, second, and third 
visual sensitivity, said method comprising the steps of:

 
   selecting a first, second, and third dither pattern, the magnitude 

of each being weighted according to the corresponding one of said first, 
second, and third visual sensitivities; 

   generating the first color component of said output image from said 
first color component of the input image and said first dither pattern; 

   generating the second color component of said output image from 
said second color component of the input image and said second dither 

pattern; and 
   generating the third color component of said output image from said 

third color component of the input image and said third dither pattern. 
The method of claim 4 or 5, wherein said first, second, and third 
color components represent green, red, and blue respectively. 
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising the step of 
displaying the output image by combining all the color components 

thereof. 
The method of claim 7, comprising the step of determining a 
luminance and chrominance factor from the color components, and selecting 

the magnitude of said dither patterns to minimize the effect of said 
dither pattern on the luminance factor. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the output 
image comprises a set of pixels, each pixel containing a reference to a 

colour in a palette, said palette containing a set of colours, each 
colour including a red color component, the method further including the 

steps of: 
   defining (160) a binary representation of the red color component 

of the input image; 
   shifting said binary representation; 

   obtaining (162) the difference between said binary representation 
and said shifted binary representation; 

   selecting (166) bits from said difference;
 

   shifting said selected bits; and 
   determining (168) the red color component of said output image as 

the sum of the selected bits and said shifted selected bits. 
Apparatus for mapping an input digital image defined by at least 
first and second color components (66, 68) to an output digital image 

also defined by at least first and second color components (80, 82), said 
apparatus comprising: 

   means for selecting a dither pattern (70) and a complementary 
dither pattern (72); 

   means for generating the first color component of said output image 
from said first color component of the input image and said dither 

pattern; and 
   means for generating the second color component of said output 

image from said second color component of the input image and said 
complementary dither pattern. 
The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said input image and said output 
image are both defined by at least a first, second, and third color 

component, each having a corresponding first, second, and third visual 
sensitivity, said apparatus comprising: 

   means for selecting a first, second, and third dither pattern, the 
magnitude of each being weighted according to the corresponding one of 

said first, second, and third visual sensitivities; 
   means for generating the first color component of said output image 

from said first color component of the input image and said first dither 
pattern; 

   means for generating the second color component of said output 
image from said second color component of the input image and said second 

dither pattern; and 
   means for generating the third color component of said output image 

from said third color component of the input image and said third dither 
pattern. 
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said first, second, and third 
color components represent green, red, and blue respectively. 
The apparatus of claim 10, 11, or 12, comprising means for 
determining a luminance and chrominance factor from the color components, 

and means for selecting the magnitude of said dither patterns to minimize 
the effect of said dither pattern on the luminance factor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
