<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649871</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Thermoplastic compositions containing ground vulcanized rubber and polyolefin resin.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08L1900	C08L1900	C08L2300	C08L2302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08L19	C08L19	C08L23	C08L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Thermoplastic compositions comprising mixtures of ground vulcanized 
rubber and polyolefin resin are described; they are improved by incorporation of 

functionalized olefin polymer. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNESIS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNESIS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON LANE D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON LANE D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to improved polymer blends of ground vulcanized 
rubber and polyolefin resin, and in particular, blends of enhanced compatibility due 
to the presence of a functionalized olefin polymer. Blends of ground vulcanized rubber and thermoplastic polymer are 
known, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 4,028,288, a method is described for preparing 
mixtures of vulcanized rubber particles and a thermoplastic polymer. However, 
because of insufficient bonding between the rubber particles and the polymer phase, 
the resulting compositions exhibited poor mechanical properties, especially low 
elongation. Therefore, if the compatibility of the blend components can be 
increased, improved compositions would be obtained. In U.S. Pat. No. 4,386,182 a thermoplastic elastomeric composition is 
described, consisting of comminuted vulcanized rubber, a thermoplastic olefin or 
diolefin polymer, and a compatibilizer additive. This patent, however, is not 
pertinent to the present invention in that the compatibilizer additive is the reaction 
product of hydroxyl compound with an alkene oxide. As will be shown in a 
comparative example below, the mechanical properties of such composition (e.g., 
percent elongation at break) are inferior relative to the mechanical properties of the 
compositions of the subject invention. Each year, in the U.S., more than 240 million used tires are discarded. 
This, in addition to an estimated 2 billion tires which already exist. Above ground 
storage of tires presents a fire and health hazard. Once ignited, a pile of tires can 
burn for moths, polluting the air with black smoke and strong odor. Tires constitute 
an ideal breeding ground for disease carrying mosquitos and rodents. Buried, whole 
tires settle unevenly and rise to the surface creating landfill management problems. 
These hazards are well documented in the various tire studies sponsored by the 
EPA, other federal agencies and state agencies. Both the U.S. Congress and the  
 
EPA have previously determined that scrap tires constitute a significant waste 
management problem. For example, in the 1984 amendment to the Resource 
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, Congress directed EPA to issue 
procurement guidelines for tires. Many state legislations have enacted or are 
considering legislation to regulate scrap tire storage and/or disposal. Because of 
economic and environmental reasons, reclaiming of scrap tires by thermal and/or 
chemical "devulcanization" had dramatically decreased in recent years. Over the 
p
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermoplastic composition blend having a vulcanized rubber component, 
characterized in that the blend includes from 1-90 parts by weight of the 

vulcanized rubber in the form of ground, small dispersed particles essentially 
of 1.5 mm number average of below, wherein said rubber is selected from the 

group consisting of natural rubber, synthetic polymer or copolymer rubber 
derived from alkadienes, or mixtures thereof, and correspondingly, 90-1 parts 

by weight of polyolefin resin and at least 0.5 parts by weight of one or more 
functionalized olefin polymers per 100 parts by weight of polyolefin resin 

wherein said functionalized olefin polymer is a copolymer of at least one olefin 
and at least one ethylenically unsaturated organic monomer; wherein said 

organic monomer is selected from the group consisting of unsaturated mono 
or dicarboxylic acids having from 3 to 20 carbon atoms; acid anhydride, 

maleamic acid, acid halide, ester and metal salt derivatives of said unsaturated 
mono or dicarboxylic acids; vinyl esters of saturated carboxylic acids wherein 

the acid constituent of said saturated carboxylic acid has from 2 to 18 carbon 
atoms; vinyl alkyl ethers wherein said alkyl constituent has from 1 to 18 carbon 

atoms; vinyl halides; vinlidene halides; acrylonitrile; methacrylonitrile; and 
styrene. 
The composition of claim 1, wherein the ground vulcanized rubber is obtained 
by grinding scrap tires, retreaded tire buffings, tire tubes and miscellaneous 

waste thermoset rubber articles with subsequent removal of ferrous 
constituents or any other contaminants. 
The composition of claim 1, wherein is incorporated 0-300 parts by weight 
percent based on the composition of one or more additives, selected from the 

group consisting of carbon black, clay, silica, alumina, calcium carbonate, 
titanium dioxide, pigments, flame retardants, antioxidants, antidegredents, 

tackifiers, reinforcing materials, processing aids and plasticizers. 
The composition of claim 1, wherein the polyolefin resin is selected from the 
group consisting of polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutadiene, polybutylene, 

polyisoprene, or mixtures thereof. 
The composition of claim 4, wherein the polyolefin resin is polyethylene. 
The composition of claim 1, wherein the functionalized olefin polymer is a 
copolymer of at least one olefin, including hydrogenated butadiene or 

isoprene, and one or more ethylenically unsaturated organic monomers 
selected from the group consisting of unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids 

of 3-20 carbon atoms, acid anhydrides of said unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic 
acids, acid halides of said unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids, esters of 

said unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids, maleamic acid derivatives of said 
unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids, vinyl esters of saturated carboxylic 

acids where said acid group has 2-18 carbon atoms, vinyl alkyl ethers wherein 
the alkyl group has 1-18 carbon atoms, vinyl or vinylidene halides, acrylonitrile, 

methacrylonitrile, and styrene. 
The composition of claim 6, wherein the functionalized olefin polymer contains 
at least one functional group selected from the group consisting of mono or 

dicarboxylic acids and their derivatives selected from the group consisting of 
acid anhydrides, maleamic acids, acid halides, esters, and metal salts, in an 

amount of 0.5 to 30 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of functionalized 
olefin polymer. 
A process for manufacturing a thermoplastic composition blend characterized 
in that the process includes mixing 1-90 parts by weight of ground vulcanized 

rubber in the form of small dispersed particles essentially of 1.5 mm number 
average or below, wherein said rubber is selected from the group consisting of 

natural rubber, synthetic polymer or copolymer rubber derived from 
alkadienes, or mixtures thereof, and correspondingly, 90-1 parts by weight of 

polyolefin resin and at least 0.5 parts by weight of one or more functionalized 
olefin polymers per 100 parts by weight of polyolefin resing at a temperature 

 
high enough to soften or melt the polymers, and for sufficient time to obtain 

a homogeneous mixture wherein said functionalized olefin polymer is a 
copolymer of at least one olefin and at least one ethylenically unsaturated 

organic monomer; wherein said organic monomer is selected from the group 
consisting of unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids having from 3 to 20 

carbon atoms; acid anhydride, maleamic acid, acid halide, ester and metal salt 
derivatives of said unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids; vinyl esters of 

saturated carboxylic acids wherein the acid constituent of said saturated 
carboxylic acid has from 2 to 18 carbon atoms; vinyl alkyl ethers wherein said 

alkyl constituent has from 1 to 18 carbon atoms; vinyl halides; vinylidene 
halides; acrylonitrile; methacrylonitrile; and styrene. 
The process of claim 8, wherein the ground vulcanized rubber is obtained by 
grinding scrap tires, retreaded tire buffings, tire tubes and miscellaneous waste 

thermoset rubber articles with subsequent removal of ferrous constituents or 
any other contaminants. 
The process of claim 8, wherein is incorporated 0-300 parts by weight percent 
based on the composition of one or more additives, selected from the group 

consisting of carbon black, clay, silica, alumina, calcium carbonate, titanium 
dioxide, pigments, flame retardants, antioxidants, antidegredents, tackifiers, 

reinforcing materials, processing aids, and plasticizers. 
The process of claim 8, wherein the polyolefin resin is selected from the group 
consisting of polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutadiene, polybutylene, 

polyisoprene or mixtures thereof. 
The process of claim 11 wherein the polyolefin resin is polyethylene. 
The process of claim 8, wherein the functionalized olefin polymer is a 
copolymer of at least one olefin, including hydrogenated butadiene or 

isoprene, and one or more ethylenically unsaturated organic monomers 
selected from the group consisting of unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids 

 
of 3-20 carbon atoms, acid anhydrides of said unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic 

acids, acid halides of said unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids, esters of 
said unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids, maleamic acid derivatives of said 

unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids, metal salts of said unsaturated mono 
or dicarboxylic acids vinyl esters of saturated carboxylic acids where said acid 

group has 2-18 carbon atoms, vinyl alkyl ethers wherein the alkyl group has 1-18 
carbon atoms, vinyl or vinylidene halides, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, 

and styrene. 
The process of claim 13, wherein the functionalized olefin polymer contains 
at least one functional group selected from the group consisting of mono or 

dicarboxylic acids and their derivatives selected from the group consisting of 
acid anhydrides, maleamic acids, acid halides, esters, and metal salts, in an 

amount of 0.5 to 30 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of functionalized 
olefin polymer. 
A thermoplastic composition blend containing a vulcanized rubber component 
characterized in that the blend includes from 1-90 parts by weight of the 

vulcanized rubber in the form of ground, small dispersed particles essentially 
of 1.5 mm number average or below, wherein said rubber is selected from the 

group consisting of natural rubber, synthetic polymer of copolymer rubber 
derived from alkadienes, or mixtures thereof, and correspondingly, 90-1 parts 

by weight of a functionalized olefin wherein said functionalized olefin polymer 
is a copolymer of at least one olefin and at least one ethylenically unsaturated 

organic monomer; wherein said organic monomer is selected from the group 
consisting of unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids having from 3 to 20 

carbon atoms; acid anhydrides, maleamic acid, acid halide, ester and metal salt 
derivatives of said unsaturated mono dicarboxylic acids; vinyl esters of 

saturated carboxylic acids wherein the acid constituent of said saturated 
carboxylic acids wherein the acid constituent of said saturated carboxylic acid 

has from 2 to 19 carbon atoms; vinyl alkyl esters wherein said alkyl constituent 
has from 10 to 18 carbon atoms; vinyl halides; vinylidene halides; acrylonitrile; 

methacrylonitrile; and styrene. 
A process for manufacturing a thermoplastic composition blend characterized 
in that the process includes mixing 1-90 parts by weight of ground vulcanized 

rubber in the form of small dispersed particles essentially of 1.5 mm number 
average or below, wherein said rubber is selected from the group consisting of 

natural rubber, synthetic polymer or copolymer rubber derived from 
alkadienes, or mixtures thereof, and correspondingly, 90-1 parts by weight of 

one or more functionalized olefin polymers at a temperature high enough to 
soften or melt the polymers, and for sufficient time to obtain a homogeneous 

mixture wherein said functionalized olefin polymer is a copolymer of at least 
one olefin and at least one ethylenically unsaturated organic monomer; 

wherein said organic monomer is selected from the group consisting of 
unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids having from 3 to 20 carbon atoms; acid 

anhydride, maleamic acid, acid halide, ester and metal salt derivatives of said 
unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acids; vinyl esters of unsaturated carboxylic 

acids wherein the acid constituent of said saturated carboxylic acids has from 
2 to 18 carbon atoms; vinyl alkyl ethers wherein said alkyl constituent has from 

1 to 18 carbon atoms; vinyl halides; vinylidene halides; acrylonitrile; 
methacrylonitrile and styrene. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
