<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646030</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DELIVERY AND TEMPORARY STENT CATHETER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F282	A61F284	A61F288	A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2902	A61M2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61M25	A61M25	A61M29	A61M29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is an improved temporary stent and drug delivery catheter (10), for use in the prevention of restenosis of a dilated vascular region, and/or for use in the delivery of a medication to a preselected vascular site. The catheter (10) comprises an elongate body (12), a perfusion conduit (18) laterally offset from the axis of the catheter body, and an inflation balloon (30) disposed about the perfusion conduit (18) and at the end of the catheter body (10). In a drug delivery embodiment, a perforated drug delivery balloon (32) is disposed concentrically about the inflation balloon (30). A first lumen (14) extends through the catheter body for communicating with the inflation balloon (30), and a second lumen (16) extends through the body for communicating with the drug delivery balloon (32). Methods of preventing restenosis during a post procedure observation period and of drug delivery to the vascular intima are also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDIOVASCULAR DYNAMICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDIOVASCULAR DYNAMICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROCKER MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROCKER MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 _ _DELIVERY AND TEMPORARY STENT CATHETER Background of the Invention The present invention relates to catheters for insertion into a body lumen. More particularly, the present invention relates to a combination delivery and temporary stent catheter for use in the vascular system.A wide variety of catheters have been developed in the prior art for percutaneous transluminal coronary or peripheral vascular applications. For example, balloon dilatation catheters for performing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty are well known in the art.In addition, a variety of catheters have been developed in the prior art for delivering therapeutic agents into the vascular system. For example. United States Patent No. 4,636,195 to Wolinsky discloses the isolation of an arterial plague between two ring balloons, and introduction of a solubilizing liquid therebetween. United States Patent No. 5,049,132 to Shaffer et al. discloses an over the wire type catheter having an inner dilatation balloon disposed within an outer perforated drug delivery balloon. Similarly, United States Patent No. 4,994,033 to Shockey et al. discloses concentric inner dilatation and outer delivery balloons disposed coaxially about an over the wire catheter.In connection with other applications, United States Patent Nos. 3,173,418 and 4,417,576 to Baran disclose double walled endotracheal cuffs having an external wall with multiple perforations for the administration of continuous or intermittent local endotracheal anesthesia. Fluid communication to the balloons is provided by way of fluid tubes which may be positioned within the endotracheal cuff wall.In addition, a variety of patents appear to address the problem of inadequate perfusion associated with balloon dilatation angioplasty catheters, during the period of time that the balloon is inflated. For example, United States Patent Nos. 4,877,031 to Conway et al. and 4,892,519 to Songer et al. disclose conventional balloon dilatation catheter 

designs, without any apparent drug delivery capability, in which a relatively low volume perfusion conduit is provided. Finally, United States Patent No. 4,423,725 to Baran et al. purports to disclose a combination dilatation and drug delivery design having a means for continued perfusion across the dilated balloon. Although stated to be useful in angioplasty, the catheter is also designed for use in tracheal, bladder and urethral treatments. If the Baran design were scaled down to an appropriate size for angioplasty use, only minimal perfusion
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
disposed. In this manner, the interruption of direction of blood flow is minimized, thereby reducing the likelihood of damaging blood cells and introducing undesired turbulence.
Although this invention has been described in terms of certain preferred embodiments, other embodiments that are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art are also within the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the 
'
scope of the invention is intended to be defined only by reference to the appended claims. 

CLAIMS :
1. A delivery catheter for delivering a quantity of a liquid or gas to a preselected site in a body lumen, comprising: an elongate catheter body; an inflation balloon on the distal end of the catheter body; a delivery balloon on the catheter, disposed adjacent the inflation balloon; a first lumen extending through the catheter for communication with the inflation balloon; a second lumen extending through the catheter for communication with the delivery balloon; and a bypass conduit extending through the inflation balloon and the delivery balloon; wherein the longitudinal axis of the bypass conduit is generally parallel to and laterally offset from the - elongate catheter body.
2. A delivery catheter as in Claim 1, wherein the delivery balloon extends coaxially about the inflation balloon.
3. A delivery catheter as in Claim 1, further comprising a wire receiving lumen extending throughout at least a portion of the axial length of the catheter. 4. A delivery catheter as in Claim 1, wherein said bypass conduit further comprises a spring coil wall.
5. A temporary stent for maintaining patency of a body lumen while permitting perfusion of fluid through the lumen, comprising: an elongate catheter body; an inflatable balloon on the distal end of the catheter body; and at least one perfusion conduit extending through the inflatable balloon; wherein the longitudinal axis of the perfusion conduit is laterally of set from the longitudinal axis of the adjacent catheter body by a distance which exceeds 


 the radius of the adjacent portion of the elongate catheter body.
6. A temporary stent as in Claim 5, further comprising a spring coil in the wall of the perfusion conduit. 7. A temporary stent as in Claim 6, wherein the internal diameter of the perfusion conduit is at least about .030 inches in a catheter having a deflated profile through the balloon of no more than about 0.060 inches.
8. A temporary stent as in Claim 6, wherein the proximal end of the inflation balloon surrounds both the catheter body and the perfusion conduit wall, and the distal end of the inflation balloon surrounds only the perfusion conduit wall.
9. A temporary stent as in Claim 6, wherein the perfusion conduit wall further comprises a tubular coating around the spring coil.
10. A temporary stent as in Claim 6, further comprising a drug delivery balloon disposed concentrically about the inflation balloon. 11. A temporary stent as in Claim 10, wherein said catheter body comprises a first inflation lumen for inflating the inflation balloon and a second drug delivery lumen for delivering drug to the drug delivery balloon, and said first and second lumen extend side by side throughout the catheter body.
12. A temporary stent as in Claim 10, wherein said catheter body comprises a first inflation lumen for inflating the inflation balloon and a second drug delivery lumen for delivering drug to the drug delivery balloon, and one of said first and second lumen extends concentrically within the other of said lumen.
13. A temporary stent as in Claim 6, wherein the perfusion conduit is disposed adjacent at least a portion of the catheter body. 14. A method of inhibiting reocclusion while permitting perfusion during a post dilatation procedure observation period, comprising the steps of: 


 providing a temporary stent catheter of the type having an elongate catheter body, a perfusion conduit laterally offset from the axis of the catheter body and an inflatable balloon; positioning the catheter so that the balloon is adjacent a recently dilated vascular site; inflating the balloon to prevent reocclusion of the dilated site; and permitting perfusion from an upstream side of the balloon to a downstream side of the balloon by way of the perfusion conduit through said stent; wherein the wall thickness of the perfusion conduit is no more than about 14% of the outside diameter of the stent. 15. A method of inhibiting reocclusion as in Claim 14, wherein said recently dilated vascular site was previously dilated by said inflatable balloon,
16. A method of inhibiting reocclusion as in Claim 14, wherein said recently dilated vascular site was dilated by a separate previously positioned and withdrawn balloon dilatation catheter.
17. A method as in Claim 14, wherein the wall thickness of the perfusion conduit is no more than about 10% of the outside diameter of the stent. 18. A method of delivering a fluid or gas to a preselected vascular site, comprising the steps of: providing a delivery catheter of the "type having an elongate catheter body, a perfusion conduit laterally offset from the axis of the catheter body, and at least one inflatable deliveryballoon in communication with the proximal end of the catheter body by a delivery lumen; positioning the catheter so that the balloon is adjacent a desired delivery site; inflating the balloon to position the wall of the balloon adjacent the wall of the vascular site; and introducing the fluid or gas into the balloon by way of the delivery lumen, so that fluid or gas is caused to 


 advance from the balloon to the vascular wall.
19. A method of delivering a fluid or gas to a preselected vascular site as in Claim 18, wherein said delivery balloon comprises a plurality of delivery ports. 20. A method of delivering a fluid or gas to a preselected vascular site as in Claim 18, wherein said delivery balloon comprises a fluid or gas permeable material.
21. A method of delivering a fluid or gas to a predetermined vascular site as in Claim 18, wherein said delivery catheter further comprises an inflation balloon disposed radially inwardly from the delivery balloon.
22. A method of delivering a fluid or gas to a preselected vascular site as in Claim 21, further comprising the step of inflating the inflation balloon to position the drug delivery balloon against the vascular intima, prior to introducing fluid or gas into the delivery balloon.
23. A method a delivering a fluid or gas to a preselected vascular site as in Claim 18, further comprising the step of positioning a guidewire across the desired delivery site, and thereafter advancing said delivery catheter along said guidewire to assist in placement of said delivery catheter at said desired vascular site.
24. A method of treating a preselected vascular site, comprising the steps of: positioning a treatment catheter so that a delivery balloon on the treatment catheter is adjacent the preselected vascular site; initiating flow of a treatment media through the catheter and into the balloon; and simultaneously dilating the balloon and permitting treatment media to escape from the balloon.
25. A method of treating a preselected vascular site as in Claim 24, wherein said delivery balloon is dilated in response to the introduction of the treatment media. 26. A method of treating a preselected vascular site as in Claim 24, wherein said delivery balloon is dilated by expansion of a separate dilatation balloon disposed within the 


delivery balloon.
27. A method of treating a preselected vascular site as in Claim 24, further comprising the step of continuing to express treatment media from the delivery balloon to the vascular site following inflation of the delivery balloon. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
