<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649190</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Shielded electrical connector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R13658	H01R13658	H01R13506	H01R13502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shielded electrical connector (10) is provided 
for interconnection to a multi-conductor cable (12). The 

connector includes an insulative housing (20) having a 
front mating face (22) and a rear conductor-receiving face 

(24). A conductive shell (26) is disposed about at least 
a portion of the housing and has an aperture (30) near the 

rear face of the housing. A pair of conductive shield 
halves (36, 38) enclose the rear conductor-receiving face 

of the housing and define a cavity (40) extending rearward 
therefrom. The shield halves have hooks (42) for engaging 

beneath portions (52) of the shell proximate the aperture 
as the shield halves are rotated about the hooks to form 

the cavity. A fulcrum projection (74) is operatively 
associated between the shield halves intermediate the front 

and rear ends thereof for pivoting the shield halves about 
the fulcrum projection as the shield halves are rotated 

about the hooks. Thus, the hooks (42) are urged outwardly 
to positively engage the portions (52) of the shell to 

assure an electrical connection between the shield halves 
and the shell. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIXLER CRAIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'SULLIVAN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIXLER, CRAIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'SULLIVAN, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to the art of 
electrical connectors and, particularly, to a shielded 
electrical connector having a pair of shield halves 
pivotally connected to the connector shell. Shielded electrical connectors are used in 
various applications for shielding electrical terminations 
from external electromagnetic interference, to prevent the 
systems which use the connectors from emitting 
electromagnetic signals and to prevent the connector from 
emitting electromagnetic signals. The shielded connectors 
usually continue the shielding of a shielded cable to 
another shielded cable or to an electronic device. In some applications involving the use of high 
frequency electrical signals, shielded electrical 
connectors actually are required, particularly in such 
applications as the telecommunications and computer 
industries. Such high frequency electromagnetic signals 
are very susceptible to interference from other 
electromagnetic signals and also generate electromagnetic 
signals of their own which may be undesirable and interfere 
with other electronic devices. In fact, various Federal 
Communication Commission requirements have caused a 
significant increase in the use of shielded electrical 
connectors. The present invention is directed to an improved 
shielded electrical connector of the type having a pair of  
 
mating metal shield members or halves each of which has a 
forward end engageable with a metal shell, as disclosed e.g. in the prior art document EP-A-0 530 076. Pivot means are 
provided for rotating rear ends of the shield halves into 
engagement with a shielded cable and, in turn, create a 
positive pressure ground connection between forward ends of 
the shield halves and the metal shell of the connector. An object, therefore, of the invention is to 
provide a new and improved shielded electrical connector of 
the character described for interconnection to a multi-conductor 
cable. In the exemplary embodiment of the invention, the 
connector includes an insulative housing having a front 
mating face and a rear conductor-receiving face. A 
conductive shell is disposed about at least a portion of 
the housing and has an aperture near the rear of the 
housing. A pair of conductive shield halves enclose the 
rear conductor-receiving face of the housing and define a 
cavity extending rearwardly therefrom. The shield halves 
have engagement means at front ends thereof for engaging 
beneath a portion of the shell proximate the aperture 
therein as the shield halves are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A shielded electrical connector assembly 
(10) adapted to engage a shielded cable (12) having an 

outer cable braid (18) for shielding the cable, the 
connector assembly including: 


an insulative housing (20) with terminal 
receiving regions; 
a plurality of terminals (32) mounted in the 
housing; 
a conductive housing shell (26) mounted on the 
housing; 
upper and lower conductive shield halves (36, 
38), each having a housing shell engaging end for engaging 

a portion of said conductive housing shell; and 
a rear cable engaging end for electrically and 
mechanically engaging said cable braid, 
said shield halves being movable from an initial 
position wherein said cable engaging ends are spaced apart 

to a final position at which said cable engaging ends are 
adapted to engage said cable braid, 
 
   characterized by: 


a projection (74) on one shield half between the 
housing shell engaging end and the rear cable engaging end; 

and 
means (78) defining a pivot region on the other 
shield half between the housing shell engaging end and the 

rear cable engaging end interengaging said projection and 
about which said shield halves pivot relative to one 

another between said initial and final positions in order 
to increase the force of engagement between said housing 

shell engaging ends and the conductive housing shell upon  
 

rotating said shield halves between said initial and final 
positions. 
A shielded electrical connector as set 
forth in claim 1, further comprising shell engaging members 

(42) projecting forward from the housing shell engaging 
ends of the shield halves (36, 38) and engageable beneath 

lip means (52) of said shell. 
A shielded electrical connector as set 
forth in claim 1, wherein said projection (74) protrudes 

into an aperture (78) in the other shield half, a base 
portion (74a) of the projection being wider than the width 

of the aperture (78). 
A shielded electrical connector as set 
forth in claim 1, wherein said shield halves are stamped 

and formed of sheet metal material and include a wall (60) 
having the projection thereon. 
A shielded electrical connector as set 
forth in claim 4, wherein said other shield half includes 

a top wall (54) and a side wall (56), said one shield half 
includes a bottom wall (58) and a side wall (60) juxtaposed 

inside the side wall of the one shield half, said 
projection being formed on an edge of the side wall of the 

other shield half, and said aperture being located 
proximate the juncture of the top and side wall of the 

other shield half for receiving the projection. 
A shielded electrical connector as set 
forth in claim 5, wherein each shield half includes a pair 

of said side walls, the other shield half includes a pair  
 

of said apertures, and the one shield half includes a pair 
of said projections. 
A shielded electrical connector as set 

forth in claim 5, wherein each aperture has a given width 
and each projection has a base portion wider than the width 

of the aperture. 
A shielded electrical connector as set 
forth in claim 1, including latch means (62, 64) 

operatively associated between the shield halves to hold 
the shield halves in preassembled condition with the front 

ends of the shield halves in engagement with the shell, but 
with the shield halves not fully pivoted about the pivot 

region. 
A method of assembling a shielded electrical 
connector (10) for interconnection to a multi-conductor 

cable (12), the connector including a conductive shell (26) 
having a conductor-receiving aperture (30) near a rear end 

thereof, a pair of conductive shield halves (36, 38) 
defining a cavity (40) extending rearwardly of the 

conductive shell, and engagement means (42) at the front 
ends of the shield halves for engaging a portion (52) of 

the shell means proximate said aperture, comprising the 
steps of: 


providing complementary interengaging fulcrum 
means (70) operatively associated between the shield halves 

intermediate the front and rear ends thereof, said 
complementary interengaging fulcrum means including a 

projection on one shield half and means defining a pivot 
region on the other shield half for interengaging said 

projection and about which said shield halves pivot  
 

relative to one another in order to increase the force of 
engagement between said shell and the engagement means of 

said shield halves; 
rotating the shield halves about said engagement 
means to form said cavity and whereby said projection 

interengages said pivot region; and 
pivoting the shield halves about said fulcrum 
means (70) so that said engagement means (42) are urged 

outwardly to positively contact said portion of the shell 
to assure an electrical connection between the shield 

halves and the shell. 
The method of claim 9, including providing 
latch means operatively associated between the shield 

halves, and
 
   engaging said latch means as the shield halves 

are rotated about said engagement means but before pivoting 
the shield halves about said fulcrum means, to hold the 

shield halves in a preassembled condition. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
