<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647391</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A construction for automatically milking animals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01J500	A01J5017	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01J	A01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01J5	A01J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a construction for 
automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a 

milking robot (8) for automatically connecting teat cups (14; 
15; 16; 17) to the teats of an animal. The milking robot (8) 

includes a teat cup (14; 15; 16; 17) which is attached to the 
end of a loop-shaped tube, which tube can be distinguished in 

at least two portions, of which a first portion (74) is 
connected to the teat cup (14; 15; 16; 17) and is relatively 

rigid, while a second portion (75) of the tube (55; 56) is 
relatively flexible and allows the teat cup (14; 15; 16; 17) 

to move freely up and down and to reciprocate with respect to 
the milking robot (8). The first portion (74) of the tube is 

located in a horizontal plane, whilst the second portion (75) 
of the tube (55; 56) is in the shape of a loop and is 

predominantly located in a vertical plane. Consequently, the 
head (13) of the milking robot (8) can be arranged relatively 

low to the soil, without the tubes (55; 56) dragging along 
the soil. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY, CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a construction for
automatically milking animals as described in the preamble of
claim 1, see e.g. EP-A-0 545 916.Such arrangements are known.In constructions of this type the teat cups may be
moved by means of an arm to under the udder of an animal to
be milked and connected one after the other. The height of
the teats above the floor of the box causes certain restrictions
for the dimensions of the robot arm. Especially with
cows having relatively short legs the height between the
teats and the floor is relatively small.The invention has for its object to improve a
construction of the above-mentioned type.To that end, the construction is characterized by
the features as defined in the characterizing part of claim
1. In order to prevent the tubes from sagging, it is possible
to position the lower side of the milking robot head
relatively low to the soil, while during milking the teat
cups can move freely at different distances from each other.
A simple manner to stiffen the tubes is obtained, in accordance
with the invention, in that a loop-shaped tube
comprises at least two tubes, which are arranged side-by-side
and are connected to each other.According to a preferred feature of the invention the
connection of the loop-shaped tubes can be realized by
wrapping them together. So as to obtain as compact a construction as 
possible, the first portion of the tube is located, in
accordance with a further feature of the invention, in an approximately horizontal
plane, while a second portion of the tube is in the shape of
a loop and is located in a predominantly vertical plane. In
accordance with a further feature of the invention, the loop-shaped
portion is located at that side of the robot head of
the milking robot that is remote from the teat cups. In
accordance with a still further feature of the invention, the
tube includes a milk tube and a pulsation tube, which are
connected to each other. In said case, in accordance with a further feature of the
invention, the milk tube and the pulsation tube are only
connected to each other along the first portion of the tube.
In accordance with an other feature of the invention, the
loop-shaped portion of the tube is of a height which is less
than or substantially equal to the length of the teat cups.
The robot is of such a design, in accordance with a still
further feature of the invention, that animals having teats
less than 30 cms high can be milked. Thus, it is possible to
milk cows with low-hanging udders.In accordance with a further
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A construction for automatically milking animals,
such as cows, comprising a milking robot (8) for automatically

connecting teat cups (14; 15; 16; 17) to the teats of an
animal, characterized in that a teat cup (14; 15; 16; 17) is

directly attached to the end of a loop-shaped tube (55; 56),
which tube can be distinguished in at least two portions (74;

75), of which a first portion (74) is directly connected to
the teat cup (14; 15; 16; 17) and is relatively rigid, while

a second portion (75) of the tube is relatively flexible and
allows the teat cup (14; 15; 16; 17) to move freely up and

down and to reciprocate with respect to the milking robot
(8).
A construction as claimed in claim 1, characterized
in that the loop-shaped tube (55; 56) comprises at least two

tubes (55; 56), which are arranged side-by-side and are
connected to each other.
A construction as claimed in claim 2, characterized
in that the loop-shaped tubes (55; 56) are wrapped together.
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
3, characterized in that the first portion (74) of the tube

is located in an approximately horizontal plane.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the second portion

(75) of the tube is in the shape of a loop and is located in
a predominantly vertical plane.
A construction as claimed in claim 5, characterized
in that the loop-shaped portion (75) is located at that side

of the robot head (13) of the milking robot (8) that is
remote from the teat cups (14; 15; 16; 17).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the tube includes a

milking tube (55) and a pulsation tube (56), which are
connected to each other.
A construction as claimed in claim 7, characterized 
in that the milk tube (55) and the pulsation tube (56) are

only connected to each other along the first portion of the
tube.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the loop-shaped

portion (75) of the tube has a height which is less than or
substantially equal to the length of the teat cups (14; 15;

16; 17).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the robot (8) is of

such a design that animals having a teat height of less than
30 cms can be milked.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the robot head (13)

is arranged such as to be laterally movable by means of a
parallelogram structure (11).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that each of the teat cups

(14; 15; 16; 17) is connected to a holder (59) of the robot
arm by means of a cable (66).
A construction as claimed in claim 12, characterized
in that the cable (66) is disposed in the robot arm

in such a manner as to form a loop, the loop being passed
around a roller element (65) which is pivotally attached to

the end of a piston rod (64) of a cylinder (63).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the construction

includes a detection member (19) attached to a side wall of a
milking box (1) forming part of the construction, and capable

of being moved in the longitudinal direction of the side
wall.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the construction

includes a detection member (19) which is pivotal about an
upwardly directed shaft (29) and movable in a direction approximately

perpendicular to the relevant shaft.
A construction as claimed in claim 14 or 15,
characterized in that the detection member (19) is pivotal

about a horizontal shaft. 
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 14
to 16, characterized in that the detection member (19)

includes shielding means (31), which are arranged such that
contaminants, e.g. dung, do not affect the proper action of

the detection member (19).
A construction as claimed in claim 17, characterized
in that the shielding means (31) are constituted by a

tapering hollow sleeve (31).
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 14
to 18, characterized in that the detection member (19) is

disposed aside of the milking box (1).
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 14
to 19, characterized in that the detection member (19) is

attached to a frame of the milking box (1).
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 14
to 20, characterized in that the detection member (19)

includes means which render it possible to move the detection
member (19) three-dimensionally.
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 14
to 21, characterized in that the detection member (19) and

the robot cover (18) are displaced with the aid of pneumatic
cylinders and/or stepping motors.
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 14
to 22, characterized in that the detection member (19) is

constituted by a laser.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the milking robot (8)

includes a computer program which is implemented such that
the milking robot (8) is switched off when a significant

disturbance occurs, i.e. the robot head (13) becoming defective.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the milking robot (8)

includes a radiographic paging system, by means of which the
operator is warned when the milking robot (8) has ceased

functioning.
A construction as claimed in claim 25, characterized
in that the radiographic paging system includes a

semaphone.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
