<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632781</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE FOR THE CLOSURE OF BAGS OR THE LIKE AND SECURITY SEAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D3334	B65D3334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D33	B65D33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reusable device for closing bags and the like, which may be sealed in a locked configuration by applying a security seal (24). The device (1) comprises two elongate parts (2, 3) which may be superimposed on each other. The first part (2), which is attached along one side of the mouth of a bag to be closed, is provided with a series of locking pins (6, 6') that - on closing the bag - pass into corresponding orifices (9) in the second part of which is attached along an opposite side of the mouth of the bag. The device is locked in this bag closed configuration by means of locking elements (13, 13') that slide longitudinally along internal passages (8, 8') in the second part until they reach a position where they lock the locking pins (6, 6'). The locking elements (13. 13') may be sealed in such configuration by applying a security seal (24).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELC PROD SEGURANCA IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELC PRODUTOS DE SEGURANCA INDUSTRIA E COMERCIO LTDA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIMA CASTRO NETTO EDUARDO DE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIMA CASTRO NETTO, EDUARDO DE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention refers to a device for the 
closure of bags and the like, as well as to a security seal 
usable with the device. US patent 4,983,047 (Brazilian patent application PI 
8903982 of 08.08.89) discloses a security envelope suitable 
for the transport of confidential documents or money. The envelope 
is provided with a closure and seal device that comprises 
a first elongate part having a series of locking pins 
distributed along its length, a second elongate part integral 
with and foldable over the first part to assume a closed configuration 
with the pins penetrating a series of orifices in 
the second part, the mouth of the envelope being held between 
the first and second parts in the closed configuration with 
the pins passing through it. In US patent 4,983,047, each 
orifice in the second part of the device comprises a locking 
cavity and each pin in the first part has a head cooperable 
with a respective cavity. In other words, the device incorporates 
as many security seals as there are locking pins. When 
the bag has to be opened, it is sufficient to cut the other 
end of the envelope with a pair of scissors or the like to 
permit removal of the contents without interfering with the 
closure device the inviolability of which can later be checked 
should a document or money be missing. Although the closure device of US patent 4,983,047  
 
is very suitable for its intended use and has been well received 
on the market due to its simplicity of use and to the 
high degree of security that it offers, both the envelope and 
the device are disposable. Consequently, the device cannot be 
used for bags and the like that are designed for repeated use. The present invention refers therefore to a device 
of the above general type, but with the purpose of providing a 
new device that may be used many times without compromising 
the degree of security obtained. According to the present invention, a device for the 
closure of bags or the like, comprises a first elongate part 
provided with a series of pins distributed along its length, a 
second elongate part cooperable in face to face relation with 
the first elongate part and having a series of orifices distributed 
along its length to receive the locking pins in a 
closed configuration and locking means for locking the first 
and second parts in the closed configuration. The locking 
means comprise: 
(i) a longitudinal passage formed along the second 
part; (ii) an elongate locking element housed in such passage 
and shiftable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device for the closure of bags or the like, comprising 
a first elongate part provided with a series of pins 

distributed along its length, a second elongate part 
cooperable in face to face relation with said first elongate 

part and having a series of orifices distributed along its 
length to receive said locking pins in a closed configuration 

and locking means for locking said first and second parts in 
said closed configuration, said locking means comprising: 


(i) a longitudinal passage formed along said second 
part (3); 
(ii) an elongate locking element (13) housed in said 
passage (8) and shiftable longitudinally therein between a 

first free position in which the respective said pins (6) can 
fully penetrate the orifices (9) in said second part (3), and 

a second locked position in which said pins (6) are locked in 
said orifices (9) in the second part (3); and 
(iii) means (11,12) for permitting the 
immobilisation of said locking element (13) in said second 

locking position by the application of a security seal. 
Device according to claim 1, in which said locking 
element (13) is shaped to leave said orifices (9) in said 

second part (3) substantially unobstructed when in said first 
position and partially obstructed when in the second locking 

position. 
Device according to claim 2, in which said locking 
element (13) is formed with elastically deformable regions 

to interfere slightly in the first position with the passage 
of said pins (6) into the orifices (9) in said second part 

(3), thereby elastically retaining the pins in the orifices 
until said locking element (13) is shifted to said second 

locking position. 
Device according to claim 2 or 3, in which said 
said passage (8) is formed internally in said second part (3). 
Device according to claim 2 or 3 or 4, in which 
said locking element comprises a strip (14) formed therealong  

 
with a series of openings (16), each said opening having a 

first region (17) of a width corresponding substantially to 
that of the free end of each said pin (6,6'), and a second region 

(19) of a reduced width corresponding substantially to 
that of a reduced width region (7) behind said free end of 

each pin (6,6). 
Device according to claim 5,in which the said 
first region (17) has a width slightly less than that of the 

free end of each pin (6) and said strip (14) is formed with a 
slot (18) adjacent and parallel to at least one side edge of 

said first region (17). 
Device according to any one of the preceding 
claims, in which the said locking element (13) is formed with 

an operating tab (15) projecting outwardly from the plane of 
said second part (3) and said second part (3) is provided with 

a locking cavity (11) to receive a locking portion (26) of a 
security seal (24), adjacent said tab (15). 
Device according to claim 7, including a second 
passage (8') in said second part (3), aligned with said first 

mentioned passage (8), and a second elongate locking element 
(13') housed in said second passage (8'). 
Device according to claim 8, in which said second 
locking element (13') is formed with a second operating tab 

(15') projecting outwardly from the plane of said second part 
(3), said locking cavity (11) being positioned between said 

first and second tabs (15,15'). 
Device according to claim 7, 8 or 9, further including 
a security seal (24) comprising a base (25) formed 

with an opening (28) dimensioned for said operating tab (15) 
to pass therethrough when said locking element (13) is in said 

second locking position, said base (25) further comprising a 
pin like locking portion (26) for insertion into said locking 

cavity (11). 
Device according to claim 10, in which the lock;5 
ing element (13) is formed with recess (29) adjacent said tab 

(15) and the base (25) of the seal is formed with a 
protuberance (28) that cooperates with the recess when the 

seal is applied. 
Device according to any one of claims 1 to 11, in  
 

which the said first and second parts (2,3) comprise a single 
piece with said parts hinged longitudinally to each other 

along a hinge line (4) whereby they may be folded over each 
other to reach said closed configuration. 
Device according to any one of claims 1 to 11, in 
which said first and second parts (2a,3a) are formed with cooperating 

formations (32,31) along corresponding longitudinal 
edges whereby, when said parts are placed in face to face relation 

to assume said closed configuration, said formations 
prevent access between said first and second parts (2a, 3a) 

from said longitudinal edges. 
Device according to claim 13, in which said formations 
comprise a longitudinal groove (32) and a longitudinal 

flange (31) receivable in said groove. 
Device according to claim 13 or 14, in which corresponding 
ends of said first and second parts (2a,3a) are 

joined to each other by foldable portions (35,35') that fold 

inwardly in bellows fashion between said first and second 
parts when said parts assume said closed configuration. 
Device according to claim 15, in which said 
foldable portions (35,35') are formed with orifices 

(38,38',39,39') that are penetrated by respective ones of said 
locking pins (6a,6a') in said closed configuration. 
Security seal used in combination with the device 
for the closure of bags or the like according to claim 7, in 

which the seal (24) comprises a base (25) formed with an opening 
(27) dimensioned for the operating tab (15) of said device 

to pass therethrough when said locking element (13) of the device 
is in its second locking position, said base further comprising 

a pin like locking portion (26) for insertion into 
said locking cavity (11) of the device. 
Security seal according to claim 17, in which the 
said base (25) is further formed with a protuberance (28) adjacent 

the said opening (27) and protruding from the same side 
of the base as the pin like locking portion (26). 
Security seal according to claim 17, in which 
said base is formed with a second opening (27') identical to 

said opening first mentioned (27), said pin like locking portion 
being located between said first and second openings  

 
(27,27'). 
Security seal according to claim 19, in which the 
said base (25) is further formed with two protuberances 

(28,28') adjacent the said respective first and second 
openings (27,27') and protruding from the same side of the 

base as the locking pin (26). 
Security seal according to claim 17, 18, 19 or 
20, in which the locking pin (26) is frangibly connected to 

the said base (25). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
