<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617441</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Capacitive battery.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01G900	H01G900	H01G9155	H01G9155	H01M402	H01M402	H01M404	H01M404	H01M1036	H01M1036	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01G	H01G	H01G	H01G	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01G9	H01G9	H01G9	H01G9	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M10	H01M10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A capacitive battery cell (11) includes a pair of 
conductive, hydrophilic electrodes (16) spaced apart by a 

separator (17), an aqueous electrolyte wetting the separator, a 
pair of electrically conductive supports (18) superposed on each 

electrode on the outsides thereof opposite the separator (17), 
and a seal (19) that retains the electrolyte between the 

electrodes (16). The cells may be connected in series with 
positive and negative terminals (12,13) at the endmost cells to 

provide a capacitive battery (10). Such a battery may resemble 
a lead-acid bipolar battery, except that the electrodes 

lack layers of positive and negative active lead material. 
The battery of the invention functions purely as a 

capacitor, and is thus capable of a powerful discharge, but 
only for a short duration. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLOBE UNION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLOBE-UNION INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAO WEN-HONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAO, WEN-HONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a battery capable of 
delivering a short but high power pulse discharge in a 
manner similar to a capacitor. In the development of battery systems for motor 
vehicles, particularly automobiles, the act of starting 
the internal combustion engine requires a short but 
powerful surge of electrical energy. If a conventional 
lead-acid automotive battery is extremely cold or 
partially drained, it may not have enough charge to start 
the engine. To solve this problem, one approach provides 
a dual lead-acid battery, including a main battery and an 
auxiliary battery which is, for example, used only upon 
starting in response to a stimulus (see Witehira European 
Patent Publication No. 398,691) or when a switch has been 
actuated (see U.S. Patent No. 5,002,840). Dual batteries 
such as these are useful but require substantial 
additional battery materials and are more difficult to 
construct, requiring, for example, bus bars embedded in 
the plastic cover. Air cathodes are well known and have been used 
in batteries such as zinc-air batteries, but have not 
generally been used in combination with automotive 
starting, lighting and ignition (SLI) batteries. In one 
known process for making an air cathode, carbon powder is 
mixed with a Teflon® dispersion. Water is filtered off 
and the mix is allowed to dry in an oven. The mix is 
then rolled into a sheet, laminated with a nickel current 
collector and a hydrophobic film such as Teflon®. The 
preferred content of the binder is 10% or higher. High 
binder content is needed to retain cathode hydrophobicity 
and a three-phase reaction zone. The resulting air  
 
cathode is active toward oxygen reduction in an alkaline 
solution. However, it becomes inactive in acid. The present invention provides a capacitive-type 
battery which can produce a short but high power 
pulse discharge useful in starting a vehicle engine. A capacitive battery cell according to the 
invention includes a pair of conductive, hydrophilic 
electrodes spaced apart by a separator, an aqueous 
electrolyte wetting the separator, a pair of electrically 
conductive supports superposed on each electrode on the 
outsides thereof opposite the separator, and a seal that 
retains the electrolyte between the electrodes. The 
cells may be connected in series with positive and 
negative terminals at the endmost cells to provide a 
capacitive battery according to the invention. Such a 
battery resembles a lead-acid bipolar battery, except 
that the electrodes lack layers of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A capacitive battery cell (11), comprising: 
   a pair of conductive, hydrophilic electrodes (16, 

16) which can be charged to capacitively store electrical 
energy; 

   a separator (17) interposed between the 
electrodes in contact therewith; 

   an aqueous electrolyte wetting the separator and 
electrodes; 

   a pair of electrically conductive supports (18, 
18) substantially impervious to the electrolyte superposed 

on each electrode on the outsides thereof opposite the 
separator; and 

   a seal (19) that retains the electrolyte between 
the electrodes. 
The cell of claim 1, wherein the electrodes 
(16, 16) consist essentially of thin, porous sheets of a 

particulate, electrically conductive material distributed 
on a fibrillated plastic, and the supports (17) comprise 

substantially non-porous sheets consisting essentially of 
a conductive metal or a conductive composite made of 

plastic containing a conductive filler. 
The cell of claim 2, wherein the electrodes 
(16, 16) consist essentially of about 1 to 9 wt. % of the 

fibrillated plastic, and the balance is essentially the 
particulate, electrically conductive material, and the 

electrically conductive material is selected from the group 
consisting of gold, tantalum, titanium, lead, carbon, TiOx 

(1.75 ≦ x ≦ 1.9), WC, WOy (2.6 ≦ y ≦ 2.9), TiSi₂, MnSi₂, NbC, 
NbSi₂, TaB, TaC, TaN, TaSiz (0.4 ≦ z ≦ 2.0) and BaPbO₃. 
The cell of claim 3, wherein the supports 
(18, 18) comprise sheets consisting essentially of about 1 

to 90 wt. % of a polyolefin filled with about 10 to 99 wt. 
 

% of a conductive particulate material which may be the 
same as or different from the conductive particulate 

material in the electrodes (16, 16). 
A capacitive battery (10), comprising: 
   a plurality of cells (11), each cell comprising 

a pair of conductive, hydrophilic electrodes (16, 16) which 
can be charged to capacitively store electrical energy, a 

separator (17) interposed between the electrodes in contact 
therewith, an aqueous electrolyte wetting the separator and 

electrodes, a pair of electrically conductive supports (18, 
18) substantially impervious to the electrolyte superposed 

on each electrode on the outsides thereof opposite the 
separator, and a seal (19) that retains the electrolyte 

between the electrodes; 
   electrical connections connecting the cells in 

series; and 
   positive (12) and negative (13) terminals 

connected to the endmost cells in the series. 
The battery (10) of claim 5, wherein the 
electrodes (16, 16) consist essentially of thin, porous 

sheets of a particulate, electrically conductive material 
distributed on a fibrillated plastic, and the supports (18, 

18) comprise substantially non-porous sheets consisting 
essentially of a conductive metal or a conductive composite 

made of plastic containing a conductive filler. 
The battery (10) of claim 6, wherein the 
electrodes consist essentially of about 1 to 9 wt. % of the 

fibrillated plastic, and the balance is essentially the 
particulate, electrically conductive material is selected 

from the group consisting of gold, tantalum, titanium, 
lead, carbon, TiOx (1.75 ≦ x ≦ 1.9), WC, WOy (2.6 ≦ y ≦ 

2.9), TiSi₂, NbC, NbSi₂, TaB, TaC, TaN, TaSiz (0.4 ≦ z ≦ 2.0) 
and BaPbO₃. 
The battery (10) of claim 12, wherein the 
supports (18, 18) comprise sheets consisting essentially of 

1 to 90 wt. % of a polyolefin filled with about 10 to 99 
wt. % of a conductive particulate material which may be the 

same as or different from the conductive particulate 
material in the electrodes (16, 16). 
In a dual battery including a main battery 
and a reserve battery connected in parallel to common 

positive and negative terminals and electrical connections 
that draw power selectively from the main and reserve 

battery under different conditions, the improvement wherein 
the reserve battery is a capacitive battery (10). 
A process for making a capacitive battery 
cell, comprising: 

   forming a dry mixture of a plastic and a 
particulate, electrically conductive material; 

   rolling the mixture into a sheet under conditions 
effective to fibrillate the plastic to form a fibrous 

network that retains the conductive particles; 
   laminating the sheet with a conductive support to 

form a first support and electrode; 
   repeating the preceding three steps to form a 

second support and electrode; 
   interposing a porous separator between the first 

and second electrodes in contact therewith; 
   forming a seal about a space between the 

electrodes, which space contains the separator; and 
   filling the space with an aqueous electrolyte; 

   deaerating the electrolyte; and 
   closing the seal to render the space air-tight. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
