<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659041</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EMI shielding having flexible conductive envelope
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K900	H05K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K9	H05K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic device such as a portable computer is shielded against electromagnetic 
interference using a flexible envelope that surrounds a circuit card within the housing of the 

device. The flexible envelope forms a shielding enclosure and has an electrically insulating 
flexible sheet, for example of polyethylene, and a sheet of conductive fibers embedded in the 

flexible sheet so as to leave a nonconductive face oriented toward the circuit card. The 
conductive fibers can be metallized nylon and are sufficiently dense to obtain a resistivity of 10⁻¹ 

to 100⁻² Ω/□. The enclosure forms a hollow envelope with the conductive fibers coupled 
electrically across a seam, for example by cutting the flexible sheet and embedded fibers using 

heat. For use with a portable computer having a pivoting screen, a neck extension of the 
enclosure carries conductors through the area of the pivot. For access to circuit board elements, 

for example for changing or adding chips, an access opening is provided with a conductive 
extension that is movable to overlap the opening or to expose the opening. The flexible 

envelope can be joined to a circuit ground by clamping conductive fibers on an exposed face 
to a metal connector panel of the device. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHLEGEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHLEGEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANNIS GERALD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGE JR WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELCH ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANNIS, GERALD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGE JR.,WILLIAM C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELCH, ROBERT L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the field of electromagnetic shielding structures for electronic
units such as circuits, housings and subassemblies, using a flexible conductive envelope that
encloses the electronic unit to prevent high frequency energy from passing into or out of a
shielding boundary. More particularly, the invention concerns a flexible bag arrangement with
access and conductor passages, suitable for the shielding of printed circuit cards of portable
computers, notebook or palmtop devices and similar compact electronic devices requiring
passage of signal or power conductors through the shielding boundary.Electronic circuits operating at high frequencies or having high gain often emit or are
sensitive to electromagnetic radiation. It is conventional to enclose such circuits in a conductive
enclosure coupled to a circuit ground, to attenuate radiation that is emitted or received. The
effectiveness of a shielding enclosure depends on its conductivity, its position relative to the
shielded circuitry, the extent to which the enclosure continuously surrounds the circuits, and
other factors. Improving the effectiveness of high frequency shielding thus generally requires
more metal, defining a more continuous enclosure, and/or arranging the shield closer to the
affected circuits. A conductive shielding enclosure may define gaps, depending on the
frequencies to be shielded. However, to attenuate relatively higher frequency radiation
effectively, any gaps must be correspondingly smaller.In connection with computing and radio communications equipment, the frequencies of
clock oscillators, multiplying phase locked loops and similar circuits may be quite high. The
basic clock speed of a conventional portable computer, for example, typically ranges from 25
to 66MHz, and advances are pushing the clock speeds upwardly. In addition, operations at
different frequencies produce harmonics at the sum and difference of the frequencies, and in the
portable computer example, harmonics up to 900MHz or more may be present and may require
shielding. This requires a very intensive shield, i.e., a nearly complete enclosure that is quite
conductive and is placed close to the circuits that emit or are sensitive to the electromagnetic
radiation. The most typical shielding enclosure is a conductive box of continuous sheet metal, built
of a plurality of rigid panels forming a rectilinear box around the affected circuits. The external
housing of electronic equipment may include means forming a conductive box, and various
subasse
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A shielding enclosure comprising: an electrically
insulating flexible sheet; a sheet of conductive fibers

embedded in the flexible sheet, the conductive fibers being
sufficiently dense to obtain a resistivity of 10
-1
 to 10
-2

Ω/□, the fibers being spaced from at least one side of the
flexible sheet forming an insulating face (16); wherein the

sheet and the embedded fibers are formed into the enclosure
sized for at least one electrical circuit (12), with the

insulating face (16) oriented inwardly toward the electrical
circuit, adjacent portions of the sheet being joined so as

form a continuous shielding barrier of the conductive fibers
across the adjacent portions; and, means (22) for coupling the

conductive fibers to a circuit ground of the electrical
circuit.
The shielding enclosure according to claim 1, wherein
the conductive fibers provide 50 to 60dB attenuation of

electromagnetic interference having a frequency of 30MHz to
1.0GHz.
The shielding enclosure according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein the enclosure is formed into a hollow envelope by at

least one seam (24), and further comprising means (22) for
electrically coupling the conductive fibers across the seam.
The shielding enclosure according to claim 1, 2 or 3,
wherein the enclosure is moulded to a distinct shape for

closely encompassing an electronic circuit device.
The shielding enclosure according to claim 3 or 4,
wherein the conductive fibers are exposed on a conductive

side of the enclosure opposite from the insulting face, and
wherein the seam comprises a fold at which the conductive

sides of the adjacent portions are overlapped.
The shielding enclosure according to any one of the 
claims 1-5, further comprising at least one neck extension (20)

of the enclosure, dimensioned for passage of at least one
conductor.
The shielding enclosure according to claim 6, wherein
the electrically insulating flexible sheet comprises a

thermoplastic material with the conductive fibers embedded
therein, having layers arranged to define at least one seam

bordering at least one of the enclosure and the neck
extension, and wherein the seam comprises a melted and

reformed line along the thermoplastic material at which the
conductive fibers are in electrical contact across the seam.
The shielding enclosure according to any one of the
proceeding claims, wherein the enclosure defines at least

one access opening, and further comprising an extension of
the enclosure adjacent the access opening and dimensioned to

cover the access opening, conductive fibers of the extension
being electrically coupled to the conductive fibers of the

sheet of conductive fibers such that the extension continues
the shielding barrier across the access opening.
The shielding enclosure according to claim 1, wherein
the enclosure is formed with at least one seam at which the

electrically insulating flexible sheet is melted and
reformed so as to join the conductive fibers electrically

across the seam, the seam defining at least one of a neck
extension of the enclosure, dimensioned for passage of at

least one conductor, and an access flap at which a portion
of the enclosure is displaceable to obtain access to an

inside of the enclosure.
A shielded electronic device, comprising: at least one
electrical circuit (12) carrying circuit elements; a

substantially rigid housing for enclosing the electrical
circuit; a flexible shielding enclosure (10) disposed around the

electrical circuit and inside the housing, the shielding
enclosure including an electrically insulating flexible 

sheet with a sheet of conductive fibers embedded in the
flexible sheet so as to be spaced from at least one surface

of the flexible sheet forming an insulating face (16) oriented
inwardly toward the electrical circuit, the conductive

fibers being sufficiently dense to obtain a resistivity of
10
-1
 to 10
-2
 Ω/□, the flexible shielding enclosure having at
least one seam (14) at which adjacent portions of the conductive

sheet are arranged to continue a shielding barrier formed by
the conductive fibers across the adjacent portions; and,

means (22) for coupling the conductive fibers to a circuit ground
of the circuit card.
The device according to claim 3, 4, 5 or 10,
wherein the electrically insulating flexible sheet comprises

a thermoplastic material with the conductive fibers embedded
therein, and wherein the seam comprises a melted and

reformed line along the thermoplastic material at which the
conductive fibers are brought into electrical contact across

the seam.
The shielded electronic device according to claim 11,
wherein the seam borders at least one of an access opening

at which the sheet and the embedded fibers are movably
disposed to expose or cover the access opening, and a neck

extension of the enclosure, dimensioned for passage of at
least one conductor.
The device according to any one of the preceding
claims, wh
erein the conductive fibers comprise a nonwoven
sheet of metallized thermoplastic fibers.
The device according to claim 17, wherein the
electrically insulating flexible sheet comprises a

thermoplastic material.
The device according to claim 14, wherein the
electrically insulating flexible sheet comprises

polyethylene and the metallized thermoplastic fibers 
comprise metallized nylon.
The device according to claim 13, wherein the
conductive fibers are exposed on a face opposite from the

insulating face, wherein the electrical circuit includes a
conductive connector panel coupled to the circuit ground and

having at least one electrical connector for coupling the
electricl circuit to an external device, and wherein the

means for coupling the conductive fibers to the circuit
ground of the circuit card comprises at least one clamping

means at which the conductive fibers on the exposed face are
clamped against the connector panel.
The device according to claim 15, wherein the
electrical circuit comprises a printed circuit card of a

portable computer, wherein the portable computer comprises
a display coupled to the printed circuit card by conductors,

and wherein the enclosure comprises an extension neck
surrounding the conductors and extending toward the display.
The device according to claim 17, wherein the
display is movably attached to the housing at a pivot, and

the extension neck surrounds the conductors in an area of
the pivot.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
