<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640000</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED FLUID DISTILLATION APPARATUS AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D100	B01D100	B01D110	B01D114	B01D300	B01D302	C02F104	C02F104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D1	B01D1	B01D1	B01D1	B01D3	B01D3	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Several embodiments of a fluid distillation system (10) wherein each embodiment uses a primary container or chamber (22) for water or fluid to be distilled and a secondary water container or chamber(24). The two chambers (22, 24) are adjacent to each other, and the secondary chamber (24) cooperates with the primary chamber (22) to direct water vapor generated in the system to travel to a reservoir (55) for collection. The primary chamber (22) has a heater (42) therewithin near the upper surface (46) of the water carried thereby. The heater (42) is provided for generating water vapor from aerated water, whereby the water vapor when heated will pass out of water at the upper surface (46) of the water and into fluid passages (26) for flow to the reservoir (55). The secondary container or chamber (24) has no heater but carries aerated water before the water moves out of the secondary container or chamber (24) and into and downwardly along a passage (48) which leads eventually to the reservoir (55). Thus, the configuration of the primary and secondary chambers (22, 24) leads to an increase in the yield of the distilled water (57) in the reservoir (55) yet the system (10) remains relatively simple in that only a single heater (42) is used and that is in the primary chamber (22) while the secondary chamber(24) has no heater.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEE NAISIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEE, NAISIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE NAISIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE, NAISIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED FLUID DISTILLATION APPARATUS AND METHODThis invention relates to improvements in the distillation of fluid and, more particularly to an improved apparatus and method for distilling water or other fluids in a more efficient manner than has heretofore been contemplated.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In U.S. Patents 4,976,824 and 5,030,327, several embodiments of a fluid distillation system are disclosed. For the most part, these embodiments provide effective operation and a reasonable yield of distilled water. However, with proper design of such a system, the operation and yield can be enhanced, and the present invention is directed to apparatus and method for providing an increase in the yield of distilled water from such a system while keeping the system relatively simple in construction.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention is directed to several embodiments of a fluid distillation system wherein each embodiment uses a primary container or chamber for water or fluid to be distilled and a secondary water container or chamber. The two chambers are adjacent to each other, and the secondary chamber cooperates with the primary chamber to direct water vapor generated in the system to travel to a reservoir for collection.The primary chamber has a heater therewithin near the upper surface of the water carried thereby. The heater is provided for generating water vapor from aerated water, whereby the water vapor when heated will pass out of water at the upper surface of the water and into fluid passages for flow to the reservoir. The secondary container or chamber has no heater but carries aerated water before the water moves out of the secondary container or chamber and into and downwardly along a passage which lead eventually to the reservoir. Thus, the 

configurations of the primary and secondary chambers leads to an increase in the yield of the distilled water in the reservoir yet the system remains relatively simple in that only a single heater is used and that is in the primary chamber while the secondary chamber has no heater.The primary object of the present invention is to provide an improved apparatus and method for distilling fluid, such as water, wherein the apparatus can take any one of a number of forms yet, in any form, the apparatus has a heater in a primary water container or chamber while a secondary water container or chamber is free of any heater but which contributes to the overall volume of water vapor supplied to a reservoir to thereby increase the yield of distilled water and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. Apparatus for distilling a fluid comprising: a housing having an outer wall defining a hollow space therewithin; means near the bottom of the housing for forming a reservoir for receiving condensed water vapor; a first chamber in the housing for receiving water to be heated; heater means in the first chamber near the upper level of the water thereof for heating the water to a boiling temperature whereby the water will form a water vapor which will move out of the chamber to the space adjacent to the water level; means for channeling the water vapor from the first chamber to the reservoir; means for defining a second chamber adjacent to the first chamber and free of a heater, said second chamber adapted to contain water to a level approximating the water level of the first chamber; and aerator means in the housing for aerating the water in said chambers.
2. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said chambers are horizontally aligned with each other, there being a single aerator extending through the bottom portions of the housing for simultaneously aerating rhe water in the chambers.
3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said first chamber includes a pair of chamber parts, each chamber part having an aerator therein near the bottom thereof and a heater common to both chamber parts, each chamber part being above the second chamber.
4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 3, wherein each chamber part is transversely U-shaped and has a portion of the heater extending therethrough, there being an aerator box in a lower part of a chamber part. 


 5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein an aerator for the second chamber is in the housing near the lower part thereof.
6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein the first chamber includes a cylindrical wall generally concentric with the housing wall, the second chamber being defined by a pair of cylindrical walls concentric with the first wall and laterally spaced outwardly therefrom, the first and second chambers having means for receiving a pipe for replenishing the water in the first and second chambers, said aerator means including an aerator for each of said chambers, respectively.
7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 6, wherein the aerator for the first chamber is near the bottom of the first chamber and is curved, the second aerator having a curved configuration and being received in the bottom of the second chamber, the second chamber having a separate end in fluid communication with the first chamber and with the passage means for carrying water vapor downwardly from the upper space above the water level in the first chamber, the water vapor being transported to the reservoir in the housing apparatus.
8. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein the first chamber includes a cylindrical pan-like member having an open top and an outer sidewall spaced inwardly from the sidewall of the housing, an aerator in the member near the bottom thereof, the heater being in the member above the aerator and near the normal level of water in the member, water vapor generated in the member being movable above the member and then down past the sides thereof, said second chamber including a space above a plurality of vertical, open end tubes spaced below the member, and means mounting the tubes in a vertical position in the housing below the member, each tube communicating with a third chamber which receives aerated water from an aerator to aerate the water in the second chamber, and means for aerating the second chamber separately from the aeration of the first chamber. 


 9. A method of distilling a fluid comprising: providing a housing having a hollow space therewithin; forming a reservoir in the housing for receiving condensed water vapor; forming a first chamber in the housing for receiving water to be heated; heating the water i the first chamber to a boiling temperature whereby the water will form a water vapor which will move out of the chamber to the space adjacent to the water level; channeling the water vapor from the first chamber to the reservoir; providing a second chamber adjacent to the first chamber and adapted to contain water to a level approximating the water level of the first chamber; and aerating the water in said chambers.
10. A method as set forth in claim 9, wherein said step of providing said second chamber includes horizontally aligning the chambers with each other, said aerating step includes simultaneously aerating the water in the chambers.
11. A method as set forth in claim 9, wherein said step of forming a first chamber includes providing a pair of chamber parts, aerating each chamber part near the bottom thereof and providing a heater common to both chamber parts, and placing each chamber part above the second chamber.
12. A method as set forth in claim 11, herein each chamber part is transversely U-shaped, and extending a portion of the heater through each chamber part, placing an aerator box in a lower part of a chamber part.
13. A method as set forth in claim 12, wherein placing an aerator for the second chamber in the housing near the lower part thereof. 


 14. A method as set forth in claim 9, wherein the step of forming the first chamber includes providing a cylindrical wall generally concentric with the housing wall, forming the second chamber with a pair of cylindrical walls concentric with the first wall and laterally spaced outwardly therefrom, providing the fist and second chambers with a pipe for replenishing the water in the first and second chambers, providing an aerator for each of said chambers, respectively.
15. A method as set froth in claim 14, wherein the aerating of the first chamber originates near the bottom of the first chamber, aerating the bottom of the second chamber, providing a separate end for the second chamber in fluid communication with the first chamber and with the passage for carrying water vapor from the space above the water level in the first chamber, and moving the water vapor to the reservoir.
16. A method as set forth in claim 9, wherein the step of forming the first chamber includes making a cylindrical pan-like member having an open top and an outer sidewall spaced inwardly from the sidewall of the housing, an aerator in the member near the bottom thereof, placing the heater in the member above the aerator and near the normal level of water in the member, moving water vapor generated in the member to a location above the member and then down past the sides thereof, forming said second chamber including a plurality of vertical, open end tubes spaced below the member, and mounting the tubes in a vertical position in the housing below the member, each tube communicating with a third chamber which receives aerated water from an aerator to aerate the water in the second chamber, and aerating the second chamber separately from the aeration of the first chamber. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
