<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616081</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System for measuring the penetration depth of an elongated object into the ground
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B2102	G01B2118	E02D1306	G01B2102	E02D1300	G01B2118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	E02D	G01B	E02D	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B21	G01B21	E02D13	G01B21	E02D13	G01B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
System for measuring the penetration depth of an elongated object 
(13) such as a pile, tube, sheet pile or drill into the ground, to be 

used in combination with an installation for bringing the elongated 
object into the ground (10) for instance by pressing, hammering, 

vibrating, drilling or lowering, or for pulling or otherwise removing 
said elongated object out of the ground. The system comprises means for 

measuring the displacement of the elongated object embodied as a 
flexible elongated element (14,18) the weight of which is uniformly 

distributed along its length, said length being at least equal to the 
maximum displacement of the elongated object. At least part of said 

elongated element is supported by a supporting surface. Means (20) are 
present to determine the total weight of that section of the flexible 

elongated element which is supported by said supporting surface. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TNO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDERLANDSE ORGANISATIE VOOR TOEGEPAST-NATUURWETENSCHAPPELIJK ONDERZOEK TNO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIDDELDORP FREDERIK MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIDDELDORP, FREDERIK MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a system for measuring the penetration 
depth of an elongated object such as a pile, tube, sheet pile or drill 
into the ground, to be used in combination with an installation for 
bringing the elongated object into the ground for instance by pressing, 
hammering, vibrating, drilling or lowering, or for pulling or otherwise 
removing said elongated object out of the ground, said system comprising 
means for measuring the displacement of the elongated object. A system of this type, more specifically destined for driving a 
pile into the ground by means of a hammer, is described in the laid-open 
Japanese patent publication JP 58-94525. In this prior art system the 
displacement of the elongated object is measured by measuring the 
displacement of a wire or cable of which one end is directly or 
indirectly connected to the pile. The other end of the wire or cable is 
wound onto a drum. During operation of the system the amount of wire 
paid out from said drum is measured. The measured values are recorded 
and can be used for real time calculations. Thereby especially 
information is obtained about the speed with which the pile or tube is 
penetrating into the ground. A specific problem with measurements of this type resides in the 
fact that installations for driving piles, tubes, sheet piles or drills 
into the ground are usually operating in a very dirty, even hostile 
environment. Therefore, the various components of the measuring system 
have to be embodied such that they will operate in a reliable manner 
even under said hostile circumstances. Rotating means such as a drum on 
which a measuring wire is wound (as described in JP 58-94525) should be 
avoided. A specific disadvantage related to the use of a drum resides in 
the fact that the error occurring during the successive revolutions of 
the drum is cumulating in the final measurement value, resulting in many 
cases in a relatively large absolute divergence between the measured 
value and the real penetration depth. Furthermore slip and stretching of 
the wire could lead to an additional deviation. The object of the invention is now to indicate in which way  
 
accurate information can be obtained about the penetration of the pile 
or tube etc. with means which are basically insensitive for a dirty or 
even hostile environment. In agreement with this object the invention provides a system of 
the above-mentioned type which is according to the invention 
characterized in that a flexible elongated element the weight of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
System for measuring the penetration depth of an elongated object 
such as a pile (13), tube, sheet pile or drill into the ground, to be used in 

combination with an installation for bringing the elongated object into 
the ground for instance by pressing, hammering, vibrating, drilling or 

lowering, or for pulling or otherwise removing said elongated object out 
of the ground, said system comprising means for measuring the 

displacement of the elongated object, 
characterized in that
 a flexible 
elongated element (18) the weight of which is uniformly distributed along its 

length is directly or indirectly connected to said elongated object, 
said length being at least equal to the maximum displacement of the 

elongated object, whereby at least part of said elongated element is 
supported by a supporting surface (19), and that means (20) are present to 

determine the total weight of that section of the flexible elongated 
element which is supported by said supporting surface. 
System according to claim 1, 
characterized in that
 the flexible 
elongated element is embodied as a chain made of a plurality of 

interconnected links. 
System according to claim 1, 
characterized in that
 the flexible 
elongated element is embodied as a wire or cable to which separate 

weight elements are connected at mutual distances. 
System according to claim 1, characterized in that the elongated 
element consists of a relatively flexible wire, rope or cable with a 

substantial weight per unit of length. 
System according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in 
that
 the section of the elongated element not supported by said 
supporting surface extends substantially vertical during operation of 

the system. 
System according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in 
that
 the flexible elongated element is connected to the elongated object 
by means of a connection element such as a clamp. 
System according to one of the preceding claims 1-5, 

characterized in that
 the flexible elongated element is connected to the 
device for hammering, vibrating or drilling the elongated object into 

the ground by means of a connection element such as a clamp. 
System according to one of the preceding claims 1-5, 

characterized in that
 one end of the flexible elongated element is  
 

connected to one end of a wire or cable of which the other end is 
connected to said elongated object. 
System according to one of the preceding claims 1-5, 

characterized in that
 one end of the flexible elongated element is 
connected to one end of a wire or cable of which the other end is 

connected to the device for hammering, vibrating or drilling the 
elongated object into the ground. 
System according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in 
that
 the means for determining the weight of said section of the 
flexible elongated element supported by said supporting surface comprise 

a weight measuring device installed underneath said supporting surface. 
System according to claim 10, 
characterized in that
 the 
supporting surface comprises a plate which forms part of a container of 

which the dimensions are selected such that the complete elongated 
flexible element will fit within said container. 
System according to one of the claims 1-10, 
characterized in that
 
the means for determining the weight of said section of the flexible 

elongated element supported by said supporting surface comprise a weight 
measuring device installed between the respective one end of the 

flexible elongated element and the connection element or the wire or 
cable. 
System according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in 
that
 at least part of the elongated element not supported by the 
supporting surface is surrounded by a protective tubing. 
System according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in 
that
 the weight measuring device is connected through a data 
communication link to a data processor/data logger. 
System according to claim 14, 
characterized in that
 the data 
communication link is established by means of a wire connection between 

the measuring device and the data processor/data logger. 
System according to claim 14, 
characterized in that
 the 
communication link is established by means of a wireless communication 

path for which at least the weight measuring device is combined with a 
transmitter and at least the data processor/data logger is combined with 

a receiver. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
