<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633471</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Infrared breath analyzer with calibration provisions and related method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2125	G01N2127	G01N2131	G01N2135	G01N33483	G01N33497	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A calibration device, method and apparatus 
is provided for checking calibration of a breath 

alcohol measuring instrument (10). A silicon wafer 
(76) with an anti-reflective silicon monoxide 

coating (78) on both sides is used to attenuate the 
infrared radiation in the range of 3.35 to 3.80 

microns wavelength in a manner to simulate the 
attenuation caused by a breath sample containing 

0.10 BrAC. A comparison of the signal generated by 
the attenuation at a wavelength of approximately 

3.48 microns is made to the baseline signal obtained 
before placing the calibration disk (12) in the IR 

beam path (42) and accurately simulates the breath 
sample. The related breath alcohol measuring method 

and apparatus provides for the positioning of the 
composite disk (12) in the path (42) between the 

infrared source (34) and receiver (36). A computer 
(56) compares the signals and performs the 

calibration check, as well as the actual BrAC 
analysis. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CMI INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CMI, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWLDS HARVEY F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWLDS, HARVEY F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to breath 
analyzing instruments utilizing infrared radiation to 
measure the amount of alcohol in a breath sample, and 
specifically, an improvement in calibration of such 
instruments. Instruments measuring the alcohol content in 
a breath sample have become a common and effective tool 
utilized by business human resource personnel, 
government officials, and law enforcement agencies to 
evaluate whether a person is under the influence of 
alcohol. The statutory offense of driving-under-the-influence 
is defined in most states as operating a 
vehicle while having a blood alcohol content greater 
than 0.10 percent. A typical breath alcohol measuring 
instrument utilizes infrared radiation (IR) to 
calculate the content of ethyl alcohol (ethanol) in a 
breath sample, from which blood alcohol content is 
readily calculable. Such an instrument utilizing infrared 
radiation includes a sample cell forming a chamber that 
receives and retains a breath sample. A person being  
 
tested blows a breath sample into the chamber and 
infrared radiation attenuation at at least two 
different wavelengths is monitored during the residence 
time of the breath sample in the chamber. The first 
wavelength is selected to be attenuated by the ethanol 
while the second wavelength is not attenuated. The 
signal representing the second wavelength is compared 
to a signal representing a baseline value stored in the 
system's computer, and is used primarily to stabilize 
the instrument to prevent long term drift due to aging 
of components, such as the inevitable weakening of the 
IR source. The amount of the attenuation at the first 
wavelength is calculated by the computer by comparing 
the difference between the signals representing the 
radiation received before the breath sample, to that 
received when the sample is present in the chamber. Precise and reliable calibration of infrared 
breath alcohol measuring instruments is very important 
because even small errors in the measured attenuation 
can cause relatively large errors in the alcohol 
content determined by the computer. To avoid improper 
arrest and charges, including for driving-under-the-influence, 
and to maintain the credibility of the 
instruments and alcohol readings taken thereby, 
reliable and precise calibration is required. The most common calibration check technique 
for infrared breath alcohol measuring instruments is 
the "wet" method. Briefly in this prior art method, a 
gas/vapor of known alcohol content is introduced
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A calibration device for a breath 
alcohol measuring instrument (10) wherein alcohol 

content in a breath sample is calculated by 
measuring attenuation of infrared radiation along a 

radiation path (42) comprising: 
   a disk substrate (12, 76); 

   an anti-reflective coating (78) on 
said substrate (76), the composition of said disk 

substrate and said coating attenuating the infrared 
radiation to provide simulation of a breath sample 

containing a known percent of alcohol. 
The device as set forth in Claim 1 
wherein the composition of said substrate (76) and 

said coating (78) strongly attenuates infrared 
radiation at a wavelength of 3.48 microns to 

simulate a breath sample containing 0.10 percent 
breath alcohol. 
The device as set forth in Claim 2 
wherein: 

   said disk substrate (76) includes an 
approximately 2.5 mm thick silicon disk (12); 

   said anti-reflective coating (78) 
 

comprises an approximately 5940 Å thick silicon 
monoxide coating on both sides. 
A method for calibration check of a 
breath alcohol measuring instrument (10) having an 

infrared radiation source (34) for emitting an 
infrared beam defining a radiation path (42) to a 

receiver (36), a sample chamber (14) along the path, 
and a computer (56), the method comprising the steps 

of: 
   providing a substrate (76) with an 

anti-reflective coating (78) for attenuating the 
beam; 

   storing a known alcohol content value 
characteristic of the substrate (76) in the computer 

upon initial set-up or calibration of the instrument 
(10); 

   passing the infrared beam through the 
substrate (76) and anti-reflective coating (78) for 

attenuating the infrared radiation of a wavelength 
of approximately 3.35 - 3.80 microns to simulate a 

breath sample with the known alcohol content; 
   receiving the attenuated radiation at 

said receiver (36); 
   computing the simulated value of 

alcohol concentration from the attenuation of the 
beam at the receiver (36); and 

   comparing the simulated value to the 
known alcohol concentration value to check proper 

calibration of the instrument (10). 
The method as set forth in Claim 4 
wherein said receiving step further includes 

receiving only infrared radiation of a wavelength of 
approximately 3.48 microns that is strongly 

 
attenuated by breath alcohol. 
A breath alcohol measuring instrument 

comprising: 
   a sealed sample chamber (14); 

   means for retaining a breath sample 
in said chamber (14); 

   means for purging with fresh air said 
sample from said chamber (14); 

   an infrared radiation source (34) and 
receiver (36) and a radiation path (42) defined 

therebetween including within said chamber (14); 
   means for filtering (53) the infrared 

radiation beam so that only infrared radiation of at 
least one specific wavelength is received at said 

receiver (36), the radiation of said wavelength 
being strongly attenuated by breath alcohol; 

   a composite disk (12) for positioning 
in said path including a substrate (76) coated with 

an anti-reflective coating (78) for simulating a 
breath sample with a known alcohol content by 

causing attenuation of the infrared radiation at 
said first wavelength; and 

   computer means (56) for storing a 
known alcohol content value of the disk (12) upon 

initial set-up or calibration of the instrument (10) 
and for determining the simulated attenuation as 

provided by passing the beam through said disk; 
   said computer means (56) being 

further operative for comparing the known 
attenuation to said simulated attenuation to check 

the calibration and for determining actual alcohol 
content when a breath sample is present in said 

chamber (14);
 

   whereby the proper calibration of said instrument 
(10) can be verified and an accurate determination of breath 

alcohol can be made by said instrument. 
The instrument (10) as set forth in Claim 6 
further including means for positioning said composite disk 

(12) into and out of said path (42) for checking the 
calibration comprising: 

   a stepper motor (64) having output shaft (65); and 
   a mounting arm (66) carrying said disk (12) and 

operatively connected to the output shaft (65) of said 
stepper motor (64) so that upon activation of said stepper 

motor by said computer (56) said disk is oscillated into 
said radiation path (42). 
The instrument (10) as set forth in Claim 6 or 
Claim 7 wherein is provided first filtering means for 

filtering out of said radiation beam all wavelengths except 
at approximately 3.48 microns, which wavelength is strongly 

attenuated by passing through said disk (12). 
The instrument as set forth in Claim 8 wherein is 
provided second filtering means (55) operative for all 

wavelengths except at approximately 3.80 microns, which 
wavelength is not attenuated by said disk (12), said first 

and second filter means (53, 55) supported by a filter wheel 
(48); 

   means to alternately introduce said first and 
second filtering means into said path; 

   whereby the alternate radiation 
 

values are determined for comparison by said computer (56). 
The instrument as set forth in any one of Claims 
6 to 9 wherein said composite disk (12) includes: 

   an approximately 2.5mm thick silicon substrate 
(76); and 

   an approximately 5940 Å thick silicon monoxide 
coating (78) on both sides of said silicon substrate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
