<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653750</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rotatable assembly having an O-ring disk clamp.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1702	G11B1702	G11B17038	G11B2504	G11B2504	G11B3312	G11B3312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B17	G11B17	G11B17	G11B25	G11B25	G11B33	G11B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a rotatable assembly, a cylindrical body (122) of a first 
member (12) is fitted through an opening (129) in a second member (13) seating 

said second member upon a flange (123) on the first member. A circumferential 
groove (124) in the cylindrical body has a conical groove surface (126) confronting 

a surface of the second member adjacent the opening in the second member (13). 
An O-ring (127) in tension around the cylindrical body at the circumferential 

groove, is drawn into the circumferential groove by the radial force component of 
the O-ring tension force and is compressed between the conical groove surface 

and the surface of the second member adjacent the opening in the second 
member, to securely frictionally engage the second member to the flange of the 

first member. In an application of this elastic coaxial coupler to a hard disk drive, 
the first member is the hub of a disk assembly and the second member is the hard 

disk. In a different application of this elastic coaxial coupler to a hard disk drive, 
the first member is the rotor of the disk motor and the second member is a hard 

disk hub (120). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETER GARY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETER, GARY M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to a rotatable 
assembly having particular utility in disk drives. The 
invention concept is disclosed in its application as a 
rotatable disk drive assembly having an O-ring disk clamp. Hard disk assemblies for disk drives usually 
involve some form of clamping member to secure one or more 
disks to a hub, which in some instances may be part of a rotor 
of a motor or in other instances may be a disk hub adapted for 
attachment directly to a motor rotor or shaft. The U.S. patents to Matsudaira et al 4, 
945,432, and Wood et al 5,031,062 are examples of disk 
attachments to a hub in which a plurality of disks are stacked 
and spaced on a cylindrical spindle hub which is part of the 
motor rotor. The disks are secured in compression between a 
bottom flange on the cylindrical spindle hub and a clamp at 
the top of the cylindrical spindle hub. Examples of disk hub attachments to a motor 
shaft are found in the U.S. patent to Hasler et al 4,337,491, 
and the U.S. patent to Angle et al 3,587,074. The patent to Matsudaira et al, teaching the 
fabrication of a disk assembly employing a plurality of 
ceramic or glass disks, rather than metal disks, is concerned 
with the problem of compressional compliance in the disk stack 
between the lower flange on the cylindrical hub on which the 
disks are assembled and the top clamp. To this end, 
Matsudaira et al incorporates soft annular spacers between the 
individual disks and the metal spacer rings. The soft annular 
spacers include adhesives, O-rings and washers between the 
metal spacer rings and the disks in the stack. The patentees Wood et al discuss the problems 
associated with disk stack fabrication in smaller form factor 
disk drives, mentioning particularly a 2.5 form factor. 
While structuring a disk stack in a manner somewhat similar 
to that of Matsudaira et al on a cylindrical spindle hub, 
between a bottom flange on that cylindrical spindle hub and 
a top clamp on that spindle hub, Wood et al addresses the  
 
problem of warping of the disk whenever clamping pressure is 
applied and employs a flowable material of some sort, 
including adhesives to fill in valleys in the surfaces on 
which the individual disks will seat. In this respect, Wood 
et al on their spacer ring 48, apply flowable material to both 
sides. When clamping pressure is applied to the disk stack 
assembled on the cylindrical spindle hub, the flowable 
material, filling in the valleys or depressions in those parts 
of the spindle hub and the spacer ring
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotatable assembly, comprising: 

a. a rotatable member (120) having a support surface 
(123) and having a groove (124) therein; 
b. a structure (13) having an opening (129) therein, said 
opening receiving said member when said structure is disposed on said support 

surface, said opening in said structure having a lip (128) which is disposed 
adjacent to said groove when said structure is disposed on said support surface; 

and 
c. an elastic ring (127) which is disposed in said groove 
and which bears on at least one surface (126) in said groove and on said lip to 

thereby elastically urge said structure towards said support surface. 
The rotatable assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein 
sa
id groove includes a groove region (131) forming a cavity in said groove. 
An assembly, comprising: 

a. a disk hub (120) having an axial hub surface (123) and 
a central hub body (122) axially projecting from said annular axial hub surface; 
b. a structure (13) having a central opening (129), said 
central opening having an edge (128), said structure being seated upon said axial 

hub surface (123) with said central opening disposed about said central hub body; 
c. said central hub body having a circumferential hub 
groove (124) therein, said circumferential hub groove having circumferential hub 

groove edge (133), and hub groove surface (126) sloping inwardly of said central 
hub body from said circumferential hub groove edge; and 
d. a hub elastic ring (127) disposed in said circumferential 
hub groove in contact with said hub groove surface and said hub groove edge of 

said opening in said structure, said hub elastic ring having a cross sectional 
dimension which is greater than the perpendicular distance between said hub 

groove surface and said edge of said opening of said structure and being drawn 
into said circumferential hub groove between said hub groove surface and said 

edge of said opening of said structure thereby urging said structure towards said 
axial hub surface. 
The assembly according to claim 3, comprising: 

a. a disk motor rotor (12) having an axial rotor surface 
(150) and a cylindrical rotor body (122') axially projecting from said axial rotor 

surface; 
b. said disk hub having opposite hub faces (123'), and a 
central opening (129') therethrough between said opposite hub faces, said central 

opening of said disk hub having an edge (128') at each face of said opposite hub 
faces, said cylindrical rotor body projecting through said central opening in said 

disk hub one hub face of said opposite hub faces being seated upon said axial 
rotor surface; 
c. said cylindrical rotor body having a circumferential rotor 
groove (124') therein with an upper circumferential rotor groove edge (133'), a 

lower circumferential rotor groove edge (125') and a rotor groove surface (126') 
sloping downwardly and inwardly of said cylindrical rotor body from said upper 

circumferential rotor groove edge, said lower circumferential rotor groove edge 
being disposed below said edge of said opening in said disk hub; and 
d. an elastic rotor ring (127') disposed in said 
circumferential rotor groove in contact with said rotor groove surface and said 

upper circular edge of said opening in said disk hub and being compressed 
therebetween by being drawn into said circumferential rotor groove by the tension 

force of said elastic rotor ring. 
The assembly according to any one of the preceding 
claims, in which; 


a. said structure (13) comprises a hard disk which is of a 
material which is one of aluminum, ceramic or glass; 
b. said elastic hub ring is an O-ring; and 
c. said circumferential hub groove is V-shaped in cross 
section. 
The assembly according to any one of the preceding 
claims, in which said circumferential hub groove comprises an annular axial hub 

groove surface in said hub body at a second circumferential hub groove edge (125) 
 

and a cylindrical hub groove surface between said annular axial hub groove surface 
and said hub groove surface. 
The assembly according to any one of the preceding 
claims, in which said elastic hub ring is placed in tension by stretching to 50%-200% 

of its unstretched circumferential dimension when installed in said 
circumferential hub groove . 
The assembly according to any one of the preceding 
claims, in which said structure comprises a hard disk and a lapped ring (12d) 

bonded to said hard disk in a central position and forming with said hard disk said 
central opening, said lapped ring reinforcing said hard disk in the region of the hard 

disk adjacent to said central opening for preventing distortion of said hard disk 
when compressed against said axial hub surface by the pressure of said elastic hub 

ring on said hard disk. 
The assembly according to claim 8, in which said hard 
disk is disposed upon said axial hub surface. 
The assembly according to claims 8 or 9, in which said 
lapped ring is disposed upon said axial hub surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
