<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614441</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CLEANING CONVEYOR BELTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G4500	B65G4516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G45	B65G45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The method and apparatus comprise locating a support bar (82) under the return side (14) of a conveyor belt and positioning it transverse to the direction of travel of the conveyor belt. The support bar (82) has mounted on it several piston-cylinder apparatus (60) which have pneumatic or hydraulic connections to a manifold assembly (24). Support plates (66) are connected to the extensible end of the piston-cylinder apparatus (60) and cleaner blades (22) are removeably attached to the support plates (66). The cleaner blades (22) and piston-cylinder apparatus (60) are arranged adjacently with one another along the length of the support bar (82), and the blade assemblies (22) have side edges with tongue (122) and groove (120) connections so that each adjacent cleaning blade (22) has a sliding engagement with one another. As wear occurs on the individual blades (22) or the conveyor belt becomes curved more in the middle, the blades (22) are pressed against the belt in a uniform manner.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOLAN TROY D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOLAN TROY D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOLAN TROY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOLAN TROY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CLEANING CONVEYOR BELTS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention has to do with a method and apparatus for the cleaning of conveyor belts and is especially concerned with an arrangement for cleaning conveyor belts for the material handling industry where the material has a tendency to stick to the belt after it has passed its intended point of delivery and may be carried back on the underside of the looped belt. Prior art devices that have attempted to solve the problem have included rotating brush assemblies mounted transverse to the direction of travel of the conveyor belt and spring mounted "doctor blade" assemblies as mentioned in prior United States Patent 4,598,823.The prior art devices all appear to involve mounting a brush or a blade on a transverse support bar that uniformly elevates or rotates so that all the brushes or blades become tensioned or move in response to the adjustment of the bar. The problem with many of the belts in service is that the loading of the material handled sometimes has a distribution that is heaviest in the middle of the belt and lightest on the sides of the belt. The uneven loading has two effects on the conveyor belt. First the belt can take on a concave curvature that then becomes convex when the belt is viewed from the under side of the conveyor. Further, the belt can wear more in the middle than on 

 the sides, causing it to be thinner in cross section. These two effects do not seem to be taken into consideration by the prior art devices because the prior devices call for adjusting the support bar in response to the above situation, which in turn moves all the blades or brushes attached to the bar the same amount or adjusts the tension on the blades or brushes the same amount. Since the surface of the belt varies in location from the support bar due to the above conditions, the prior devices do not provide for any individual response by a single cleaning blade to the location of the surface of the belt it is intended to clean.A further problem with the devices of the prior art is that in most cases the adjustment of the support bar must be accomplished at the end of the bar as it protrudes out from under the conveyor belt. In most cases this will not be a convenient area for a workman either because of the debris that may accumulate in the area or because the end of the belt is located in an inaccessible area.BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION According to the present invention there is disclosed a conveyor belt cleaning arrangement which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 1. A conveyor belt cleaning arrangement which comprises: a. an elongate support bar for transverse disposition to the direction of travel of a conveyor belt; b. individual expansible and retractable piston-cylinder apparatus mounted adjacently to one another along said support bar; c. means for expanding and retracting said piston-cylinder apparatus; d. a scraper blade support plate attached to one end of each of said piston-cylinder apparatus; e. scraper blades removeably attached to said scraper blade support plates; f. co-operating elements of sliding attachment means between adjacent sides of said scraper blades. 2. The conveyor belt cleaning arrangement according to claim 1 in which said means for expanding and retracting said piston-cylinder apparatus comprises a pneumatic pressure source; a manifold assembly having connecting lines to each side of said piston in said piston-cylinder apparatus; and a switching arrangement for supplying pressure to one side of said piston when in a first position and the other side of said piston in a second position. 


 3. The conveyor belt cleaning arrangement according to claim 1 in which said co-operating elements of sliding attachment between the sides of said scraper blades comprises co-operating elements of a tongue and groove connection between the sides of adjacent scraper blades.
4. The conveyor belt cleaning arrangement according to claim 2 in which said co-operating elements of sliding attachment between the sides of said scraper blades comprises co-operating elements of a tongue and groove connection between the sides of adjacent scraper blades.
5. The conveyor belt cleaning arrangement according to claim 1 in which said scraper blades comprise a polygonal body having opposing side edges and a cleaning edge extending between the side edges, and an abutment surface for contacting said support plate.
6. The conveyor belt cleaning arrangement according to claim 5 in which said abutment surface for contacting said support plate comprises a right angled abutment surface.
7. The conveyor belt cleaning arrangement according to claim 1 in which one end of each said piston cylinder apparatus is shock mounted to said support bar and the other end of each said piston cylinder is pivotally mounted to said support bar.
8. The conveyor belt cleaning arrangement according to claim 5 in which said cleaning edge of said scraper blade is comprised of a more wear resistant material than said body.
9. The conveyor belt cleaning arrangement according to claim 1 in which said means for expanding and retracting said piston-cylinder apparatus comprises a hydraulic pressure source; a manifold assembly having connecting lines to each side of said piston in said piston-cylinder apparatus; and a switching arrangement 


 for supplying pressure to one side of said piston when in a first position and the other side of said piston in a second position.
10. A conveyor belt cleaning blade which comprises: a. a polygonal body having opposing front and back surfaces with side edges joining said front and back surfaces; b. a pair of opposing side edges being substantially parallel to one another; c. a cleaning edge extending between said parallel side edges; d. co-operating elements of sliding attachment on each parallel edge for attachment to a co-operating element of an adjacently located cleaning blade; e. means for connecting said body to a moveable support plate.
11. The conveyor belt cleaning blade according to claim 10 which further comprises an abutment surface on said body for connecting abutment of said cleaning blade to a moveable support plate.
12. The conveyor belt cleaning blade according to claim 11 in which said abutment connecting surface on said body comprises a right angle surface formed by a side edge and a front or back surface.
13. The conveyor belt cleaning blade according to claim 10 in which said means for connecting said body to a moveable support plate comprises an abutment surface and a perforation formed through said front and back surfaces for a fastener means to pass through and connect said body to said support plate.
14. The conveyor belt cleaning blade according to claim 13 in which said body is formed of a material comprising an elastomeric material. 



 15. The conveyor belt cleaning blade according to claim 13 in which said body is formed of a material comprising a plastic material.
16. The conveyor belt cleaning blade according to claim 13 in which said body is formed of a material comprising a steel material.
17. The conveyor belt cleaning blade according to claim 13 in which said body is formed of a material comprising a carbide material. 18. The conveyor belt cleaning blade according to claim 13 in which said body is formed of a material comprising a rubber material.
19. The conveyor belt cleaning blade according to claim 13 in which said cleaning edge is formed of a more wear resistant material than said body.
20. The method of cleaning a conveyor belt which comprises: a. forming a transverse support bar; b. locating individual expansible and retractable piston-cylinder apparatus adjacent to one another along said support bar; c. mounting cleaning blades on the ends of said piston-cylinder apparatus; d. providing a pneumatically activated means to extend and contract said piston-cylinder apparatus; e. mounting said support bar under the return side of a looped conveyor belt; f. providing a pressure source remove from the location of said support bar; g. providing a switching arrangement to select either expansion or retraction of said piston-cylinder apparatus; h. adjusting the pressure and switching arrangement so that each cleaner blade properly engages said belt. 


 21. The method of cleaning a conveyor belt according to claim 20 which further comprises adjusting the switching arrangement so that the cleaner blades are retracted when the cleaner blades need replacement. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
