<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656431</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition process
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	C30B2502	C23C1630	H01S500	H01L21365	H01S500	C23C1630	H01L21205	C30B2502	H01L3306	H01L3328	H01L3300	H01L3330	H01L3340	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	C30B	C23C	H01S	H01L	H01S	C23C	H01L	C30B	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	C30B25	C23C16	H01S5	H01L21	H01S5	C23C16	H01L21	C30B25	H01L33	H01L33	H01L33	H01L33	H01L33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition process 
for fabricating a layer of a Group II-VI compound semiconductor 

using an organometallic compound based on bis(cyclopentadienyl)magnesium 
having a vapor pressure in the range of from 

1.3 x 10 Pa to 1.3 x 10² Pa at a temperature of 330 °K. The 
present invent
ion also provides a light-emitting device which 
is fabricated by means of the metal-organic vapor-phase 

deposition process above. The process according to the present 
invention provides a magnesium-containing compound semiconductor 

layer having an accurately controlled composition, and it 
readily enables the fabrication of a compound semiconductor 

layer having a grated structure. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a metal-organic
chemical vapor deposition (referred to hereinafter as "MOCVD")
process for forming a layer of a compound semiconductor
comprising elements belonging to Group II and Group VI of
periodic table (referred to simply hereinafter as a "Group II-VI
compound semiconductor"), and to a process for fabricating
light-emitting devices such as semiconductor lasers and light-emitting
diodes (LEDs) by means of MOCVD process.The Group II-VI compound semiconductors, particularly
ZnMgSSe compound semiconductors that are believed to be the key
material, are now actively studied as promising crystalline
materials for the advanced short-wave semiconductor lasers.
Because ZnMgSSe compound semiconductors have a large energy
band gap and also a smaller index of refraction as compared
with that of ZnSSe, they are suitable for use in the clad
layers of blue-emitting semiconductor lasers.A layer of a Group II-VI compound semiconductor is
fabricated by depositing the Group II-VI compound semiconductor
layer on a gallium arsenide (GaAs) substrate by means of
molecular beam epitaxy (MBE). An MBE process comprises heating
each of the starting materials charged into molecular beam
sources (e.g, Knudsen cells) to generate molecular beams, and 
irradiating the thus obtained molecular beams to the substrate
to form a layer of the compound semiconductor.However, in case of vaporizing sulfur, i.e., one of the
materials for forming a ZnMgSSe compound semiconductor, by
means of MBE, the temperature control of the molecular beam
source tend to be unstable because the beam sources containing
therein sulfur or selenium are heated at such a low temperature
of about 200 °C or lower. This makes it difficult to control
the composition of the compound semiconductor layer. Particularly
in case of fabricating a semiconductor laser, the
fluctuation in the composition of the compound semiconductor
layer not only impairs the light-emitting characteristics of
the semiconductor layer, but also makes it impossible to obtain
a laser which emits light as designed.A compound semiconductor layer can be otherwise
fabricated by MOCVD process. In MOCVD process, the composition
of the compound semiconductor layer is controlled by varying
the flow rate of the gaseous starting materials. Thus, the
composition of the compound semiconductor layer can be controlled
with higher accuracy. Moreover, a compound layer with
a grated structure, which is almost impossible to form by an
MBE process, can be easily fabricated by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition
process for fabricating a layer of a Group II-VI compound

semiconductor using an organometallic compound based on
bis(cyclopentadienyl)magnesium having a vapor pressure in the

range of from 1.3 x 10 Pa to 1.3 x 10
2
 Pa at a temperature of
330 K.
A metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition
process as claimed in Claim 1, wherein, the organometallic

compound based on bis(cyclopentadienyl)magnesium is bis(methylcyclopentadienyl)magnesium.
A metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition
process as claimed in Claim 1, wherein, the organometallic

compound based on bis(cyclopentadienyl)magnesium is bis(isopropylcyclopentadienyl)magnesium.
A metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition
process as claimed in Claim 1, wherein, the layer of the Group

II-VI compound semiconductor is grown at a temperature in the
range of from 400 to 600 °C.
A metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition
process as claimed in Claim 1, wherein, the layer of the Group

II-VI compound semiconductor is deposited by supplying a
gaseous starting material containing the element belonging to

Group VI of periodic table and a gaseous starting material
containing the element belonging to Group II at a ratio of the

former to the latter of from 2 to 50. 
A metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition
process as claimed in Claim 1, wherein, the organometallic

compound based on bis(cyclopentadienyl)magnesium is vaporized
by maintaining said organometallic compound at a temperature

not lower than the melting point but at a temperature not
higher than the boiling point of said organometallic compound.
A metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition
process as claimed in Claim 1, wherein, the layer of the Group

II-VI compound semiconductor comprises ZnMgSSe.
A metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition
process as claimed in Claim 7, wherein, the layer of the Group

II-VI compound semiconductor comprises a heterojunction between
Zn
1-X
Mg
X
SSe and Zn
1-Y
Mg
Y
SSe, where X not being equal to Y. 
A process for fabricating a light-emitting element
by means of metal-organic chemical vapor-phase deposition

process as claimed in Claim 1.
A process for fabricating a light-emitting element
as claimed in Claim 9, wherein, the layer of the compound 

semiconductor constituting the light-emitting element comprises
a double heterostructure.
A process for fabricating a light-emitting element
as claimed in Claim 9, wherein, the layer of the compound

semiconductor constituting the light-emitting element comprises
a grated structure.
A process for fabricating a light-emitting element
as claimed in Claim 9, wherein, the layer of the compound

semiconductor constituting the light-emitting element comprises
a separate confinement heterostructure.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
