<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627520</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compact steel cord with no wrapping filament
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D07B106	D07B100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D07B	D07B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D07B1	D07B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A steel cord (10) adapted for the reinforcement of elastomeric 
articles comprises a centre structure of one to five centre 

filaments (16) and a maximum of two layers of layer filaments 
surrounding said centre : an outer layer of outer layer filaments 

(12, 13) and, possibly, an intermediate layer of intermediate 
layer filaments (24) between the centre structure and the 

outer layer. All the centre filaments (16) and all the layer 
filaments (12, 13, 24) have the same twist hand and have the 

same twist pitch. The outer layer filaments (12, 13) exert a 
force which is directed radially inward and which is of such a 

magnitude that sleeving of the steel cord (10) is prevented. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a steel cord adapted for the
reinforcement of elastomeric articles such as the carcass plies
and breaker plies of pneumatic radial tyres, conveyor belts,
hoses and timing belts.In the art of using steel cords adapted to reinforce elastomeric
articles a general trend towards a simpler steel cord
construction which can be manufactured in one single twisting
step and consisting of fewer and fewer steel filaments has been
recognised. Recently, in the art of reinforcing truck tyres,
there has been a trend toward using non-wrapped layered steel
cord construction.It is known that providing a layered steel cord construction
with a wrapping filament influences the properties and behaviour
of steel cord construction, especially the stiffness and
the elasticity.
Simply omitting the wrapping filament without amending the
properties of the other steel filaments, constituting the steel
cord, in order to fill in the demand for non-wrapped constructions
can lead to a great many problems of processability. In
particular, irregular spacing of the non-wrapped layered steel
cord construction has been observed in the elastomeric plies.RESEARCH DISCLOSURE RD 17534 discloses a non-wrapped steel
cord where the outer filaments are helically laid under high
tension around waved core wires so that the core wires are anchored in the cord.It is an object of the present invention to reduce the problems
of the prior art.
It is another object of the present invention to provide for a
non-wrapped steel cord with good processability properties. It
is further object of the present invention to provide for a
non-wrapped steel cord which does not lead to irregular spacing
in elastomeric plies. According to the present invention, there is provided a steel
cord adapted for the reinforcement of elastomeric articles.
The steel cord comprises a centre structure of one to five
centre filaments and a maximum of two layers of layer filaments
surrounding said centre : an outer layer of outer layer filaments
and, possibly, one or more intermediate layers of intermediate
layer filaments between the centre structure and the
outer layer. All the centre filaments and all the layer filaments
have the same twist hand and the same twist pitch. The
outer layer filaments have a performing ratio smaller or equal to 100% so that they exert a force which is directed radially
inward and which is of such a magnitude that sleeving of the
steel cord is prevented.A steel cord "adapted for use in the reinforcement of elastomeric
articl
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A steel cord (10) adapted for the reinforcement of elastomeric
articles, such a steel cord comprising a centre structure

of one to five centre filaments (16) and at least one layer of layer
filaments surrounding said centre : an outer layer of outer

layer filaments (13) and, possibly, one or more intermediate layers
of intermediate layer filaments (24) between the centre structure

and the outer layer, all the centre filaments (16) and all the layer
filaments (13,24) having the same twist and having the same twist

pitch, characterized in that the outer layer filaments a preforming ratio which is smaller than or equal to one hundred per cent so that they exert a force which is
directed radially inward and which is of such a magnitude that

sleeving of the steel cord is prevented.
A steel cord according to claim 1 wherein the steel cord
has no wrapping filament.
A steel cord according to any of the preceding claims
wherein at least part of the surface of the filaments has been

provided with a lubricant.
A steel cord according to any of the preceding claims
wherein the steel cord has only one layer of layer filaments (13).
A steel cord according to claim 4 wherein the centre
structure consists of three centre filaments (16).
A steel cord according to any of claims 4 or 5 wherein
the layer consists of nine layer filaments (13).
A steel cord according to claim 4 wherein the centre
structure consists of one centre filament (16).
A steel cord according to any of claims 4 or 7 wherein
the layer consists of six layer filaments (13). 
A steel cord according to any of claims 4 to 8 wherein
all the centre filaments (16) have the same diameter, all the layer

filaments have the same diameter (13) and wherein the diameter of
the centre filaments is greater than the diameter of the layer

filaments.
A steel cord according to any of claims 1 to 3 wherein
the steel cord has an intermediate layer of intermediate layer

filaments (24).
A steel cord according to claim 1 wherein all the centre
filaments (16) have the same diameter, all the intermediate layer

filaments (24) have the same diameter and all the outer layer filaments
(13) have same diameter and wherein the diameter of the centre

filaments is greater than the diameter of the intermediate
layer filaments.
A steel cord according to any of claims 10 to 11
wherein the number of centre filaments (16) is one, the number of

intermediate layer filaments (24) is six and the number of outer
layer filaments (13) is twelve.
A steel cord according to any of claims 10 to 11
wherein the number of centre filaments (16) is three, the number of

intermediate layer filaments (24) is nine and the number of outer
layer filaments (13) is fifteen.
A steel cord according to any of the preceding claims
wherein the outer layer filaments have residual torsions which

tend to close the steel cord.
A steel cord according to any of claims 10 to 14
wherein the intermediate layer filaments have residual torsions

which tend to open the steel cord. 
A steel cord according to any of the preceding claims
wherein the centre filaments (16) have residual torsions which tend

to open the steel cord.
A steel cord according to any of the preceding claims
wherein the outer layer filaments are under a tensile force in

the cord.
A steel cord according to any of claims 10 to 17
wherein the intermediate layer filaments are under a compressive

force in the cord.
A steel cord according to any of the preceding claims
wherein the part load elongation of any of the centre filaments

is smaller than the part load elongation of any of the outer
layer filaments.
A steel cord according to any of claims 10 to 19
wherein the part load elongation of any of the intermediate

layer filaments is smaller than the part load elongation of any
of the outer layer filaments.
A steel cord according to claims 10 to 20 wherein the
part load elongation of any of those outer layer filaments that

contact two intermediate layer filaments is smaller than the
part load elongation of any of those outer layer filaments that

contact only one intermediate layer filament.
A steel cord according to any of the preceding claims
wherein the steel cord as a whole is free of residual torsion. 
A steel cord according to any of the preceding claims
wherein the steel cord has no flare.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
