<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651660</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CENTRIFUGAL BLOOD PUMP.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M110	A61M110	A61M116	A61M116	F04D2918	F04D2922	F04D2924	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	F04D	F04D	F04D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	F04D29	F04D29	F04D29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low priming volume centrifugal pump comprising a disc shaped impeller (10) having opposite faces (16, 18) and an inlet hole (20) centrally disposed therein. The impeller (10) has flow channels (12, 14) disposed on at least one of the faces (16, 18) of the impeller (10) which radiate outward from said inlet hole (20). The volume of the flow channels (12, 14) is small relative to the total impeller envelope volume providing for efficient momentum transfer with a minimum of turbulence and backflow. Thus, priming volume is reduced and flow within the pump is more efficient. The pump can be used as stand alone device, or it can be integrated with a blood oxygenator into a common housing.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATHEWSON WILFRED F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATHEWSON, WILFRED, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CENTRIFUGAL BLOOD PUMPRELATED CASESThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application serial number 07/765,307, filed on September 21, 1991, for Integrated Low Priming Volume CentrifugalPump And Membrane Oxygenator, which is incorporated herein as though fully set forth.FIELD OP THE INVENTION The invention relates to extracorporeal device technology for the support of patients during open heart surgery and in emergency situations requiring extracorporeal cardiac or cardiopulmonary support. In particular, the invention relates to new and useful improvements in apparatus for the pumping of blood to temporarily replace the cardiac function of a patient. Specifically, the invention relates to a centrifugal blood pump which can be used either as a stand alone blood pumping device in an extracorporeal circuit, or as a component of an integrated blood pump/blood oxygenator assembly.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONDuring open heart surgery and in some emergency cardiac or cardiopulmonary situations, it is necessary to have some means for pumping the blood either alone or in conjunction with an oxygenator to replace or support the patient's cardiac or cardiopulmonary functions.Prior art extracorporeal device technology has used individual devices for the functions of pumping blood and oxygenating blood. Historically, the roller pump has been the blood pump of choice for extracorporeal circulation, mainly due to its reasonably low levels of blood damage and priming volume. However, because it is a positive 

displacement pump, high, unsafe pressures can develop if the discharge line is inadvertently closed off or restricted. Furthermore, the drive mechanism and motor is relatively cumbersome, making it less than ideal in terms of ease of use.Recently, the centrifugal pump has come into some favor, primarily because it is safer and easier to use. It is safer because it is not a positive displacement pump, and it is easier to use because its drive mechanism and motor cam be made compact and relatively mobile. Early centrifugal blood pumps had vaneless impellers, and momentum was transferred via viscous drag between the impeller surfaces and the blood. Although these had the potential to decrease blood damage, relatively large surface area was required, requiring a large priming volume.More recently, centrifugal blood pumps with vaned impellers have been introduced in order to reduce priming volume. A recent example of such a pump is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,017,103, to Dahl. Although blood damage, as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS I claim:
1. A low priming volume centrifugal blood pump comprising: a housing; a disc shaped impeller enclosed within said housing, said impeller having opposite faces and an inlet hole centrally disposed therein; a gap between each of said impeller faces and the corresponding housing surface opposing said impeller face; and a plurality of flow channels, each of which is disposed on and open to one of the faces of said impeller and radiating outwardly from said inlet hole to a flow channel outlet, wherein the volume of said flow channels is small relative to the total impeller envelope volume.
2. The pump of claim 1 wherein the total volume of said inlet hole and said flow channels is about 5% to about 50% of the total impeller envelope volume available.
3. The pump of claim 2 wherein the total volume of said inlet hole and said flow channels is less than about 50% of the total impeller envelope volume available.
4. The pump of claim 2 wherein the total volume of said inlet hole and said flow channels is less than about 30% of the total impeller envelope volume available.
5. The pump of claim 1 having one flow channel on each of said impeller faces.
6. The pump of claim l having two flow channels on each of said impeller faces. 


 7. The pump of claim 1 having four flow channels on each of said impeller faces.
8. The pump of claim 1 having eight flow channels on said impeller face.
9. The pump of claim 1 wherein said flow channels are disposed from the radius of said impeller face, at the channel outlet, at an angle greater than zero and less than forty-five degrees.
10. The pump of claim 9 wherein said flow channels are disposed from the radius of said impeller face, at the channel outlet, at an angle of approximately thirty degrees.
11. The pump of claim 1, wherein said flow channels are disposed on both faces of said impeller.
12. The pump of claim 11 wherein said flow channels are alternately placed on opposite impeller faces.
13. The pump of claim 11 wherein two flow channels are disposed on each impeller face.
14. The pump of claim 13 wherein the width and height of said flow channels are approximately equal.
15. The pump of claim 11 wherein four flow channels are disposed on each impeller face.
16. The pump of claim 15 wherein the width of each of said flow channels is approximately one-half of the channel height. 


 17. The pump of claim 11 wherein eight flow channels are disposed on each impeller face.
18. The pump of claim 17 wherein the width of each of said flow channels is approximately one-fourth of the channel height.
19. The pump of claim 1 wherein the diameter of said impeller is between two and five inches.
20. The pump of claim 19 wherein the diameter of said impeller is three inches.
21. The pump of claim 1 wherein the thickness of said impeller is between 0.3 and three inches.
22. The pump of claim 21 wherein the thickness of said impeller is approximately one-half inch.
23. The pump of claim 1 wherein the diameter of said inlet hole is approximately eight-tenths of an inch.
24. The pump of claim 1 wherein the vertical surfaces of said flow channels are disposed at ninety degrees to the impeller face.
25. The pump of claim 1 wherein the vertical surfaces of said flow channels are at sixty degrees to the impeller face.
26. The pump of claim 25 wherein the bottom surface of said flow channels has a full radius.
27. The pump of claim 26 wherein said radius is approximately 0.020 inches. 


 28. The pump of claim 1 wherein each of said flow channels has a defined radius placed at its corners.
29. The pump of claim 28 wherein a radius of 0.025 inches is placed at one of the top corners of each of said flow channels.
30. The pump of claim 28 wherein a radius of 0.050 inches is placed at one of the top corners of each of said flow channels.
31. The pump of claim 28 wherein a radius of 0.050 inches is placed at both bottom corners of each of said flow channels.
32. The pump of claim 1 wherein each of the faces of said impeller having flow channels therein has a camber near the edge of each of said flow channels such that said the gap between said impeller face and said opposing housing surface varies between the flow channels.
33. The pump of claim 32 wherein the maximum dimension of said camber is between 0.010 and 0.030 inches.
34. The pump of claim 33 wherein the dimension of said camber is 0.020 inches.
35. The pump of claim 1 wherein the maximum dimension of said gap is between 0.020 and 0.050 inches.
36. The pump of claim 35 wherein the dimension of said gap is 0.040 inches.
37. The pump of claim 1 wherein each of said flow channels has a leading edge and a trailing edge and wherein 


the direction of the rotation of said impeller is from said leading edge to said trailing edge.
38. The pump of claim 37 wherein said trailing edge is tapered to assure a smoother flow path.
39. The pump of claim 38 wherein said trailing edge is tapered at an angle between ten and forty-five degrees.
40. The pump of claim 39 wherein said trailing edge is tapered at an angle of twenty degrees.
41. The pump of claim 1 wherein the height of said flow channels gradually increases from said impeller inlet hole to said flow channel outlet.
42. The pump of claim 1 wherein the ratio of height to width of each of said flow channels is between four to one and one to one.
43. The pump of claim 42 wherein said ratio is four to one.
44. The pump of claim 42 wherein said ratio is two to one.
45. The pump of claim 42 wherein said ratio is one to one.
46. A low priming volume centrifugal blood pump comprising: a housing; a disc shaped impeller enclosed within said housing, said impeller having opposite faces and an inlet hole centrally disposed therein; 


 a gap between each of said impeller faces and the corresponding housing surface opposing said impeller face; a pair of flow channels disposed within each face of said impeller and open to said housing surfaces, radiating outwardly from said inlet hole to a flow channel outlet, each of said channels disposed from the radius of said impeller face, at said flow channel outlet, at an angle of approximately thirty degrees; and a camber near the edge of each of said flow channels such that said gap between said impeller face and said opposing housing surface varies between the flow channels; wherein the width and height of said flow channels are approximately equal and wherein the total volume of said inlet hole and said flow channels is less than 50% of the total impeller envelope volume.
47. The pump of claim 46 wherein the vertical surfaces of said flow channels are at sixty degrees to the impeller face and the bottom surface of said flow channels has a full radius.
48. The pump of claim 46 wherein a radius is placed at the top edges of each of said flow channels and one of said top corners is tapered. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
