<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632331</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Exposure apparatus and microdevice manufacturing method using the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	G03F720	H01L21027	G03F720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	G03F	H01L	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	G03F7	H01L21	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An exposure apparatus is disclosed for exposing a 
substrate with pulses of light supplied sequentially. 

The apparatus includes a detector (12) for 
detecting the light quantity of each pulse, and a 

controller (103) for controlling the timing of exposure of 
the substrate (11) with a pulse to be emitted, on the basis 

of the light quantity provided by at least one pulse 
preceding the pulse to be emitted. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIOZAWA TAKAHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIOZAWA, TAKAHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an exposure
apparatus for and, more particularly, to an exposure
apparatus for manufacture of microdevices such as
semiconductor devices (e.g. ICs and LSIs), liquid
crystal devices, image pickup devices (e.g. CCDs) or
magnetic heads, for example, with the use of a plurality
of pulses of light for exposure. In another aspect,
the invention is concerned with a microdevice
manufacturing method which uses an exposure apparatus
such as above.Figure 1 is a schematic view of an example of a
scanning type exposure apparatus. In Figure 1,
denoted at 201 is a light source such as a Hg lamp,
for example, for providing ultraviolet light. A light
emitting portion of the light source is disposed in
the vicinity of the first focal point of an elliptical
mirror 202, and light from this light emitting portion
is collected by the elliptical mirror 202 to its
second focal point 203. The light collected to the
second focal point 203 is directed to and collected on
the light entrance surface of an optical integrator
206 comprising a fly's eye lens, for example, through
a condenser lens 204 and a mirror 205. A fly's eye 
lens may comprise a combination of a large number of
small lenses, and a plurality of secondary light
sources are defined in the vicinity of its light exit
surface. Denoted at 207 is a condenser lens which
serves to illuminate a masking blade means 209 (in
Kohler illumination) with light from the secondary
light sources. The masking blade means 209 and a
reticle 212 are disposed in an optically conjugate
relationship with each other with respect to an
imaging lens 210 and a mirror 211. Thus, the shape
and size of the illumination region upon the reticle
212 is determined by the aperture shape of the masking
blade means 209. Usually, the illumination region on
the reticle 212 has an oblong slit-like shape, having
a shorter length in the scanning direction of the
reticle 212 than that in the direction orthogonal to
the scanning direction. Denoted at 213 is a
projection optical system for projecting a circuit
pattern of the reticle 212 onto a semiconductor
substrate (wafer) 214 in a reduced scale. Denoted at
216 is a control system for moving, through driving
means (not shown), the reticle 212 and the
semiconductor substrate 214 at the same ratio as that of
the magnification of the projection optical system 213
and at constant speeds, accurately. Denoted at 215 is
a light quantity detector for monitoring a portion of
light divided by a half mirror 208, to indirectly 
monitor the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An exposure apparatus for exposing a substrate (11)
through a mask (9) with pulses of light supplied

sequentially, the apparatus comprising:

scanning means (101) for scanning the mask (9) and
the substrate (11) with the pulses of light; characterized by
means (12) for detecting the light quantity of at
least one pulse; and
means (103) for controlling the timing of emission
of a pulse to be emitted, on the basis of the light

quantity provided by at least one pulse preceding the
pulse to be emitted.
An exposure according to claim 1, wherein said
controlling means (103) is adapted to control the timing

of emission on the basis of information related to the
light quantity provided by the preceding pulse, just

preceding the pulse to be emitted.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
controlling means (103) is adapted to control the timing

of emission on the basis of the light quantity provided
by a plurality of pulses preceding the pulse to be

emitted.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said controlling means (103) is adapted to retard

the timing of emission when the light quantity of a pulse
preceding the pulse to be emitted is larger than a

predetermined light quantity, and to advance the timing of emission
when the light quantity of a pulse preceding the pulse

to be emitted is not larger than the predetermined light
quantity.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
further comprising a light source (1) for supplying the

light pulses.
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said
light source (1) comprises an excimer laser.
An apparatus according to claim 5 or claim 6,
wherein the light source (1) is operable to provide

pulses which each have an intensity distribution in a
scanning direction which changes gradually at the edges

thereof to zero.
An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said
light source (1) is operable to provide pulses which have

an intensity distribution
in the scanning direction

which has an approximately
trapezoidal shape, wherein the length in the scan

direction of a region corresponding to the bottom of the

trapezoidal shape is greater than a region corresponding 
to the top by an amount which is substantially equal to

twice the product of multiplying the movement distance
of the substrate per one pulse by a whole number.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
further comprising light blocking means (6) including a

plurality of light blocking plates, for restricting an
illumination region to be irradiated with a pulse,

wherein at least one of said light blocking plates is
movable in the direction of an optical axis of a pulse.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein when a reference period and a reference light

quantity for each light pulse are preset, said
controlling means (103) is operable, on the basis of the

detected light quantity of said pulse as well as the reference
light quantity and the reference period, to determine the

period for a subsequent light pulse to be emitted
subsequently, and also to control the timing of emission

of the subsequent light pulse in accordance with the
determination.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9,
wherein when a reference light quantity for each light

pulse and a reference position of the substrate
corresponding to each light pulse are preset, said

controlling means (103) is operable, on the basis of the 
detected light quantity of said pulse as well as the reference

light quantity and the reference position, to determine
the position of the substrate in relation to a subsequent

light pulse to be emitted subsequently, and also to
control the timing of emission of the subsequent light

pulse in accordance with the determination.
An exposure method in which a substrate (11)
workpiece is exposed through a mask (9) with pulses of

light supplied sequentially, said method comprising the
steps of:


scanning the mask (9) and the workpiece (11) with
the pulses of light; characterized by
detecting the light quantity of at least one pulse
emitted; and
controlling the timing of emission of a pulse to be
emitted, on the basis of the detected light quantity.
A method according to claim 12, wherein, in said
controlling step, the timing of emission is retarded when

the detected light quantity of the at least one pulse is
larger than a predetermined light quantity, and wherein

the timing of emission is advanced when the detected
light quantity of the at least one pulse is not larger

than the predetermined light quantity.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the timing 
of emission of a pulse to be emitted is controlled on the

basis of the light quantity of the preceding pulse.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the timing
of emission of a pulse to be emitted is controlled on the

basis of the light quantity of plural pulses preceding
the pulse to be emitted.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 15,
wherein each pulse has an intensity distribution in a

scanning direction which changes gradually at the edges
thereof to zero.
A method according to claim 16 wherein the intensity
distribution

in the scanning direction
has an approximately trapezoidal shape, and

the length in the scan direction of a region
corresponding to the bottom of the trapezoidal shape is

greater than a region corresponding to the top of the
trapezoidal shape by an amount which is substantially

equal to twice the product of multiplying the movement
distance of the workpiece per one pulse by a whole

number.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 17
wherein a reference period and a reference light quantity

for each light pulse are preset, and including the steps
of determining the period for a subsequent light pulse 

to be emitted subsequently on the basis of the detected light
quantity of said at least one pulse as well as the

reference light quantity and the reference period, and
controlling the timing of emission of the subsequent

pulse in accordance with the determination.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 17
wherein a reference light quantity for each light pulse

and a reference position of the workpiece (11)
corresponding to each pulse are preset, and including the

steps of determining the position of the workpiece (11)
in relation to a subsequent pulse to be emitted

subsequently on the basis of the detected light quantity of said
at least one pulse as well as the reference light

quantity and the reference position, and controlling the
timing of emission of the subsequent light pulse in

accordance with the determination.
A method of manufacturing a micro device comprising
the exposure method of any one of claims 12 to 19 and the

step of fabricating a micro device from the exposed
workpiece.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
