<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639270</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHOSPHORYLATED CONTRAST AGENTS FOR MRI OF THE GI TRACT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4900	A61K4900	A61K4906	A61K4906	A61K4912	C07F900	C07F909	C07F9655	C07F1900	C07F1900	C07H1100	C07H1104	G01R3328	G01R3328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C07F	C07F	C07F	C07F	C07F	C07H	C07H	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	C07F9	C07F9	C07F9	C07F19	C07F19	C07H11	C07H11	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods of providing an image of the gastrointestinal region of a patient and diagnosing the presence of any tumorous tissue in that region using contrast media comprising a combination of at least one polyphosphorylated aliphatic or polyphosphorylated cyclic compound and at least one paramagnetic ion, wherein the aliphatic and cyclic compounds comprise at least five carbon atoms, is described. Also described are diagnostic kits for gastrointestinal imaging which include the subject contrast media.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNGER EVAN C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNGER, EVAN C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNGER EVAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNGER, EVAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE"EHDSEHDEY IED CONTRASTAGENXS IOR MI OF THE GI TRACT"BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is a relatively new diagnostic imaging technique which employs a magnetic • field, field gradients and radiofrequency energy to excite protons and thereby make an image of the mobile protons in water and fat. MRI has found many applications in imaging the central nervous system, but abdominal applications have lagged seriously behind. One reason that abdominal MRI has not been utilized more extensively has been the absence of a suitable MRI contrast agent for the gastrointestinal tract. Computed tomography (CT) is used more commonly for abdominal imaging in part because suitable contrast agents, chiefly barium and iodine compounds, are available for use in such imaging.MRI contrast agents primarily act by affecting Tl or T2 relaxation of water protons. Contrast agents generally shorten Tl and/or T2. When contrast agents shorten Tl, this increases signal intensity on Tl weighted images. When contrast agents shorten T2, this decreases signal intensity particularly on T2 weighted pulse sequences. To date several 

prototype gastrointestinal MRI contrast agents have been developed to assist abdominal MRI, but none of these have been altogether satisfactory.For example, iron oxides which are strong T2 relaxation agents have been used as negative gastrointestinal MRI contrast agents to decrease signal intensity in the gastrointestinal tract. These agents, which predominantly affect T2, have the disadvantages of magnetic susceptibility artifacts which occurs as a result of the drastic effects on local magnetic homogeneity (magnetic susceptibility) caused by these agents- Magnetic susceptibility artifacts make it difficult to assess the bowel wall, bowel mesentery and adjacent structures.The paramagnetic MRI contrast agent gadolinium-DTPA has also been tested as a positive gastrointestinal MRI contrast agent to increase signal intensity on Tl weighted images , but this agent has the drawback that decomplexation and release of free gadolinium ion may occur in the gastrointestinal tract which can be quite toxic. Furthermore, gadolinium-DTPA is relatively expensive.Ferric iron has also been experimented with as an oral gastrointestinal MRI contrast agent. Ferric iron has been administered in the form of ferric ammonium citrate wherein the paramagnetic Fe iron relaxes the water in the bowel to make the bowel bright on Tl weighted images. Ferric ammonium citrate is quite inexpensive but the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method of providing an image of the gastrointestinal region of a patient comprising (a) administering to the patient a contrast medium comprising (i) a polyphosphorylated aliphatic or cyclic compound comprising at least five carbon atoms, and (ii) a paramagnetic ion, and
(b) scanning the patient using magnetic resonance imaging to obtain visible images of that region.
2. A method according to Claim 1 wherein said phosphorylated compound comprises a polyphosphorylated cyclic compound.
3. A method according to Claim 2 wherein said polyphosphorylated cyclic compound is selected from the group consisting of polyphosphorylated inositol, polyphosphorylated mannitol, polyphosphorylated sorbitol, polyphosphorylated pentaerythritol, polyphosphorylated galacitol, polyphosphorylated adonitol, polyphosphorylated arabitol, polyphosphorylated xylitol, polyphosphorylated glucose, polyphosphorylated fructose, polyphosphorylated mannose, polyphosphorylated idose, polyphosphorylated galactose, polyphosphorylated allose, polyphosphorylated altrose, polyphosphorylated arabinose, polyphosphorylated sucrose, polyphosphorylated maltose, polyphosphorylated cellobiose, polyphosphorylated lactose, polyphosphorylated 


cellulose, polyphosphorylated agarose, polyphosphorylated lignan, and polyphosphorylated chitin.
4. A method according to Claim 3 wherein said polyphosphorylated cyclic compound is inositol hexaphosphate.
5. A method according to Claim 3 wherein said polyphosphorylated cyclic compound is polyphosphorylated cellulose.
6. A method according to Claim 1 wherein said polyphosphorylated compound comprises a poly¬ phosphorylated aliphatic compound.
7. A method according to Claim 6 wherein said polyphosphorylated aliphatic compound is selected from the group consisting of polyphosphorylated polyvinyl alcohol, polyphosphorylated polyethylene glycol, polyphosphorylated polypropylene glycol, polyphosphorylated polystyrene, polyphosphorylated polyacrylic acid, polyphosphorylated polymethacrylic acid, and polyphosphorylated copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic acid. 8. A method according to Claim 1 wherein said paramagnetic ion is selected from the group consisting of transition, lanthanide and actinide elements.
9. A method according to Claim 8 wherein said paramagnetic ion is selected from the group consisting of Gd(III), Mn(II), Cu(II), Cr(III), Fe(II), Fe(III), Co(II), Er(II), Ni(II), Eu(III), Yb(III), and Dy(III). 



 10. A method according to Claim 9 wherein said paramagnetic ion is selected from the group consisting of Fe(III) and Mn(II) .
11. A method according to Claim 1 wherein said polyphosphorylated compound is selected from the group consisting of inositol hexaphosphate and polyphosphorylated cellulose, and wherein said paramagnetic ion is selected from the group consisting of Fe(III) and Mn(II) .
12. A method for diagnosing the presence of diseased tissue in the gastrointestinal region of a patient comprising
(a) administering to the patient a contrast medium comprising (i) a polyphosphorylated aliphatic or cyclic compound comprising at least five carbon atoms, and (ii) a paramagnetic ion, and
(b) scanning the patient using magnetic resonance imaging to obtain visible images of any diseased tissue in the patient.
13. A method according to Claim 12 wherein said polyphosphorylated compound comprises a poly¬ phosphorylated cyclic compound.
14. A method according to Claim 13 wherein said polyphosphorylated cyclic compound is selected from the group consisting of polyphosphorylated inositol, polyphosphorylated mannitol, polyphosphorylated sorbitol, polyphosphorylated pentaerythritol, polyphosphorylated galacitol, polyphosphorylated adonitol, polyphosphorylated arabitol, polyphosphorylated xylitol, polyphosphorylated 


glucose, polyphosphorylated fructose, polyphosphorylated mannose, polyphosphorylated idose, polyphosphorylated galactose, polyphosphorylated allose, polyphosphorylated altrose, polyphosphorylated arabinose, polyphosphorylated sucrose, polyphosphorylated maltose, polyphosphorylated cellobiose, polyphosphorylated lactose, polyphosphorylated cellulose, polyphosphorylated agarose, polyphosphorylated lignan, and polyphosphorylated chitin.
15. A method according to Claim 14 wherein said polyphosphorylated cyclic compound is inositol hexaphosphate.
16. A method according to Claim 14 wherein said polyphosphorylated cyclic compound is poly¬ phosphorylated cellulose. 17. A method according to Claim 12 wherein said polyphosphorylated compound comprises a poly¬ phosphorylated cyclic compound.
18. A method according to Claim 17 wherein said polyphosphorylated cyclic compound is selected from the group consisting of polyphosphorylated polyvinyl alcohol, polyphosphorylated polyethylene glycol, polyphosphorylated polypropylene glycol, polyphosphorylated polystyrene, polyphosphorylated polyacrylic acid, polyphosphorylated polymethacrylic acid, and polyphosphorylated copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic acid.
19. A method according to Claim 12 wherein said paramagnetic ion is selected from the group consisting of transition, lanthanide and actinide elements. 


 20. A method according to Claim 19 wherein said paramagnetic ion is selected from the group consisting of Gd(III), Mn(II), Cu(II), Cr(III), Fe(II) , Fe(III), Co(II), Er(II), Ni(II), Eu(III), Yb(III), and Dy(III). 21. A method according to Claim 20 wherein said paramagnetic ion is selected from the group consisting of Fe(III) and Mn(II).
'
22. A method according to Claim 12 wherein said polyphosphorylated compound is selected from the group consisting of inositol hexaphosphate and polyphosphorylated cellulose, and wherein said paramagnetic ion is selected from the group consisting of Fe(III) and Mn(II) .
23. A kit for magnetic resonance imaging of the gastrointestinal region comprising a polyphosphorylated aliphatic or cyclic compound, and a paramagnetic ion.
24. A kit according to Claim 23 further comprising conventional magnetic resonance imaging kit components.
25. A kit according to Claim 24 wherein the polyphosphorylated compound is selected from the group consisting of inositol hexaphosphate and polyphosphorylated cellulose, and wherein said paramagnetic ion is selected from the group consisting of Fe(III) and Mn(II) .
26. A kit according to Claim 24 wherein said conventional magnetic resonance imaging kit components are selected from the group consisting of polymers, anti- oxidants, anti-gas agents, T2 relaxation agents, osmolality 


raising agents, viscosity and bulking agents, buffering agents, and gastrointestinal transit agents.
27. A polyphosphorylated aliphatic or cyclic compound and a paramagnetic ion for use in magnetic resonance imaging of the gastrointestinal region.
28. The use of a polyphosphorylated aliphatic or cyclic compound and a paramagnetic ion in the manufacture of a product for magnetic resonance imaging of the gastrointestinal region. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
