<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639260</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL DISPLACEMENT SENSOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B511	A61B5113	G01D526	G01D526	G01L124	G01L124	G01L1100	G01L1102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01D	G01D	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	G01D5	G01D5	G01L1	G01L1	G01L11	G01L11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical displacement sensor (10) comprises a flexible tube (13) having a reflective internal surface. One end of the tube (13) is connected to a light source (14) via a solid optical fibre (11). The other end of the tube (13) is connected to a light detector (15) via another optical fiber (12). Light from source (14) passes through the tube (13) and is detected by detector (15). The tube (13) is connected to a measurand such that displacement of the mesurand causes deformation of the tube (13), and such deformation is detected by variation in the intensity of light transmitted through the tube (13). The sensor is also able to detect changes in pressure to which the tube (13) is subjected. In a modified form, both the light source and detector are located at the same end of the tube, and light passing through the tube is reflected from the other end back to the detector.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV QUEENSLAND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF QUEENSLAND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON STEPHEN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON, STEPHEN, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "OPTICAL DISPLACEMENT SENSOR"THIS INVENTION relates to an optical transducer and, more specifically, an optical displacement sensor which uses deformation or deflection of a tubular optical element to detect small displacements, typically of the order of 1 to 5 mm.BACKGROUND ART Optical displacement sensors or motion detectors are particularly useful in applications in which a degree of isolation, either physical or electrical, from the measurand is required. The force or work required to displace or otherwise operate an optical sensor is extremely small, thereby allowing greater accuracy and sensitivity to be achieved. It is known to use solid optical fibres as displacement transducers. In such fibres, light is propagated through the fibre by total internal reflection due to the difference in refractive index between the fibre and its surrounding medium. In Optical Fiber Sensors: Systems and Applications, Culshaw and Dakin, Eds., Artech House, at page 438 et. seq. , various optical sensors are described in which the transmission of light through the fibre is affected by the bending of the fibre, primarily the loss of higher modes, i.e. the light rays which are internally reflected at angles close to the critical angle. However, such optical fibre sensors have limited application and require complex and sensitive detection equipment. For example, such sensors are typically used for detecting very small displacements of the order of microns, but are not suitable for detecting larger displacements of the order of millimetres. Further, such optical fibre sensors normally require some reliable form of intensity referencing. The need for such highly sensitive and complex equipment limits the practical uses of such optical fibre sensors.There are other forms of optical displacement sensors or transducers, and these can be classified generally into four major groups or types. The first type 

of optical displacement sensor comprises two optical fibres each having an end cut to provide an end face substantially perpendicular to the fibre axis. The fibre ends are positioned so that the faces are opposed and parallel, and closely spaced apart. When the fibre axes lie on a common straight line, light propagating in one fibre will couple with maximum intensity into the other fibre. However, when there is relative displacement of the ends of the two fibres normal to the straight line, the amount of light coupled between the fibres will be reduced. If the end of one fibre is held stationary, the displacement of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. An optical displacement sensor comprising an elongate flexible optical element suitable for the passage of light axially therethrough, the optical element being deformable by displacement of a first portion thereof relative to another portion; a light source optically coupled to one end of the optical element for transmitting light radiation into the optical element; and a light detector for detecting the light radiation after passage through the optical element, the light detector providing an output indicative of the intensity of light detected, wherein the detector output is responsive to variation in the intensity of light transmitted through the optical element as a result of deformation thereof, characterised in that the optical element is a tubular member.
2. A sensor as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tubular member is a hollow tube of plastics material.
3. A sensor as claimed in claim 2, wherein the hollow tube has a reflective internal surface.
4. A sensor as claimed in claim 3, wherein the internal surface has a mirrored finish.
5. A sensor as claimed in claim 2, wherein the hollow tube has an opaque outer surface. 6. A sensor as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a first solid optical fibre having one end optically coupled to the light source and its other end received within one end of the tubular member; and a second solid optical fibre having one end received within the other end of the tubular member and its other end being optically coupled to the light detector.
7. A sensor as claimed in claim 6, wherein the light source is a light emitting diode, and the light detector is an optoelectric device. 8. A sensor as claimed in claim 1, wherei the optical element comprises a plurality of tubular members optically coupled in series. 9. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 1, wherein 


the light source and the light detector are located at the same end of the optical element, the light passing through the optical element being reflected from one end thereof back to the light detector. 10. A device for measuring small displacements of an object, comprising an optical element and means for detecting the intensity of light transmitted through the optical element, the optical element being connected, directly or indirectly, to the object such that displacement of the object deforms the optical element, such deformation being detected by variation in the intensity of light transmitted through the optical element, characterised in that the optical element is a flexible tubular member. 11. A device for measuring pressure changes, comprising an optical element and means for detecting the intensity of light transmitted through the optical element, the optical element being subjected, in use, to said pressure such that variation in the pressure deforms the optical element, such deformation being detected by variation in the light transmitted through the optical element, characterised in that the optical element is a sealed flexible tubular member. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the Internationl Bureau on 30 August 1993 (30.08.93); original claims 1-11 replaced by amended claims 1-11 (2 pages)]
1. Apparatus for monitoring surface movement, comprising a member having at least two juxtaposed parts, at least one part being adapted to be placed against the surface so as to move in response to movement thereof, an optical tube located at the junction of the two parts such that the configuration of the tube is changed by relative movement between the two parts, a first solid optical fibre having one end connected to one end of the optical tube and its other end optically coupled to a light source such that light from the source is transmitted to the tube, a second optical fibre having one end connected to the other end of the optical tube and its other end optically coupled to a light detector such that light passing through the tube is transmitted to the light detector, the output of the light detector being responsive to variation in the intensity of the light transmitted through the tube as a result of changes in the configuration thereof.
2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the surface is the skin of an animal and said movement is caused by involuntarily muscle movement of the animal.
3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the two parts are of planar form and are hingedly connected.
4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the apparatus is adapted for use with an NMR probe, one part being placed in contact with the skin and the other part being fixed relative to the probe. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein the optical tube comprises at least two tube components connected by a solid optical fibre.
6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the light source is a light emitting diode, the light detector is an optoelectric device, and the tube is made of flexible plastics material.
7. Apparatus for monitoring involuntary muscle movement, comprising 


 a first, generally planar, component adapted to be placed adjacent the muscle so as to move in response to movement of the muscle, a second component adjacent the first component, a pair of optical tubes each connected between the first and second components, a first solid optical fibre connected between a respective end of each tube on the first component, a second optical fibre having one end connected to the other end of one tube, and its other end optically coupled to a light source, a third solid optical fibre having one end connected to the other end of the other tube, and its other end optically coupled to a light detector, wherein light from the light source passes through both tubes to the detector, and the detector output is responsive to variation in the intensity of light transmitted through the optical tubes as a result of deformation thereof by relative movement between the first and second components.
8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein the apparatus forms part of a NMR probe, and the second component is fixed relative to the probe. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein the optical tubes, and the first, second and third optical fibres are at least partially located in channels formed in the first and second components.
10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein the first and second components are hingedly connected.
11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein the tubes are of angled configuration when the first and second components are coplanar. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
