<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647090</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Printed wiring board and a method of manufacturing such printed wiring boards
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K109	H05K342	H05K320	H05K111	H05K320	H05K340	H05K111	H05K346	H05K109	H05K346	H05K340	H05K342	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K1	H05K3	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There are provided conductive bumps (34) arranged at 
predetermined positions penetrated through an insulating layer (32) 

during a press integration stage to ensure electrical and 
thermal conductivities between a wiring pattern and a 

conductive metal as well as electrical connections between the 
wiring patterns. More specifically, the sharp tip of the 

conductive bump (34) is subjected to plastic deformation to form 
the interconnections between the wiring patterns or between 

the wiring pattern and the conductive metal. Also provided is 
a method of manufacturing a printed wiring board. A synthetic 

resin sheet (32) is sandwiched by the surface on which conductive 
bumps (34) are formed into a laminate. The laminate is heated 

until the resin component of the synthetic resin sheet (32) being 
is in a plastic state or up to a temperature not lower than 

the grass transition temperature of that resin. At that time, 
the conductive bumps (34) are forced against the synthetic resin 

sheet (32) and are penetrated therethrough. This permits positive 
connections with a high accuracy without forming a 

through-hole. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a printed wiring board
on which high-density wiring or electronic components can be
mounted. In addition, the present invention relates to a
method of manufacturing a printed wiring board with a high
yield while reducing the number of processes.Double-sided and multilayer printed wiring boards
comprise various wiring patterns. For example, each face of
the double-sided printed wiring board comprises wiring
patterns such as double-sided conductive patterns. Likewise,
wiring patterns are formed layer by layer of the multilayer
printed wiring boards. The wiring patterns of one face or
layer are electrically connected to those of the other(s). In
this event, the connections between the wiring patterns can be
achieved in a following manner.For the double-sided printed wiring board, a base plate
is first laminated with a copper foil on both sides thereof.
A number of through-holes are formed through the base plate at
predetermined positions thereon. Subsequently, an entire
surface, including the inside of the through-holes, is plated 
by a chemical plating process. A conductor layer is then
deposited on the inner walls of the through-holes by an
electroplating process to increase a thickness of the
conductor (metal) layer. This electrically connects the
wiring patterns of one face to those of the other face with a
higher reliability.On the other hand, for the multilayer printed wiring
board, a double-sided wiring board is formed by means of
patterning copper foils laminated on both sides of a base
plate. Copper foils are positioned and disposed on the
patterned surfaces through insulating sheet (e.g., prepreg
sheets). The resultant structure is then integrally bonded
under heat and pressure. Subsequently, as in the case of the
above mentioned double-sided printed wiring board,
through-holes are formed and the wiring patterns of the
individual layers are electrically connected to each other by
a plating process. Further, the copper foils for surface is
patterned to obtain a multilayer wiring board. A multilayer
printed wiring board having many patterned layers may be
manufactured through a method with an increased number of
interposed double-sided printed wiring boards.Alternatively, printed wiring boards may be manufactured
according to a method in which the wiring patterns are
connected without using a plating process. In this method, a
number of through-holes are formed through the base plate at
predetermined positions thereon. A conductive paste having a
resin component is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A printed wiring board comprising:

an insulating resin sheet (32) having a first surface and a second surface;
an interconnection (34) having a first conductive bump and a second conductive
bump, the first conductive bump embedded in the first surface, the second conductive

bump embedded in the second surface and the tips of the first and second conductive
bumps being connected to each other; and
a printed wiring pattern (33) formed on said insulating resin sheet (32) and
connected to said interconnection (34);

   characterized in that the first and second conductive bumps (34') are
substantially cone shaped and the tips of the first and second conductive bumps are

plastic deformed when connected to each other.
A printed wiring board according to claim 1, wherein said first and second
conductive bumps (34') are formed of a conductive composition prepared by mixing

conductive powder with a single or composite resin of a binder component.
A printed wiring board according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said insulating
resin sheet is made of a thermoplastic resin.
A printed wiring board according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said insulating
resin sheet (32) is made of a fibre-reinforced thermosplastic resin.
A printed wiring board according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said insulating
resin sheet (32) is made of a thermosetting resin.
A printed wiring board according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said insulating
resin sheet (32) is made of a fibre-reinforced thermosetting resin. 
A printed wiring board according to anyone of claims 1 to 6, wherein said
printed wiring pattern (33) comprises a number of patterned layers connected

electrically through said interconnections (34) embedded in said insulating resin sheet
(32).
A method of manufacturing a printed wiring board comprising the steps of:

forming substantially cone shaped conductive bumps (34') on supports (38) at
predetermined positions thereof;
assembling said conductive bumps (34') facing each other;
interposing a synthetic resin sheet (32) between the surfaces of the supports (38)
on which the conductive bumps (34') are formed;
laminating the supports (38) and the synthetic resin sheet (32) as a laminate;
heating the laminate; and
pressing the laminate at a glass transition temperature through a plasticizing
temperature or a curing temperature of the resin component of the synthetic resin sheet

(32) to make the conductive bumps (34') be inserted into the synthetic resin sheet in a
direction of a sheet thickness, thereby connecting the tips of the corresponding

conductive bumps (34') with each other by using plastic deformation to form
interconnections of a through-type.
A method of manufacturing a printed wiring board according to claim 8,
wherein said conductive bumps (34') are formed by printing of a conductive

composition prepared by mixing conductive powder with a single or composite resin of
a binder component using a mask having holes at predetermined positions.
A method of manufacturing a printed wiring board according to claim 8 or
claim 9, wherein the method further comprises the steps of:


wire patterning the conductive supports (38); 
arranging the wire patterned surface to face another conductive support surface
(38) on which the conductive bumps (34') are formed through another synthetic resin

sheet (32) to obtain a second laminate;
heating the second laminate; and
pressing the second laminate at a glass transition temperature through a
plasticizing temperature or a curing temperature of the resin component of the other

synthetic resin sheet (32) to make the conductive bumps (34') be inserted into that
synthetic resin sheet in a direction of a sheet thickness, thereby connecting the tips of

the corresponding conductive bumps with each other by using plastic deformation to
form interconnections of a through-type.
A method of manufacturing a printed wiring board according to claim 8 or
claim 9, wherein the supports (38) are provided with a conductor layer (40) as a base

layer when substantially cone shaped conductive bumps (34') are formed on the
supports (38).
A method of manufacturing a printed wiring board according to claim 8 or
claim 9,


wherein the conductive bumps (34') are formed on conductive metal foils (39),
and
wherein the method further comprises the step of
entering the conductive metal foils (39) of the laminate having the
interconnections (34) of the through-type formed to form wiring patterns to be

connected with the interconnections of the through-type.
A method of manufacturing a printed wiring board according to any one of
claims 8 to 12, wherein the insulating resin sheet (32) is made of a thermoplastic resin. 
A method of manufacturing a printed wiring board according to any one of
claims 8 to 12, wherein the insulating resin sheet (32) is made of a fibre-reinforced

thermoplastic resin.
A method of manufacturing a printed wiring board according to any one of
claims 8 to 12, wherein the insulating resin sheet (32) is made of a thermosetting resin.
A method of manufacturing a printed wiring board according to any one of
claims 8 to 12, wherein the insulating resin sheet (32) is made of a fibre-reinforced

thermosetting resin.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
