<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657800</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for display manipulation of multiple applications in a data processing system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3048	G06F3048	G06F314	G06F314	G06F944	G06F944	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F9	G06F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for manipulating the display of multiple software 
applications within a data processing system which are displayed within multiple 

windows which at least partially overlap in a selected order from a bottom position 
to a top position. A depth control window is displayed within the data processing 

system in response to a user input. The depth control window includes multiple 
graphic elements arranged in the selected order wherein each graphic element 

corresponds to a software application window within the data processing system. 
The display of software application windows within the data processing system is 

then altered, in response to a user selection of a particular graphic element, to 
display a particular application window which corresponds to the selected graphic 

element and each window which is overlapped by the window displaying the 
particular application. In this manner, the user may efficiently "dive" to a selected 

depth within an overlapping stack of windows and effectively eliminate from the 
display those windows which are "above" the selected window, without rearranging 

the hierarchical order of the windows. The depth control window also includes 
graphics controls which permit a user to alter the graphic appearance of a selected 

window within the data processing system. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENSHAW SUSAN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENSHAW, SUSAN F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to an improved data processing 
system and in particular to an improved method and system for controlling and 
manipulating the display of multiple applications within a data processing system. 
Still more particularly, the present invention relates to a graphic method and system 
for manipulating and accessing the display of multiple applications which are 
displayed in overlapping windows within a data processing system. Recent data processing systems include operating systems which allow users 
to simultaneously access, display and manipulate data from a variety of related 
and/or unrelated computer application programs. While only one application is in 
fact active at any one time, the user interface of such modern operating systems 
presents multiple applications to the user via a display. Activity relating to each 
application is typically displayed in a viewport or "window." Depending upon their 
number and size, these windows may overlap each other either partially or 
completely and may obscure various applications in that manner. This is known as 
the "messy desk" scenario. The user may, at his or her own option, work with data 
in any of the open windows by altering which window contains the active work area. 
Examples of windowing programs include Windows™ published by Microsoft 
Corporation and DeskQView™ published by QuarterDeck Office Systems. Both of 
these windowing systems will operate on the International Business Machines 
Corporation Personal System 2 (PS/2) series of personal computers.  There are, however, certain inherent problems in most such windowing 
systems. In order to access the application or data which a user desires to 
manipulate, the user must activate the window which contains the desired 
application or data. In a "messy desk" scenario, it often takes a substantial amount 
of time to sort through the various windows to reach the appropriate application. 
In this process, the user must move and/or minimize multiple windows, thereby 
affecting the hierarchical integrity of the desktop. After such rearrangement of the 
windows, the hierarchical arrangement of the applications within the system may 
have been radically altered. Also , the user faces a loss of time due to the number 
of keystrokes necessary simply to obtain a visual image of the ultimate object data 
and due to the time necessary for the system to respond to the different commands 
entered by the user. Furthermore, the user's job is made even more difficult due 
to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A graphic method for permitting active access to multiple applications which 
are displayed within a plurality of windows which at least partially overlap in a 

selected order from a bottom position to a top position, said method comprising the steps of: 
   displaying a depth control object within said data processing system in 

response to a user input to said data processing system, said depth control object 
including a plurality of graphic elements arranged in said selected order, each of 

said plurality of graphic elements corresponding to one of said plurality of windows; and 

   altering said display of said plurality of windows within said data processing 
system in response to a selection by a user of a particular one of said graphic 

elements within said depth control object to display a selected window 
corresponding to said particular one of said graphic elements and each window 

overlapped by said selected window. 
The graphic method for permitting intuitive access to multiple applications 
according to Claim 1, wherein said data processing system includes a graphic 

pointing device and wherein said step of altering said display of said plurality of 
windows within said data processing system in response to a selection by a user 

of a particular one of said graphic elements within said depth control object 
comprises the step of altering said display of said plurality of windows within said 

data processing system in response to a selection by a user of a particular one of 
said graphic elements within said depth control object utilizing said graphic pointing device. 
The graphic method for permitting intuitive access to multiple applications 
 

according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein said step of displaying a depth control object 
within said data processing system in response to a user input to said data 

processing system comprises the step of displaying a depth control window which 
includes a plurality of graphic elements arranged in said selected order, each of said 

plurality of graphic elements corresponding to one of said plurality of windows. 
The graphic method for permitting intuitive access to multiple applications 
according to Claim 3, wherein said step of displaying a depth control window which 

includes a plurality of graphic elements arranged in said selected order, each of said 
plurality of graphic elements corresponding to one of said plurality of windows 

comprises the step of displaying a depth control window which includes a plurality 
of title bars arranged in a vertical column in said selected order, each of said 

plurality of title bars corresponding to one of said plurality of windows. 
The graphic method for permitting intuitive access to multiple applications 
according to Claim 4, further including the step of displaying a numeric depth 

indicator in association with each of said plurality of title bars. 
The graphic method for multiple applications according to Claim 3 or 4 or 5, 
wherein said step of displaying a depth control object within said data processing 

system further comprises the step of displaying a graphic control object within said 
depth control window, said graphic control object including graphics controls for 

permitting a user to alter the graphic appearance of a window within said data 
processing system. 
A system for implementing the method according to any one of claims 1 to 
6 for graphically manipulating the display of multiple applications within a data 

processing system which are displayed within a plurality of windows which at 
least partially overlap in a selected order. 
A system for providing improved access to a selected one of a plurality of 
overlapping user manipulatable objects within a graphic user interface of a 

data processing system, said system comprising: 
   depth control means for displaying an ordered graphic indication of each of 

said plurality of overlapping user manipulatable objects; 
   graphic selection means for permitting a user to select a particular one of 

said ordered graphic indications within said depth control means; 
   display control means for altering a display within said data processing 

system to display a particular user manipulatable object associated with said 
particular one of said ordered graphic indications and each user manipulatable 

object underlying said particular user manipulatable object in response to a selection 
of said particular one of said ordered graphic indications within said depth control means. 
The system for providing improved access to a selected one of a plurality of 
overlapping user manipulatable objects according to Claim 8, further including 

means for altering said display of said ordered graphic indications of each of said 
plurality of overlapping user manipulatable objects within said depth control means 

in response to an alteration in status of any of said plurality of overlapping user manipulatable objects. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
