<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648400</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CODING AND DECODING VIDEO SIGNALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N724	H04N724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Video signals are coded (102) at a first relatively low frame rate. One or more portions of the image area, for example the mouth of a person speaker; recognised by feature extractor (106), are coded (110) at a higher frame rate. Preferably the second coding operates by resolving the pixel values of the image portion - considered as a vector - relative to a set of orthogonal reference vectors (stored in 112) to produce coefficients which are then transmitted. Preferably, the feature extractor (106) normalises the image portion as regards scaling, position and rotation and sends data on these parameters as side information.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELSH WILLIAM JOHN FOUNTAINS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELSH, WILLIAM, JOHN 47 FOUNTAINS ROAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CODING AND DECODING VIDEO SIGNALSThis invention relates to a method of video coding in which video signals which comprise a series of frames supplied at an original frame rate are encoded by a first encoder at a first frame rate less than the original frame rate.One application of this method of encoding video signals is in the field of videotelephony/videoconferencing over the public switched telephone network (PSTN). Current visual teleconferencing systems are based on the digital coding and transmission of television pictures. The user of a videotelephone is viewed by a video camera during the progress of a call, which camera outputs video signals at an original frame rate, for example in the region of 25 to 50 frames per second, to a video encoder. In order to use low capacity digital networks for this purpose, significant compression of the image data is - required. Study Group XV of the CCITT has recommended a coding scheme for low bit rate transmission of visual telephony signals at multiples of 64 kbits/s known as Recommendation H.261. This is a waveform coder and uses hybrid motion compensated interframe/DCT. H.261-based video codecs operating at 64 kbits/s are liable to produce low quality images; the frame rate is usually low and perceptually noticeable degradations occur when motion is large.In order to avoid flicker in such low frame rate decoded moving images it is necessary to bring the display frame rate up to the order of 30 frames per second. This can be done by interpolating between the decoded frames or, more simply, by repealling a given decoded frame a number of times before refreshing the display with the next decoded frame. ' This technique is acceptable if the frames include moving images having little fast moving detail or fast 

moving detail which is of no interest to the viewer but in other cases the slow frame update can be a serious drawback.An example of this in videotelephony applications arises with the movement of the mouth of the person speaking into the videotelephone. The mouth can make rapid excursions during speech the detail of which is lost at a coding rate of ten frames per second artificially increased in frame rate by successively repeating frames. This results in a loss of synchronisation between the lips and the speech greatly reducing the intelligibility of the transmission as the number of visual clues usually obtained from the mouth are greatly reduced.According to a first aspect of the present invention a method of encoding video signals which comprise
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAI MS
1. A method of encoding video signals which comprise a series of frames supplied at an original frame rate in which the frames are encoded by a first encoder to provide a first coded output at a first frame rate less than the original frame rate, characterised in that one or more portions of the image area of the series of frames is/are encoded by a second encoder to provide a second coded output at a second frame rate greater than the first frame rate.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 in which the portions of the series of frames are those portions which correspond to at least one predetermined class of image feature.
3. A method as claimed in claim 2 in which at least one of the classes of image feature is a feature of the human face.
4. A method as claimed in claim 3 in which the predetermined class of image feature is the human mouth.
5. A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the second encoder encodes each of the portions of the series of frames by resolving a set of picture element values, considered as a vector, relative to a set of reference vectors, the second coded output comprising a series of representative coefficients. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5 in which the representative coefficients are quantised.
7. A method as claimed in claim 5 or 6 in which encoding of the portions is preceded by a training sequence in which a set of reference vectors is devised from the input video signals and data representing the reference vectors is ouput.
S. A method as claimed in claim 7 in which the reference set of vectors is a. subset of a first set of vectors derived from portions of a series of image frames. 



 9. A method as claimed in either one of claims 7 and 8 in which the first set of eigenpictures comprises at least 40 eigenpictures and the reference set of eigenpictures comprises no more than 20 eigenpictures. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9 in which the reference set of eigenpictures comprises between five and ten, inclusive, eigenpictures.
11. A method as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 10 in which the quality of the portions encoded by the second encoder is monitored and when the quality falls below a first threshold value, the reference set of eigenpictures is modified by deriving a further set of eigenpictures including the portion with respect to which the second coder fell below the threshold. 12. A method as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 11 in which the method further includes locating a predetermined class of image feature in a frame to be encoded.
13. A method as claimed in claim 12 in which the portion corresponding to a predetermined image feature located within a frame to be encoded is rotated to match a normalised position before encoding by the second encoder, the second coded output including data which characterises the rotation prior to encoding.
14. Apparatus for encoding video signals which comprise a series of frames supplied at an original frame rate, including a first coder for encoding the frames to provide a first coded output at a first frame rate less than the original frame rate, characterised in that there is included a second encoder for encoding one or more portions of the series of frames to provide a second coded output at a second frame rate greater than the first frame rate.
15. A method of decoding video signals encoded by a method according any one of the methods of claims 1 to 13 or apparatus according to claim 14 including decoding the first coded output of the first encoder at a first frame rate and decoding the second coded output from the second 


encoder at the second frame rate, and combining the video image decoded from the second coded output with the video image obtained from decoding the first coded output so as to provide a series of frames with one or more portions updated at a higher frame rate than the rest of the frames.
16. Apparatus for decoding video signals encoded by any one of the methods of claims 1 to 13 or apparatus according to claim 14 including a first decoder for decoding the first coded output of the first encoder at a first frame rate and a second decoder for decoding the second coded output from the second encoder at the second frame rate, and superimposing the video image decoded from the second coded output upon the video image obtained from decoding the first coded output so as to provide a series of frames with one or more portions updated at a higher frame rate than the rest of the image.
17. Apparatus for coding video signals substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings. 18. Apparatus for decoding video signals substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
