<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649531</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DETERMINATION AND CONTROL OF EFFECTIVE ALKALI IN KRAFT LIQUORS BY IR SPECTROSCOPY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D21C712	G01N3334	D21C300	D21C302	G01N3334	D21C700	G01N2135	G01N2131	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D21C	G01N	D21C	D21C	G01N	D21C	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D21C7	G01N33	D21C3	D21C3	G01N33	D21C7	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A direct monitoring and control method is provided for on-line measurement of effective alkali, carbonate, sulfate and thiosulfate concentrations in process liquors for the production of kraft pulp. The control method eliminates frequent sampling, and the need for frequent equipment maintenance. The method includes the steps of withdrawing samples of a liquor from the kraft manufacturing process, subjecting the samples to infrared spectrophotometry at predetermined wave numbers to produce peak-absorbance measurements relative to a background spectrum of water, determining peak absorbance for different alkali concentrations, correlating relationships between the peak-absorbance measurements of samples with the peak absorbance for different alkali concentrations to determine optimum effective alkali in the samples, and controlling at least one process parameter to obtain effective alkali of the liquor.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PULP PAPER RES INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PULP AND PAPER RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF CANADA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGIKYAN ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LECLERC DENYS F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGIKYAN, ROBERT, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LECLERC, DENYS F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to kraft pulp 
manufacturing processes and more specifically to a rapid 
method for determining and controlling effective alkali 
and inorganic salt concentrations during the digesting, 
recausticizing and recovery operations of a kraft mill. Kraft pulping is performed by cooking wood chips in 
a highly alkaline liquor which selectively dissolves 
lignin and releases the cellulosic fibers from the wooden 
matrix. The two major chemicals in the liquor are sodium 
hydroxide and sodium sulfide. Sodium sulfide, also a 
strong alkali, readily hydrolyses in water producing 
sodium hydroxide. The sulfidity is the amount of sodium 
sulfide in solution divided by the total amount of sodium 
sulfide and sodium hydroxide. The sulfidity is usually 
expressed as a percentage which varies between 20 and 30% 
in pulping liquors. The total amount of sodium hydroxide 
in solution is called effective alkali (EA) before 
pulping or residual effective alkali (REA) after pulping. 
Timely knowledge of the REA ensures good control of the 
pulping process. At the beginning of the kraft process white liquor 
is fed to the digester. This liquor contains a high 
amount of effective alkali. At the exit of the digester 
the spent liquor or black liquor is extracted from the 
digester. This black liquor contains low levels of 
effective alkali. Black liquor also contains large  
 
amounts of organic compounds which are burned in a 
recovery furnace. The mass of inorganic residues, called 
smelt, is then dissolved to form green liquor having a 
low concentration of effective alkali and a high 
concentration of sodium carbonate. White liquor is then 
regenerated from the green liquor by causticizing the 
carbonate through the addition of lime. After the 
recausticizing operation, a small residual amount of 
sodium carbonate is carried over to the digester. The 
total amount of sodium hydroxide, sodium sulfide and 
sodium carbonate is called the total titratable alkali. 
The causticizing efficiency (CE) is usually defined as 
the difference in the amounts of sodium hydroxide between 
the white and green liquors divided by the amount of 
sodium carbonate in the green liquor. Sodium sulfate and 
sodium thiosulfate, together with sodium carbonate, 
represent a dead load in the liquor recycling system. 
Sodium thiosulfate is particularly undesirable in 
processed liquors because of the potential for corrosion 
of metal surfaces in contact with these liquors. The 
reduction efficiency (RE) is defined as the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for determining and controlling effective 
alkali of liquors in a kraft pulp manufacturing process, 

comprising the steps of: 

withdrawing samples of a liquor from the process; 
subjecting the samples to infrared spectrophotometry 
at a wave number of about 1882 cm
-1
 to produce peak-absorbance 
measurements relative to a background spectrum 

of water; 
subjecting samples of effective alkali solutions of 
different known concentrations to infrared 

spectrophotometry at a wave number of about 1882 cm
-1
 in 
order to establish an effective alkali calibration curve; 
correlating relationships between the peak-absorbance 
measurements of samples with the peak 

absorbance for different alkali solutions in the 
established calibration curve to determine optimum 

effective alkali in the samples, and 
controlling at least one process parameter to obtain 
optimum effective alkali of the liquor. 
The method for determining and controlling effective 
alkali of liquors in a kraft pulp manufacturing process 

according to claim 1 wherein said method is for controlling 
the operation of a pulp digester, and said step of withdrawing 

samples of a liquor from the process comprises withdrawing 
samples from the pulp digester, and said step of controlling 

at least one process parameter being adapted to obtain 
optimization of the pulp digestion process. 
The method for controlling the operation of a pulp 
digester according to claim 2 wherein the at least one 

process parameter is selected from the group consisting 
of controlling digestion temperature, controlling white 

liquor feed flow, and controlling digester black liquor 
recirculation rate. 
The method for controlling the operation of a pulp 
digester according to claim 2 wherein the pulp digester 

is a batch process operation. 
The method for controlling the operation of a pulp 
digester according to claim 2 wherein the samples of 

liquor are withdrawn on line, and the pulp digester is a 
continuous operation. 
The method for controlling the operation of a pulp 
digester according to claim 2 wherein pulp digestion is  

 
performed as an alkaline sulfite process having a pH 

value in a range of about 10 to 14. 
The method for controlling the operation of a pulp 
digester according to claim 2 wherein pulp digestion is 

performed in an aqueous liquor having a pH value in a 
range of about 10 to 14.  

  
 
The method for determining and controlling effective 
alkali of liquors in a kraft pulp manufacturing process 

according to claim 1 wherein said method is for controlling 
the operation of a recausticizing system in said preparation 

of kraft pulp, wherein green liquor is formed in a smelt 
dissolving tank and is passed through a green liquor clarifier 

to enter a slaker, and calcium oxide is added to the green 
liquor in the slaker to form a suspension which proceeds 

through a causticizer to a white liquor clarifier and 
subsequently to a digester, wherein said step of withdrawing 

samples comprises withdrawing samples of said green liquor 
leaving the green liquor clarifier, and withdrawing samples 

of white liquor leaving the white liquor clarifier, and 
wherein said step of subjecting the sample to infrared 

spectrophotometry comprises subjecting the samples of the 
green liquor and the white liquor to said infrared 

spectrophotometry at a wave number of about 1882 cm
-1
 to 
produce peak-absorbance effective alkali measurements relative 

to a background spectrum of water, and said method further 
comprising determining peak absorbancies for different sodium 

hydroxide and sodium carbonate concentrations, and said step 
of correlating relationships between the peak-absorbance 

measurements being applied to the samples with the peak 
absorbancies for different sodium hydroxide and sodium 

carbonate concentrations to determine optimum sodium hydroxide 
and sodium carbonate concentrations in the samples, and said 

step of controlling at least one process parameter comprising 
controlling the calcium oxide added to the green liquor in the 

slaker to obtain optimum effective alkali for the green liquor 
and the white liquor.  

 
A method for controlling the operation of a 
recovery boiler in the preparation of kraft pulp wherein 

smelt is produced in a recovery furnace and fed to a 
smelt dissolving tank to form green liquor,
 
   characterized by 


withdrawing samples of green liquor after the smelt 
dissolving
 tank; 
subjecting the samples to infrared spectrophotometry 
at a wave number of about 1100 cm
-1
 for sulfate and at a 
wave number of about 1000 cm
-1
 for thiosulfate to produce 
peak-absorbance measurements relative to a background 

spectrum of water; 
determining peak absorbances for different sulfate 
and thiosulfate concentrations; 
correlating relationships between the peak-absorbance 
measurements of the samples with the peak 

absorbances for the sulfate and thiosulfate 
concentrations to determine optimum sulfate and 

thiosulfate concentrations in the samples, and 
controlling at least one process parameter of the 
recovery boiler to obtain optimum sulfate and thiosulfate 

concentrations. 
The method for controlling the operation of a 
recovery boiler according to claim 9 wherein the samples 

of green liquor are subjected to infrared 
spectrophotometry at a wave number of about 1030 cm
-1
 to 
produce baseline-absorbance measurements and wherein the 

baseline-absorbance measurements for different sulfate 
and thiosulfate concentrations are determined. 
The method for controlling the operation of a 
recovery boiler according to claim 9 wherein the sulfate 

is dissolved in an aqueous liquor having a pH value in 
the range of about 0 to 14. 
A method for monitoring black liquor for the 
operation of a pulp digester in the preparation of kraft 

pulp, comprising the steps of: 

withdrawing samples of black liquor leaving the 
digester; 
subjecting the samples to infrared spectrophotometry 
in a wave number range of about 1000 to 1030 cm
-1
 to 
produce peak-absorbance measurements relative to a 

background spectrum of water; 
determining peak absorbance for different sodium 
thiosulfate concentrations; 
correlating relationships between the peak-absorbance 
measurements of the samples with the peak 

absorbance for different sodium thiosulfate 
concentrations to provide correlation results, and 
utilizing the correlation results for measuring the 
extent of the black liquor oxidation. 
A method for monitoring white liquor after 
causticizing in the preparation of kraft pulp comprising 

the steps of: 

withdrawing samples of white liquor after 
causticizing; 
subjecting the samples to infrared spectrometry in a 
wave number range of about 1000 to 1030 cm
-1
 to produce 
peak-absorbance measurements relative to a background 

spectrum of water; 
determining peak absorbance for different sodium 
thiosulfate concentrations; 
correlating relationships between the peak-absorbance 
measurements of the samples with the peak 

absorbance for different sodium thiosulfate 
concentrations to provide correlation results, and 
utilizing the correlation results for measuring the 
extent of the white liquor oxidation. 
The method for determining and controlling effective 
alkali of liquors in a kraft pulp manufacturing process 

according to claim 1 wherein the spectrophotometry is 
performed in attenuated total reflectance. 
The method for determining and controlling effective 
alkali of liquors in a kraft manufacturing process 

according to claim 14 wherein a circular section 
attenuated total reflectance cell is used. 
The method for determining and controlling effective 
alkali of liquors in a kraft manufacturing process 

according to claim 14 in which a square section 
attenuated total reflectance cell is used.  

 
The method for determining and controlling effective 
alkali of liquors in a kraft manufacturing process 

according to claim 1 wherein the spectrophotometry is 
performed in a flow through cell for continuous 

measurements. 
The method for determining and controlling effective 
alkali of liquors in a kraft manufacturing process 

according to claim 1 wherein the relationships between 
the peak-absorbance measurements of samples with the peak 

absorbance for different alkali concentrations is 
obtained using least squares curve fitting. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
