<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650201</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ohmic electrode for N-type semiconductor cubic boron nitride and method of producing same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2128	H01L2943	H01L21285	H01L2945	H01L2940	H01L3330	H01L3300	H01L3340	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L29	H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L33	H01L33	H01L33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
N-type c-BN is a heat-resistant material with a wide 
band gap. Ohmic electrodes are indispensable for making 

semiconductor devices utilizing n-type c-BN. The electrodes 
proposed so far are likely to deteriorate in an atmosphere of high 

temperature. The degradation of electrodes hinders the production 
of semiconductor devices utilizing c-BN. A heat-resistant ohmic 

electrode is produced by forming a low contact resistance layer of 
a boride or a nitride of Ti, Zr or Hf on a heated c-BN and by 

covering the low resistance layer by an Au layer. Otherwise an 
ohmic electrode is produced by forming a low contact resistance 

layer of one of Ti, Zr, Hf, etc. on c-BN, making a diffusion barrier 
layer of W, Mo, Ta or Pt and depositing an Au layer on the diffusion 

barrier layer. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an ohmic electrode of n-type
semiconductor cubic boron nitride (c-BN) and a method for
producing an ohmic electrode on a c-BN crystal. In particular, this
invention proposes an ohmic electrode and a method of fabricating
the ohmic electrode of c-BN which is suitable for making
semiconductor devices favored with high resistance against heat.N-type semiconductor cubic boron nitride (c-BN) has
high resistance against heat (stable up to about 1300°C), a wide
band gap (7eV) and excellent stability against chemical reactions.
N-type c-BN has been attracting strong attention as a promising
material of heat resistant semiconductor devices, or optoelectronic
devices for emitting the light ranging from ultraviolet to visible 
light. However, cubic boron nitride is not yielded as a natural
resource. Ultra high pressure method synthesizes bulk crystals of
c-BN.Furthermore, vapor phase synthesis method fabricates
thin films of c-BN on some substrate. Non-doped c-BN is an
insulator with high resistivity. P-type c-BN is obtained by doping
with beryllium (Be). Doping with silicon (Si) or sulfur (S) brings
about n-type c-BN. Application to semiconductor devices
necessitates a pn-junction. A pn-junction can be fabricated on a
c-BN by synthesizing an n-type c-BN crystal on a p-type c-BN
crystal as a seed by the ultra high pressure synthesizing method,
although it is difficult. Since a pn-junction can be produced on a
c-BN, some applications have been suggested regarding the
semiconductor devices of c-BN.
1 ○ Japanese Patent Laying Open No.4-11688 proposed an application
of c-BN to semiconductor devices.2 ○ Japanese Patent Laying Open No.3-112177 made an offer of an
application of unifying c-BN with diamond.3 ○ Japanese Patent Laying Open No.1-259257 also suggested a
complex of c-BN and diamond as a semiconductor device.4 ○ Japanese Patent Laying Open No.4-29375 proposed an ohmic 
electrode of c-BN by the same inventors of the present invention.
An ohmic electrode is one of the most important parts in order to
produce semiconductor devices. However there was no ohmic
electrode of c-BN due to the too short history of c-BN as a
semiconductor. Nobody except the Inventors has suggested a
method of fabricating ohmic electrodes of c-BN. Only the Inventors
of the present invention have suggested an ohmic electrode on a
c-BN crystal in the above application. An ohmic electrode was
produced with titanium (Ti), zirconium (Zr), hafnium (Hf) or an alloy
including Ti, Zr, or Hf.5 ○ Japanese Patent Laying Open
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ohmic electrode of n-type semiconductor cubic
boron nitride comprising:


a low contact resistance layer deposited on the
cubic boron nitride, the low contact resistance layer

being made of a single element or an alloy of Ti, Zr, Hf, B,
Al, Ga, In, V, Nb or Ta,
a diffusion barrier layer formed on the low
contact resistance layer, the diffusion barrier layer

being composed of one of W, Mo, Ta or Pt or an alloy
of W, Mo, Ta and Pt, with the proviso that when the

low contact resistance layer is formed from Ta as a
single element the diffusion barrier layer is not

formed from Ta as a single element,
an Au layer formed on the diffusion barrier
layer, and wherein the diffusion barrier layer has a

thickness from 100 nm to 2µm.
A method of producing an ohmic electrode on n-type
semiconductor cubic boron nitride comprising the

steps of:

forming a low contact resistance layer of a
metal or an alloy of Ti, Zr, Hf, B, Al, Ga, In, V, Nb

or Ta, on an n-type cubic boron nitride substrate at
a temperature higher than 300 C,
depositing a diffusion barrier layer of a metal
or an alloy of W, Mo, Ta or Pt, such that the 

diffusion barrier layer has a thickness in the range
of 100 nm to 2µm, with the proviso that when the low

contact resistance layer is formed from Ta as a
single element the diffusion barrier layer is not

formed from Ta as a single element and
making an Au layer on the diffusion barrier
layer.
A method of producing an ohmic electrode on n-type
semiconductor cubic boron nitride comprising the

steps of:

forming a low contact resistance layer of a
metal or an alloy of Ti, Zr, Hf, 
B, Al, Ga, In, V, Nb
or Ta, on an n-type cubic boron nitride substrate,
annealing the substrate with the low contact
resistance layer at a temperature higher than 300°C,
depositing a diffusion barrier layer of a metal
or an alloy of W, Mo, Ta or Pt, such that the

diffusion barrier layer has a thickness in the range
of 100 nm to 2µm, with the proviso that when the low

contact resistance layer is formed from Ta as a
single element the diffusion barrier layer is not

formed from Ta as a single element and
making an Au layer on the diffusion barrier
layer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
