<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617411</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods for making damped load beams.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B558	G11B558	G11B708	G11B708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B7	G11B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A damped load beam for a suspension assembly 
comprises a load beam and a damping structure. The 

damping structure comprises a layer of damping material 
bonded to the load beam and a relatively stiff 

constraining layer bonded to the damping material. The 
damped load beam includes undamped, opposed ends that 

are suitable for supporting other components associated 
with the suspension assembly. The method comprises the 

steps of providing clean, flat stock material for the 
constraining layer, applying a layer of damping 

material to at least a portion of the constraining 
layer stock material, providing clean, flat stock 

material for the load beam, and bonding the damping 
material to only a portion of the load beam stock 

material. A flat sandwich construction comprising the 
damping material intermediate the constraining layer 

stock material and only a portion of the load beam 
stock material results. The damped load beam is formed 

by stamping or chemically etching the flat sandwich 
construction such that a portion of the load beam stock 

material that does not have damping material thereon 
provides the undamped opposed end(s) of the load beam. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON ROBERT K C O MINNESOT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON ROBERT K C O MINNESOT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods for making 
damped load beams useful in controlling resonant 
vibrational forces in electromechanical devices such as 
suspension assemblies associated with magnetic and 
optical recording systems. The present invention has particular utility 
in the manufacture of magnetic recording devices such 
as found in hard disk drive computer systems. Magnetic 
disk drives operate by "reading" information from or 
"writing" information to a magnetic disk by way of a 
head slider which carries magnetic transducers. In typical constructions a magnetic head arm 
supports a magnetic head suspension assembly. The 
suspension assembly includes a load beam having a 
mounting block at one end thereof and a flexure (such 
as a gimbal spring) cantilevered from the opposite end. 
The flexure supports a head slider. In general, maximum recording system 
performance requires that the head slider be accurately 
positioned in space over the data track of interest. 
Vibrations, whether they cause bending, sway or torsion 
of the head or the load beam that carries the head, can 
move the head out of position thereby deteriorating the 
performance of the recording system. One approach which has been suggested for 
reducing the effect of vibrations is to incorporate a 
constrained layer damping element onto the load beam. 
Such a construction is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4,760,478  
 
"Visco-elastically Damped Magnetic Head Suspension 
Assembly" issued July 26, 1988 to G. Pal et al. The 
damping material and constraining layer are reportedly 
applied to the load beam as a pressure sensitive 
adhesive tape in a separate operation using heat and 
pressure. Another damped construction is disclosed in 
U.S. Pat. No. 5,187,625 "Laminated Load Beam" issued 
February 16, 1993, to D. Blaeser et al. Several 
different methods of assembly are described. In one 
approach, a three layer sandwich construction 
comprising a viscoelastic material intermediate top and 
bottom metal layers is etched to form individual load 
beams that are subsequently processed through standard 
forming (e.g., bending) techniques. In another 
approach, the top and bottom metal layers are stamped 
or etched separately and viscoelastic material, in 
either spray or tape form, is applied to one of the 
metal layers. The other metal layer is used to form a 
three layer sandwich construction with the viscoelastic 
material as the middle layer. This invention relates to methods for making 
damped load beams for a suspension assembly. The 
d
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of making a damped load beam for a suspension 
assembly, the damped load beam having opposed 

ends and comprising a load beam, a layer of damping 
material bonded to the load beam between the 

opposed ends, and a relatively stiff constraining 
layer bonded to the damping material, wherein the 

load beam opposed ends are suitable for supporting 
other components associated with the suspension 

assembly and at least one of the opposed ends does 
not have damping material bonded thereto, the 

method comprising the steps of: 

(a) providing clean, flat stock material for a 
first constraining layer, 
(b) applying a first layer of damping material to 
at least a portion of the first constraining 

layer stock material, 
(c) providing clean, flat stock material for the 
load beam, 
(d) bonding the first damping material to only a 
portion of the load beam stock material thereby 

providing a flat sandwich construction comprising 
the first damping material intermediate 

the first constraining layer stock material and 
only a portion of the load beam stock material 

and 
(e) subsequently forming the damped load beam from 
the flat sandwich construction such that a 

portion of the load beam stock material that 
does not have the first damping material thereon 

provides the at least one opposed end of the 
load beam that does not have the first damping 

material bonded thereto. 
Method according to claim 1 characterized in that 
the width of the first layer of damping material on 

the first constraining layer stock material is 
substantially equal to the length of the first 

layer of damping material between the opposed ends 
of the damped load beam. 
Method according to claim 1 or 2 characterized by 
the step of slitting the flat sandwich construction 

of step (d) into a plurality of members. 
Method according to claim 3 characterized in that 
each member is an elongated strip. 
Method according to claim 4 characterized in that 
the damped load beam is formed by stamping one of 

the elongated strips. 
Method according to claim 4 or 5 characterized in 
that a plurality of damped load beams is formed by 

stamping one of the elongated strips. 
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 6 
characterized in that the first damping material 

and the first constraining layer stock material are 
bonded to the load beam stock material in a plurality 

of parallel, spaced apart stripes. 
Method according to claim 7 characterized by the 
steps of slitting the load beam stock material 

between at least some of the stripes to provide a 
plurality of flat sandwich construction articles, 

each article comprising the first damping material 
intermediate the load beam stock material and the 

first constraining layer stock material, and 
 

stamping the damped load beam in step (e) out of 
one of the flat sandwich construction articles. 
Method of making a damped load beam for a suspension 
assembly, the damped load beam having opposed 

ends and comprising a load beam, a layer of damping 
material bonded to the load beam between the 

opposed ends, and a relatively stiff constraining 
layer bonded to the damping material, wherein the 

load beam opposed ends are suitable for supporting 
other components associated with the suspension 

assembly and at least one of the opposed ends does 
not have damping material bonded thereto, in particular 

according to any one of the preceding claims 
the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) providing clean, flat stock material for the 
load beam, 
(b) applying a layer of damping material to the 
load beam stock material in a series of 

parallel, spaced apart stripes thereby leaving 
portions of the load beam stock material without 

damping material thereon, 
(c) applying clean, flat stock material for the 
constraining layer to each stripe of damping 

material, thereby forming a flat sandwich 
construction comprising the damping material 

intermediate the load beam and constraining 
layer stock materials and 
(d) subsequently forming the damped load beam from 
the flat sandwich construction such that a 

portion of the load beam stock material that 
does not have the first damping material thereon 

provides the at least one opposed end of the 
load beam that does not have the first damping 

material bonded thereto. 
Method according to claim 9 characterized by the 
step of slitting the flat sandwich construction of 

step (c) between the stripes of damping material to 
form a plurality of members. 
Method according to claim 3 or 10 characterized in 
that the damped load beam is formed by stamping or 

chemically etching one of the members. 
Method according to claim 3, 10 or 11 characterized 
in that a plurality of load beams is formed by 

stamping or chemically etching one of the members. 
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 12 
characterized in that the damped load beam is 

subsequently formed by stamping or chemically 
etching the flat sandwich construction. 
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 13 
characterized in that a plurality of damped load 

beams is formed by stamping or chemically etching 
the flat sandwich construction. 
Method according to any preceding claim characterized 
by an additional step of laser welding a 

flexure to one of the opposed ends of the load beam 
that does not have the first damping material 

bonded thereto. 
Method according to any preceding claim characterized 
by a step of attaching a mounting block to 

one of the opposed ends of the load beam that does 
not have the first damping material bonded thereto. 
Method according to claim 15 or 16 characterized in 
that neither opposed end of the load beam has the 

 
first damping material bonded thereto and further 

comprising a step of attaching a flexure to the 
other opposed end. 
Method according to claim 17 characterized in that 
the flexure is attached by laser welding. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
