<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644791</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SUPERCRITICAL FLUID EXTRACTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1100	B01D1100	B01D1102	B01D1102	B01D1104	B01D1104	G01N3000	G01N3002	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D11	B01D11	B01D11	B01D11	B01D11	B01D11	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To collect analyte in a supercritical fluid extraction process, the extractant flows to a collection container (130) under pressure. In one embodiment, the collection container (130) contains collection solvent (144) through which the extractant flows to partition analyte. The extractant adds to the liquid and when the collection solvent-extractant mixture rises to a heating zone, the extractant vaporizes selectively since its vapor pressure is higher than the vapor pressure of the collection solvent (144). When its pressure exceeds a preset valve (148) pressure it is vented so that extractant continually leaves the collection container (130). After the extraction is complete, the analyte is concentrated in the collection solvent (144). In another embodiment, the collection vessel includes a solid material on which the analyte collects. It is removed under pressure by a solvent that is concentrated under pressure.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISCO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAMESON DANIEL GENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAMESON, DANIEL, GENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SUPERCRITICAL FLUID EXTRACTIONRELATED CASESThis application is a continuation-in-part application of U.S. application 07/908,458 filed July 6, 1992, which is a division of U.S. application 07/795,987, filed November 22, 1991, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application 07/553,119, filed July 13, 1990, for APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SUPERCRITICAL FLUID EXTRACTION.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to supercritical fluid extraction.In supercritical fluid extraction, an extraction vessel is held at a temperature above the critical point and is supplied with fluid at a pressure above the critical pressure. Under these conditions, the fluid within the extraction vessel is a supercritical fluid. In one type of apparatus for supercritical extraction, there is a specially constructed extraction vessel within a source of heat. 

 A prior art apparatus for supercritical extraction of this type is described by B.W. Wright, et. al., in ANAL. CHEM. 5 , 38-44 (January 1987) using a glass-lined extraction chamber within a bolted stainless steel extraction vessel heated in an oven. This type of extraction apparatus has the disadvantages of: (1) requiring time consuming steps to open the pressurized extraction vessel before use to insert the sample and again to open it after use to remove the spent sample; and (2) under some circumstances, requiring the handling of a hot extraction vessel.In some supercritical fluid extraction apparatuses, extractant is collected under pressure in a cold trap. One such prior art device is described in "Supercritical Fluid Fractionation of Petroleum and Coal-Derived Mixtures", Anal. Chem. 1986, Vol. 58, pp.2247-2255. This publication describes extracting under pressure to control the solvating power of the extractant and collecting under pressure. However, for very volatile compounds, this apparatus was reported to be unsuccessful and the extractant was bubbled through a collecting solvent while venting through Teflon tubing. It has a disadvantage in not solvating the 

extract in a solvent under a controlled adjustable pressure and temperature continuously during the extraction.Another prior art collection technique is disclosed in Nam, Kapila, Yanders, and Puri, Chemosphere 20, No. 7-9, 873-880 (1990). In this technique, extract is collected under pressure and all the extract from a given extraction is collected in a vessel. Nam, et al. describe no provision for controlled vaporization of the extraction solvent to keep the fluid level
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of supercritical fluid extraction, comprising the steps of: performing supercritical fluid extraction; collecting extract in at least one container; the step of collecting extract including the substeps of moving a container into position, sealing its opening; collecting extract and extraction solvent under pressure in the container while maintaining liquid level and removing extraction solvent by fractional evaporation.
2. A method in accordance with claim 1 in which the step of collecting extractant further includes the substep of collecting the extract under a pressure favorable to partition and solvation within the collection container and removing the extract from the collection solvent under a different set of optimum conditions.
3. A method in accordance with claim 1 in which the step of collecting extract includes the 


step of supplying extract to a solid trapping surface under pressure.
4. A method according to claim 1 wherein extract is partitioned in a collection solvent and extraction solvent escapes against backpressure in a continuous process.
5. A method of supercritical fluid extraction, comprising the steps of: performing supercritical fluid extraction; collecting extractant in a cold trap under one set of pressurized and temperature conditions designed to optimize partition and containment of the extract; and removing the extract under a second set of conditions designed to maximize removal.
6. A method of supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 3 in which the extract is collected by spraying the extractant on cold surfaces under pressure and concentrating the extract under pressure. 


 7. A method of supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 6 further including the step of disolving extract in collection solvent under pressure.
8. A method of supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 1 in which the step of collecting extractant further includes the step of controlling the pressure within the container by releasing extractant when the pressure exceeds a predetermined level; and heating the liquid in the container in relation to its volume.
9. A method of supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 3 further including the step of removing extractant by fractional evaporation during extraction.
10. A method of supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 9 in which the fractional evaporated extractant is separated in the liquid and gas phases. 


 11. A method of supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 3 in which the liquid level in the collection vessel is controlled by an upper vertical temperature zone and extract is concentrated by a lower temperature zone.
12. A method of supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 3 in which all the extract is collected in a small volume and further separated by gas chromatography.
13. An apparatus for supercritical fluid extraction comprising: a supercritical fluid extractor; at least one container to collect extractant; means for pressurizing the container at a predetermined pressure wherein extract selectively passes into collection solvent in a container; and means selectively and substantially continuously removing extraction solvent based on vapor pressure differential between extraction and collection solvent during extraction.
14. An apparatus for supercritical fluid extraction, comprising: 


 a supercritical fluid extractor; and a collection vessel including; a cold trap containing a collection medium to optimize partition and containment of the extract; means for concentrating the extract under pressure.
15. An apparatus for supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 14 further comprising a cold surface which is under pressure for collecting the extract.
16. An apparatus for supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 13 further comprising a device for controlling the pressure within the container.
17. An apparatus for supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 16 further comprising a seperating means for separating the fractional evaporated extraction solvent from the collection solvent by separating liquid and gas phases. 


 18. An apparatus for supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 14 in which the control means includes dual vertical temperature zones for controlling the liquid level in the collection vessel.
19. An apparatus for supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 5 further comprising means for evaporating the collected extraction solvent in a step preceeding removal of the extract.
20. An apparatus for supercritical fluid extraction in accordance with claim 14 comprising means for collecting and separating extract by gas chromatography.
21. Apparatus for supercritical fluid extraction according to claim 13 further comprising: a septum; collection means for collecting analyte; said collection means being adapted to communication with said means for performing supercritical fluid extraction; and 


 a vial having an opening; said vial opening carries the septum means which at least partially seals the vial when the vial is not in contact with the restrictor.
22. A collector for extractant adapted to cooperate with a supercritical fluid extraction apparatus, comprising: a collection vessel; said collection vessel having a first heat transfer means and second heat transfer means; said first transfer means being at a lower level and said second transfer means at a high level; vent means; said vent means including a back pressure control valve; inlet means adapted to receive extractant, wherein the upper heater may be maintained at a higher temperature than the lower heater during extraction so that the higher vapor pressure extractant evaporates and cools the lower portion as it approaches the upper heater.
23. A collector in accordance with claim 22 further including; 


 a pressure vessel; said collection vessel being adapted to fit within said pressure vessel and receive extractant wherein a weaker walled collection vessel may be utilized.
24. A collector in accordance with claim 23 in which said collection vessel is removable.
25. A collector in accordance with claim 23 in which the lower heat concentrates extract within the collection solvent.
26. A method of collecting extract from a supercritical fluid extractor, comprising the steps of: receiving the extractant through a tube within a collection vessel; heating an upper portion of the collection vessel, wherein the higher vapor pressure extractant vaporizes at a higher rate than the lower vapor pressure collection solvent, so that as extractant rises during an extraction operation, the vapor pressure increases; and 


 venting vapor after a predetermined pressure in the collection vessel, wherein as extractant rises, the vapor pressure increases to permit venting of extraction solvent and thus maintain liquid level equalibrium in the collection vessel as the extract is concentrated.
27. A method in accordance with claim 26 further including the steps of; inserting a collection vessel into a pressure vessel; sealing the pressure vessel and collection; permitting extraction solvent from an extractor to flow into the collection solvent within the collection vessel and into a space between the collection vessel and the inner wall of the pressure vessel so as to avoid excessive pressure differential on the walls of the collection vessel; creating a lower heat zone and higher heat zone on the collection vessel, wherein as extractant rises, it vaporizes and tends to cool the mixture of lower vapor pressure collection solvent and high vapor pressure extractant; and venting the liquid when the back pressure exceeds a predetermined amount, wherein as 


extractant flows into the collection vessel the level of fluid in the collection vessel remains substantially constant.
28. A method of controlling the temperature and fluid volume in a collection vessel comprising the steps of: measuring the liquid level; applying additional heat when the liquid level reaches a predetermined level; and venting vapor with a back pressure control at a predetermined level, wherein a pressure • is maintained near the venting back pressure level.
29. Apparatus for collecting extract from a supercritical fluid extractor, comprising: means for generating a signal when the liquid level exceeds a predetermined level; said signal being adapted to cause heat to flow into a collection vessel; and a backpressure regulator in communication with said vessel above the predetermined maximum location for fluid; said backpressure regulator being set to a desired pressure wherein when the liquid level rises 


above the predetermined level, heat is introduced to cause increased vapor pressure and escape of extraction solvent. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
