<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618771</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CO-EXTRUDED COLLAGEN COATED FOODSTUFFS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22C1300	A22C1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22C	A22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22C13	A22C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Sausages are produced by co-extruding a uniform layer of acid collagen gel around an extruded edible meat product, and chemically coagulating the co-extruded gel in a bath containing a chemical coagulating agent, such as to provide a collagen casing of sufficient mechanical strength to allow mechanical formation of sausage links by twist-linking or crimping. Preferably a coagulating agent such as liquid smoke is included in the collagen gel prior to extrusion. The coagulating bath may comprise a dehydrating agent such as alkali or a salt solution. No expensive air drying step is required in order to produce continuous casings of good strength.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a process and apparatus for
the production of co-extruded collagen coated foodstuffs
such as sausages.While the process relates particularly to the
production of sausages, it may also be used in the
production of other collagen coated foodstuffs such as
fish or meat products or products containing vegetable or
cheese or both. Thus, while the description of the
process will be in terms of the production of strings of
sausages, the process is clearly not limited to that
particular foodstuff.There are known processes of co-extruding sausages or
sausage-like materials. One particular process is
disclosed in patent specification GB1232801. Essentially,
the process involves extruding a cylindrical core of
sausage meat mix and simultaneously extruding around the
sausage meat an outer casing of a collagen gel. The
collagen gel has a high water content and the gel is
coagulated by removal of some of the water by osmosis by
passage through a concentrated sodium chloride bath.
However, coagulation of the collagen casing is not
complete at this stage so that the casing is relatively
weak in terms of mechanical properties. In particular,
there would not generally be sufficient strength to enable
crimping or twist linking to take place. In the
conventional process, the co-extruded sausage is then cut 
into individual sausages which are transported to a hot
air drying cabinet where the hardening of the casing is
completed and at the same time some partial cooking of the
sausage meat occurs.This process is thus not suitable for the production
of twist link sausages. At the end of the brine bath, the
collagen casing has insufficient strength to allow twist
linking to be successfully carried out. On the other
hand, after completion of hardening of the casing, partial
cooking of the sausage meat has occurred. A partially
cooked sausage is unsuitable for twist linking, due to
solidification of the sausage meat.A further disadvantage of the conventional process is
that the air drying stage is costly in terms of energy
consumption.Japanese patent application 63-219473 (publication
H2-69139) suggests the addition of a liquid smoke solution
into the collagen gel immediately prior to co-extrusion in
order to overcome problems of splitting of the sausage
casing during the air drying stage.It is an object of the present invention to mitigate
these problems and provide a process which avoids the
costly air drying stage, and also allows the production of
twist linked strings of sausages. The present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process of producing co-extruded sausage which
comprises;


co-extruding a substantially uniform layer of
collagen gel around an extruded edible product to form

a co-extruded product; and
chemically coagulating the co-extruded collagen gel
layer using a chemical coagulating agent in the

absence of heated air drying such as to provide around
the edible product a coagulated collagen casing of

sufficient strength to allow mechanical formation of
sausage links by twist-linking.
A process according to claim 1 wherein the collagen
gel is an acid gel at a pH of 1 to 4.
A process according to claim 2 wherein the acid
collagen gel comprises hydrochloric acid.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein the
collagen gel is at a temperature of 4 to 16°C prior to

extrusion.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein a
further chemical coagulating agent is incorporated into the

collagen gel prior to extrusion. 
A process according to claim 5 wherein the further
chemical coagulating agent is liquid smoke.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein the
chemical coagulating agent in the bath is selected from


(i) a salt solution such as to dehydrate the
collagen casing by osmotic water loss;
(ii) an alkali such as to promote dehydration of the
collagen casing by pH change; or
(iii) a chemical cross-linking agent.
A process according to claim 7 wherein the chemical
coagulating agent comprises an aqueous alkali solution of

sodium carbonate at a pH of 9 to 13.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein the
chemical coagulating agent is at a temperature of 35° to

40°C.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein the
coagulation time is in the region 5 to 300 seconds.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein
chemical coagulation is carried out by passing the co-extruded

product down a spiral or helical flume containing
chemical coagulating agent. 
A process according to claim 11 wherein chemical
coagulating agent is showered onto the co-extruded product

in said spiral or helical flume.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein the
amount of collagen gel co-extruded around the edible

product is 3 to 10% of total weight of co-extruded sausage.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein the
coagulated collagen casing has a thickness of 10 to 30

microns.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein
said coagulated casing has a tensile strength of at least

1.0kg.
A process according to claim 15 wherein the edible
product inside the coagulated collagen casing is fluid

enough to be displaced during crimping or twist-linking.
A process according to any preceding claim which
includes the further step of mechanically forming into

sausage links by crimping or twist-linking. 
A process according to any preceding claim wherein a
colouring agent is included or injected in the gel prior to

extrusion.
A process according to any preceding claim wherein a
colouring agent or combination with a cross-linking agent

is included or injected in the edible product prior to
extrusion.
An apparatus for producing co-extruded sausages which
comprises;


means for co-extruding a substantially uniform layer
of collagen gel around an extruded edible product to

form a co-extruded product; and
a liquid coagulating bath containing a chemical
coagulating agent for chemically coagulating the co-extruded

collagen gel in the absence of hot air
drying, such as to provide around the edible product

a coagulated collagen casing of sufficient strength to
allow mechanical formation of sausage links by twist-linking.
An apparatus according to claim 20 which further
comprises a holding chamber disposed downstream of the

coagulating bath for allowing substantial completion of
coagulation of the collagen casing. 
An apparatus according to claim 21 wherein the holding
chamber is in the form of a spiral or helical flume, down

which a treatment liquid may be flowed.
An apparatus according to claim 22 which further
comprises shower means for showering chemical coagulating

agent onto the co-extruded product in said spiral or
helical flume.
An apparatus according to any of claims 20 to 23 which
further comprises means for mechanically forming into

sausage links by crimping or twist-linking.
A co-extruded sausage which comprises an elongate
extruded edible product having therearound a coagulated

extruded collagen gel casing, the casing incorporating a
cross-linking agent and having been chemically coagulated;

the sausage having been cut from a string of twist-linked
co-extruded sausage links.
A string of twist-linked sausage links, each sausage
link having been co-extruded and comprising an elongate

extruded edible product having therearound a coagulated
extruded collagen gel casing.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
