<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0688671</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image recording apparatus and method, recording head and circuit for driving same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J251	B41J2015	B41J205	B41J2355	B41J251	B41J2355	B41J225	B41J201	B41J201	B41J2505	B41J205	B41J2015	B41J2505	B41J2255	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high-quality image conforming to the scanning 
speed of a recording head can be recorded through a 

simple arrangement in which 128 recording elements 
(segments) are divided up into eight blocks (each 

block comprising 16 segments). In order to perform 
recording by the initial block, a code of the 

corresponding three bits is supplied to a 3to8 
decoder, whereupon a signal BE1 is outputted to made 

segments 1, 2, 17, 18, ..., 113, 114 the object of 
drive. When a signal ODDENB attains a high level, 

segments 1, 17, ... 113 are driven and dots are 
formed at recording column positions by each 

segment. By subsequently sending a signal EVENENB 
to the high level, segments 2, 18, ..., 114 are 

driven. Here the interval between the signals 
ODDENB and EVENENB is changed in conformity with the 

scanning speed of the recording head. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMANAKA AKIHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMANAKA, AKIHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a recording apparatus
and method, a recording head and a circuit for
driving the recording head. More particularly, the
invention relates to an apparatus and method, in
which an image is recorded by causing a recording
head to perform scanning motion, the recording head
and a circuit for driving the recording head.In a head having a number of recording
elements, generally the recording elements are
divided into a plurality of blocks and the blocks
are driven in time-divided manner. The reason for
this is that such a method of drive reduces the
number of recording elements that are driven
simultaneously. As a result, there is a smaller
voltage drop in common wiring, which voltage drop is
attendant upon a decrease in current value. In
addition, a smaller power supply capacity is
sufficient. Furthermore, in an ink-jet printer,
mutual pressure interference (crosstalk) between
nozzles serving as the recording elements can be
reduced. Fig. 8 is a block diagram of a circuit
arrangement which uses such driving by time
division. An M-bit driver is a functional element
that controls passage of current to the recording
elements, where M corresponds to the number of
nozzles. An M-bit shift register is a circuit in
which image data is arranged and stored in
correspondence with the recording elements. Image
data on a signal line S_IN which arrives in
synchronization with an image-data transfer clock
SCLK enters the shift register. When M-bit data is
transferred, a LAT signal is supplied, whereby an M-bit
latch latches the M-bit data that has been
stored in the M-bit shift register.The M-bit data is input to AND gates,
which form the logical product between this data and
block-enable selection signals BE1 ∼ BEN of N bits
from the M-bit driver. More specifically, by
applying drive signals divided in terms of time to
the block-enable selection signals BE1 ∼ BEN, time
division on the basis of division by N can be
achieved.In a case where the number of time divisions is
large, it is known to provide a block-enable
selection decoder in order to reduce the number of
block selection signals. In a case where N is set 
as the simultaneous drive number with respect to the
number M of nozzles, an arrangement can be adopted
using a block-enable selection decoder having an
M/N-bit output. The relation between the value of
M/N and the number X of terminals of the block-enable
selection decoder is as follows in terms of
the decoder construction:
number of time divisions NN = M/N=2x
The number of enable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A recording apparatus for recording an image on a
recording medium, the apparatus comprising:


a carriage (HC) carrying a recording head (IJH)
having an array of recording elements consisting of

successive groups of recording elements with the array
extending in a direction which is tilted with respect to

a main scan direction;
means (4) for moving the carriage relative to the
recording medium in the main scan direction for causing

the recording head mounted to the carriage to effect a
main scan of the recording medium in operation of the

apparatus;
means for effecting relative movement between the
carriage and the recording medium in a subsidiary scan

direction between main scans;
drive means (8) for supplying drive signals to the
recording elements for causing the recording elements to

record on a recording medium; and
drive signal supply means (7,8) for driving the
recording elements in blocks of recording elements with

each block including recording elements, which are driven
in phase at the same time, from all of the groups and the

recording elements in a block being located at
corresponding positions within their respective groups,

the recording apparatus being operable in a plurality of
different speed recording modes and by the drive means

(7,8) comprising means for changing the 
frequency of the driving signals for driving the blocks

or for changing the number of blocks and the frequency
of the driving signals for driving the blocks, which are

supplied with drive signals by said drive signal supply
means (7,8), in accordance with the scanning speed of the

recording head in the selected recording mode.
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the changing
means (7,8) is operable to separate a block into

subsidiary blocks and to cause the subsidiary blocks of
a block to be driven consecutively when the recording

apparatus is in a relatively low speed recording mode and
to cause the driving of the subsidiary blocks of a block

to at least partially overlap when the recording
apparatus is in a relatively high speed recording mode.
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the drive
signal supply means (7,8) and the changing means (7,8)

for changing the number of blocks are operable to cause
the subsidiary blocks of a block to be driven

simultaneously when the recording apparatus is in a
relatively high speed recording mode.
An apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, wherein said
changing means (8) is arranged to supply, for each block,

a first enable signal for enabling driving of
odd-numbered recording elements within the block as a

first subsidiary block and a second enable signal for 
enabling driving of even-numbered recording elements

within the block as a second subsidiary block.
An apparatus according to claim 1, 2, 3 or 4,
wherein the drive means (8) comprises a decoder circuit

for outputting block selection signals in response to a
prescribed number of input signals, the number of the

block selection signals being greater than said
prescribed number.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein said drive means (8) includes a counter circuit

for counting an input signal and outputting a block
selection signal for selecting said blocks in order in

dependence upon a counted value.
An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said
counter circuit is capable of changing over the order in

which said blocks are selected.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, comprising means (5,1) for enabling the scanning

speed of said carriage to be set externally.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising a recording head having

recording elements arranged to discharge ink by using
thermal energy. 
A method of generating a recording apparatus to
record an image on a recording medium us
ing a recording
head (IJH) carried by a carriage (HC) and having an array

of recording elements consisting of successive groups of
recording elements with the array extending in a

direction which is tilted with respect to a main scan
direction, the method comprising:


moving the carriage relative to the recording
medium in the main scan direction to cause the recording

head mounted to the carriage to effect a main scan of the
recording medium while supplying drive signals to the

recording elements to cause the recording elements to
record on a recording medium;
effecting relative movement between the carriage
and the recording medium in a subsidiary scan direction

between main scans; and
driving the recording elements so that the recording
elements are driven in blocks of recording elements with

each block including recording elements, which are driven
in phase at the same time, from all of the groups and the

recording elements in a block being located at
corresponding positions within their respective groups,

the recording apparatus being operable in a plurality of
different speed recording modes and by changing the

frequency of the driving signals for driving the blocks
or by changing the number of blocks and the frequency of

the driving signals for driving the blocks, which are
supplied with drive signals by said drive 

signal supply means (7,8), in accordance with the
scanning speed of the recording head in the selected

mode.
A method according to claim 10, wherein the
plurality of different speed recording modes are operated

by separating the blocks into subsidiary blocks and by
controlling the driving of the subsidiary blocks to cause

the subsidiary blocks of a block to be driven
consecutively when the recording apparatus is in a

relatively low speed recording mode and to cause the
driving of the subsidiary blocks of a block to at least

partially overlap when the recording apparatus is in a
relatively high speed recording mode.
A method according to claim 11, which comprises
controlling the driving of the subsidiary blocks to cause

the subsidiary blocks of a block to be driven
simultaneously when the recording apparatus is in a

relatively high speed recording mode.
A method according to claim 11 or 12, which
comprises separating the blocks into subsidiary blocks

by supplying a first enable signal for odd-numbered
recording elements in each said block and a second enable

signal for even-numbered recording elements in each said
block. 
A method according to claim 10, 11, 12 or 13, which
comprises setting the scanning speed of said carriage

externally.
A method according to claim 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14,
which comprises using as the recording head a head having

recording elements which discharge ink by using thermal
energy.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
