<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625211</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AMPLIFICATION OF ASSAY REPORTERS BY NUCLEIC ACID REPLICATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33543	C12Q168	C12N1509	C12Q168	G01N33543	C12N1509	G01N3353	G01N33532	G01N33532	G01N3353	G01N3358	G01N3358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	C12Q	C12N	C12Q	G01N	C12N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	C12Q1	C12N15	C12Q1	G01N33	C12N15	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the amplified detection of an analyte, wherein amplification is achieved by replication of a target nucleic acid sequence which has been immobilized in response to analyte.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEN LIFE SCIENCE PROD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEN LIFE SCIENCE PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLLIER DAVID NASH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EBERSOLE RICHARD CALVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATFIELD TINA MARIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRICKSON EDWIN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORAN JOHN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLLIER, DAVID, NASH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EBERSOLE, RICHARD, CALVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATFIELD, TINA, MARIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRICKSON, EDWIN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORAN, JOHN, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for the
amplified detection of an analyte in fluid, wherein
amplification is achieved by replicating a target
nucleic acid sequence which has been immobilized in
respcnse to analyte.The introduction of immunoassays in the 1960s and
1970s greatly increased the number of analytes amenable
to precise and accurate measurement. Radio immunoassays
(RIAs) and immunoradiometric (IRMA) assays utilize
radioisotopic labeling of either an antibody or a
competing antigen to measure an analyte. Detection
systems based on enzymes or fluorescent labels were then
developed as an alternative to isotopic detection
systems. D. L. Bates, Trends in Biotechnology,5(7),
204 (1987), describes one such method based upon enzyme
amplification. In this method a secondary enzyme system
is coupled to a primary enzyme label, for example, the
primary enzyme can be linked catalytically to an
additional system such as a substrate cycle or an enzyme
cascade. Enzyme amplification results from the coupling
of catalytic processes, either by direct modification or
by interaction with the product of the controlling
enzyme.U.S. Patent 4,668,621 describes utilization of an
enzyme-linked coagulation assay (ELCA) in an amplified
immunoassay using a clotting cascade to enhance
sensitivity. The process involves clot formation due to
thrombin activated fibrin formation from soluble
fibrinogen and labeled solubilized fibrinogen.
Amplification of the amount of reportable ligand 
attached to solid phase is obtained only by combining
use of clotting factor conjugates with subsequent
coagulation cascade reactions.Substrate/cofactor cycling is another variation of
enzyme-mediated amplification, and is based on the
cycling of a cofactor or substrate which is generated by
a primary enzyme label. The product of the primary
enzyme is a catalytic activator of an amplifier cycle
which responds in proportion to the concentration of
substrate and hence the concentration of the enzyme
label. An example of this type of substrate cycling
system is described in U.S. Patent 4,745,054.Vary et al., Clin Chem.,32, 1696 (1986) describes
an enzyme amplification method suited to nucleic acid
detection. This method is a strand displacement assay
which uses the unique ability of a polynucleotide to act
as a substrate label which can be released by a
phosphorylase.Bobrow et al., J. of Immunol. Methods,125, 279
(1989) discloses a method to improve detection or
quantitation of an analyte by catalyzed reporter
deposition. Amplification of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for simultaneous multiple measurement in a
single test sample wherein each measurement is

simultaneously amplified by a unique target nucleic
acid sequence comprised in a reporter

conjugate in the test sample, each conjugate comprising
a member of a binding pair and a unique target nucleic acid

sequence, which has been immobilized in response to at
least one non-nucleic acid analyte, comprising the

steps of:

(i) forming analyte-dependent reporter
complexes by reaction of analyte and a reporter

conjugate with an immobilized capture reagent
containing one or more members of a binding pair;
(ii) contacting the reporter complexes with a
nucleic acid replication composition;
(iii) replicating the target nucleic acid
sequence; and
(iv) detecting the replicated target nucleic
acid sequences, wherein said sequences are

differentiated on the basis of sequence length.
The method of Claim 1, wherein each reporter
conjugate is comprised of a member of a binding pair chemically

attached to a target nucleic acid sequence.
The method of Claim 2 wherein each reporter
conjugate contains a unique target nucleic acid

sequence wherein said sequence may be differentiated from
other target sequences on the basis of sequence length.
The method of Claim 3 wherein said target
sequences can be replicated by a unique set of primers. 
A method of simultaneously detecting a multiplicity of replicated
target nucleic acid sequences contained in a single test

sample, comprising the steps of:

(a) forming analyte-dependent reporter complexes wherein
each is comprised of an immobilized capture reagent, an analyte,

and a reporter conjugate comprising an enzyme;
(b) contacting the complexes with a nucleic acid
replication substrate to produce activated nucleic acid

replication intermediates which deposit onto immobilized
receptors, thereby producing deposited nucleic acid

replication products;
(c) contacting the deposited nucleic acid replication
products with nucleic acid replication composition;
(d) replicating the target nucleic acid sequences of the
deposited nucleic acid replication product; and
(e) detecting said replicated target nucleic acid
sequences, wherein said sequences are differentiated

on the basis of sequence length.
A method of simultaneously detecting a multiplicity of replicated
target nucleic acid sequences contained in a single test

sample comprising the steps of:


(a) forming analyte-dependent reporter complexes wherein
each is comprised of an immobilized capture reagent, an analyte,

and a reporter conjugate comprising an enzyme;
(b) contacting the complexes with a binding substrate to
produce activated binding intermediates which deposits

onto immobilized receptors, thereby producing deposited
binding products;
(c) contacting the deposited binding products with a
nucleic acid replication conjugate to produce deposited

nucleic acid replication binding pair complexes;
(d) contacting the deposited binding pair complexes with
nucleic acid replication composition;
(e) replicating the target sequences of the deposited
binding pair complex; and
(f) detecting said replicated target nucleic acid
sequences, wherein said sequences are differentiated

on the basis of sequence length.
The method of Claim 1, further comprising
additionally adding to the sample one or more reference

nucleic acid sequences and the means for replicating said
reference sequences, whereby said reference sequences are

replicated in addition to said target sequences and thereby
serving as internal controls for more accurate detection and

quantitation of more than one analyte.
The method of Claim 1, further comprising: at step
(ii), contacting the the reporter complexes with a nucleic

acid replication composition which additionally comprises
at least one replication control under conditions wherein

reference sequences of said replication control are
replicated at step (iii) concurrently to

said target sequences; and'at step (iv), detecting and
separately quantitating said replicated reference sequences,

whereby in determining the ratio of replicated reference
sequences to replicated target sequences the concentrations

of analytes are determined.
The method of Claim 1, further comprising: at step
(i),


immobilizing within the sample at least one reference
nucleic acid sequence conjugate in addition to

said immobilized target nucleic acid sequences; at step (ii),
contacting the reporter complexes with nucleic acid

replication composition wherein said composition
additionally comprises the means to replicate the reference

sequence of said reference nucleic acid sequence conjugates;
at step (iii), replicating said reference sequences

concurrently with said target sequences; and at step (iv),
detecting and separately quantitating said replicated

reference sequences, whereby in determining the ratio of
replicated reference sequences to replicated target 

sequences the concentration of analytes are
determined.
The method of Claim 1, 2, 4 or 7, wherein the
nucleic acid sequence replication is accomplished using a

thermal-stable nucleic acid polymerase.
The method of Claim 1, 2, 4 or 7, wherein the
target or reference nucleic acid sequences are single stranded

and contain at one end a first primer binding sequence, and
contain at the other end a sequence which is complementary

to the first primer binding sequence, therby enabling
replication with a single primer.
The method of Claim 1, 2, 4 or 7, wherein nucleic
acid sequence replication is accomplished using primers

which contain sequences at their 5' ends which are not
complementary to the target or reference sequences.
The method of Claim 1, 2, 4 or 7, wherein nucleic
acid sequence replication is accomplished using a thermal-stable

ligase.
The method of Claim 1, 2, 4 or 7, wherein at
least one signal generating moiety is incorporated within

the replicated nucleic acid sequences.
The method of Claim 14, wherein said signal-generating
moieties are radioactive.
The method of Claim 14, wherein said signal-generating
moieties are luminescent.
The method of Claim 14, wherein said signal-generating
moieties are chmiluminescent. 
The method of Claim 14, wherein said signal
generating moieties are enzymes.
The method of Claim 14, wherein said signal
generating moieties are fluorophoretic.
The method of Claim 19, wherein said
fluorophoretic moieties are positioned within the

replicated sequences to enable energy transfer between said
fluorophoretic moieties.
The method of Claim 19, wherein said
fluorophoretic moieties are positioned no more than about

12 bases apart within the replicated nucleic acid sequences.
The method of Claim 1, 2, 4 or 7 wherein primers
labeled with a first member of a binding pair are

incorporated within the amplified nucleic acid sequences.
The method of Claim 22, wherein detection and
quantitation of the replicated nucleic acid sequences is

accomplished by immobilizing the replicated nucleic acid
sequences by deposition of said sequences onto an

immobilized receptor which comprises a second member of the
binding pair, and further detecting said immobilized

replicated nucleic sequences.
The method of Claim 22, wherein said first member
of a binding pair is biotin.
The method of Claim 1, further comprising after
step (iii) separating the replicated nucleic acid sequences

from the non-incorporated signal generating moieties using
size separation techniques; and (iv) detecting the

replicated nucleic acid sequences. 
A method for the simultaneous detection and quantitation of a
multiplicity of analytes contained within a single test

sample wherein amplification is achieved by replication
of target nucleic acid sequences and wherein the method

is based on competitive binding of a ligand reporter
conjugate, comprising the steps of:


(a) adding to the test sample an immobilized
capture reagent comprising at least one member of

a binding pair; then
(b) adding ligand reporter conjugates each comprising
a unique target nucleic acid sequence wherein the ligands

of the reporter conjugate will compete with the
analytes for binding to the immobilized capture

reagent;
(c) washing the unbound ligand reporter conjugates
away from

the immobilized analyte complex;
(d) contacting the washed and bound ligand
conjugate with nucleic acid replication

composition;
(e) replicating the target nucleic acid sequences;
and
(f) detecting the presence of replicated target
nucleic acid sequences, wherein said sequences are differentiated on the basis of sequence length, whereby the presence of

analytes in the sample is determined.
A method for the amplified detection of a
multiplicity of analytes contained in a single test

sample wherein target nucleic acid sequences of
nonimmobilized reporter conjugates are amplified;

comprising the steps of:

(a) contacting the test sample with immobilized
capture reagent, whereby analytes are

immobilized;
(b) adding at least one reporter conjugate to the
sample whereby immobilized analyte-dependent

reporter complexes will be formed in response to the
analytes;
(c) separating any excess reporter conjugates from
the s
ample which has remained free in solution; 
(d) contacting the free reporter conjugates of
step (c) with nucleic acid replication composition
(e) replicating the target nucleic acid sequences
of the free reporter conjugates of step (d); and
(f) detecting and quantitating the replicated
target nucleic acids of step (e), wherein said nucleic acid sequences are differentiated on the basis of sequence length whereby the

presence of analytes in the sample is
determined.
A method for simultaneous multiple
measurement in a single test sample wherein each

measurement is simultaneously amplified by a unique
target nucleic acid sequence comprising at least one

reporter conjugate in the test sample, each conjugate
comprising a member of a binding pair and a target

nucleic acid sequence, which has been immobilized in
response to at least one non-nucleic acid analyte,

wherein said target nucleic acid sequence may be
differentiated from other target sequences on the basis

of sequence length, and wherein said target sequences
can be replicated by a unique set of primers,

comprising the steps of:

(i) forming analyte-dependent reporter
complexes by reaction of analytes and a reporter

conjugate with an immobilized capture reagent
containing one or more members of a binding pair;
(ii) contacting the reporter complexes with a
nucleic acid replication composition;
(iii) replicating the target nucleic acid
sequences; and
(iv) detecting the replicated target nucleic
acid sequences wherein said sequences are

differentiated on the basis of sequence length.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
