<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630310</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A COATED ABRASIVE ARTICLE CONTAINING AN ELECTRICALLY CONDUCTIVE BACKING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B24D334	B24D334	B24D1100	B24D1100	B24D1102	B24D1102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B24D	B24D	B24D	B24D	B24D	B24D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B24D3	B24D3	B24D11	B24D11	B24D11	B24D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A coated abrasive article having a backing comprising a sufficient amount of an electrically conductive material therein to reduce the buildup of static electricity during the use of the article. In another aspect, a method of making the same is taught.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCHANAN SCOTT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCALLISTER RICHARD G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NETTLESHIP DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDE HAROLD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNABEL HERBERT W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SERCOMBE RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCHANAN, SCOTT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCALLISTER, RICHARD, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NETTLESHIP, DAVID, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDE, HAROLD, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNABEL, HERBERT, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SERCOMBE, RICHARD, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A COATED ABRASIVE ARTICLE CONTAINING AN ELECTRICALLYCONDUCTIVE BACKINGBackground of the Invention Field of the InventionThis invention pertains to a coated abrasive article having an electrically conductive material incorporated into the backing thereof; and a method of making the same. The abrasive article is useful in reducing the accumulation of the static electric charge in the abrasive article during abrading of a workpiece.Description of the Related ArtCoated abrasives, considered the premier tool for abrading and finishing wood and wood-like materials, unfortunately suffer from the generation of static electricity during their use. Static electricity is generated by the constant separation of the abrasive product from the workpiece, the machinery drive rolls, idler rolls, and support pad for the abrasive product. This static charge is typically on the order of 50 to 100 kilovolts.Static electricity is responsible for numerous problems. For example, a sudden discharge of the accumulated static charge can cause injury to an operator in the form of an electric shock or it can cause the ignition of wood dust particles, which poses a serious threat of fire or explosion. The static charge also causes the sawdust to cling to various surfaces, including that of the coated abrasive, the abrading machine and the electrically insulating wood workpiece, thereby making it difficult to remove by use of a conventional exhaust system. If the static electrical charge is reduced or eliminated, the coated abrasive article can have a significantly longer useful life and the potential for the above-mentioned hazards can be eliminated or reduced.Many attempts, with varying degree of success, have been made to solve the static electricity problem. One common approach has been to incorporate an electrically conductive or antistatic material into the coated abrasive construction to eliminate the accumulation of electrical charge. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,163,968 (Nafus) discloses a coated abrasive article having a coating comprising graphite in the binder on the surface opposite the abrasive material. U.S. Pat. No. 

3,168,387 (Adams) discloses a coated abrasive having a metal leaf pigment over the abrasive grains. U.S. Pat. No. 3,377,264 (Duke) discloses an electrically conductive layer, such as a metal foil, overlying the front surface of a coated abrasive. U.S. Pat. No. 3,942,959 (Markoo et al.) teaches a coated abrasive construction having an electrically conductive resin layer sandwiched between two electrically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is:
1. A coated abrasive article comprising
(a) a nonwoven, fibrous backing comprising at least one ply, wherein said ply comprises electrically non-conductive fibers and electrically conductive material; and
(b) an abrasive layer bonded to one major surface of said backing; wherein said electrically conductive material is at least one of electrically conductive fibers selected from the group consisting of graphite fibers, carbon fibers, metal fibers, electrically conductive polymer fibers, and combinations thereof; and electrically conductive particles selected from the group consisting of graphite particles, carix 
•
 ^articles, metal particles, electrically conductive polymer particles, and combinations thereof; and wherein said electrically conductive material is present in an amount sufficient to reduce accumulation of static electric charge in said coated abrasive article during abrading of a workpiece.
2. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said ply comprises in the range from 0.75 to about 15 percent by volume of said electrically conductive material, based on the total volume of said ply and said electrically conductive material comprising said ply.
3. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said ply comprises in the range from about 4 to about 12 percent by volume of said electrically conductive material, based on the total volume of said ply and said electrically conductive material comprising said ply.
4. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said ply comprises in the range from about 5 to about 8 percent by volume of said electrically conductive material, based on the total volume of said ply and said electrically conductive material comprising said ply.
5. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein the largest 


dimension of said electrically conductive particles is less than about 75 micrometers.
6. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said electrically conductive fibers have a length in the range from about 0.1 to about
2 centimeters.
7. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said electrically conductive fibers have a length in the range from about 0.1 to about 1 centimeter.
8. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said electrically conductive fibers have a diameter in the range from about 2 to about 20 micrometers.
9. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said electrically conductive material is at least one of electrically conductive fibers selected from the group consisting of graphite fibers, carbon fibers, metal fibers, electrically conductive polymer fibers, and combinations thereof; and electrically conductive particles selected from the group consisting of graphite particles, carbon particles, metal particles, electrically conductive polymer particles, and combinations thereof.
10. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said electrically conductive material is carbon fibers.
11. The coated abrasive article according to claim 10 wherein said carbon fibers contain at least 80 percent by weight carbon.
12. The coated abrasive article according to claim 10 wherein said backing comprises in the range from about 4 to about 25 percent by weight of said carbon fibers, based on the total weight of said backing and said carbon fibers comprising said backing. 


 13. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said backing comprises in the range from about 5 to about 25 percent by weight of said electrically conductive material, based on the total weight of said backing and said electrically conductive material comprising said backing, and wherein said electrically conductive material is carbon fibers.
14. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said electrically non-conductive fibers are selected from the group consisting of cellulose fibers, cotton fibers, and combinations thereof.
15. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said backing comprises at least two plies, said electrically conductive material being located essentially in at least one of said plies.
16. The coated abrasive article according to claim 1 wherein said backing comprises an inner ply interposed between two outer plies, said electrically conductive material being located essentially in at least one of said plies.
17. A coated abrasive comprising:
(a) a backing comprising at least two plies and an innerlayer interposed between at least two of said plies, said innerlayer comprising an electrically conductive material; and
(b) an abrasive layer bonded to one major surface of said backing, wherein said electrically conductive material is present in an amount sufficient to reduce accumulation of static electrical charge in said coated abrasive article during the abrading of a workpiece.
18. The coated abrasive article according to claim 17 wherein said plies are independently selected from the group consisting of paper, polymeric film, and cloth. 


 19. The coated abrasive article according to the claim 18 wherein said plies are independently one of a woven ply and a nonwoven ply.
20. The coated abrasive article according to claim 17 wherein said innerlayer further comprises a binder.
21. The coated abrasive article according to claim 20 wherein said binder is selected from the group consisting of phenolic resin, urea-formaldehyde resin, melamine-formaldehyde resin, epoxy resin, urethane resin, acrylate resin, latex resin, and combinations thereof.
22. The coated abrasive article according to claim 17 wherein said electrically conductive material is a material selected from the group consisting of graphite, carbon black, an electroconductive polymer, a metal, and combinations thereof.
23. The coated abrasive article according to claim 22 wherein said metal is selected from the group consisting of aluminum, iron, tin, nickel, copper, zinc, silver, gold, lead, and combinations thereof.
24. The coated abrasive article according to claim 17 wherein said electrically conductive material comprises powdered or colloidal graphite.
25. The coated abrasive article according to claim 17 wherein said innerlayer has an electrical conductivity of less than about 2,000 kilo-ohms-cm.
26. A method of making a coated abrasive article having a reduced tendency to accumulate static electric charge during the abrading of a workpiece, said method comprising the steps of (a) providing a nonwoven, fibrous backing comprising at least one ply, wherein said ply comprises electrically non- conductive fibers and electrically conductive material; and (b) applying an abrasive layer to a major surface of said 


 backing, wherein said electrically conductive material is at least one of electrically conductive fibers selected from the group consisting of graphite fibers, carbon fibers, metal fibers, electrically conductive polymer fibers, and combinations thereof; and electrically conductive particles selected from the group consisting of graphite particles, carbon particles, metal particles, electrically conductive polymer particles, and combinations thereof; and wherein said electrically conductive material is present in an amount sufficient to provide a coated abrasive article having a reduced tendency to accumulate static electric charge during the abrading of a workpiece.
27. The method according to claim 26 wherein said ply comprises in the range from about 0.75 to about 15 percent by volume of said electrically conductive material, based on the total volume of said ply and said electrically conductive material comprising said ply.
28. The method according to claim 26 wherein said ply comprises in the range from about 4 to about 12 percent by volume of said electrically conductive material, based on the total volume of said ply and said electrically conductive material comprising said ply.
29. The method according to claim 26 wherein the largest dimension of said electrically conductive particles is less than about 75 micrometers.
30. The method according to claim 26 wherein said electrically conductive fibers have a length in the range from about 0.1 to about 2 centimeters.
31. The method according to claim 26 wherein said electrically conductive fibers have a diameter in the range from about 2 to about 20 micrometers.
32. The method according to claim 26 wherein said wherein said electrically conductive material is at least one of electrically conductive fibers 


selected from the group consisting of graphite fibers, carbon fibers, metal fibers, electrically conductive polymer fibers, and combinations thereof; and electrically conductive particles selected from the group consisting of graphite particles, carbon particles, metal particles, electrically conductive polymer particles, and combinations thereof.
33. The method according to claim 26 wherein said electrically conductive material is carbon fibers.
34. The method according to claim 33 wherein said carbon fiber contains at least 80 percent by weight carbon.
35. The method according to claim 26 wherein said electrically non- conductive fibers are selected from the group consisting of cellulose fibers, cotton fibers, and combinations thereof.
36. The method according to claim 26 wherein said backing comprises at least two plies, said electrically conductive material being located essentially in at least one of said plies.
37. The method according to claim 26 wherein said backing comprises an inner ply interposed between two outer plies, said electrically conductive material being located essentially in at least one of said plies.
38. A method of making a coated abrasive article having a reduced tendency to accumulate static electric charge during the abrading of a workpiece, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a backing comprising at least two plies and an innerlayer interposed between at least two of said plies, said innerlayer comprising an electrically conductive material; and
(b) applying an abrasive layer to a major surface of said backing , wherein said electrically conductive material is present in an amount sufficient to provide a coated abrasive article having a reduced tendency to accumulate static 


electric charge during the abrading of a workpiece.
39. The method according to claim 38 wherein said plies are independently selected from the group consisting of paper, polymeric film, and cloth.
40. The method according to claim 38 wherein said innerlayer further comprises a binder.
41. The method according to claim 38 wherein said electrically conductive material is a material selected from the group consisting of graphite, carbon black, an electroconductive polymer, a metal, and combinations thereof.
42. The method according to claim 41 wherein said metal is selected from the group consisting of aluminum, iron, tin, nickel, copper, zinc, silver, gold, lead, and combinations thereof.
43. The coated abrasive article according to claim 41 wherein said electrically conductive material comprises powdered or colloidal graphite. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
