<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630171</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method for the microwave heating of beverages, a microwave oven and its use therefor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24C702	F24C702	H05B680	H05B680	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24C	F24C	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24C7	F24C7	H05B6	H05B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the heating of beverages or foodstuffs in 
fluid form contained in a package or container which is 

placed in a microwave oven whose cavity (3) is adapted as 
to the dimensions and shape of the package or container. 

When the target temperature of the beverage or foodstuff 
is reached, heating is ceased. A microwave oven for such 

heating comprises a package-adapted cavity (3) and control 
means for ceasing heating when the target temperature is 

reached, which can be sensed by incorporated means for 
sensing moisture release (19), IR radiation from the 

beverage or foodstuff or means (16, 17) for sensing its 
light permeability. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHIRLPOOL EUROP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHIRLPOOL EUROPE B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARLSSON HAKAN C O WHIRLPOOL I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARLSSON, HAKAN, C/O WHIRLPOOL ITALIA S.R.L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for heating 
beverages or foodstuffs in fluid form to a target 
temperature, the beverage or foodstuff being contained in 
a package or container of defined exterior shape and 
manufactured from a microwave permeable material. As it is 
used herein, the term "target temperature" has the meaning 
of a "ready-to-use" temperature when referring to pre-cooked 
or ready-made foodstuffs or a "finished preparing" 
temperature when preparing fresh foodstuffs for 
consumption or for use in further preparation steps. The invention also relates to a microwave oven for 
performing the method and to the use of a microwave oven 
having an oven cavity whose dimensions and shape are 
adapted to a package or container for the heating of a 
beverage or foodstuff in fluid form contained in that 
package or container. The problem which the invention is designed to alleviate 
is to provide rapid, economical and effective heating of 
beverages or food items and foodstuffs in fluid form 
contained in a package or container to a predetermined 
temperature. The package or container is manufactured, for 
example, from paper, plastic or combinations thereof or 
from other material. A desirable objective is to enable heating of fluids in 
their package or container and to provide an hygenic 
treatment which ensures maintained quality in the beverage 
or foodstuff. The drink or foodstuff can, for example, consist of coffee 
and the packaging can then consist of two parts, one  
 
being an inner package, usually of plastic, which 
contains coffee powder, the other being an outer package 
containing water. When the water reaches the beverage-preparing 
temperature, the inner package is opened and the 
coffee powder and water mixed within the outer package, 
which can then be used as a serving vessel. Other examples 
of beverages or foodstuffs where this type of packaging 
can find utility are various sorts of soups and hot fruit 
drinks, e.g. blueberry and rosehip soup, and baby food. 
These beverages and foodstuffs have in common that they 
require heating to a defined temperature, the "preparing" 
temperature, which should not be substantially exceeded 
if the right quality is to be attained. This defined, 
i.e. "target" temperature can be a preparing temperature, 
which in the case of coffee can be 91 - 92°C, or a 
consuming temperature of around 65°C as in the case of 
blueberry or rosehip soup. Using microwaves for the heating procedure should enable 
the posed hygenic and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the heating of beverages or foodstuffs in 
fluid form to a target temperature, the beverage or 

foodstuff being contained in a package or container of 
defined exterior shape and which is manufacturred from a 

microwave permeable material, characterized in that 

the package is placed in a microwave oven having an oven 
cavity (3) which is adapted in shape and dimensions to the 

package or container, the cavity being substantially 
completely filled in two dimensions by the package or 

container and substantially or completely filled in its 
third dimension, 
microwave energy is supplied to a lower portion of the 
package or container by inputting microwaves via an input 

aperture (7) in the lower portion of the package-adapted 
cavity, and 
the input is ceased when the target temperature is 
reached. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that a 
target temperature-indicating parameter of the beverage or 

foodstuff is sensed externally of the package or 
container. 
A method according to claim 2, characterized in that 
the target temperature is sensed by picking up IR 

radiation from the beverage or foodstuff using an IR 
sensor. 
A method according to claim 2, characterized in that 
the target temperature is sensed by sensing the moisture 

emitted by the beverage or foodstuff using a moisture 
sensor (19). 
A method according to claim 2, characterized in that 
the target temperature is sensed by sensing the light 

 
permeability of the beverage or foodstuff using an optical 

sensor (16, 17). 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, 
characterized in that the package or container is 

introduced to, and removed from, the cavity using the oven 
door (2) of the microwave oven, the package or container 

being placed in a holder (21) disposed on the door and 
introduced to, or alternatively removed from, the cavity 

by the closing and opening movements, respectively, of the 
door. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, 
characterized in that the beverage or foodstuff is first 

transferred to a special heating container which is 
adapted in shape and dimension to the cavity and the 

container is thereafter introduced to the cavity. 
A microwave oven for the heating of beverages or 
foodstuffs in fluid form to a target temperature, the 

beverage or foodstuff being contained in a package or 
container with a predetermined shape and manufactured from 

a microwave permeable material, comprising a cavity (3) in 
which the package is placed during heating, an oven door 

(2) for closing the cavity during the heating procedure 
and a microwave source (4) with associated input means (5, 

6, 7) for inputting microwaves into the cavity through at 
least one input aperture (7), characterized in that 


the oven cavity is adapted as to shape and dimension to 
the package or container so that the package or container 

substantially fills the cavity in two or three dimensions, 
the input aperture (7) is located in a lower portion of 
the cavity adjacent or adjoining the cavity bottom, and 
control means (16, 17 19) are arranged to cease the 
heating procedure when the target temperature is reached. 
A microwave oven according to claim 8, characterized 
in that the inside of the oven door (2) is provided with a 

holder adapted to the package or container, preferably a 
trough shaped holder. 
A microwave oven according to either of claims 8 and 
9, characterized in that sensing means are arranged to 

sense a target temperature-indicating parameter of the 
beverage or foodstuff during the heating procedure. 
A microwave oven according to claim 10, characterized 
by an optical sensor (16, 17) for sensing the target 

temperature by sensing the light permeability of the 
beverage or foodstuff, the optical sensor comprising a 

light source (16) and light receiving means (17) 
cooperating therewith disposed opposite each other on 

either side of the cavity, whereby a beam of light can 
pass from the light source through a hole (13) in one of 

the cavity side walls, through the package or container 
and through a corresponding hole in the opposite side 

wall, to the light receiving means. 
A microwave oven according to claim 10, characterized 
by a moisture sensor (19) for sensing said target 

temperature, the moisture sensor being placed in an 
exhaust air duct for an airstream through the cavity. 
A microwave oven according to claim 10, characterized 
by an IR sensor for sensing said target temperature, the 

IR sensor being arranged to pick up IR radiation from the 
package or container via a hole (13) in the cavity wall. 
A microwave oven according to any one of claims 8 to 
13, characterized in that said input means for inputting 

microwaves into the cavity comprises a wave guide (6) of 
the TE10 type, one end of which communicates with the 

microwave source (14) and the other end of which 
 

discharges into said inlet aperture (7), and that an 
impedance transforming means in the form of a ceramic 

plate is disposed in, and subtantially coplanar with, said 
inlet aperture (7), whereby the ceramic plate 

substantially abuts the package or container during the 
hea
ting procedure. 
A microwave oven according to any one of claims 8 
to 14, characterized in that the outside of the cavity is 

provided with a heat insulating layer (20) for 
maintaining the warmth of the beverage or foodstuff after 

cessation of the heating procedure. 
A microwave oven according to any one of claims 8 
to 15, characterized in that the microwave oven control 

panel (24) comprises a start switch (25) for each type of 
beverage or foodstuff which is intended to be heated in 

the oven. 
A microwave oven according to any one of claims 8 to 
16, characterized in that the oven comprises a pre-set 

maximum duration timer which is arranged to cease the 
microwave supply when the the maximum duration is reached. 
A microwave oven according to any one of claims 8 to 
17, characterized in that the oven comprises a load and 

door sensing switch (14), the switch being operated by a 
return biased operating means (15) which is caused to 

assume a pressed back position by the pressure of the 
package or container disposed in the holder upon closing 

of the door and returns to its initial position upon 
opening of the door. 
A microwave oven according to any one of claims 8 to 
18, characterized in that the oven comprises a heating 

container, which is locatable in the holder and adapted to 
the shape and dimensions of the cavity, into which the 

 
beverage or foodstuff is transferred for heating, the 

heating container preferably being manufactured from a 
transparent and/or heat insulating material. 
Use of a microwave oven having an oven cavity whose 
dimensions and shape are adapted to the dimensions and 

shape of a package or container of microwave permeable 
material for the heating of a beverage or foodstuff in 

fluid form contained in the package, using the package or 
container as heating vessel. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
