<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630521</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THREE DIMENSIONAL, MULTI-CHIP MODULE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2334	H01L23473	H01L2352	H01L2352	H01L23538	H01L2500	H01L2500	H01L2510	H01L2510	H05K702	H05K702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US ENERGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US ENERGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNHARDT ANTHONY FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSEN ROBERT WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNHARDT ANTHONY FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSEN ROBERT WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THREE DIMENSIONAL, MULTI-CHIP MODULEThe United States government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract Number W-7405-ENG-48 between the United States Department of Energy and the University of California for the operation of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION The present application is related to U.S. patent application entitled MICROCHANNEL COOLING OF FACE DOWN BONDED CHIPS, SerialNo. , filed on the same day as the present application, and owned at the time of invention and currently by the same assignee.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to integrated circuit packaging technology, and particularly to three dimensional packages involving high density stacks of integrated circuits.Description of Related ArtThere is increasing need to produce compact integrated circuit packages. Packaging technology must improve as integrated circuit clocks speeds increase because package delays contribute a significant fraction of computer cycle times. Thus, the board level computing elements (e.g., packaged dice or integrated circuit chips) must shrink, just as the size of the basic integrated circuit computing elements had to shrink to accommodate increases in chip clock rate. Also, in aerospace, aviation, and other applications, the reduction of size and weight is an extremely important goal in its own right, independent of speed. 

 In the case of high speed logic or power devices, high packing densities needed to achieve these goals raise important questions of cooling. Commercial mainframe computers dissipate almost 20 watts per square centimeter, but with future generations of gallium-arsenide logic they may generate over 40 watts per square centimeter. With future ECL bipolar logic they may generate over 100 watts per square centimeter of heat.Other problems associated with packaging advanced integrated circuit technology arise from the wire bonding, tape automated bonding (TAB), and flip-chip interconnect technology conventionally used. In particular, these technologies limit the input/output capabilities of densely packaged systems. Further, as clock speeds continue to increase, the inductance of TAB and wire bonds start to limit edge speeds and clock rates. Hybrid wafer-scale packaging has been developed to address many of these problems. These hybrid wafer-scale packages consist of integrated circuits bonded to a silicon circuit board, which, in turn, may be bonded to a microchannel heat sink. Integrated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Ct-AIMS
1. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of circuit boards having first and second major surfaces, circuit boards in the plurality including respective pluralities of chip interconnects accessible at the first major surfaces; a plurality of integrated circuit chips mounted on the first major surfaces of respective circuit boards in electrical communication with the respective pluralities of chip interconnects; at least one spacer member between first and second circuit boards in the plurality of circuit boards for spacing the first and second circuit boards apart, the spacer member having a first surface generally orthogonal to the first major surface of the circuit board, and a second surface, continuous with the first surface at a corner and generally facing the second major surface of the second circuit board, and including at least one board interconnect on the first surface, corner and second surface in electrical communication with the pluralities of chip interconnects on the first and second circuit boards.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the first circuit board has a perimeter and the spacer member comprises a wall near the perimeter of the first circuit board.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 , further including a microchannel cooling member coupled with the first circuit board.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the circuit board comprises a silicon substrate.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the circuit board comprises an aluminum nitride substrate. 


 6. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the circuit board comprises a co-fired ceramic substrate.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, including a plurality of board interconnects on the first surface, corner and second surface of the spacer member in electrical communication with the pluralities of chip interconnects on the first and second circuit boards, and wherein at least a subset of the plurality of board interconnects comprise power and ground conductors.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, including a plurality of board interconnects on the first surface, corner and second surface of the spacer member in electrical communication with the pluralities of chip interconnects on the first and second circuit boards and, wherein at least a subset of the plurality of board interconnects comprise signal transmission lines.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the chip interconnects comprise planarized thin film interconnects, and the integrated circuit chips include means for electrical communication with the thin film interconnects.
10. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the integrated circuit chips comprise a plurality of bond sites on a first major surface of the chip, and means for connecting the plurality of bond sites on the chip to the chip interconnects on respective circuit boards. 


 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first major surface of the integrated circuit chips face away from the first major surface of the circuit board, and the means for connecting the plurality of bond sites comprise conductors on the sides of the integrated circuit chips.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first major surface of the integrated circuit chips face toward the first major surface of the circuit board, and the means for connecting the plurality of bond sites comprise conductive bonding elements between respective bond sites and the chip interconnects.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, further including: microchannel cooling elements mounted on a second major surface of the integrated circuit chips.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the microchannel cooling elements comprise: a channelled substrate coupled with the second major surface of an integrated circuit chip and having a plurality of coolant channels; a channel cover, having a first opening and a second opening, and bonded to the channelled substrate over the coolant channels to provide a coolant path from the first opening to the second opening through the plurality of coolant channels; a coolant supply manifold providing a coolant path to the first opening of the channel cover and from the second opening of the channel cover; and a seal between the coolant supply manifold and the channel cover. 


 15. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: a plurality of test probe pads on the second major surface of at least one circuit board in the plurality; and means for coupling the test probe pads to chip interconnects on the first major surface of the one circuit board.
16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the board interconnect comprises a solder bump bond on the second surface of the spacer member.
17. An integrated circuit package, comprising: a first circuit board having first and second major surfaces, a perimeter of the first and second major surfaces, and sides at the perimeter, and including a plurality of chip interconnects accessible at the first major surface; a second circuit board having first and second major surfaces, a perimeter of the first and second major surfaces, and sides at the perimeter, and including a plurality of chip interconnects accessible at the first major surface, and a plurality of contact sites on the second major surface; a first plurality of integrated circuit chips mounted on the first major surface of the first circuit board, the integrated circuit chips having first and second major surfaces, and sides having a height less than a first determined parameter, and including a plurality of chip interconnect sites on the first major surface, and means for connecting the chip interconnect sites to chip interconnects on the first circuit board; a second plurality of integrated circuit chips mounted on the first major surface of the second circuit board, and including a plurality of chip interconnect sites, and means for connecting the chip interconnect sites to chip interconnects on the second circuit board; 


 a first perimeter wall, mounted between the first major surface of the first circuit board and the second major surface of the second circuit board near the perimeter of the first circuit board, and extending along at least a portion of the perimeter of the first circuit board, the perimeter wall having a first surface facing the first circuit board, a second surface facing the second circuit board, an inside surface and an outside surface, the perimeter wall supporting the second circuit board at a height greater than the first determined parameter; and a first plurality of board interconnects, on the first surface and at least one of the inside and outside surfaces of the first perimeter wall, interconnecting the plurality of chip interconnects on the first circuit board and the plurality of contact sites on the second circuit board; and a second plurality of board interconnects, on the side of the second circuit board, interconnecting the plurality of contact sites on the second major surface with the plurality of chip interconnects on the first major surface of the second circuit board.
18. The package of claim 17, wherein the first major surfaces of the first plurality of integrated circuits face away from the first major surface of the first circuit board, and the means for connecting the chip interconnect sites to the chip interconnects on the first circuit board comprise conductors extending from the chip interconnect sites down the side of the integrated circuit chip to the chip interconnects on the first circuit board.
19. The package of claim 17, wherein the first major surfaces of the first plurality of integrated circuits face toward the first major surface of the first circuit board, and the means for connecting the chip interconnect sites to the chip interconnects on the first circuit board comprise conductive bonds between the chip interconnect sites and the chip interconnects on the first circuit board. 



 20. The package of claim 17, further including a microchannel cooling member in heat flow communication with the first circuit board.
21. The package of claim 17, further including a microchannel cooling member in heat flow communication with the second circuit board.
22. The package of claim 19, further including a microchannel cooling system mounted in heat flow communication with the integrated circuit chips in the first plurality.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the microchannel cooling system comprises: a channelled substrate coupled with an integrated circuit chip and having a plurality of coolant channels; a channel cover, having a first opening and a second opening, and bonded to the channelled substrate over the coolant channels to provide a coolant path from the first opening to the second opening through 
'
 the plurality of coolant channels; a coolant supply manifold providing a coolant path to the first opening of the channel cover and from the second opening of the channel cover; and a compressible seal between the coolant supply manifold and the channel cover.
24. The package of claim 17, wherein the first and second circuit boards comprise a silicon substrate.
25. The package of claim 17, wherein the first and second circuit boards comprise an aluminum nitride substrate. 


 26. The package of claim 17, wherein the first and second circuit boards comprise a co-fired ceramic substrate.
27. The package of claim 17, wherein the plurality of board interconnects comprise power and ground conductors.
28. The package of claim 17, wherein the plurality of board interconnects comprise signal transmission lines.
29. The package of claim 17, wherein the chip interconnects comprise planarized thin film interconnects.
30. The package of claim 16, further including: a pedestal, mounted between the first major surface of the first circuit board and the second major surface of the second circuit board, providing a heat flow path between the second circuit board and the first circuit board.
31. The package of claim 30, further including at least one board interconnect supported by the pedestal interconnecting the chip interconnects on the first and second circuit boards.
32. The package of claim 31, wherein the board interconnect supported by the pedestal comprises at least one of ground and power conductors.
33. The package of claim 31, wherein the board interconnect supported by the pedestal comprises a signal transmission line. 


 34. The package of claim 17, wherein the first plurality of board interconnects comprise thin film conductors.
35. The package of claim 17, wherein the first plurality of board interconnects comprise thin film conductors configured as coplanar transmission lines.
36. The package of claim 17, wherein the second plurality of board interconnects comprise thin film conductors.
37. The package of claim 17, wherein the second plurality of board interconnects comprise thin film conductors configured as coplanar transmission lines.
38. The apparatus of claim 17, further including: a plurality of test probe pads on the second major surface of the first circuit board; and means for coupling the test probe pads to chip interconnects on the first major surface of the first circuit board.
39. The apparatus of claim 38, further including; a plurality of test probe pads on the second major surface of the second circuit board; and means for coupling the test probe pads to contact sites in the plurality of contact sites on the second major surface of the second circuit board.
40. The package of claim 17, wherein the first plurality of board interconnects comprise solder bump bonds between the first perimeter wall and the contact sites on the second major surface of the second circuit board. 


 41. The package of claim 17, wherein the first plurality of board interconnects comprise solder bump bonds between the first perimeter wall and the plurality of chip interconnects on the first circuit board.
42. An apparatus comprising: a stack of circuit boards having first and second major surfaces, and side surfaces, circuit boards in the stack including respective pluralities of chip interconnects accessible at the first major surfaces, and respective pluralities of contact sites on the second major surfaces in electrical communication with the chip interconnects on the first major surfaces; a plurality of integrated circuit chips mounted on the first major surfaces of respective circuit boards in electrical communication with the respective pluralities of chip interconnects; a plurality of perimeter wall members, mounted near perimeters of respective circuit boards in the stack, and spacing adjacent circuit boards in the stack apart so that integrated circuit chips on circuit boards in the stack do not contact adjacent circuit boards; and a first plurality of thin film board interconnects, on the perimeter wall members in the plurality, for interconnecting chip interconnects on circuit boards in the stack with contact sites on the second major surfaces of adjacent circuit boards.
43. The package of claim 42, further including a microchannel cooling member in heat flow communication with a first circuit board in the stack.
44. The package of claim 42, wherein the circuit boards in the stack comprise silicon substrates. 


 45. The package of claim 42, wherein the circuit boards in the stack comprise aluminum nitride substrates.
46. The package of claim 42, wherein the circuit boards in the stack comprise co-fired ceramic substrates.
47. The package of claim 42, wherein the plurality of board interconnects comprise power and ground conductors.
48. The package of claim 42, wherein the plurality of board interconnects comprise signal transmission lines.
49. The package of claim 42, wherein the chip interconnects on the circuit boards in the stack comprise planarized thin film interconnects.
50. The package of claim 42, wherein the plurality of board interconnects comprises laser-patterned thin film conductors extending across an inside surface of and over the perimeter wall.
51. The package of claim 42, wherein the circuit boards have a width and a length, and the stack of circuit boards with perimeter walls has a height, and wherein the height is at equal to or greater than at least one of the width or the length.
52. The package of claim 51 , wherein the stack of circuit boards with perimeter walls is substantially cube shaped to minimized average propagation distances for signals communicated among the integrated circuit chips in the stack. 


 53. The package of claim 42, further including: a plurality of microchannel cooling means, mounted in heat flow communication with circuit boards in the stack.
54. The package of claim 53, wherein the microchannel cooling means comprise: a plurality of grooves in a surface coupled with the integrated circuit chips, and a plurality of groove covers, each having a first opening and a second opening, and bonded over the grooves to provide a coolant path from the first opening to the second opening through the plurality of grooves; and coolant supply manifolds providing coolant paths to the first opening of the groove cover and from the second opening of the groove cover for the integrated circuit chips on respective circuit boards; and compressible seals between the coolant supply manifolds and the groove covers.
55. The apparatus of claim 42, further including: a plurality of test probe pads on the second major surface and coupled with contact sites on at least one circuit board in the stack. 

56. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of circuit boards having first and second major surfaces, circuit boards in the plurality including respective pluralities of chip interconnects accessible at the first major surfaces, respective pluralities of contact sites on the second major surfaces, and means for coupling the respective pluralities of contact sites to the respective chip interconnects; a plurality of integrated circuit chips mounted on the first major surfaces of respective circuit boards in electrical communication with the respective pluralities of chip interconnects; at least one spacer member between first and second circuit boards in the plurality of circuit boards for spacing the first and second circuit boards apart, the spacer member having a first surface generally facing the first major surface of the first circuit board, and a second surface generally facing the second major surface of the second circuit board, and including a plurality of board interconnects extending from the plurality of chip interconnects on the first major surface of the first circuit board to the second surface of the spacer member; and a plurality of solder bump bonds, connecting the plurality of chip interconnect sites on the second major surface of the second circuit board to the plurality of board interconnects on the second surface of the spacer member.
57. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein the board interconnects include spacer conductors extending from the second surface to the first surface of the spacer member, and a second plurality of solder bump bonds, connecting the plurality of chip interconnects on the first major surface of the first circuit board to the spacer conductors. 


 58. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein the plurality of board interconnects comprises laser patterned conductors on the spacer member.
59. The apparatus of claim 57, wherein the spacer conductors comprise laser patterned conductors on the spacer member.
60. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein the first circuit board has a perimeter and the spacer member comprises a wall near the perimeter of the first circuit board.
61. The apparatus of claim 56, further including a microchannel cooling member in heat flow communication with the first circuit board.
62. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein the integrated circuit chips comprise a plurality of bond sites on a first major surface of the chip, and means for connecting the plurality of bond sites to the chip interconnects on respective circuit boards.
63. The apparatus of claim 62, wherein the first major surface of the integrated circuit chips face away from the first major surface of the circuit board, and the means for connecting the plurality of bond sites comprise conductors on the sides of the integrated circuit chips to the chip interconnects.
64. The apparatus of claim 62, wherein the first major surface of the integrated circuit chips face toward the first major surface of the circuit board, and the means for connecting the plurality of bond sites comprise solder bump bonds between respective bond sites and the chip interconnects. 


 65. The apparatus of claim 64, further including: microchannel cooling elements mounted in heat flow communication with the integrated circuit chips.
66. The apparatus of claim 64, wherein the microchannel cooling elements comprise: a channelled substrate coupled with the second major surface of an integrated circuit chip and having a plurality of coolant channels; a channel cover, having a first opening and a second opening, and bonded to the channelled substrate over the coolant channels to provide a coolant path from the first opening to the second opening through the plurality of coolant channels; a coolant supply manifold providing a coolant path to the first opening of the channel cover and from the second opening of the channel cover; and a seal between the coolant supply manifold and the channel cover.
67. The apparatus of claim 56, further including: a plurality of test probe pads on the second major surface of at least one circuit board in the plurality; and means for coupling the test probe pads to chip interconnects on the first major surface of the one circuit board. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
