<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655090</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DETECTION OF GENE SEQUENCES IN BIOLOGICAL FLUIDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	C12N1509	C12N1509	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods are provided for detecting and quantitating gene sequences, such as mutated genes and oncogenes, in biological fluids. The fluid sample (e.g., plasma, serum, urine, etc.) is obtained, deproteinized and the DNA present in the sample is extracted. Following denaturation of the DNA, an amplification procedure, such as PCR or LCR, is conducted to amplify the mutated gene sequence.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE TRUSTEES OF DARTMOUTH COLLEGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SORENSON GEORGE D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SORENSON, GEORGE, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the detection of gene sequences
in biological fluids.Soluble DNA is known to exist in the blood
of healthy individuals at concentrations of about
5 to 10 ng/ml. It is believed that soluble DNA is
present in increased levels in the blood of
individuals having autoimmune diseases, particularly
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and other diseases
including viral hepatitis, cancer and pulmonary
embolism. It is not known whether circulating
soluble DNA represents a specific type of DNA which
is particularly prone to appear in the blood.
However, studies indicate that the DNA behaves as
double-stranded DNA or as a mixture of
double-stranded and single-stranded DNA, and that it
is likely to be composed of native DNA with
single-stranded regions. Dennin, R.H., Klin.
Wochenschr. 57:451-456, (1979). Steinman, C.R., J.
Clin.Invest., 73:832-841, (1984). Fournie, G.J. et
al., AnalyticalBiochem. 158:250-256, (1986). There
is also evidence that in patients with SLE, the
circulating DNA is enriched for human repetitive
sequence (Alu) containing fragments when compared to
normal human genomic DNA. In patients with cancer, the levels of
circulating soluble DNA in blood are significantly
increased. Types of cancers which appear to have a
high incidence of elevated DNA levels include
pancreatic carcinoma, breast carcinoma, colorectal
carcinoma and pulmonary carcinoma. In these forms of
cancer, the levels of circulating soluble DNA in
blood are usually over 50 ng/ml, and generally the
mean values are more than 150 ng/ml. Leon et al.,
Can. Res. 37:646-650, 1977; Shapiro et al., Cancer
51:2116-2120, 1983.Mutated oncogenes have been described in
experimental and human tumors. In some instances
certain mutated oncogenes are associated with
particular types of tumors. Examples of these are
adenocarcinomas of the pancreas, colon and lung which
have approximately a 75%, 50%, and 35% incidence
respectively, of Kirsten ras (K-ras) genes with
mutations in positions 1 or 2 of codons 12. The most
frequent mutations are changes from glycine to valine
(GGT to GTT), glycine to cysteine (GGT to TGT), and
glycine to aspartic acid (GGT to GAT). Other, but
less common mutations of codon 12 include mutations
to AGT and CGT. K-ras genes in somatic cells of such
patients are not mutated. WO-A-89/00206 discloses a PCR-based method of
amplification of a target sequence in DNA from blood
and detection of mutations in the amplified target
sequences by hybridization with mutant specific probes.
The method involves
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of detecting a mutant allele,
comprising the steps of:


providing a sample of a biological fluid
containing soluble DNA, including a mutant allele of

interest;
extracting the DNA from the sample;
denaturing the DNA to free first and second
strands of the DNA;
amplifying the mutant allele of interest in an
allele specific manner using at least a first set of

four allele specific oligonucleotide primers having one
primer complementary to a mutation-containing segment

on a first strand of the DNA and a first common primer
for pairing during amplification to each allele

specific primer, the common primer being complementary
to a segment of a second strand of the DNA distant with

respect to the position of the first primer; and
detecting the presence of the mutant allele of
interest.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the
step of removing protein from the sample and

inactivating any DNase within the sample before the
step of extracting the DNA. 
The method of claim 2, wherein protein is
removed and DNases are inactivated by adding a salt

solution to the sample and subsequently boiling the
sample.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
the mutant allele is amplified in an allele specific

manner using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
The method of claim 4, wherein the PCR is
conducted using a DNA polymerase which lacks the 3'

exonuclease activity and therefore the ability to
repair single nucleotide mismatches at the 3' end of

the primer.
The method of claim 5, wherein the DNA
polymerase is a 
Thermus
aquaticus
 DNA polymerase.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein
following the amplification step, the step of detecting

the presence of the mutant allele of interest comprises
performing an allele specific ligase chain reaction

(LCR) or a ligase detection reaction (LDR) using the
amplified product of PCR.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein
the first DNA strand is the sense strand and the second

DNA strand is the antisense strand.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein
the step of detecting the presence of amplified DNA is

conducted by gel electrophoresis in 1-5% agarose gel. 
The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein
the mutant allele comprises a gene sequence having a

point mutation at a known location.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein
the first set of allele specific oligonucleotide

primers comprises:

four sense primers, one of which has a 3'
terminal nucleotide complementary to a point mutation

of the sense strand, and the remaining three of which
are complementary to the wild type sequence for the

segment to be amplified and to sequences having the
remaining two possible mutations at the mutated point

of the sense strand; and
a common antisense primer complementary to a
segment of the antisense strand distant from the

location on the sense strand at which the sense primers
will anneal, the common antisense primer being paired

with each of the sense primers during amplification.
The method of claim 11, wherein the mutant
allele comprises a gene sequence having a point

mutation at one of two known locations.
The method of claim 11 or 12, wherein the step
of amplifying the mutant allele through the PCR further

comprises the use of a second set of four allele
specific oligonucleotide primers, in conjunction with

the first set, wherein the second set of allele
specific oligonucleotide primers comprises: 


four sense primers, one of which has a 3'
terminal nucleotide complementary to a point mutation

of the sense strand, and the remaining three of which
are complementary to the wild type sequence for the

segment to be amplified and sequences having the
remaining two possible mutations at the mutated point

of the sense strand; and
a common antisense primer complementary to a
segment of the antisense strand distant from the

location on the sense strand at which the sense primers
will anneal, the common antisense primer being paired

with each of the sense primers during amplification.
The method of any one of claims 11 to 13,
wherein the 3' terminal nucleotide of the complementary

sense primer anneals with the mutated nucleotide of the
sense strand.
The method of claim 13 or 14, wherein the
mutant allele to be detected is the K-ras gene sequence

having a mutation at position 1 or 2 in the twelfth
codon.
The method of any one of claims 13 to 15,
wherein the first set of allele specific

oligonucleotide primers comprises sense primers having
the following sequences


5'GTGGTAGTTGGAGCTG 3'(wild type)(SEQ ID NO: 1)
5'GTGGTAGTTGGAGCTC 3'(SEQ ID NO:2)
5'GTGGTAGTTGGAGCTT 3'(SEQ ID NO:3)
5'GTGGTAGTTGGAGCTA 3'(SEQ ID NO:4)
 
and the common antisense primer having the following

sequence

5'CAGAGAAACCTTTATCTG 3'(SEQ ID NO:5).
The method of any one of claims 13 to 16,
wherein the second set of allele specific

oligonucleotide primers comprises sense primers having
the following sequences


5'ACTCTTGCCTACGCCAC 3'(wild type)(SEQ ID NO:6)
5'ACTCTTGCCTACGCCAG 3'(SEQ ID NO:7)
5'ACTCTTGCCTACGCCAT 3'(SEQ ID NO:9)
5'ACTCTTGCCTACGCCAA 3'(SEQ ID NO:8)

and the common antisense primer having the following
sequence


5'GTACTGGTGGAGTATTT 3'(SEQ ID NO:10).
A diagnostic kit for detecting the presence of
a mutated K-ras gene sequence in biological fluid,

wherein the mutation is present in the twelfth codon at
position 1, comprising:


reagents to facilitate the deproteinization and
isolation of DNA;
reagents to facilitate amplification by the
polymerase chain reaction (PCR);
a heat stable DNA polymerase; and
a first set of allele-specific oligonucleotide
sense primers having the following sequences 


5'GTGGTAGTTGGAGCTG 3'(SEQ ID NO:1)
5'GTGGTAGTTGGAGCTC 3'(SEQ ID NO:2)
5'GTGGTAGTTGGAGCTT 3'(SEQ ID NO:3)
5'GTGGTAGTTGGAGCTA 3'(SEQ ID NO:4)

and a first common antisense primer having the
following sequence


5'CAGAGAAACCTTTATCTG '3(SEQ ID NO:5)
The diagnostic kit of claim 18 further
comprising a second set of allele-specific

oligonucleotide sense primers having the following
sequences


5'ACTCTTGCCTACGCCAC 3'(SEQ ID NO:6)
5'ACTCTTGCCTACGCCAG 3'(SEQ ID NO:7)
5'ACTCTTGCCTACGCCAT 3'(SEQ ID NO:9)
5'ACTCTTGCCTACGCCAA 3'(SEQ ID NO:8)

and a second common antisense primer having the
following sequence


5'GTACTGGTGGAGTATTT 3'(SEQ ID NO:10)

wherein the second set of allele-specific
oligonucleotide primers and the second common primer

are useful in detecting in biological fluid the
presence of a mutated K-ras gene sequence in the

twelfth codon at position 2.
The method of any one of claims 1 to 17,
wherein the

biological fluid is selected from whole blood, serum,
plasma, urine, sputum, and cerebrospinal fluid. 
The diagnostic kit of claim 18 or 19, wherein the
biological fluid is selected from whole blood, serum,

plasma, urine, sputum, and cerebrospinal fluid.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
