<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648421</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Novel leavening composition
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01B2500	A21D1300	A21D1000	A21D200	A21D202	A21D1002	A21D1300	A21D1004	A21D1000	C01B2534	A21D600	A21D600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01B	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	C01B	A21D	A21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01B25	A21D13	A21D10	A21D2	A21D2	A21D10	A21D13	A21D10	A21D10	C01B25	A21D6	A21D6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is disclosed a novel leavening 
composition comprising dimagnesium phosphates in 

combination with a carbonate factor. The dimagnesium 
phosphates comprise a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate 

trihydrate, amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and 
possibly a small amount of dimagnesium pyrophosphate. 

The dimagnesium phosphates are prepared by removal of 
water from dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate wherein the 

weight loss on drying is in the range of from about 10% 
to about 25% at a temperature in the range of from 

about 100°C to about 200°C, depending upon drying 
conditions. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASTARIS LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASTARIS LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARD DAVID RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIDOLPH BARBARA BUFE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARD, DAVID RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIDOLPH, BARBARA BUFE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to novel leavening
compositions and to systems employing such
compositions. More particularly, the invention relates
to magnesium phosphates exhibiting leavening action as
the acid factor in baking preparations.Various salts of the acids of phosphoric
acid, usually orthophosphoric acid or pyrophosphoric
acid are commonly employed as the acid factor in
combination with a carbonate factor in leavening
systems. Calcium, aluminum and sodium salts,
exhibiting different reaction profiles, find use as
leavening acids in different applications. Sodium,
aluminum and calcium salts have been widely used as the
acid factor in leavening systems.The use of sodium acid pyrophosphate as an
acid factor in bakery leavening is known but an
undesirable flavor has been observed. Mixing a calcium
acid phosphate salt with sodium acid pyrophosphate
(SAPP) has been found to reduce or eliminate the taste
and also control the evolution of gas after mixing the
baking ingredients. In U. S. 1,834,747 to Stokes et
al. there is described baking powder formulas which
contain the usual sodium bicarbonate together with
alkaline earth metal phosphates such as monocalcium
phosphate in admixture with sodium acid pyrophosphate.
It is reported that the mixture results in a slowing of
the evolution of carbon dioxide as compared to sodium
acid pyrophosphate alone thereby allowing a more
desirable reaction profile. With variation in the
amounts of the various salts it is reported that the
evolution of gas during leavening can be controlled to 
provide varied reaction profiles depending upon the
requirements.Baking powders contain as essential
ingredients an acid-reacting material and sodium
bicarbonate, with or without a filler. The acid-reacting
materials customarily used are alum and acid
salts of phosphoric acid, pyrophosphoric acid, or
combinations of these materials. See U. S. Patents
2,630,372; 3,052,549; and 3,501,314.Most modern chemical leavening compositions
used in baked goods are of the double action type, i.e.
they contain a fast-acting acid to release sufficient
carbon dioxide quickly enough to provide nucleation of
the batter or dough and a good lift during the early
stages of baking. A slower or heat activated acid
releases additional carbon dioxide during baking before
the starch coagulation temperature is reached,
maximizing expansion and during the remainder of the
baking period to maintain the expansion. The quickly
released gas acts before structure has set and is
essential to best texture and maximum
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A leavening composition comprising a
carbonate factor and dimagnesium phosphates, said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate.
The leavening composition of Claim 1
wherein the carbonate factor is sodium bicarbonate.
The leavening composition of Claim 1
wherein the carbonate factor is selected from the group

consisting of potassium bicarbonate, ammonium
bicarbonate and stabilized x-ray amorphous calcium

carbonate.
The leavening composition of Claim 1
wherein the pyrophosphate content of the dimagnesium

phosphates is less than 5% of the total P
2
O
5
.
A process for leavening a fresh,
refrigerated or frozen dough product which comprises

mixing flour, water and shortening and a leavening
system comprising a carbonate factor and dimagnesium

phosphates, said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate.
A process of Claim 5 wherein the
carbonate factor is selected from the group consisting

of sodium bicarbonate, stabilized x-ray amorphous
calcium carbonate, ammonium bicarbonate and potassium

bicarbonate.
The process of Claim 5 wherein the
carbonate factor is sodium bicarbonate.
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen dough
product comprising a mixture of flour, a suitable

liquid, shortening, and a leavening system comprising a
carbonate factor and dimagnesium phosphates, said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate.
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen dough
product of Claim 8 wherein the carbonate factor is

sodium bicarbonate. 
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen dough
product comprising a mixture of flour, a suitable

liquid, a suitable fat substitute and a leavening
system comprising a carbonate factor and dimagnesium

phosphates said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate.
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen dough
product of Claim 8 wherein the carbonate factor is

selected from the group consisting of sodium
bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, ammonium

bicarbonate and stabilized, x-ray amorphous calcium
carbonate.
A refrigerated or frozen dough of
Claim 11 selected from the group consisting of roll

dough, biscuit dough, pizza dough and cookie dough.
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen
batter product comprising a mixture of flour, a

suitable liquid, shortening, and a leavening system
comprising a carbonate factor and dimagnesium

phosphates said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate.
A fresh, refrigerated or frozen
batter product comprising a mixture of flour, a

suitable liquid, a fat substitute and a leavening
system comprising a carbonate factor and dimagnesium

phosphates said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate.
A batter product of Claim 13
comprising a refrigerated or frozen batter for baked

goods selected from the group consisting of pancake,
cake, muffin, waffle and corn bread batters.
A dry mix product comprising a
mixture of flour, shortening, and leavening system

comprising a carbonate factor and dimagnesium
phosphates said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibl
y magnesium pyrophosphate. 
A leavened baked good wherein the
leavening system comprised a carbonate factor and

dimagnesium phosphates said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate.
A leavened baked good of Claim 17
selected from the group consisting of cakes, pancakes,

hush puppies, cookies, waffles, pizza, muffins,
crackers, biscuits, corn bread, corn muffins and

doughnuts.
A dry mix product comprising a
mixture of flour, a suitable fat substitute, and a

leavening system comprising a carbonate factor and
dimagnesium phosphates said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate.
A leavening acid comprising
dimagnesium phosphates, said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate, obtainable by the partial removal

of water from dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate wherein
the water is removed by heating said trihydrate at a

temperature in the range of from 140°C to
200°C at atmospheric pressure whereby the weight loss

is in the range of from 10% to 25%.
The dimagnesium phosphates of Claim
20 having a particle size substantially below 44 µm.
The dimagnesium phosphates of Claim
20 wherein the amount of magnesium pyrophosphate

is less than 5% of total P
2
O
5
.
A leavening acid comprising
dimagnesium phosphates, said dimagnesium phosphates being a mixture of dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate and amorphous dimagnesium phosphate and possibly magnesium pyrophosphate, obtainable by the partial removal

of water from dimagnesium phosphate trihydrate where
the water is removed by heating said trihydrate under

reduced water vapor pressure at a temperature in the
range of from 100°C to 200°C whereby the

weight loss is up to 25%. 
The dimagnesium phosphates of Claim
23 having a particle size substantially below 44 µm.
The dimagnesium phosphates of Claim
23 wherein the amount of magnesium pyrophosphate

is less than 5% of total P
2
O
5
.
A composition comprising dimagnesium
phosphate trihydrate, amorphous dimagnesium phosphate

and a minor amount of magnesium pyrophosphate wherein the composition comprises from 33 % to 66 % by weight of the amorphous dimagnesium phosphate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
