<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639091</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR INDIRECT CHEMICAL REDUCTION OF METALS IN WASTE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A62D10143	C22B500	C22B704	A62D300	C22B700	B09B300	A62D332	A62D10120	C22B704	A62D10140	A62D300	B09C106	C22B700	C22B502	C22B500	C22B504	B09B300	B09C100	A62D10108	A62D337	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A62D	C22B	C22B	A62D	C22B	B09B	A62D	A62D	C22B	A62D	A62D	B09C	C22B	C22B	C22B	C22B	B09B	B09C	A62D	A62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A62D101	C22B5	C22B7	A62D3	C22B7	B09B3	A62D3	A62D101	C22B7	A62D101	A62D3	B09C1	C22B7	C22B5	C22B5	C22B5	B09B3	B09C1	A62D101	A62D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An environmentally sound process is described for the remediation of waste materials that allows the separation, recovery and decontamination of metals. The method includes chemically reducing essentially all of a reducible toxic and potentially hazardous metal-containing component of a waste composition. The waste is directed into a molten metal bath, including a first reducing agent which, under the operating conditions of the molten metal bath, chemically reduces a metal of the metal-containing component to form a dissolved intermediate. A second reducing agent is directed into the molten metal bath. The second reducing agent, under the operations of the molten metal bath, chemically reduces the metal of the dissolved intermediate. The rate at which the second reducing agent is directed into the molten metal bath, relative to the rate at which the component of the waste is directed into the molten molten metal bath, is sufficient to cause essentially all metal-containing intermediate formed to dissolve in the molten metal bath, thereby indirectly chemically reducing the component of the waste. This indirect reduction technology can remediate a variety of materials, including ash metal-contaminated municipal waste, vitreous slag-like materials and spent metal catalysts, while allowing the recovery of remediable metals.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLTEN METAL TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLTEN METAL TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACH ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGEL CHRISTOPHER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACH, ROBERT, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON, JAMES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGEL, CHRISTOPHER, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Disposal of hazardous waste is increasingly becoming 
a problem. The availability of suitable space for burial 
of such wastes is diminishing. Also, contamination of the 
environment by conventional methods of disposal, such as 
by dumping and incineration, is increasingly apparent. 
For example, metals, such as lead, which are often present 
in hazardous wastes, do not decompose. Release of 
hazardous wastes to the environment as gases and dust, 
such as fly ash, often contaminates water supplies and 
pollutes the atmosphere, thereby generally diminishing the 
quality of life in surrounding populations. Those with heightened awareness of onsetting 
ecological problems are not only cognizant of the 
increasing problems of waste disposal but also of the 
impending hazards associated with the large volume of 
residual materials generated by the incineration of all 
forms of waste. Incineration generally results in 
incomplete combustion due to inefficient combination with 
oxygen and the presence of noncombustible inorganic salts 
and metals. This typically affords a residue in excess of 
twenty five percent of the initial mass of the waste 
material and often in excess of seventy percent. Since a 
mass balance must be maintained, except for the loss of  
 
mass due to water, nitrogen and related gases, the 
combination of carbonaceous materials with oxygen 
affording carbon dioxide actually increases the mass of 
off-gases by a factor of about three. Although the 
overall process achieves a desirable volume and mass 
reduction, the concentration of noncombustible toxic 
material is necessarily increased and is often contained 
within a leachable ash residue. Fly ash also continues to 
pose a more recognizable hazard since, as noted above, 
land-filling is being deemphasized as a viable disposal 
method. Attempts to reduce the volume of residue by more 
complete combustion is associated with an economic penalty 
due to post-combustion stages and the need for excess 
auxiliary fuels. Despite these efforts, the lower flame 
temperature indigenous to classical incineration 
methodologies combined with the associated temperature of 
their residuals are features that still assure that 
generic ash is typically below its fusion point and 
unvitrified. Such unvitrified residues are commonly 
leachable in nature and constitute an environmental hazard 
since the toxic constituents are now in a more 
concentrated form and may readily enter the ecosystem. In addition, hazardous waste streams, such as fly ash 
produce
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for indirect chemical reduction of a 
component of a waste, comprising the steps of: 


a) directing the waste, containing the component, 
into a molten metal bath, the molten metal bath 

including a metal-containing first reducing 
agent which, under the operating conditions of 

the molten metal bath, chemically reduces said 
component of the waste to form a dissolved 

metal-containing intermediate; and thereafter 
b) exposing the metal of the metal-containing 
intermediate to a second reducing agent in the 

molten metal bath, the second reducing agent, 
under the operating conditions of the bath, 

chemically reducing said metal at a rate, 
relative to the rate at which the component of 

the waste is directed into the molten metal 
bath, which is sufficient to cause essentially 

all the metal-containing intermediate formed to 
dissolve in the molten metal bath for 

subsequent reduction of the metal component of 
said intermediate, thereby indirectly reducing 

the component of the waste. 
A method of Claim 1 wherein the first reducing agent 
is a component of the molten metal bath. 
A method of Claim 1 wherein the second reducing 
agent is directed into the molten metal bath at a 

rate which is sufficient, relative to the rate at 
which the metal-containing intermediate is formed, 

to cause essentially all of said intermediate formed 
to dissolve in the molten metal bath, and optionally  

 
the second reducing agent 

is directed into the molten metal bath at a location 
which is sufficiently remote from a point of 

introduction of the waste to cause essentially all of 
the metal-containing intermediate formed in the 

molten metal bath to dissolve prior to reduction of 
the metal of said intermediate by the second reducing 

agent. 
A method of Claim 3 wherein the second reducing agent 
and the metal of said component of the waste are directed into the 

molten metal bath at a stoichiometric ratio of about 
1:1, and for example 

the stoichiometric ratio 
of the first reducing agent in the molten metal bath, 

to the metal of the component of the waste, is 
greater than about 1:1 and the stoichiometric ratio 

of the second reducing agent to the intermediate is 
greater than about 1:1. 
A method of Claim 3 wherein the waste and the second 
reducing agent are directed into the molten metal 

bath at alternating intervals, whereby essentially 
all of the metal-containing intermediate formed in 

the molten metal bath dissolves prior to reduction of 
the metal of said intermediate by the second reducing 

agent. 
A method of Claim 1 wherein the waste includes more 
than one component which can be reduced by the first 

reducing agent in the molten metal bath.  
 
A method of Claim 6 wherein a metal component, which 
comprises a substantial portion of the molten metal 

bath, is also a metal component of the intermediate. 
A method of Claim 7 wherein the first reducing agent 
includes a metal in its elemental state. 
A method of Claim 8 further including the step of 
dissociating an organic component of the metal-containing 

composition to its respective elements. 
A method of Claim 1 wherein the second reducing 
agent includes carbon, or is a metal. 
A method of Claim 1 further including the steps of 
volatilising the metal of the intermediate and then 

recovering the metal. 
A method of Claim 1 wherein the component is present 
in a sludge, an ash, a dust or soil. 
A method of Claim 1 wherein the component is a 
precious metal, such as  

 
titanium, vanadium, niobium, chromium, cobalt, 

nickel, silver and platinum. 
A method of Claim 1 wherein the component is a 
volatile heavy metal, such as 

lead, mercury, cadmium, zinc, tin, and arsenic. 
A method of Claim 1 wherein the component is iron or 
copper. 
A method of Claim 15 wherein an oxygen-containing 
metal compound of the metal-containing waste 

composition comprises a metal oxychloride. 
A method of claim 1 further including the step of 
directing a sacrificial metal into the molten metal 

bath after the second reducing agent has reduced at 
least a significant portion of the intermediate, the 

sacrificial metal being soluble in the molten metal 
baht and having a lower free energy of oxidation 

than the second reducing agent, whereby the 
sacrificial metal reacts with a second component of 

the waste composition which is substantially inert 
to the first and second reducing agents at the 

temperature of the molten metal bath, 
and optionally the sacrificial metal 

is selected from aluminum, 
magnesium, calcium, silicon, and mixtures thereof.  

 
A method for indirect chemical reduction of a 
component of a waste, comprising the steps of: 


a) directing the waste, containing the component, 
into a molten metal bath, including a metal-containing 

first reducing agent which, under the 
operating conditions of the molten metal bath, 

chemically reduces said component of the waste 
to form a dissolved metal-containing 

intermediate; 
b) directing a metal-ligand exchange reagent into 
the molten metal bath, said metal-ligand 

exchange reagent causing a metal-ligand exchange 
reaction with the metal-containing intermediate 

to form a metal-ligand exchange product which 
includes the metal of the intermediate; and 
c) exposing the metal-ligand exchange product to a 
second reducing agent in the molten metal bath 

which, under the operating conditions of the 
bath, chemically reduces the metal of the metal-ligand 

exchange product at a rate, relative to 
the rate at which the component of the waste is 

directed into the molten metal bath, which is 
sufficient to cause essentially all metal of the 

metal-containing intermediate formed to be 
reduced in the molten metal bath, thereby 

indirectly reducing the component of the waste. 
A method of Claim 18 wherein a ligand of the 
intermediate is an oxygen-containing ligand, 

a sulphur-containing ligand, 
a phosphorous-containing ligand,  

 
a nitrogen-containing ligand, or 

a halogen-containing ligand. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
