<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS FOR INACTIVATING NUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCES AND METAL CHELATES FOR USE THEREIN
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12N1509	C07D47108	C12Q168	C12N1509	C07D47100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12N	C07D	C12Q	C12N	C07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12N15	C07D471	C12Q1	C12N15	C07D471	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to methods, reagents, and kits utilizing metal chelates to inactivate nucleotide sequences, especially to inactivate polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and ligase chain reaction (LCR) products and to inactivate nucleotide sequences in a bioprocess and bioproduct. A novel metal chelate class is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the inactivation of nucleotide
sequences, more particularly, it relates to the inactivation of
nucleic acid products of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and
ligase chain reaction (LCR); and the inactivation of
contaminating nucleic acid sequences in a bioproduct or
bioprocess.Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and ligase chain reaction
(LCR) are techniques for amplifying any desired nucleic acid
sequence (target) contained in a nucleic acid or mixture thereof.
In PCR, a pair of primers are employed in excess to hybridize at
the outside ends of complementary strands of the target nucleic
acid. The primers are each extended by a polymerase using the
target nucleic acid as a template. The extension products
become target sequences themselves, following dissociation
from the original target strand. New primers are then
hybridized and extended by a polymerase, and the cycle is
repeated to geometrically increase the number of target
sequence molecules. PCR is disclosed in U.S. patents 4,683,195
and 4,683,202. Detection and amplification of target nucleic
acid sequences using PCR is disclosed in EP-A-0357011.LCR is an alternate mechanism for target amplification.
In LCR, two sense (first and second) probes and two antisense
(third and fourth) probes are employed in excess over the
target. The first probe hybridizes to a first segment of the
target strand and the second probe hybridizes to a second
segment of the target strand, the first and second segments
being positioned so that the primary probes can be ligated into
a fused product. Further, a third (secondary) probe can
hybridize to a portion of the first probe and a fourth
(secondary) probe can hybridize to a portion of the second probe 
in a similar ligatable fashion. If the target is initially double
stranded, the secondary probes will also hybridize to the target
complement in the first instance. Once the fused strand of
sense and antisense probes are separated from the target
strand, it will hybridize with the third and fourth probes which
can be ligated to form a complementary, secondary fused
product. The fused products are functionally equivalent to
either the target or its complement. By repeated cycles of
hybridization and ligation, amplification of the target sequence
is achieved. This technique is described in EP-A-320,308Other aspects of LCR
technique are disclosed in EP-A-439,182, to Backman, K. C. et
al.Ironically, the biggest virtue of PCR and LCR techniques
also poses a significant problem for diagnostic assays.

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for chemically cleaving nucleotide sequences,
comprising exposing said nucleotide sequences to an oxidizing agent

and to a metal chelate complex selected from the group consisting of:

a Class 1 pyridine chelate complex having a formula selected
from the group consisting of I, II, and III :



   where M denotes a metal that catalyzes an oxidation-reduction
reaction;

and
a Class 2 phenanthroline chelate complex having a formula
selected from the group consisting of IV and V:



   where M denotes a metal that catalyzes an oxidation-reduction
reaction; X is selected from the group consisting of Cl, Br, NO
2
,
phenyl, methyl, amidoacetyl, amidoglycyl, and hydrogen; and L is a

Lewis base;

wherein said method is conducted without adding a reducing agent.
The method of claim 1, wherein the metal chelate 
complex is a Class 2 phenanthroline chelate complex having a

formula selected from the group consisting of IV and V,


   wherein M denotes a metal that catalyzes an oxidation-reduction
reaction; X is selected from the group consisting of: Cl, Br,

NO
2
, phenyl, methyl, amidoacetyl, amidoglycyl, and hydrogen; and L is
a Lewis base.
The method of claim 2, wherein the metal chelate
complex chemically cleaves at least 99.99% of the nucleotide

sequences.
The method of claim 3, wherein the metal chelate
complexes chemically cleaves at least 99.9999% of the

nucleotide sequences.
The method of claim 4, wherein the metal chelate
complexes chemically cleaves at least 99.999999% of the

nucleotide sequences.
The method of claim 2, wherein the method cleaves the
nucleotide sequences down to fragments of 5 bases or less.
The method of claim 6, wherein the method cleaves the
nucleotide sequences down to fragments of 2 bases or less.
The method of claim 3, wherein the nucleotide sequences
are cleaved to fragments of such length that they cannot be amplified 

under nucleic acid amplification reaction conditions.
The method of claim 2, wherein the method destroys the
ability of the nucleotide sequences to replicate and/or be expressed.
The method of claim 2, wherein X is a hydrogen and L is
water or an amine.
The method of claim 2, wherein the metal chelate
complex is copper bis (1,10-phenanthroline).
The method of claim 1, wherein the metal chelate
complex is a Class 1 pyridine chelate complex having a formula

selected from the group consisting of I, II, and III :


   where M denotes a metal that catalyzes an oxidation-reduction
reaction.
The method of claim 11, wherein the metal chelate
complex chemically cleaves at least about 40% of the nucleotide

sequences.
The method of claim 12, wherein the metal chelate
complexes cleaves the nucleotide sequences down to fragments of

10 bases or less.
The method of claim 14, wherein the nucleotide
sequences are cleaved to fragments of such length that they cannot

be amplified under nucleic acid amplification reaction conditions.
The method of claim 14, wherein the method destroys the
ability of the nucleotide sequences to replicate and/or be expressed. 
An amplification method in which carryover or crossover
contamination by amplified target nucleotide sequences is reduced,

said method comprising:

(a) amplifying target nucleotide sequences in a sample;
(b) detecting the amplified target nucleotide sequences in
the sample; and
(c) chemically cleaving the amplified nucleotide sequences in
the sample by exposing the sample to an oxidizing agent and to a

Class 2 phenanthroline chelate complex according to claim 2;

wherein said cleaving is conducted without adding a reducing agent.
The method of claim 17, wherein said amplifying step
comprises a polymerase chain reaction or a ligase chain reaction.
The method of claim 17, wherein the amplified target
nucleotide sequences are detected using a microparticle enzyme

immunoassay format.
The method of claim 17, wherein the metal chelate
complex chemically cleaves at least 99.99% of the nucleotide

sequences.
The method of claim 20, wherein the metal chelate
complex chemically cleaves at least 99.9999% of the

nucleotide sequences.
The method of claim 21, wherein the metal chelate
complex chemically cleaves at least 99.999999% of the

nucleotide sequences.
The method of claim 17, wherein the metal chelate
complex is copper bis (1,10-phenanthroline). 
The method of any of claims 1 to 22, wherein M is
selected from the group consisting of: nickel, copper, iron, zinc,

ruthenium, rhodium, and cobalt.
The method of claim 24, wherein M is nickel or copper.
The method of any of claims 1 to 22 wherein the oxidizing
agent is selected from the group consisting of: peroxides and

persulfates.
The method of claim 26, wherein the peroxides and
persulfates are selected from the group consisting of: oxone, t-butyl

hydroperoxide, peracetic acid, magnesium monoperoxyphthalate,
sodium persulfate, and ammonium persulfate, and hydrogen peroxide.
The method of claim 27, wherein the oxidizing agent is
hydrogen peroxide.
The method of any of claims 1 to 22, wherein the Class 1
or 2 metal chelate complex is provided with either a monovalent or

divalent anionic counterion.
The method of claim 29, wherein the counterion is
selected from the group consisting of: chloride, bromide, sulfate,

tetrafluoroborate, tetraphenylborate, hexafluorophosphate, nitrate,
and perchlorate.
The method of any of claims 1 to 22 wherein for each
mole of nucleotide sequence, there are between 1.8 x 10
-1
 to 3.6 x
10
5
 moles of metal chelate complex, and 2.4 x 10
1
 to 9.6 x 10
7

moles of oxidizing agent.
The method of claim 
31
, wherein for each mole of
nucleotide sequence, there are about 1.8 x 10
5
 moles of metal
chelate complex, and 2.4 x 10
7
 moles of oxidizing agent. 
A Class 1 pyridine metal chelate complex having a
formula selected from the group consisting of I and II:



   wherein M denotes a metal that catalyzes an oxidation-reduction
reaction;

   and a counterion for the metal.
The chelate complex of claim 33, wherein M is
selected from the group consisting of: nickel, copper, iron, zinc,

ruthenium, rhodium, and cobalt.
The chelate complex of claim 34, wherein M is nickel or
copper.
The chelate complex of claim 34, wherein the counterion
is a monovalent or divalent anion.
The chelate complex of claim 36, wherein the counterion
is selected from the group consisting of: chloride, bromide, sulfate,

tetrafluoroborate, tetraphenylborate, hexafluorophosphate, nitrate,
and perchlorate. 
A kit for chemically cleaving nucleotide sequences
without adding a reducing agent, comprising:


a) container containing an oxidizing agent; and
b) another container containing a metal chelate complex
selected from the group consisting of:


a Class 1 pyridine chelate complex having a
formula selected from the group consisting of I, II, and III:



   wherein M denotes a metal that catalyzes an oxidation-reduction
reaction;

   and a counterion for the metal, and
a Class 2 phenanthroline chelate complex having a
formula selected from the group consisting of IV and V:



wherein M denotes a metal that catalyzes an oxidation-reduction
reaction; X is selected from the group consisting of: Cl, Br, NO
2
,
phenyl, methyl, amidoacetyl, amidoglycyl, and hydrogen; and L is a

Lewis base;

   and a counterion for the metal,

said kit being free of any reducing agent.
The kit of claim 38, wherein the oxidizing agent is
peroxide or persulfate.
The kit of claim 39, wherein the oxidizing agent is at a
concentration such that when mixed with the metal chelate complex

the concentration of the oxidizing agent is 150 mM to 8 M.
The kit of claim 40, wherein the oxidizing agent is
hydrogen peroxide and the metal chelate complex is copper

bis (1,10-phenanthroline) sulfate.
The kit of claim 41, wherein the copper
bis (1,10-phenanthroline) sulfate is at a concentration such that

when mixed with the hydrogen peroxide the concentration of the
chelate complex is 15µM to 20 mM
The kit of claim 38, wherein the metal chelate complex is
at a concentration such that when mixed with the oxidizing agent the

concentration of the chelate complex is 100 nM to 20 mM.
The kit of claim 38, wherein the metal chelate complex is
a class 2 complex.
The kit of claim 44, wherein the metal chelate complex is
copper bis (1,10-phenanthroline) sulfate.
The kit of claim 38, wherein the metal chelate complex is
a class 1 complex.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
