<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657140</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Catheter system for forming a passage through an arterial blockage prior to atherectomy or angioplasty.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1722	A61B1722	A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The catheter system is designed for penetration of tight stenoses 
or total occlusions (called blockages) as a precursor to balloon 

angioplasty, atherectomy, or any other vessel opening means that 
requires an initial passageway, and comprises a catheter (20) carrying 

at its distal end a pointed tool, e.g. an auger (30) that may be used 
to open up plastic deformation of the plaque rather than by excision. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISCHELL ROBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISCHELL, ROBERT E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHELL ROBERT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHELL, ROBERT E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application relates to a catheter system, herein referred to 
as the Dottering Auger Catheter (DAC) system which may be used to 
penetrate blockages, e.g. within an artery, so as to make a first 
passageway prior to balloon angioplasty or atherectomy. As used herein, the term "dottering" refers to the process of 
forming and enlarging a hole in a blockage by means of a tapered tool 
which forms and enlarges the hole by a process of compaction of the 
material forming the blockage, rather than by excision, i.e. by a 
process of angioplasty. Balloon angioplasty and atherectomy are well known modalities for 
opening vessels of a human body particularly arteries. However, if 
there is an arterial blockage which cannot be penetrated by a guide 
wire and/or a balloon angioplasty or atherectomy catheter, surgical 
bypass vessel grafting is usually required to restore adequate blood 
flow to that blocked artery. Although lasers have been used for making 
a passageway, (even through a total blockage) laser equipment is 
expensive and laser treatment can result in removal of tissue from the 
arterial wall which could require surgical repair. The present invention resides in a catheter system which makes 
possible the penetration of tight stenoses or total occlusions (called 
blockages) as a precursor to balloon angioplasty, atherectomy, or any 
other vessel opening procedure that requires an initial passageway. In its broadest aspect, the invention resides in a catheter 
system for opening up a passageway in a blockage in an artery or 
similar vessel in the body, the system comprising an elongate, 
preferably tubular catheter insertable into the artery or similar 
vessel through an incision in the body at a point remote from the 
blockage and advanceable therealong until its distal end reaches the 
blockage, the catheter carrying at its distal end a tool member having 
a sharply pointed nose which can be advanced into the blockage to form 
an initial hole therein, and a conical tapering surface rearwardly of 
the nose which serves to enlarge the hole by a process of compaction 
(angioplasty) as the tool member is advanced into the blockage.  Preferably the catheter is a torqueing catheter and the tool 
member is in the form of a pointed auger with an external screw thread 
which serves to advance the tool into the blockage as the catheter is 
rotated. In the preferred systems, a centering catheter is used to guide 
the tool through the artery and to locate the tool centrally of the 
artery at the site of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A catheter system for forming and enlarging a hole in a blockage 
blocking an artery or similar vessel in the body, the system comprising 

an elongate catheter (20) insertable into the artery or similar vessel 
through an incision in the body at a point remote from the blockage and 

advanceable therealong until its distal end reaches the blockage, the 
proximal end of the catheter remaining external to the body, 

characterised in that the catheter carries at its distal end a tool 
member (30, 60, 96, 101) having a sharply pointed nose (36, 99) which 

can be advanced into the blockage to form an initial hole therein and 
a conical tapering surface rearwardly of the nose which serves to 

enlarge the hole by a process of compaction, rather than excision, as 
the tool member is advanced into the blockage. 
A catheter system according to claim 1, characterised in that the 

tool member (30, 60, 96, 101) is connected to the catheter (20) by 
means of an intermediate flexible connecting member (24). 
A catheter system according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in 
that the tool member (30, 60, 96, 101) is non-rotatably connected to 

the distal end of the catheter (20) and in that the catheter (20) is a 
torqueing catheter which enables the tool member to be rotated about 

its axis as it penetrates the blockage, the catheter (20) being 
equipped at its proximal end with means (23) for rotating the catheter 

about its axis as it is advanced into the artery or similar vessel. 
A catheter system according to claim 3, characterised in that the 
tool member (30, 60, 96, 101) is provided with an external thread which 

draws the end piece further into the blockage as the end piece is 
rotated by the rotation of the catheter. 
A catheter system according to claim 4, characterised in that the 
tool member is in the form of a pointed conical auger with the screw 

thread formed externally on the conical surface of the auger. 
A catheter system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, 
characterised in that the catheter (20) is tubular. 
A catheter system according to claim 6, characterised in that the 
tool member (96, 101) has an axial passageway therein communicating 

with the lumen of the catheter for the passage of a guide wire 
therethrough. 
A catheter system according to claim 7, comprising a guide wire 
located in the lumen of the catheter and extending through the axial 

passageway in the tool member (96, 101) so as to project forwardly a 
short distance, the distal end of the guide wire having a pointed end 

or end piece (99) which forms the pointed nose of the tool member 
(101). 
A catheter system according to claim 8, characterised in that the 
end piece (99) on the guide wire is a sharply pointed conical member 

having a rearwardly directed shoulder (100) which abuts an end face of 
the tool member (101). 
A catheter system according to any one of claims 1 to 9, which 
includes a centering catheter (40, 42, 50, 70, 80, 88, 91) insertable 

into the artery or similar vessel through the said incision and to be 
advanced along the artery or similar vessel until the distal end of the 

centering catheter is adjacent the blockage, said centering catheter 
having a central lumen extending the length of the centering catheter 

and through which the catheter (20) carrying the tool member (30, 60, 
96, 101) can be advanced to bring the tool member to the site of the 

blockage. 
A catheter system according to claim 10, wherein the centering 
catheter (40) is of a uniform outer diameter throughout its length that 

lies within the patient's body. 
A catheter system according to claim 10, wherein the centering 
catheter (70) has a bulge (72) near its distal end to facilitate 

centering of the centering catheter's distal end (74) in the artery. 
A catheter system according to claim 12, wherein the bulge (72) 
is resiliently compressible to permit the insertion thereof into the 

 
patient's body through a guiding catheter or sheath pre-inserted into 

the patient's body. 
A catheter system according to claim 10 wherein the distal end 
portion (86) of the centering catheter (82) is formed with a plurality 

of radially arranged flexible spokes connected to a distal end ring, 
the said spokes bulging outwardly when the distal end ring of the 

centering catheter is pushed against the blockage. 
A catheter system according to claim 10 wherein the centering 
catheter (40) carries an inflatable balloon (46) adjacent its distal 

end, the balloon being inflatable by means of an inflating gas 
introduceable therein through a gas flow lumen (44) extending the 

length of the catheter (20). 
A catheter system according to any one of claims 10 to 15, 
wherein the centering catheter (87) has a flat wire helical coil (89) 

positioned therein in the central lumen and extending along at least a 
portion of the length of the lumen. 
A catheter system according to any one of claims 10 to 16 wherein 
the centering catheter (42) has a fluid tight seal (47) at its proximal 

end which makes a fluid seal against the outer surface of the tool 
carrying catheter (22). 
A catheter system according to any one of claims 10 to 17 wherein 
the proximal end of the tool carrying catheter (20) carries a series of 

axially spaced markings indicating the distance by which the tool (30, 
96) projects beyond the distal end of the centering catheter. 
A catheter system according to any one of claims 10 to 18 wherein 
the centering catheter has a radiopaque marker (93) at or near its 

distal end. 
A catheter system according to any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein 
the tool has a lubricious coating on its surface to facilitate the 

advancement of the tool into the blockage. 
A catheter system according to nay one of claims 1 to 20, wherein 
at least part of the tool member at the distal end of the tool carrying 

catheter is formed from radiopaque metal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
