<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641291</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LAMELLAR APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CLARIFYING WATER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2100	B03D114	B03D114	B03D124	C02F124	C02F124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B03D	B03D	B03D	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D21	B03D1	B03D1	B03D1	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tank (12) receives raw water for clarification by flotation. An array of lamellae (28) define a set of generally vertically oriented channels (30) with solid sidewalls. Flotation occurs in each channel. The channels are preferably inclined. With a round tank, a frame rotates an interlocking array of radial (28r) and concentric (28c) lamellae. A stationary raw water inlet distribution box (18) fills the channels with raw treated water. An aligned clarified water collection box withdraws clarified water. A stationary skimmer (42) directs floating sludge to a removal conduit (50) with a variable pitch screw conveyor. Sliding seals on the lamellae isolate individual channels or groups of channels as they move through the tank. The channels lock and move columns of water through the tank with substantially no turbulence.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KROFTA MILOS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KROFTA MILOS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROFTA MILOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROFTA MILOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LAMELLAR APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CLARIFYING WATERBackground of the InventionThis invention relates in general to an apparatus and method for the clarification of water where the removal of suspended particles is accomplished by a flocculating agent and flotation using a stream of rising, microscopic air bubbles. More specifically, it relates to an improved clarification apparatus and method of the general type described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,022,696 and 4,931,175 using single stage flotation in a flotation tank.Water clarification, the removal of particulate contaminants suspended in water, is used to treat waste water from manufacturing processes, particularly in the paper and pulp industries, in the treatment of municipal water drinking supplies, and in sewage treatment. The water can be clarified by sedimentation or flotation of the particles. Known sedimentation techniques and apparatus are efficient, but are limited even at peak efficiency to a comparatively slow sedimentation rate, about 0.5 gallons per minute per square foot (40 1/m /min) . To handle large volumes of raw input water, sedimentation facilities must therefore be large, with attendant cost and space utilization disadvantages.Flotation techniques dissolve a few percent of air by volume in pressurized water and then release the air in the form of microscopic bubbles which attach to 

the particles and carry them upwardly to the surface where they form a floating sludge. The particles are usually coagulated and flocculated using conventional agents such as alum and/or polymers before the air bubbles are introduced. Flotation techniques are theoretically capable of achieving clarification rates of 7.5 gallons per minute per square foot of flotation area (300 1/m 2/ in) . Heretofore in practice the rates have been less than this theoretical value, but significantly better than for sedimentation techniques.Several early attempts by applicant to use flotation techniques to clarify water are described inU.S. Patent No. 2,874,842 issued in 1959 and U.S. PatentNo. 3,182,799 issued in 1965. They use a stationary tank with no skimmers or other moving components in the tank. The gas bubbles were introduced via the main raw water inlet and guided within the tank by an internal deflector ('842) or a stack of internal baffles ('799).Because the gas bubbles were guided by stationary components, there was no design problem created by the turbulence of moving parts in the flotation tank. Also these devices did not lend themselves to treatment at high
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Clai s :
1. Apparatus for the clarification of raw water treated with a flocculating agent and dissolved air that is released as microscopic bubbles that float flocced particulate contaminants to the surface of the water where they form a sludge comprising, a tank that holds a supply of the water during the flotation, means for .holding the water in a plurality of channels each of which extend generally vertically within the tank, and means for moving said holding means within said tank in a generally horizontal direction whereby the flotation of flocced particulate contaminants occurs in said channels with substantially no turbulence and at an effective net zero velocity.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said channels are inclined from the vertical to provide an enhanced flotation path length and an increased clarification capacity for a given tank size.
3. The apparatus according to claim 2 further comprising inlet means for introducing said raw, treated water into said holding means, outlet means for withdrawing clarified water from said holding means after a preselected amount of said moving, and means for removing sludge from the surface of the water in said tank. 



 4. The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said tank is generally circular and said plurality of channels is formed by an intersecting array of radially and concentrically directed plates, said radial plates being oriented generally vertically and said concentric plates being inclined in the range of 45° to 90° from the horizontal.
5. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said tank has a general flat bottom wall and wherein at least a portion of said radial plates carry means for establishing a sliding seal between each of said portion of plates and said bottom wall.
6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said moving means comprises a frame that supports said array of plates and a motor that drives said frame and said plates to rotate within said tank with said plurality of channels open at their top and bottom ends to the water in said tank.
7. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said frame includes a central support, a generally cylindrical inner wall rotatable about the support in said tank, a set of wheel mounted at the periphery of said frame that roll on said bottom wall, and means for establishing a seal between said inner wall and said bottom wall. 


 8. The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said inlet means and said outlet means each include a stationary box in fluid communication with water held in said tank, said boxes extending generally radially over a sector of said tank and aligned with one another so that the inletting of raw treated water at the top of said holding means displaces clarified water from said holding means into said outlet box in coordination with the movement of said holding means through said sector.
9. The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said sludge removing means comprises a stationary conduit extending radially across said tank, means for skimming said floated sludge from the water held in said tank to the interior of said conduit, and means for advancing said sludge radially along said conduit.
10. The apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said axial advancing means includes a variable pitch screw mounted for rotation within said conduit, and means for rotating said screw about its longitudinal axis.
11. A water clarification process carried out in a tank with inlet means for raw, treated water, outlet means for clarified water and means for removing sludge that collects on the surface of the water held in the tank and being clarified by flotation, comprising, holding the water in the tank in a plurality of generally vertically extending channels, and transporting the plurality of channels through the tank with a net zero relative velocity and substantially no turbulence for a period of time sufficient to effect clarification of the water held in said channels. 


 12. The process of claim 11 wherein said channels are inclined.
13. The process of claim 11 wherein said tank is circular and said transporting is rotational about said tank.
14. The process of claim 13 wherein said holding comprises introducing said raw, treated water into an open ended array of said channels.
15. The process of claim 14 wherein said introducing displaces clarified water from said channels to said outlet means.
16. The process of claim 14 wherein said holding comprises provided an array of intersecting radial and concentric plates.
17. The process of claim 14 further comprising the step of substantially isolating sectors of said channels from one another along radial lines. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
