<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL PROCESSING SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q1100	H04Q1100	H04J1402	H04J1402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	H04J	H04J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q11	H04Q11	H04J14	H04J14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A telecommunications system comprises first and second nodes (4, 5, 6 and 1) interconnected by a network transmission line (2). The first node comprises an optical data generator (4) for producing an optical data signal (4a) at a first wavelength, an optical header generator (5) for producing an optical control (header) signal (5a) at a second wavelength, and means (6) for multiplexing the data and control signals onto the transmission line (2). The second node (1) comprises a switch (8) and a controller (14) responsive to signals at the second wavelength for controlling the routing of optical signals through the switch. A delay unit (24) and associated control means (22, 23) are provided to ensure that a sufficient delay occurs between the transmission start times of the control and data signals (5a and 4a) that the control signal completely overlaps the data signal at the second node.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNSLEY PETER EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNSLEY, PETER EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an optical processing
system, and in particular to optical header recognition in
packet switching networks.In a circuit switched telecommunications network, a
physical circuit is made between two terminals for the
duration of a call. For certain traffic formats, such as
speech, the information being transmitted never completely
fills the connection between two terminals, that is to say
the start of the information does not reach the destination
terminal before the end of that information leaves the
transmitting terminal, but the circuit is held open for the
duration of the information's transmission between the two
terminals. With high-speed circuits carrying digital data,
a much greater resource utilisation is possible by sharing
paths through the network. A packet switching network is one
way of achieving this improved resource utilisation, data
being transferred through the network in packets. Each
packer includes, apart from the data itself, a header
containing addressing and sequence (control) information for
controlling the progress of at packer through the network.
The addressing and sequence information coded in the header
of a packet is decoded at the network nodes to provide
routing control. Such a system is, for example, disclosed in WO 91/01603. A packet switching network thus provides a
virtual circuit beetween two terminals, this circuit appearing
to the users as a permanent connection between the terminals
but which, in fact, is shared with other users.Known methods of coding packet headers rely on time
correlation techniques. The utilisation of a packet
switching network is linked to the bit-rate. The utilisation
also depends upon the ratio of data time to wasted time, that
is to say the ratio of the time the network is transmitting
data to the time data is not being transmitted. In the time
domain, the wasted time is made up of the time taken up with
header transmission (the header of a packet occupying a
separate time slot at the head of the data of that packet), 
and by the guard band transmission time, the guard band being
the separation between adjacent packets which is essential to
avoid overlap of the packets due to dispersion during
transmission.The aim of the invention is to provide an alternative
technique for coding and decoding header information,
particularly in packet switching networks, which technique
results in increased network utilisation.The present invention provides a telecommunications
system comprising first and second nodes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A telecommunications system comprising first and
second nodes (4,5,6,1) interconnected by a network transmission line (2),

the first node (4,5,6) comprising an optical data generator (4) for
producing an optical data signal at a first wavelength, an

optical header generator (5) for producing an optical control
signal at a second wavelength,

the second node (1)
comprising a switch (8) and a controller (22,23) responsive to signals at

the second wavelength for controlling the routing of optical
signals through the switch (8),

means (6) for
multiplexing the data and control signals onto the

transmission line (2) characterised in that said means (6) multiplexes in such a manner that the duration of the
control signal is at least equal to the duration of the data

signal, and in that the first node (4,5,6) further comprises a delay unit (24) and control means (14) associated with the
delay unit (24) for providing a sufficient delay between the

transmission start times of the control and data signals to
ensure that the control signal completely overlaps the data

signal on arrival at the second node (1).
A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the optical
data generator (4) produces optical data signals in packets.
A system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
optical data generator (4) is constituted by a laser and a

modulator for modulating the output of the laser.
A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,
wherein the optical header generator (5) is constituted by a laser.
A system as claimed in claim 4 when appendant to claim
2, further comprising a modulator for modulating the header

laser so as to turn the header laser on at, or just before,
the start of a data packet and to turn the header laser off

at, or just after, the end of a data packet.
A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, 
wherein the controller (22,23) of the second node (1) includes a splitter (7)

for demultiplexing a portion of he control signal and a
narrow band-pass filter (14) whose pass band is centred on the

second wavelength, the output of the filter (14) being used to
control the operation of the switch (8).
A system as claimed in claim 6, further comprising an
amplifier (15) positioned between the splitter (7) and the filter (14).
A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the switch (8) is an optical switch.
A switch as claimed in claim 3, wherein the optical
switch (8) is a non-linear optical amplifier (NLOA).
A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the switch (8) is an opto-electronic switch.
A system as cliamed in any one of claims 1 to 10,
wherein the switch (8) has two outputs, one of which leads to a

further network transmission line (3), and the other of which
leads toa receiver (12).
A system as claimed in claim 11, further comprising a
narrow band-pass filter (13) positioned between the switch (8) and the

receiver (12), the pass band of said filter (13) being centred on the
first wavelength.
A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12,
wherein there is a plurality of second nodes (31, 41, 51), the nodes (31, 41, 51) being

interconnected by network transmission lines, and the optical
data generator and the optical header generator of the first

node are tunable so as to provide data and control signals at
predetermined, different wavelengths for each of the second

nodes (31,41,51).
A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, 
wherein the or each second node (31,41,51) is provided with a module (40,50) for

injecting data and control signals onto a transmission line (42,52).
A system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the or each
module (40,50) comprises an optical data generator (4) for producing an

optical data signal at a first predetermined wavelength, an
optical header generator (5) for producing an optical control

signal at a second predetermined wavelength, and means (33) for
multiplexing said data and control signals onto a

transmission line.
A system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the or each
module (40,50) further comprises a memory store for storing data

awaiting transmission.
A system as claimed in claim 15 or claim 16, wherein
the or each module further comprises control means and look-up

tables (22,23) for determining the first and second predetermined
wavelengths appropriate to the required destination node (31,41,51) of

the signals being injected.
A system as claimed in anyone of claims 13 to 17,
wherein the optical data generator (4), the optical header

generator (5) and the multiplexing means of the first node are

incorporated into a module, said module further comprising a
memory store for storing data waiting transmission, control

means and look-up tables (22,23) for determining the wavelengths of
the control and data signals appropriate to the destination

node of the signals being injected.
A system as claimed in claim 18, wherein the first
node includes a switch and a controller responsive to signals

at a predetermined wavelength for controlling the routing of
optical signals through the switch, said controller including

a splitter for demultiplexing a portion of an incoming
control signal and a narrow band-pass filter (13) whose pass band

is centred on said predetermined wavelength, the output of 
the filter being used to control the operation of the switch.
A system as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 19,
further comprising a respective delay unit associated with

the control means and the look-up tables (22,23) of each module for
providing a sufficient delay between the transmission start

times of the control and data signals to ensure that the
control signal completely overlaps the data signal on arrival

at the destination node (31,41,51).
A system as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 20,
wherein the modules are provided with additional control

means for adjusting the look-up tables (22,23) to compensate for
changes in the effective optical path length of inter-node

network transmission lines.
A system as claimed in claim 21, wherein the
additional control means of each module is constituted by

first and second processing means (22a,23a), the first processing means (22a)
being effective to monitor incoming control signals and to

feed back optical path length information derived therefrom
to the node transmitting said control signals, and the second

processing means (23a) being associated with the look-up tables of
that module to up-date said look-up tables in dependence upon

optical path length information received from the first
processing means of another module.
A system as claimed in claim 22, wherein the first
processing means (22a,23a) of each module is a local processor

associated with the control means of that module, and the
second processing means is constituted by local processors

associated with the look-up tables (22,23) of that module.
A system as claimed in claim 23, further comprising a
management centre for controlling the local processors.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
