<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615960</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ceramic conveyor roll having flat-sided springs retainer for non-rotably mounting end caps to roller.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G2300	B65G2304	B65G3900	B65G3902	B65G3907	C03B3500	C03B3518	F16C1300	F16C1300	F16D106	F16D108	F27B900	F27B924	F27D300	F27D302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	C03B	C03B	F16C	F16C	F16D	F16D	F27B	F27B	F27D	F27D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G23	B65G23	B65G39	B65G39	B65G39	C03B35	C03B35	F16C13	F16C13	F16D1	F16D1	F27B9	F27B9	F27D3	F27D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A conveyor roll for conveying heated glass sheets along a conveyor 
assembly is provided that comprises a fused silica roller having opposing 

cylindrical ends, a pair of end caps formed from a machinable steel which 
may be heat resistant for rotatably mounting the ceramic roller within a 

conveyor assembly, wherein each end cap has a tubular wall for receiving 
and surrounding one of the cylindrical ends of the roller, and a spring 

retainer for non-rotatably mounting each of the end caps to the roller. 
Each spring retainer includes a coil spring formed from flat sided coils 

helically wound around a cylindrical end of the roller, each of which coils 
includes bent portions and straight portions for resiliently and frictionally 

inter-engaging the tubular wall of the cap and the cylindrical end of the 
roller, respectively, despite the thermal differential expansion that occurs 

between the tubular wall of the cap and the cylindrical end of the roller as 
the roll is exposed to elevated temperatures. Each end cap includes a 

screw thread around its open end that threadedly engages the coils of the 
retainer spring and axially secures the end cap to its respective cylindrical 

roller end. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VESUVIUS CRUCIBLE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VESUVIUS CRUCIBLE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAILY ALAN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAILY, ALAN W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to conveyor rolls, and is specifically 
concerned with the use of a flat sided coil spring retainer for non-rotatably 
mounting end caps to a ceramic roller member. In glass sheet tempering systems, a conveyor mechanism having a 
plurality of elongated, ceramic rolls is used to convey glass sheets in and 
out of the heating chamber of a furnace. Such rolls are generally formed 
from fused silica whose ends are rotatably driven and supported by the 
conveyor mechanism. In order to transmit the driving torque from the 
conveyor mechanism to the ceramic roll, a pair of metallic end caps are 
non-rotatably mounted on either end of the roller member. In one type of 
conveyor system, each metallic end cap includes a short stub axle which 
is concentrically aligned with the axis of rotation of its respective end cap. 
The stub axles of the end caps are rotatably received within U-shaped 
members present on the upper ends of a pair of opposing support arms of 
the conveyor mechanism. A drive belt under one or both of the opposing 
end caps imparts a drive torque on the roller member which allows it to 
rollingly convey a sheet of heated glass. In other types of conveyor 
systems, stub axles may not be present on the end caps, and the end caps 
may be driven by gear trains or chains. However, regardless of the type of conveyor system the conveyor 
roll works in combination with, each of the metallic end caps must be non-rotatably 
mounted to its respective end of the roller member so that the  
 
torque generated by the drive member of the conveyor mechanism is 
effectively transmitted to the ceramic roller. Any slippage between the end 
caps and the ends of the ceramic roller member would substantially impair 
the operation of the conveyor roll in transporting the glass sheets. Hence, 
there has been a long felt need for a simple, economical and effective 
means for non-rotatably attaching the torque-transmitting metallic end caps 
to the ends of the ceramic roller members used in such rolls. Unfortunately, the thermal environment that such conveyor rolls 
must operate in, in combination with the thermal and mechanical properties 
of the materials used in such rolls, has frustrated the development of a 
truly satisfactory retention means between the end caps and the roller 
members. When such rolls are subjected to the operating temperatures 
associated with glass sheet tempering systems (i.e., between 500 and 
1000°C.), the end caps may reach temperatures approaching 500°C. or

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A conveyor roll for conveying articles at elevated 
temperatures, comprising: 

   a ceramic roller member having at least one cylindrical end; 
   a metallic end cap for rotatably mounting said roller member 

within a conveyor assembly, said cap having a tubular wall for receiving 
and surrounding said cylindrical end of said member, and 

   a retaining means for non-rotatably mounting said cap to the 
roller member, including a coil spring helically wound around said 

cylindrical end of said roller member and having a plurality of 
interconnecting angular portions along its coils for resiliently and 

frictionally inter-engaging the tubular wall of the cap and the cylindrical 
end of the roller member despite thermal differential expansion between 

said cap and roller member between ambient and elevated temperatures. 
The conveyor roll of claim 1, wherein said coils include bent 
portions that engage the tubular wall of the cap and straight portions that 

engage the cylindrical end of the roller member. 
The conveyor roll of claim 2, wherein the sides of the coils 
of said spring define convex, polygonally shaped figures formed from 

interconnecting straight sections of spring material. 
The conveyor roll of claim 2, wherein the coils of said spring 
are octagon shaped, and wherein the vertices of the octagon-shaped coils 

 
engage the tubular wall of the cap, and the straight sides of the octagon-shaped 

coils engage the cylindrical end. 
The conveyor roll of claim 1, wherein said roller member is 
formed from fused silica and said end cap is formed from a low carbon 

steel. 
The conveyor roll of claim 1, wherein said cylindrical end is 
bounded by annular shoulders for preventing relative movement between 

the coil spring and the cylindrical end along the axis of rotation of the 
cylindrical end. 
The conveyor roll of claim 1, wherein said coil spring is 
formed from a heat resistant metal. 
The conveyor roll of claim 1, wherein the tubular wall of said 
end cap includes a free edge having a means for axially securing said end 

cap onto the cylindrical end of said roller member. 
The conveyor roll of claim 8, wherein said axial securing 
means is a screw thread for threadedly engaging the coils of said spring 

when the end cap is rotated relative to said cylindrical end of said roller 
member. 
The conveyor roll of claim 9, wherein the screw thread of the 
axial securing means is opposite in pitch from the pitch of said coil spring 

 
such that the coils of said spring become more tightly wound around said 

cylindrical end when said screw thread engages said coils. 
A conveyor roll for conveying heated articles along a 
conveyor assembly, comprising: 

   a ceramic roller member having opposing cylindrical ends; 
   a pair of metallic end caps for rotatably mounting said 

ceramic roller member within said conveyor assembly, each of said caps 
having a tubular wall for receiving and surrounding one of said cylindrical 

ends of said roller member, and 
   a pair of retaining means for non-rotatively mounting each of 

said caps to the roller member , each of said retaining means including a 
coil spring helically wound around a cylindrical end of said roller member, 

wherein each of the coils of said spring includes interconnecting angular 
portions for resiliently and frictionally inter-engaging the surrounding 

tubular wall of an end cap and the cylindrical end of the roller member 
despite thermal differential expansion between said cap and roller member 

between ambient and elevated temperatures. 
The conveyor roll of claim 11, wherein the sides of the coils 
of said spring define convex, polygonally shaped figures whose straight 

sections are all the same length, and which intersect with adjacent straight 
sections at substantially the same angle and wherein said bent portions are 

defined by the intersections of said straight coil sections. 
The conveyor roll of claim 11, wherein said ceramic roller 
member is formed from fused silica, and said end cap is formed from a 

machinable steel. 
The conveyor roll of claim 12, wherein the inner diameter of 
said coil spring is smaller than the outer diameter of said cylindrical end 

of said roller member, so that the inner diameters of the coils of said 
spring frictionally grasp the outer surface of said cylindrical end, and so 

that said intersections of said straight sections are distributed around all 
points of the circumference of the cylindrical end. 
The conveyor roll of claim 11, wherein the coils of said 
spring are octagon shaped, and wherein the vertices of the octagon-shaped 

coils engage the tubular wall of the cap, and the straight sides of the 
octagon-shaped coils engage the cylindrical end. 
The conveyor roll of claim 11, wherein said cylindrical end 
is bounded by annular shoulders for preventing relative movement between 

the coil spring and the cylindrical end along the axis of rotation of the 
cylindrical end. 
The conveyor roll of claim 11, wherein the tubular wall of 
said end cap includes a free edge having an axial securing means including 

a screw thread for threadedly engaging the coils of said spring for axially 
securing said end cap onto said cylindrical end. 
The conveyor roll of claim 17, wherein the pitch of the screw 
thread of the axial securing means and the pitch of the coils of said spring 

are opposite from one another so that said screw thread more tightly winds 
the coils of the spring around said cylindrical end when it threadedly 

engages said coils. 
The conveyer roll of claim 17, wherein said cylindrical end 
is bounded by a distal and a proximal annular shoulder for 
preventing 
relative movement between the coil spring and the cylindrical end along the 

axis of rotation of the cylindrical end. 
The conveyor roll of claim 19, wherein the inner diameter of 
said screw thread is closely spaced around the outer diameter of said 

proximal annular shoulder between 10 and 20 thousandths of an inch to 
prevent dirt and debris from entering the space between the annular wall 

of the cap and the cylindrical end of the roller. 
A conveyor roll for conveying heated glass sheets along a 
conveyor assembly, comprising: 

   a fused silica roller member having opposing cylindrical ends; 
   a pair of end caps formed from a heat resistant alloy for 

rotatably mounting said ceramic roller member within said conveyor 
assembly, each of which has a tubular wall for receiving and surrounding 

one of said cylindrical ends of said roller member, and 
   a retaining means for non-rotatively mounting each of said 

caps to said roller member, including a flat sided coil spring formed from 
flat sided coils helically wound around a cylindrical end of said roller 

 
member, wherein the spring material forming said flat sided coils includes 

bent portions and straight portions for resiliently and frictionally inter-engaging 
the tubular wall of the cap and the cylindrical end of the roller 

member respectively, despite the thermal differential expansion that occurs 
between the cap and the cylindrical end as the roll is exposed to 

temperatures between ambient and 1000°F. 
The conveyor roll of claim 21, wherein the tubular wall of 
said end cap includes a free edge having an axial securing means including 

a screw thread for threadedly engaging the coils of said spring for axially 
securing said end cap onto said cylindrical end. 
The conveyor roll of claim 22, wherein the pitch of the screw 
thread of the axial securing means and the pitch of the coils of said spring 

are opposite from one another so that said screw thread more tightly winds 
the coils of the spring around said cylindrical end when it threadedly 

engages said coils. 
The conveyor roll of claim 23, wherein said cylindrical end 
is bounded by a distal and a proximal annular shoulder for preventing 

relative movement between the coil spring and the cylindrical end along the 
axis of rotation of the cylindrical end. 
The conveyor roll of claim 24, wherein the inner diameter of 
said screw thread is closely spaced around the outer diameter of said 

proximal annular shoulder to prevent dirt and debris from entering the 
 

space between the annular wall of the cap and the cylindrical end of the 
roller member. 
A retainer for non-rotatably mounting a metallic end cap to 
a cylindrical end of a ceramic roller member, wherein said cap has a 

tubular wall for receiving and surrounding the cylindrical end of the roller 
member, comprising a coil spring helically wound around said cylindrical 

end of said roller member and having a plurality of interconnecting angular 
portions along its coils for resiliently and frictionally inter-engaging the 

tubular wall of the cap and the cylindrical end of the roller member despite 
thermal differential expansion between said cap and roller member between 

ambient and elevated temperatures. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
