<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630190</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANTIOXIDANT SYSTEM FOR POWDERED NUTRITIONAL PRODUCTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L130	A23L130	A23L1302	A23L1302	A23L33454	A23L33454	C11B500	C11B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	C11B	C11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L3	A23L3	C11B5	C11B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUZMAN-HARTY MELINDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZ GARY EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUZMAN-HARTY MELINDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZ GARY EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANTIOXIDANT SYSTEM FOR POWDERED NUTRITIONAL PRODUCTSFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a method of incorporating an antioxidant system into a powdered nutritional product and to powdered nutritional products which contain an antioxidant system.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONLinolenic acid (18:3-omega 3) is the most common fatty acid in the class of polyunsaturated fatty acids known as omega-3 fatty acids. While there is no consistent clinical data as to whether omega-3 fatty acids are a dietary essential for human infants, it is known that human milk does contain linolenic acid. Dietary deprivation of omega-3 fatty acids in growing rats and primates has been associated with visual impairment. Dietary omega-3 fatty acids may also be essential for normal prenatal and postnatal development of the retina and brain.Linolenic acid is present in soybean, canola, and linseed oils. Attempts have been made to formulate spray dried products containing soy oil to provide linolenic acid with limited success. Exposure of the unsaturated fatty acids to heat and oxygen in the presence of catalysts like iron and copper during the spray drying process has resulted in powdered nutritional products with unacceptable sensory attributes resulting from oxidative rancidity. Oxidation reactions occur when electrons are removed from an atom or group of atoms, when oxygen is added to carbon-carbon double bonds and a corresponding reduction reaction that involves the addition of electrons to an atom or group of atoms. Oxidation reactions involving unsaturated lipids result in the development of undesirable flavors and odors. In food systems, antioxidants function by being preferentially oxidized or by interrupting the free-radical chain mechanism.Optimization of the oil blend in powdered infant formulas will result in products with fatty acid profiles which are similar to the corresponding liquid infant formulas and also closer to that of human milk. The level of oleic acid will also be optimized. Oleic acid concentrations in current formulations are considerably less than that found in human milk. Oleic acid is a precursor of C24:l, 

which is essential for myelination and nervous system development. The increased level of mono-unsaturated oleic acid may exhibit a protective effect on the oxidation of the more unsaturated fatty acids such as linolenic acid. Oleic acid may act as free radical scavenger and block propagation of linolenic acid oxidation.U.S. Patent 3,950,266 teaches antioxidant compositions of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A nutritional product in powdered form comprising:
(a) an oil blend containing at least one ingredient selected from the group consisting of soy oil and marine oil; and
(b) an antioxidant system comprising about 400-1200 ppm of ascorbyl palmitate, about 6-20 ppm of beta carotene, and at least 1000 ppm of citrate, the ppm of ascorbyl palmitate and beta carotene being expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state, and the ppm of citrate being expressed with respect to the total weight of the product when the product is in a powdered form.
2. A nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 1 wherein the antioxidant system further comprises about 200-1200 ppm of mixed tocoperols, the ppm of the mixed tocopherols being expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state.
3. A nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 1 wherein the antioxidant system comprises about 600-800 ppm of ascorbyl palmitate, about 10-14 ppm of beta carotene and about 1600-2500 ppm of citrate.
4. A nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 3 wherein the antioxidant system further comprises about 200-1200 ppm of mixed tocopherols, the ppm of the mixed tocopherols being expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state.
5. A nutritional product in powdered form comprising:
(a) an oil blend containing at least one ingredient selected from the group consisting of soy oil and marine oil; and
(b) an antioxidant system comprising about 400-1200 ppm of ascorbyl palmitate, about 200-1200 ppm of mixed tocopherols, and at least 1000 ppm of citrate, the ppm of ascorbyl palmitate and mixed tocopherols being 


 expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state, and the ppm of the citrate being expressed with respect to the total weight of the product when the product is in a powdered form.
6. A nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 5 wherein the antioxidant system comprises about 600-800 ppm of ascorbyl palmitate, about 800-1000 ppm of mixed tocopherols and about 1600-2500 ppm of citrate.
7. A nutritional product in powdered form for human infants comprising:
(a) an oil blend containing soy oil, coconut oil and corn oil; and
(b) an antioxidant system comprising about 600-1000 ppm of ascorbyl palmitate, about 8-14 ppm of beta carotene, and at least 1000 ppm of citrate, the ppm of ascorbyl palmitate and beta carotene being expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state, and the ppm of the citrate being expressed with respect to the total weight of the product when the product is in a powdered form.
8. A nutritional product in powdered form for human infants comprising:
(a) an oil blend which comprises by weight about 12% soy oil, and about 38% coconut oil and about 50% corn oil; and
(b) an antioxidant system comprising about 800 ppm of ascorbyl palmitate, about 12 ppm of beta carotene, and about 2000 ppm of citrate, the ppm of ascorbyl palmitate and beta carotene being expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state, and the ppm of citrate being expressed with respect to the total weight of the product when the product is in a powdered form. 


 9. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form comprising the steps of:
(a) preparing a liquid oil blend which contains (i) at least one ingredient selected from the group consisting of soy oil and marine oil, (ii) about 400-1200 ppm of ascorbyl palmitate, and (iii) about 6-20 ppm of beta carotene, the ppm of ascorbyl palmitate and beta carotene being expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state;
(b) combining said liquid oil blend with a protein source and a carbohydrate source which are also in liquid form in order to form a product blend;
(c) combining at least 1000 ppm of citrate with said product blend, the ppm of citrate being expressed with respect to the total weight of the product when the product is in powdered form; and
(d) converting the product of step (c) into a powdered form.
10. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 9 wherein step (a) further comprises adding about 200- 1200 ppm of mixed tocopherols to said oil blend, the ppm of of mixed tocoperols being expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state.
11. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 9 wherein in step (a) the liquid oil blend comprises about 600-1000 ppm ascorbyl palmitate and about 8-14 ppm beta carotene.
12. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 11 wherein step (a) further comprises adding about 800- 1000 ppm of mixed tocopherols to said oil blend, the ppm of mixed tocopherols being expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state. 


 13. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 9 wherein in step (d) the product of step (c) is converted into powdered form by spray drying.
14. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 10 wherein in step (d) the product of step (c) is converted into powdered form by spray drying.
15. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 11 wherein in step (d) the product of step (c) is converted into powdered form by spray drying.
16. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 12 wherein in step (d) the product of step (c) is converted into powdered form by spray drying.
17. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form comprising the steps of:
(a) preparing a liquid oil blend which contains (i) at least one ingredient selected from the group consisting of soy oil and marine oil, (ii) about 400-1200 ppm of ascorbyl palmitate, and (iii) about 200-1200 ppm of mixed tocopherols, the ppm of ascorbyl palmitate and mixed tocopherols being expressed with respect to the oil blend when the oil blend is in a liquid state;
(b) combining said liquid oil blend with a protein source and a carbohydrate source which are also in liquid form in order to form a product blend;
(c) combining at least 1000 ppm of citrate with said product blend, the ppm of citrate being expressed with respect to the total weight of the product when the product is in powdered form; and (d) converting the product of step (c) into a powdered form. 


18. A method of manufacturing a nutritional product in powdered form according to claim 17 wherein in step (d) the product of step (c) is converted into powdered form by spray drying. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
