<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610240</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INHALER FOR AEROSOL MEDICATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1300	A61M1300	A61M1500	A61M1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M13	A61M13	A61M15	A61M15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHERING CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHERING CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BISHOP KEITH H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BISHOP, KEITH, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INHALER FOR AEROSOL MEDICATIONSINTRODUCTION TO THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to inhalation devices for delivering medicaments in aerosol form to the respiratory system.Numerous medications, particularly for use by persons suffering from asthma, are available in pressurized aerosol containers and have found wide acceptance by persons suffering from this and other respiratory disorders. Response to drugs administered to the lungs is prompt, and very small doses can be effective, minimizing side effects experienced from larger doses administered by other methods. The active ingredients are usually present in the container in suspended particulate form, having very small particle sizes, or in solution with a propellant or other- liquid. The dispensing containers are typically •actuated by depressing a nozzle into the container, releasing a "puff" which contains a measured dose of medication. This dose is introduced into a patient's nasal passages or, more commonly, a patient's mouth for inhalation.As is well known, the final particle size of solids or. liquids for inhalation should be in a narrow range, most preferably about 0.5 to 10 micrometers. Larger.particles than 10 micrometers tend to not be efficiently carried into a patient's bronchia and lungs, commonly depositing in the oropharyngeal area. Very small particles, such as less than 0.5 micrometers, frequently are not well retained within the bronchia or lungs, but are readily exhaled by the patient. 

 Aerosol canisters which are currently in use contain the appropriate medication, plus various excipients, surfactants and a propellant material. Typically, pressures inside the canister can be as high as 6.9 x 105 newtons per square meter (100 pounds per square inch) .It has been found that simply spraying the medication mixture into the mouth results in considerable deposition of pharmacologically active ingredients on surfaces of the mouth, tongue and throat. This is normally quite undesirable, since the materials were designed for delivery to the respiratory system , and may not have an appropriate effect when allowed to enter the digestive tract. Thus, the medication is normally introduced into inspired air which is traversing a tube called a "spacer". The medication dose is frequently delivered in the approximate center of the spacer diameter, so that inspired air will dilute and carry the medication particles into the lower respiratory system. Proper use of a spacer normally involves coordination of dose release from the aerosol canister,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Apparatus for dispensing a pressurized fluid into a lower-pressure fluid stream, the apparatus comprising: (a) an inlet for receiving the pressurized fluid;
(b) an extension of the inlet comprising a receiving chamber, the receiving chamber having a wall section which is an extension of a wall of the inlet and a wall section which is connected to a wall of the inlet by an oblique segment, such that the receiving chamber has a smaller cross-sectional width than that of the inlet and the receiving chamber has a centerline which is displaced from, and parallel to, that of the inlet;
(c) a projection having a width substantially centered about the centerline of the receiving chamber, which width is less than the width of the receiving chamber, the projection extending from a floor of the receiving chamber toward the inlet;
(d) a fluid stream duct having a centerline which is perpendicular to that of the receiving chamber; and (e) a conduit for transmitting pressurized fluid from the receiving chamber to the fluid stream duct.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the inlet is adapted to engage with an outlet nozzle of an aerosol container.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the inlet centerline can be extended to intersect a juncture of the receiving chamber wall and the oblique segment. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the projection has a length which would not intersect an extension of the conduit.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conduit is located in a section of the receiving chamber wall opposite the section which joins the oblique segment.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conduit is centered about the centerline of the fluid stream duct.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the components (a)-(e) are molded from a polymeric substance as a single unit.
8. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a housing which supports the aerosol container and permits retention of alignment between the nozzle of the container and the inlet of the apparatus.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the components (a)-(e) are molded from a polymeric substance as a single unit, and the. housing is molded from a polymeric substance about components (a)-(e).
10. Apparatus for dispensing a pressurized fluid into a lower-pressure fluid stream, the apparatus comprising:
(a) an inlet for receiving the pressurized fluid, the inlet being adapted to engage with an outlet nozzle of an aerosol container;
(b) an extension of the inlet comprising a receiving chamber, the receiving chamber having a wall section which is an extension of a wall of the inlet and a wall section which is connected to a wall of the inlet by an oblique segment, such that the receiving 


 chamber has a smaller cross-sectional width than that of the inlet and the receiving chamber has a centerline which is displaced from, and parallel to, that of the inlet; (c) a rod-like projection having a width
'
 substantially centered about the centerline of the receiving chamber, which width is less than the width of the receiving chamber, the projection extending from a floor of the receiving chamber toward the inlet;
(d) a fluid stream duct having a centerline which is perpendicular to that of the receiving chamber;
(e) a conduit for transmitting pressurized fluid from the receiving chamber to the fluid stream duct; and
(f) a housing substantially surrounding components (a) -(e) which supports the aerosol container and permits retention of alignment between the nozzle of the container and the inlet of the apparatus.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the inlet centerline can be extended to intersect a juncture of the receiving chamber wall and the oblique segment.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the projection has a length which would not intersect an extension of the conduit.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the conduit is located in a section of the receiving chamber wall opposite the section which joins the oblique segment.
14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the conduit is centered about the centerline of the fluid stream duct. 


 15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the components (a)-(e) are molded from a polymeric substance as a single unit.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the housing is molded from a polymeric substance about components (a)- (e).
17. A process for manufacturing the apparatus of claim 10, comprising forming a body which contains components (a)-(e) in a mold from a polymeric material, aligning the body in a second mold, and forming the housing about the body from a polymeric material. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
