<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624600</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Agglomeration of latices by organic acid - anhydride mixtures.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08C100	C08C107	C08F27900	C08F27904	C08J302	C08J303	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08C	C08C	C08F	C08F	C08J	C08J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08C1	C08C1	C08F279	C08F279	C08J3	C08J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process is provided for agglomerating small 
rubber particles in an aqueous latex to form 

large rubber particles. The process involves the 
addition of a water soluble organic acid and a 

water soluble organic anhydride to the latex 
prior to agglomeration of the rubber particles to 

facilitate agglomeration of the rubber particles 
into large rubber particles which are essentially 

free of coagulum. The latex of large rubber 
particles is useful in the preparation of ABS 

polyblends. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KULICH DONALD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KULICH, DONALD M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process 
for agglomerating polymeric Particulates in an 
aqueous latex, and more particularly relates to 
use in combination an organic acid and an organic 
anhydride to facilitate agglomeration of rubber 
particles in an aqueous latex. Direct polymerization of diene monomers to 
large diameter rubber particles is typically a 
slow process via emulsion polymerization. Large 
rubber particles are desirable however in the 
production of ABS (acrylonitrile-butadienestyrene) 
resin to produce resin exhibiting 
enhanced levels of impact strength. Chemical 
agglomeration processes exist for the production 
of large rubber particles from small rubber 
particles. These chemical agglomeration 
processes have in the past involved the addition 
of water soluble organic acids or water soluble 
organic anhydrides to facilitate agglomeration of 
the rubber particles. It has been discovered 
however that acid agglomeration and anhydride 
agglomeration of small rubber particles in an 
aqueous latex into large rubber particles in an 
aqueous latex can result in the formation of 
substantial amounts of coagulum (for example > 
than 2% by weight) based on the total weight of 
rubber which is undesirable in the rubber phase  
 
of ABS resins because big masses of rubber 
(coagulum) can adversely affect the appearance 
and physical properties of the ABS resin or 
create production issues. A prior agglomeration 
process is set out in Dalton U.S. Patent 
3,558,541 issued January 26, 1971 and is 
incorporated herein by reference. Accordingly, it is desired to have an 
agglomeration process for agglomerating small 
rubber particles into large-size rubber particles 
without the formation of substantial amounts of 
coagulum. The present invention involves a process for 
agglomerating small rubber particles having a 
weight average particle size diameter of 0.05 to 
0.20 microns to large rubber particles preferably 
having a weight average particle size diameter of 
0.30 to 1.0 microns wherein the large rubber 
particle have a weight average diameter of at 
least 50 percent greater than the small rubber 
particles. The process may be either batch, 
semibatch or continuous and comprises adding a 
water soluble organic acid concurrently with a 
water soluble organic anhydride to a latex 
containing small rubber particles to facilitate 
agglomeration of the small particles into larae 
particles without the formation of substantial 
levels of coagulum. The process may be employed 
as a step in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for agglomerating rubber particles 
in an aqueous latex, said process providing 

reduced levels of coagulum, said process 
comprising: 


a) adding an organic acid to said latex to 
facilitate agglomeration of said 

particles; and 
b) adding an organic anhydride to said latex 
to facilitate agglomeration of said 

particles. 
The process of claim 1 wherein said acid and 
said anhydride are added together as a 

mixture to said latex. 
The process of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said 
agglomeration produces agglomerated particles 

containing less than two percent by weight 
coagulum. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein said acid and 
said anhydride are added to said latex in a 

mole ratio to each other of between 1:9 and 
9:1 respectively. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein said acid and 
said anhydride are added to said latex in a 

mole ratio to each other of between 2:8 and 
8:2 respectively. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein said particles 
are agglomerated to a weight average particle size 

of at least 0.3 microns in diameter. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein said particles 
are agglomerated to a weight average particle 

size of at least 0.5 microns in diameter. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein said polymer 
is a diene rubber polymer selected from the 

group consisting of homopolymers of 1,3 
butadiene and copolymers of 1,3 butadiene 

containing at least 75.0 percent by weight of 
a conjugated 1,3 butadiene monomer and having 

a glass transition temperature of less than - 
20°C. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein said acid and 
said anhydride initially dissolved as a 

mixture in water of a volume less than that 
of said latex and is then added to said 

latex. 
A process for preparing rubber modified graft 
copolymers by grafting large diene rubber 

particles with alkenyl aromatic and alkenyl 
nitrile monomers comprising: 


A) forming an aqueous latex containing water 
and diene rubber solids, said rubber 

being dispersed in said latex by a 
surfactant as particles having a weight 

average particle size diameter of about 
0.05 to 0.20 microns; 
B) adding a water soluble organic acid and a 
water soluble organic anhydride to said 

aqueous latex; 
C) agglomerating said rubber particles 

contained in said latex to larger 
agglomerated particles having an average 

particle size of between 0.30 to 1.0 
microns, said larger agglomerated 

particles comprising less than 2 percent 
 

by weight coagulum having a weight 
average diameter of greater than 0.42 

microns; 
D) stabilizing said larger agglomerated 
rubber particles in said latex by the 

addition to said latex of a sufficient 
amount of an ingredient selected from 

surfactants and bases; 
E) polymerizing a mixture of alkenyl 
aromatic and alkenyl nitrile monomers in 

the presence of said stabilized latex to 
graft said agglomerated rubber particles 

with at least a portion of said monomers 
and to form an ungrafted alkenyl aromatic 

alkenyl nitrile matrix polymer, thereby 
forming a latex containing said grafted 

rubber particles and said matrix polymer; 
and 
F) separating said matrix polymers having 
said grafted diene rubber particle from 

said water. 
The process of any preceding claim where said acid is 
acetic acid and wherein said anhydride is 

acetic anhydride. 
A process for agglomerating rubber particles, 
said process comprising: 


A) adding a water soluble organic acid and a 
water soluble organ-ic anhydride to an 

aqueous latex containing small rubber 
particles having a weight average 

particle size diameter of 0.05 to 0.20 
microns, and 
B) agglomerating said small rubber particles 
 

contained in said latex to large 
agglomerated particles leaving a weight 

average particle size diameter of between 
0.30 to 1.0 microns to produce a latex 

containing less than one percent of 
weight coagulum based on the total weight 

of rubber particles in the latex. 
The process of claim 12 wherein said acid and 
said anhydride added as an aqueous mixture, 

said acid and anhydride being present in a 
mole ratio of between 2:8 and 8:2, said acid 

being acetic acid and said anhydride being 
acetic anhydride. 
The process of claim 12 or claim 13 wherein said rubber 
particles are derived from 1,3 butadiene 

monomer. 
The process of claim 12 wherein said 
agglomerated particles are then admixed with 

an amount of small rubber particles to 
produce a bimodal rubber blend. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
