<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652661</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cryptographic and scrambling system utilising a shared medium passive optical network.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L918	H04L918	H04L924	H04L1256	H04L1256	H04L2503	H04L2503	H04Q300	H04Q300	H04Q1104	H04Q1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L9	H04L9	H04L9	H04L12	H04L12	H04L25	H04L25	H04Q3	H04Q3	H04Q11	H04Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved method and apparatus encrypts and scrambles information
cells transmitted on a telephone system local loop (11') from a central office to a

plurality of user premises networks (14') via a shared medium passive optical
network. Prior to transmission, the information cell is encrypted for security

purposes and scrambled to improve its transmission properties by modulo 2 addition
(218) of the information cell and a combined (214) encryption (211) and scrambling

sum (212) pattern. At the other end of the passive optical network which is
connected to user premises networks, the received encrypted and scrambled

information cells are used to generate a processed cell by the modulo 2 addition of
the received cell and a combined decryption and descramble sum pattern.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN BREEMEN JOHN HERMANUS MARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERBEEK ROBERT JACOBUS MARIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN BREEMEN, JOHN HERMANUS MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERBEEK, ROBERT JACOBUS MARIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to cryptographic 
communications in general, and more particularly to a 
combination of a set-reset scrambler and a set-reset 
encryptor in a communications system. Optical transmission systems have enjoyed increasing 
usage throughout telephone network and switching systems. 
For example, optical fiber systems have replaced copper 
based transmission systems in many trunk and junction 
networks. As optical fiber systems become more pervasive 
in the user area of the telecommunication system, better 
and less expensive usage of the capabilities of optical 
fiber transmission systems will be in demand. Within the user area, a contemplated application of 
optical transmission systems is for connection to a 
broadband integrated services digital network ("ISDN") for 
providing interactive services including the distribution 
of video signals in the local loop. The optical 
transmission system configuration envisioned for such a 
connection network is a shared medium passive optical 
network ("PON") having a tree-and-branch topology. This 
topology provides a cost-effective way to connect small 
businesses and residential subscribers to an ISDN, and has 
been used in several field trials for Plain Old Telephony 
Services and distributive services, such as the Amsterdam-Sloten 
Fibre to the Home Field which is described in H.H. 
Grotjohann, F. Jaeger and P.E. Schaafsma, Dutch FTTH on 
Trial, Communications International, p. 49 (January 1992). In a PON, the optical fiber is shared by a group of 
customers. Further, in a passive optical network having a  
 
tree-and-branch topology, a single fiber emanates from a 
local exchange and fans out via passive optical splitters 
and tree couplers to a plurality of service customers. One method for transmitting information from the 
local exchange to individual customers using such a 
topology is as follows. Information is transmitted in 
packets or cells. Each transmitted cell contains a 
routing address identifying the intended destination 
customer. All information cells are transmitted through 
the entire PON to optical receivers located at the ends of 
the network which are called optical network terminations 
("NT"). Each NT is connected to a corresponding group of 
customers. When an NT receives an information cell, it 
compares its address with the routing address contained 
within the cell. When the addresses match, the 
information is delivered to the customer. When a match is 
not detected, the NT discards the received
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for transmitting an encrypted and scrambled 
information cell on a shared medium network having a transmitter 

and a plurality of receivers, each receiver having an address, 
wherein each transmitted information cell has a particular 

destination receiver which can properly decrypt and descramble 
the cell, the method comprising: 

   generating a pseudo-random sum pattern by modulo 2 addition 
of a scramble pattern and a pseudo-random encryption pattern; 

   generating the encrypted and scrambled information cell by 
combining the pseudo-random sum pattern with the information 

cell; and 
   transmitting the encrypted and scrambled information cell on 

the network. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of 
storing the pseudo-random sum pattern in a memory device, wherein 

the encrypted and scrambled information cell is generated by 
modulo 2 addition of the information cell and the contents of a 

memory device. 
The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein the information 
cells are asynchronous transfer mode cells. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein each 
transmitted information cell contains address information 

regarding the address of the destination receiver. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the address 
information of the information cell is not encrypted by the 

generated pseudo-random sum pattern. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein each 
encrypted and scrambled information cell is transmitted with a 

preamble. 
The method of claim 6, wherein the address information 
regarding the destination receiver is contained within the 

preamble, and wherein portions of the preamble are not encrypted. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the pseudo-random 

encryption pattern for the information cell is based on 
the address of the destination receiver. 
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising 
the steps of: 

   identifying whether the generated pseudo-random sum pattern 
would produce an invalid sequence or inefficient transmission if 

combined with an information cell; and 
   generating a new pseudo-random sum pattern if an invalid 

sequence or inefficient transmission would result. 
A method of decrypting and descrambling information 
cells by a receiver in an telecommunication system, each 

information cell being encrypted and scrambled, the method 
comprising: 

   generating a descramble and decryption sum pattern by modulo 
2 addition of a descramble pattern and a decryption pattern; and 

   generating the descrambled and decrypted information cell by 
modulo 2 addition of the sum pattern and the received encrypted 

and scrambled cell. 
The method of claim 10, further comprising: 
   storing the sum pattern in a memory device; and 

   generating the decrypted and descrambled information cell by 
modulo 2 addition of the contents of the memory device and the 

received encrypted and scrambled cell. 
The method of claims 10-11, wherein the generation of 
the descramble and decryption sum pattern and the storing of the 

sum pattern in the memory device are performed offline. 
A method of decrypting and descrambling information 
cells received by a receiver in an telecommunication system 

utilizing a shared medium network, the receiver having an 
address, each information cell being encrypted and scrambled, 

wherein each transmitted information cell has address information 
concerning a particular destination network termination which can 

 
properly decrypt and descramble the cell, the information cells 

being sequentially transmitted in a continuous information 
stream, the method comprising: 

   generating a descramble and decryption sum pattern by modulo 
2 addition of a descramble pattern and a decryption pattern; 

   storing the descramble and decryption sum pattern in a 
memory device; 

   sequentially extracting the encrypted and scrambled 
information cells from the information stream; and 

   generating a processed cell by modulo 2 addition of the 
contents of the memory device and the extracted encrypted and 

scrambled cell; 
   comparing the address information of the cell and the 

network termination address; and 
   transferring the processed cell to the user premises network 

if the addresses match, wherein the processed cell is the 
decrypted and descrambled information cell when the addresses 

match. 
An apparatus for transmitting an encrypted and 
scrambled information cell on a shared medium network comprising: 

   a pseudo-random encryption pattern generator; 
   a scramble pattern generator; 

   a first modulo 2 adder having an output and two inputs, the 
inputs being connected to the pseudo-random encryption pattern 

generator and to the scramble pattern generator, wherein the 
first adder produces a pseudo-random sum pattern at its output;

 
   a second modulo 2 adder having an output and first and 

second inputs, the first input being connected to the output of 
the first adder and the second input being adapted to receive an 

information cell that is to be transmitted, wherein the second 
adder produces the encrypted and scrambled information cell at 

its output; and 
   a transmitter having and input connected to the output of 

the second adder and an output connected to the shared medium 
network for transmission of the encrypted and scrambled cell on 

the network. 
The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising: 
   a memory device connected between the output of the first 

adder and the first input to the second adder wherein the pseudo-random 
sum pattern is generated offline in software and stored in 

the memory device and wherein the second adder adds the contents 
of the memory device to the information cell to form the 

encrypted and scrambled information cell. 
The apparatus of claims 14 or 15, wherein the shared 
medium network is a passive optical network. 
The apparatus of any of claims 14-16, wherein the 
information cells have a fixed length. 
The apparatus of any of claims 14-17, wherein the 
information cells are asynchronous transfer mode cells. 
An apparatus for decryption and descrambling of 
encrypted and scrambled information cells received from a shared 

medium network comprising: 
   a descramble pattern generator; 

   a decryption pattern generator; 
   a first modulo 2 adder having two inputs and an output, the 

inputs being connected the descramble pattern generator and the 
decryption pattern generator; and 

   a second modulo 2 adder having first and second inputs and 
an output, the first input being connected to the output of the 

first adder, the second input being adapted to receive the 
encrypted and scrambled information cells transmitted on the 

network, and the output providing the descrambled and decrypted 
original information cell. 
The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a memory 
device connected between the output of the first adder and the 

first input to the second adder, wherein the first adder provides 
the decryption and descrambler sum pattern to the memory, and 

wherein the second adder adds the contents of the memory device 
to the recovered encrypted and scrambled information cells. 
The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the second adder 
adds the contents of the memory device to the encrypted and 

scrambled information cells. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
