<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652111</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Drive system for a printing apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J530	B41J530	B41J1102	B41J1102	B41J2948	B41J2948	B41J3314	B41J3334	B41J3536	B41J3536	B41K300	B41K300	G09F300	G09F300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41K	B41K	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J5	B41J5	B41J11	B41J11	B41J29	B41J29	B41J33	B41J33	B41J35	B41J35	B41K3	B41K3	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A label printing apparatus receives a cassette holding 
printing tape (6) on which an image is to be printed. The 

apparatus also has a printing mechanism which includes a 
thermal printhead (4) having a group of printing elements to which 

pixel data defining the image to be printed is passed 
sequentially on a group-by-group
 basis. The groups are printed 
adjacent one another in the direction of movement of the 

printing tape (6). A drive system is provided for driving the 
printing tape through the printing mechanism and includes a dc 

motor (20) which is provided with a shaft encoder (28) for monitoring 
the speed of rotation of the motor. Sequential printing of the 

groups of pixel data is controlled in dependence on the 
monitors speed of rotation of the motor (20). 
There is also described a label printing apparatus which uses 
monitoring of the speed of rotation of the motor (20) to detect an 

end of tape (6) condition. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESSELTE DYMO NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESSELTE DYMO N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER MATTHEW RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON-BELL IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER, MATTHEW RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON-BELL, IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a drive system for a printing 
apparatus. This invention is particularly but not exclusively concerned 
with the type of printing apparatus which are known as label 
printers. These apparatus have a housing carrying a data 
inpaut device in the form of a keyboard for inputting a 
message to be printed and containing a printing mechanism and 
a drive system. The housing also includes a cassette 
receiving bay for receiving a cassette which houses printing 
tape and ink ribbon. There are several different types of 
this kind of label printer. Some receive a single cassette 
which houses at least a printing tape and an ink ribbon, as 
described for example in our earlier European Application No. 
91310664.7. In another system, the cassette receiving bay 
receives two separate cassettes, one housing an ink ribbon and 
the other housing a printing tape. Such a system is described 
for example in our earlier European Application No. 
93303971.1. The contents of these earlier applications are 
incorporated herein by reference. In these and other known 
types of systems, the ink ribbon and printing tape are passed 
in overlap between a thermal printhead and a platen of the 
printing mechanism. For printing, the ink ribbon is pressed 
against the printing tape between the thermal printhead and 
the platen and pixel data to be printed is passed to the 
thermal printhead. Normally, the thermal printhead comprises 
a column of printing elements to which data is supplied and 
printed sequentially. During printing, the printing tape is 
driven through the printing zone defined by the thermal 
printhead and platen so that adjacent columns are printed 
sequentially in the direction of movement of the printing 
tape, thereby forming characters etc to be printed. As described in the above-referenced European Applications, 
the printing tape is a multilayer printing tape having an  
 
image receiving layer and a backing layer secured to the image 
receiving layer by an adhesive layer. The label printer 
includes a cutting mechanism for cutting off a portion of the 
multilayer tape after printing to form a label. The backing 
layer of the label can then be removed to allow the label to 
be stuck to any object. Figure 1 illustrates the elements of a drive system of a known 
printing apparatus. Reference numerals 2 and 4 denote the 
platen and thermal printhead respectively which constitute the 
main components of the print mechanism. Reference numerals 6 
and 7 denotes the tape 6 and ink ribbon 7
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A label printing apparatus comprising: 
   a housing carrying a data input device for inputting 

information defining an image to be printed and providing a 
cassette receiving bay for receiving a cassette holding 

printing tape on which the image is to be printed; 
   a printing mechanism including a thermal printhead having 

a group of printing elements to which pixel data defining the 
image to be printed is passed sequentially on a group-by-group 

basis by a printhead controller, said groups to be printed 
adjacent one another in the direction of movement of the 

printing tape; and 
   a drive system comprising: 

   a dc motor operable to continuously drive said printing 
tape past the printing mechanism; and 

   means for monitoring the speed of rotation of the motor 
and connected to said printhead controller to control the 

sequential printing of said groups of pixel data in dependence 
on the speed of rotation of the motor. 
A printing apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the 
printing mechanism includes a platen which is caused to rotate 

by the drive motor and which moves the printing tape through 
friction. 
A printing apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein 
the speed monitoring means comprises a shaft encoder. 
A printing apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the 
shaft encoder comprises a slotted disc arranged to rotate with 

a shaft of the dc motor and a light source and a light 
detector on opposed sides of the disc. 
A printing apparatus according to claims 3 or 4 wherein 
the shaft encoder generates pulses at a frequency dependent on 

the speed of the motor and wherein said pulses cause the print 
 

head controller to generate data strobe signals each of which 
causes a group of pixel data to be printed. 
A printing apparatus according to claim 5 wherein a data 
strobe signal is produced for an integral number of pulses 

generated by the shaft encoder. 
A method of operating a label printing apparatus which 
comprises a housing carrying a data input device and providing 

a cassette receiving base for receiving a cassette holding 
printing tape on which an image is to be printed, the method 

comprising: 
   inputting information at the data input device defining 

the image to be printed; 
   driving a dc motor to continuously rotate to drive the 

printing tape past a printing mechanism which includes a 
thermal printhead having a group of printing elements to which 

pixel data defining the image to be printed is passed 
sequentially on a group by group basis by a printhead 

controller; 
   monitoring the speed of rotation of the motor; and 

   controlling the sequential printing of groups of pixel 
data in dependence on the speed of rotation of the motor so 

that said groups are printed adjacent one another in a 
direction of movement of the printing tape. 
A method according to claim 7 wherein the step of driving 
the dc motor causes a platen which cooperates with the thermal 

printhead for printing said image to rotate, thereby driving 
the printing tape past the thermal printhead. 
A method according to claims 7 or 8 wherein the step of 
monitoring the speed of rotation is used to provide an end of 

tape indication. 
A label printing apparatus comprising: 
   a housing carrying a data input device for inputting 

 
information defining an image to be printed and providing a 

cassette receiving bay for receiving a cassette holding 
printing tape on which the image is to be printed; 

   a drive system for a printing apparatus which has a 
printing mechanism including a thermal printhead and which is 

arranged to receive the printing tape wound on a supply reel, 
said printing tape having means at the end thereof to resist 

separation from the supply reel, the drive system comprising: 
   a motor operable to drive said printing tape past the 

printing mechanism; and 
   means for monitoring the speed of rotation of the motor 

thereby to detect a reduction in speed caused by said means at 
the end of the printing tape and thereby to indicate an end of 

tape state or other fault condition. 
A label printing apparatus according to claim 10 wherein 
the motor is operable to cause a platen which cooperates with 

the thermal printhead for printing to rotate, thereby to drive 
said printing tape through friction. 
A label printing apparatus to claim 10 or 11 wherein the 
motor is a stepper motor. 
A label printing apparatus according to claim 10 or 11 
wherein the motor is a dc motor. 
A label printing apparatus comprising: 
   a housing carrying a data input device for inputting 

information defining an image to be printed and providing a 
cassette receiving bay for receiving a cassette holding 

printing tape on which the image is to be printed; 
   a drive system for a printing apparatus which has a 

printing mechanism including a thermal printhead and which is 
arranged to receive the printing tape wound on a supply reel, 

said printing tape having an end thereof which is not attached 
to said supply reel, the drive system comprising:

 
   a motor operable to drive said printing tape past the 

printing mechanism; and 
   means for monitoring the speed of rotation of the motor 

thereby to detect an increase in speed caused by said end of 
the printing tape exiting the printing mechanism, thereby to 

indicate an end of tape state or other fault condition. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
