<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617871</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IN-STATION TELEVISION PROGRAM ENCODING AND MONITORING SYSTEM AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N592	H04N7088	H04N7087	H04N592	H04H100	H04H6037	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04H	H04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N5	H04H1	H04H60	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An in-station method and apparatus for encoding television programs, including commercials, with a digital identification code recorded on a selected video scan line which is not normally visible to the television viewer, and for verifying the proper airing of such programs by such television broadcast station. The encoding and decoding is performed at the broadcast station during its normal operating procedure. The program is encoded (23) during the normal dubbing procedure (17, 19, 21) when a program video tape is dubbed to a video cartridge for use by the broadcast station's library management system (15). The decoder (31, 33) is located either at the station at an off-air monitor, or at the transmitter (29), where it monitors the transmitted signal from the broadcast station and records the occurrence of encoded programs or commercials. The information generated is stored locally for later transmission to a host computer where the information can be combined with information from other broadcast stations and other databases.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an in-station system and
method for producing in a television station a video
recording of a programme to be transmitted by the station;
such a system or method in combination with a system or
method for monitoring programmes transmitted by the station;
and a television station having such a production system or
combined system.A known practice for monitoring and verifying the
transmission of television programmes, such as commercials,
has been to video record a set of broadcast stations in each
market and then manually to review and record the
information from the video tapes for programme or commercial
occurrences. The information is then manually loaded into a
computer database manager for compilation into various
reports for the broadcast station, for use by the station,
advertisers or advertising agencies. Such auditing is very
time consuming, laborious and expensive, so that only the
larger markets are monitored full time, with smaller markets
being monitored only one week of each month. Sample auditing
of this type is unreliable for a number of reasons,
including the fact that it is not always easy to identify a
particular commercial uniquely or to differentiate it from
similar ones. Furthermore, because the auditing is not automated,
there is a considerable delay in reporting the information
back to the broadcast stations and advertisers.The television picture in the NTSC system used in
the United States consists of a series of frames, each having
520 video scan lines. Each frame consists of two visually
interlaced temporally sequential fields of 260 scan lines
each. Each field begins with a vertical sync pulse which is
followed by 260 horizontal sync pulses that define the
beginning of each video scan line of the field. The
horizontal sync pulse for each line starting with line 10 is
immediately followed by a 3.6 megahertz color burst signal
which in turn is followed by a "black level" voltage level
referred to as the "back porch." Starting with scan line 22,
video information for the particular scan line follows the
back porch. Lines 10 through 20 are referred to as the
vertical blanking interval and are not used for television
picture information. They may be used, if desired, by the
television broadcast station for its purposes. Line 21 is
used for closed captions. In most television receivers, lines
10 through about 30 are not visible to the viewer and are
referred to as the "overscan region."Various schemes have been proposed for automatically
monitoring the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An in-station system for producing in a television
station a video recording of a programme to be transmitted

by the station, the system comprising:

an input video player (19) for playing a recording
received at the station of the television programme to

produce a video signal having a region of overscan lines and
a region of picture lines;
a video recorder (21) for recording said video signal
onto a video medium for use by a video library management

system (15) of the station;
an encoder (23) arranged to provide identifying data in
a line of the overscan region of said video signal for

recording by the video recorder; and
means for storing information concerning the encoded
programmes for transmission to a remote host computer.
A production system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
encoder includes means (51,55) for selecting the line in the

overscan region of the video signal in which the identifying
data is provided.
A production system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the
selected line is between lines ten and twenty of the video

signal.
A production system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the
selected line is in a vertical blanking interval of the

video signal.
A production system as claimed in any preceding claim,
in combination with a system for monitoring programmes 

transmitted by the station, the monitoring system
comprising:


a decoder (93) for receiving programmes transmitted by
the station and for detecting the presence of such

identifying data in the video signal of the received
programmes;
decoder database means (95, 96) for storing information
concerning the identity, duration and time of transmission

of a programme for which such identifying data is detected;
and
means (99) for transmitting the stored information from
the decoder database means to a host computer.
A combined system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the
monitoring system is provided in the same station as the

production system.
A combined system as claimed in claim 5 or 6, wherein

the decoder includes means (133) for locating such
identifying data in a scan line occurring between

predetermined scan lines of the video signal of the received
programmes.
A combined system as claimed in any of claims 5 to 7,
wherein the decoder includes means (101,116) for determining

and storing a quality index indicative of the quality of the
received video signal of such encoded programmes.
A combined system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the
decoder includes means (101) responsive to the absence of

such identifying data in up to a predetermined number of
consecutive fields of an encoded programme for reducing the

quality index associated with such encoded programme.
A television station having: 

a production system as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4,
or a combined system as claimed in any of claims 5 to 9; and
a video library management system with which the video
medium is compatible.
An in-station method for producing in a television
station a video recording of a programme to be transmitted

by the station, the method comprising the steps of:

receiving at the station a programme to be transmitted
by the station;
producing from the received programme a video signal
having a region of overscan lines and a region of picture

lines;
recording said video signal onto a video medium which is
compatible with a video library management system (15) of

the station; and
providing identifying data in a selected line of the
overscan region of said video signal which is being recorded.
A production method as claimed in claim 11, wherein:

the video signal is formatted as frames, each having a
pair of fields; and
the identifying data provided in the selected line is
the same in both fields of a frame.
A production method as claimed in claim 11, wherein:

the video signal is formatted as frames, each having a
pair of fields of opposite polarities;
the identifying data which is provided in the fields of
one polarity of the programme remains substantially

invariant throughout the programme; and
the identifying data which is provided in the fields of
the other polarity of the programme is different to that 

which is provided in the fields of said one polarity and
changes continuously throughout the programme.
A production method as claimed in any of claims 11 to
13, wherein the identifying data occupies less than the full

available space in the selected line and is recorded at a
central portion of the selected line.
A production method as claimed in any of claims 11 to
14, wherein the identifying data includes a cyclic

redundancy check byte.
A production method as claimed in any of claims 11 to
15, wherein the selected line is between line ten and line

twenty of the video portion of the encoded programme.
A production method as claimed in any of claims 10 to
15, wherein the selected line is in the vertical blanking

interval.
A production method as claimed in any of claims 11 to
17, in combination with a method of monitoring the

transmission of such a programme by the station, comprising
the steps of:


receiving a video signal of a programme being transmitted by
the station;
detecting such identifying data in the received video
signal; and
storing, in a database means for transmission to a host
computer, information concerning the identity, derived from

the identifying data, and the duration and time of
transmission of such a programme in which such identifying

data is detected.
A combined method as claimed in claim 18, when
dependent on claim 15, further including checking the

received identifying code and the received cyclic redundancy
check byte for error.
A combined method as claimed in claim 18 or 19, wherein
the receiving and detecting steps are performed at the

station transmitting the programme.
A combined method as claimed in any of claims 18 to 20,
wherein the station is a broadcast station and wherein the

receiving of the video signal is performed by monitoring a
signal at a tap at a broadcast antenna (29) of the station.
A combined method as claimed in any of claims 18 to 21,
further including the step of determining a quality index

for each received encoded programme, based on the quality of
the received video signal.
A combined method as claimed in any of claims 18 to 22,
and in the case where the video signal is formatted as

fields of lines, wherein the step of detecting the
identifying code includes searching each line of a field of

a received video signal between predetermined lines for
determining the presence of such identifying data in one of

those lines.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
