<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650261</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bandpass sigma-delta analog-to-digital converter (adc), method therefor, and receiver using same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M108	H03M108	H03M300	H03M300	H03M304	H04B1404	H04B1404	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M1	H03M1	H03M3	H03M3	H03M3	H04B14	H04B14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bandpass sigma-delta analog-to-digital converter (ADC) 
(10) includes first (11) and second (12) bandpass sigma-delta 

modulators, and a digital filter (13) connected to digital outputs 
thereof. In the illustrated embodiment, the first bandpass 

sigma-delta modulator (11) is a second-order, single bit 
bandpass modulator, and the second bandpass sigma-delta 

modulator (12) is a first-order, multiple-bit modulator. 
Coefficients in feedback paths of the first (11) and second (12) 

modulators are derived from a transfer function of the digital 
filter. In one embodiment, a receiver (50) for a system such as 

frequency modulation (FM) radio converts an intermediate 
frequency (IF) analog signal to digital in-phase (I) and quaternary 

(Q) signals using the bandpass sigma-delta ADC (10). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACKSON SPENCE H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACKSON, SPENCE H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to analog-to-digital 
converters (ADCs), and more particularly, to sigma-delta analog-to-digital 
converters. There are two basic techniques for implementing analog-to-digital 
converters (ADCs), the open-loop technique and the 
feedback technique. An open-loop converter generates a digital 
code directly upon application of an input voltage, and is 
generally asynchronous in operation. A feedback converter 
generates a sequence of digital codes from an input signal, 
reconverts these digital codes to an analog signal. Sigma-delta ADCs use the feedback technique and have been 
known in the industry since the early 1960s. The sigma-delta 
technique is attractive because it achieves high resolution by 
precise timing instead of precisely matched on-chip components, 
such as resistors and capacitors used in open-loop converters. 
Thus, the sigma-delta technique is the technique of choice for 
many integrated circuit applications. A basic sigma-delta ADC receives an analog input signal, 
and subtracts a feedback signal from the analog input signal to 
provide an error signal. The error signal is processed through a 
lowpass filter, and then quantized to form a digital output signal. 
A feedback digital-to-analog converter (DAC) provides the 
feedback signal after converting the digital output signal to 
analog form. Aside from the feedback DAC, the basic sigma-delta 
ADC may be implemented with conventional analog components 
such as operational amplifiers, comparators, and switched-capacitor 
filters. The basic sigma-delta ADC usually provides 
high resolution because integrated circuit clocking speeds allow 
the analog input signal to be highly oversampled. The basic  
 
sigma-delta ADC also has high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) 
because the lowpass filter shapes quantization noise out-of-band, 
which can then be sufficiently attenuated by conventional 
filtering techniques. While the basic sigma-delta ADC is easy to implement in 
conventional integrated circuit processes and generally has high 
performance, it still is not ideal for some applications. For 
example, a frequency modulation (FM) radio receiver receives a 
radio frequency (RF) signal, mixes the RF signal down to an 
intermediate frequency (IF), and mixes the IF signal to baseband 
to provide in-phase (I) and quadrature (Q) signals, and processes 
the I and Q baseband signals. A digital FM receiver may use the 
ADC to convert the IF analog signal to digital form for further 
digital signal processing. However
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A bandpass sigma-delta analog-to-digital converter (ADC) 
(10) comprising: 

   a first bandpass sigma-delta modulator (11) that 
converts a received analog signal into an 

intermediate analog signal (15) and a first 
digital signal (16); 

   a second bandpass sigma-delta modulator (12) 
operably coupled to said first bandpass sigma-delta 

modulator (11), wherein said second 
bandpass sigma-delta modulator (12) converts 

said intermediate analog signal (15) into a 
second digital signal (17); and 

   a digital filter (13) operably coupled to said first 
bandpass sigma-delta modulator (11) and said 

second bandpass sigma-delta modulator (12), 
wherein said digital filter (13) converts said 

first digital signal (16) and said second digital 
signal (17) into a digital output signal (18). 
The bandpass sigma-delta ADC (10) of claim 1 wherein said 
first bandpass sigma-delta modulator (11) is characterized 

as being a single-bit bandpass sigma-delta modulator and 
wherein said second bandpass sigma-delta modulator (12) 

is characterized as being a multiple-bit sigma-delta 
modulator. 
The bandpass sigma-delta ADC (10) of claim 1 wherein said 
first bandpass sigma-delta modulator (11) comprises a 

forward path having first (22) and second (25) bandpass 
filters and first (19, 28) and second (23, 32) coefficients. 
The bandpass sigma-delta ADC (10) of claim 1 wherein said 
second bandpass sigma-delta modulator (12) includes a 

forward path having a bandpass filter (36) and 
coefficients (33, 41). 
The bandpass sigma-delta ADC (10) of claim 1 wherein said 
first bandpass sigma-delta modulator (11) is characterized 

as being a second-order bandpass sigma-delta modulator, 
and wherein said second bandpass sigma-delta 

modulator (12) is characterized as being a first-order 
bandpass sigma-delta modulator. 
A receiver (50) comprising: 
   a bandpass sigma-delta analog-to-digital converter 

(ADC) (10) having: 
   a first bandpass sigma-delta modulator (11) 

that converts a received analog 
signal (14) into an intermediate analog 

signal (15) and a first digital signal (16); 
   a second ban
dpass sigma-delta modulator (12) 
operably coupled to said first bandpass 

sigma-delta modulator (11), wherein said 
second bandpass sigma-delta 

modulator (12) converts said 
intermediate analog signal (15) into a 

second digital signal (17); and 
   a digital filter (13) operably coupled to said 

first bandpass sigma-delta 
modulator (11) and said second bandpass 

sigma-delta modulator (12), wherein said 
digital filter (13) converts said first 

digital signal (16) and said second digital 
signal (17) into a digital output 

signal (18); 
   a digital quadrature mixer (53) that mixes said 

digital output signal (18) with a plurality of 
digital quadrature signals to produce a 

quadrature digital signal at baseband and an in-phase 
digital signal at baseband; 

   a decimating digital filter (57) that decimates said 
quadrature digital signal and said in-phase 

digital signal to produce a decimated quadrature 
digital signal (61) and a decimated in-phase 

digital signal (62); and 
   a digital signal processor (63) that processes said 

decimated quadrature digital signal (61) and 
said decimated in-phase digital signal (62) to 

produce a baseband analog signal (64). 
The receiver (50) of claim 6 wherein said first bandpass 
sigma-delta modulator (11) is characterized as being a 

single-bit bandpass sigma-delta modulator. 
The receiver (50) of claim 6 wherein said first bandpass 
sigma-delta modulator (11) comprises a forward path 

having a first (22) and second (25) bandpass filters and 
first (19, 28) and second (23, 32) coefficients. 
The receiver (50) of claim 6 wherein said second bandpass 
sigma-delta modulator (12) is characterized as being a 

multiple-bit bandpass sigma-delta modulator. 
A method for converting an analog signal to a digital signal 
comprising the steps of: 

   receiving an analog input signal (14); 
   summing a first predetermined fraction (19) of said 

analog input signal (14) with said first 
predetermined fraction (28) of a first feedback 

signal to provide a first error signal; 
   bandpass filtering said first error signal to provide a 

first intermediate analog signal (15); 
   quantizing said first intermediate analog signal to 

provide a first digital signal (16); 
   digital-to-analog converting said first digital 

signal (16) to provide said first feedback 
signal; 

   summing a second predetermined fraction (33) of 
said first intermediate analog signal (15) with 

said second predetermined fraction (41) of a 
second feedback signal to provide a second error 

signal; 
   bandpass filtering said second error signal to provide 

a second intermediate analog signal; 
   quantizing said second intermediate analog signal to 

provide a second digital signal (17); 
   digital-to-analog converting said second digital 

signal (17) to provide said second feedback 
signal; 

   filtering said first digital signal (16) to provide a 
first filtered signal; 

   filtering said second digital signal (17) to provide a 
second filtered signal; and 

   summing said first and second filtered signals to 
provide a digital output signal (18). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
