<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650620</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR PRODUCING A CARD WITH AT LEAST ONE ELECTRONIC COMPONENT, AND CARD THEREBY OBTAINED
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B42D1510	B42D1510	G06K19077	G06K19077	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B42D	B42D	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B42D15	B42D15	G06K19	G06K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for producing a card, wherein a compressible positioning structure (6), at least one electronic component (8) and a binder (12) are provided. The electronic component is placed on top of the compressible positioning structure. In a first embodiment, the binder (12) is provided as a liquid while in a second embodiment, the binder is provided as a solid sheet which is then at least partially melted by supplying energy. A press is used to exert pressure on the various elements provided. Thus, the electronic component (8) is embedded in the positioning structure (6) and the binder spreads to cover said electronic component (8). The resulting solidified card is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAGRAID SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAGRAID S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DROZ FRANCOIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DROZ, FRANCOIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Method of manufacture of a card, comprising a first
group of steps including the following steps :


B) bringing at least one electronic element (8) onto a
work surface (2);
C) bringing a compressible positioning structure (6;34;
48) onto said work surface in a manner such that said

electronic element and such compressible positioning structure
are superposed;
D) bringing a binder (12;42) onto said work surface;
this first group of steps being followed by a second group of

steps including the following steps :
G) application of pressure onto an assembly including
said electronic element (8), said compressible positioning

structure (6;34;48) and said binder (12;42) in order to cause,
on the one hand, said electronic element to penetrate at least

partially into said positioning structure by compressing this
latter through this electronic element in order to assure the

positioning of this latter and, on the other hand, to permit
a lateral flow of said binder and the penetration of said positioning

structure by said binder when such latter is in a
viscous liquid state to form a mass in which said electronic

element and said positioning structure are immersed;
H) solidification of said mass formed in a manner such
that said mass rigidly binds said electronic element (8)

and said compressible positioning structure (6;34;48)
and solidifies this latter in a configuration resulting from

step G.
Method according to claim 1, in which said binder
(12;42) supplied during step D is formed by a viscous liquid.
Method according to claim 1, in which said binder
(12;42) supplied during step D is formed by a meltable solid

material and the second group of steps also includes the
following step :

   F) supplying energy serving to melt said binder at least
partially;
 
said step H being subsequent to said step F.
Method according to claim 3, in which said step G
includes a first phase, preceding said step F, in which said

pressure applied to said assembly serves to cause at least
partial penetration of said electronic element (8) into said

compressible positioning structure (6;34;48) and a second
phase simultaneous with or subsequent to said step F in which

said pressure applied to said assembly permits said binder to
form a mass in which said electronic element is immersed.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, in
which said compressible positioning structure (6;34;48) is

entirely immersed in said binder after said step G.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, in
which said first group of steps further includes the following

step :

   A) bringing an outer layer (4) onto said work surface
and the positioning of such outer layer in a manner such that

said assembly is located on said outer layer.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, in
which said first group of steps further includes the following

step :

   E) bringing an outer layer (14) onto said assembly.
Method according to claim 6 or 7, in which said steps
G and H also serve to bind solidly said outer layer (4;14) to

said mass formed by said binder (12).
Method according to any one of the preceding claims,
in which said compressible positioning structure (6;48) is

formed by an expanded material.
Method according to claim 9, in which said compressible
positioning structure (6;48) is formed by a foam. 
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, in
which said compressible positioning structure (6;48) is formed

by a honeycomb structure.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, in
which said compressible positioning structure (6;48) is formed

by an assembly of woven or tangled threads.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, in
which said compressible positioning structure (34) is formed

by a corrugated sheet permeable to said bunder or exhibiting
perforations.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, in
which said compressible positioning structure (6;48) is formed

by an embossed paper permeable to said binder or exhibiting
perforations.
Method according to any one of the preceding claims,
in which said compressible positioning structure (48)

comprises a first part (50) and a second part (52), such first
and second parts being respectively arranged on either side of

said electronic element (8).
Method according to claim 1, in which said binder
(12;42) as applied is formed by a resin, such resin hardening

during said step H at ambient temperature.
Method according to claim 1, in which said binder
(12;42) is constituted by a plastic material.
Method according to claim 2, in which said binder
(12) is applied in two phases, the first phase consisting in

an application of a first portion of said binder before said
steps B and C, the second phase consisting in applying a

second portion of said binder after such steps B and C. 
Method according to claim 3, in which said binder
(42) as applied is formed by two sheets (44;46) aranged on

either side of said compressible positioning structure (48)
and said electronic element (8).
Method according to claim 6 or 7, in which at least a
portion of said binder (12) is assembled beforehand with said

outer layer (14) before being brought in.
Method according to claim 6 or 7, in which said
compressible positioning structure (6) is assembled beforehand

with said outer layer (4) before being brought in.
Method according to any one of the preceding claims,
in which there is supplied at the time of said step B a coil

(10) having two electrical coupling ends directly connected to
said electronic element (8).
Method according to any one of the preceding claims,
in which several cards are simultaneously fashioned on said

work surface (2), a final step of cutting out of each of the
several cards being provided.
Card (20;26;30;56) comprising at least one electronic
element (8) and a layer (22;28;32;58) formed by a binder

(12;42) in which said electronic element is immersed, such
card being 
characterized in that
 it comprises a positioning
structure (6;34;48) for said electronic element located in the

interior of said layer formed by said binder, such positioning
structure being compressed through this electronic element in

an internal zone (23) in the interior of which said electronic
element is positioned, said binder having penetrated said

positioning structure and forming a compact mass in which
said electronic element and said positioning structure are

immersed.
Card (20;26;30;56) according to claim 24, 
characterized
in that
 it comprises a coil (10) having two electrical 
contact ends directly coupled to said electronic element (8),

this latter forming with said coil an assembly coated by said
binder (12;42).
Card (20;30) according to claim 24 or 25, 
characterized
in that
 it comprises a first outer layer (4) and a
second outer layer (14), said layer (22;32)) formed by said

binder (12) constituting an intermediate layer between said
first and second outer layers, at least the major part of the

internal surface (36;38) of each of such first and second
outer layers being covered over by said binder, such latter

assuring the cohesion of such first and second outer layers
with said intermediate layer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
