<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651920</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR CONNECTING COMPUTER DEVICES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F300	G06F300	G06F1336	G06F1337	G06F1340	G06F1340	H01R1366	H01R1366	H01R2700	H01R2700	H01R3106	H01R3106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F13	G06F13	G06F13	G06F13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R27	H01R27	H01R31	H01R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an apparatus for connecting computer devices and, more specifically, where the apparatus comprises a first connector (110), a cable assembly (112), a converter adapter (114) and a second connector (116).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERG TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERG TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LABARBERA RICHARD STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LABARBERA, RICHARD, STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE OF THE INVENTION APPARATUS FOR CONNECTING COMPUTER DEVICESCOPYRIGHT NOTICEA portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and TrademarkOffice patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention.This invention relates to an apparatus for connecting computer devices and, more specifically, where the apparatus comprises a" first connector, a cable assembly, a converter adapter and a second connector. 2. Description of Related Art.Figure 1 is a schematic illustration of a host or local mainframe computer or mainframe 2 connected to a first remote peripheral device or peripheral 4 which in turn is connected to a second remote peripheral device or peripheral 6 in a typical conventional manner. A pair of conventional bus and tag electrical assemblies 8 and 10, respectively, interconnect one channel between the mainframe 2 and the first peripheral 4. Similarly, a pair of conventional bus and tag electrical assemblies 8 and 10, respectively, interconnect one channel between the first peripheral 4 and the second peripheral 6. The bus and tag electrical assemblies 8 and 10 include a plurality of bus and tag lines. The bus lines are used to transmit information including data, I/O-device address, commands, and control information. The tag lines are used for interlocking and controlling information on the bus lines and for special sequences. For a more detailed description of the bus and tag lines and their uses see Publication 

 GA22-6974-09 entitled International Business Machines (IBM) System/360 and System/370 I/O Interface Channel to Control Unit Original Equipment Manufacturers' Information. Additional peripherals can be connected in series to the second peripheral 6 in a similar manner.The mainframe 2 represents an IBM 360, 370, 3XX, 30XX, or ES/9000 mainframe computer, or a plug compatible mainframe. The peripherals 4,6 are plug compatible with the mainframe 2 and can be disk drives, tape drives, servers, printers or the like. The mainframe 2 and peripherals 4,6 have internal bus and tag serpent connectors 12-19, respectively, which mate with corresponding bus and tag serpent connectors 22-29, respectively, on ends of the electrical assemblies 8,10. The internal bus and tag serpent connectors 12-19 may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 £ AIM£ What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for use in connecting a first computer device and a second computer device through a dual line cable assembly, the first and second computer devices having first and second electrical interfaces having a plurality of rows and columns of bus and tag inputs and outputs, comprising: a first bus and tag sub-assembly including: a first connector for mating with the first interface in the first device, a first multi-line cable assembly having a first end and a second end, the first end connected to the first connector assembly, a first converter adapter connected to the multi-line cable assembly second end, a second connector connected to the converter adapter, the second connector assembly for mating with the second interface in the first device, and the first converter adapter including integrated circuit means for (1) multiplexing and then serializing parallel bus and tag information received from the first and second interfaces in the first device and sending such multiplexed serial information over a first line of the dual line cable assembly to the second computer device and (2) deserializing and then demultiplexing serial bus and tag information received through a second line of the dual line cable assembly and sending such parallel and demultiplexed information to the first and second interfaces of the first device.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising: a dual line cable assembly having a first line and a second line, a first end of the dual line cable assembly connected to the first converter adapter; and a second bus and tag sub-assembly including:
^ 


 a third connector for mating with the first interface in the second device, a second multi-line cable assembly having a first end and a second end, the first end connected to the third connector, a second converter adapter connected to the second cable assembly second end and a second end of the dual line cable assembly, a fourth connector connected to the second converter adapter, . the fourth connector for mating with the second interface in the second device, and the second converter adapter including integrated circuit means for (1) multiplexing and then serializing parallel bus and tag information received from the first and second interfaces in the second device and sending such multiplexed serial information over the second line of the dual line cable assembly and (2) deserializing and then demultiplexing serial bus and tag information received through the second line of the dual line cable assembly and sending such parallel and demultiplexed information to the first and second interfaces of the second device.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the bus and tag sub- assembly is electo-optic.
4. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein the bus and tag sub- assemblies are electo-optic and the dual line cable assembly is a fiber optic cable assembly.
5. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein the dual line cable assembly is an electrical cable assembly.
6. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the first and/or the second connector is a bus or tag adapter which converts a first or external wiring/terminal connection scheme, grid or geometry to a second or internal wiring/terminal scheme, grid or geometry. 


 7. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein the first, the second, the third and/or the fourth connectors are bus or tag adapters which convert a first or external wiring/terminal connection scheme, grid or geometry to a second or internal wiring/terminal scheme, grid or geometry.
8. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the second connector connected to the first converter adapter can be contained within a box approximately 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) by 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) by 4.5 inches (11.43 centimeters) .
9. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the integrated circuit means further emulates TAG signals to reduce apparatus including cable induced delays.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the integrated circuit means comprises: an erasable programmable logic device, a nonerasable programmable logic device, or a custom design programmable logic device; a transmitter section including a serializer for receiving a plurality of parallel multiplexed signals from the programmable device over conductive paths, encoding the signals, serializing the signals, converting the signals to emitter coupled logic (ECL) levels and shifting the converted signals out on a conductive path; and a receiver section including a deserializer for receiving serialized signals and continuously deserializing, decoding and latching parallel data through parallel conductive paths to the programmable device.
11. The apparatus of Claim 10, wherein the converter adapter further comprises: a printed circuit board with conductive paths;
<

 one or more fifth connector connecting the second end of the first multi-line cable assembly and some of the conductive paths; one or more sixth connector connecting the second connector and some of the conductive paths; one or more seventh connector for connecting some of the conductive paths to one or more power sources; a receiver connector connected to some of the conductive paths and for connecting to a connector on one end of the dual line cable assembly to receive signals over one of the lines in the dual line cable assembly; and a transmitter connector connected to some of the conductive paths and for connecting to the connector on the end of the cable assembly to send signals over the other one of the lines in the dual line cable assembly.
12. The apparatus of Claim 11, wherein the converter adapter further comprises: terminator networks connected by some of the paths to the fifth and sixth connectors; and line drivers/receivers connected by some of the paths to the terminator networks and to programmable device.
13. The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein the transmitter section further comprises: an ECL to current translator connected by paths to the serializer and the transmitter connector.
14. The apparatus of Claim 13, wherein the receiver section further comprises: a photodiode and preamplifier for converting optical light pulses received from the dual line cable assembly to an analog voltage output; and a data quantizer connected by paths to the photodiode and preamplifier and the deserializer, the data quantizer amplifies and converts the analog voltage signals to a constant level output that is ECL compatible.
is 


 15. An apparatus for use in connecting a first computer device and a second computer device through a dual line cable assembly, the first and second computer devices having first and second electrical interfaces having a plurality of rows and columns of bus and tag inputs and outputs, comprising: a first connector for connecting to the second interface in the first device; a converter adapter adjacent and connected to the first connector, the converter adapter comprising: a printed circuit board with conductive paths; one or more second connector connected to some of the conductive paths and for receiving signals from the first interface in the first device; one or more third connector connecting the first connector and some of the conductive paths; one or more fourth connector for connecting some of the conductive paths to one or more power sources; a receiver connector connected to some of the conductive paths and for connecting to a connector on one end of the dual line cable assembly to receive signals over one of the lines in the dual line cable assembly; and a transmitter connector connected to some of the conductive paths and for connecting to the connector on the end of the cable assembly to send signals over the other one of the lines in the dual line cable assembly; terminator networks connected by some of the paths to the second and third connectors; line drivers/receivers connected by some of the paths to the terminator networks; integrated circuit means connected to the line drivers/receivers and for (1) multiplexing and then serializing parallel bus and tag information received from the first and second interfaces in the first device and sending such multiplexed serial information over a first line of the dual line cable assembly and (2) deserializing and then demultiplexing serial bus and tag information received through a second line of the dual line cable 



assembly from the second computer device and sending such parallel and demultiplexed information to the first and second interfaces of the first device, /herein the integrated circuit means comprises: an erasable programmable logic device, a nonerasable programmable logic device, or a custom design programmable logic device, the device connected by some of the paths to the line drivers/receivers; a transmitter section including; a serializer for receiving a plurality of parallel multiplexed signals from the programmable device over conductive paths, encoding the signals, serializing the signals, converting the signals to emitter coupled logic (ECL) levels and shifting the converted signals out on a conductive path; and an ECL to current translator connected by paths to the serializer and the transmitter connector; and a receiver section including a deserializer for receiving serialized signals and continuously deserializing, decoding and latching parallel data through parallel conductive paths to the programmable device.
16. An apparatus for use in connecting a first computer device and a second computer device through a dual line cable assembly, the first and second computer devices having first and second electrical interfaces having a plurality of rows and columns of bus and tag inputs and outputs, comprising: a first bus and tag sub-assembly including: a first connector for mating with the first interface in the first device, a first converter adapter connected to the first connector, a first multi-line cable assembly having a first end and a second end, the first end connected to the first converter adapter,
7' 


 a second converter adapter connected to the multi-line cable assembly second end, a second connector connected to the second converter adapter, the second connector assembly for mating with the second interface in the first device, and the first and second converter adapter including integrated circuit means for (1) multiplexing and then serializing parallel bus and tag information received from the first and second interfaces in the first device and sending such multiplexed serial information over a first line of the dual line cable assembly to the second computer device and (2) deserializing and then demultiplexing serial bus and tag information received through a second line of the dual line cable assembly and sending such parallel and demultiplexed information to the first and second interfaces of the first device.
17. An apparatus for use in connecting a first computer device and a second computer device through a pair of dual line cable assemblies, the first and second computer devices having first and second electrical interfaces having a plurality of rows and columns of bus and tag inputs and outputs, comprising: a first connector for mating with the first interface in the first device; a first converter adapter connected to the first connector; a second connector for mating with the first interface in the second device; a second converter adapter connected to the second connector; a first dual line cable assembly having a first line and a second line, a first end of the first dual line cable assembly connected to the first converter adapter and a second end of the first dual line cable assembly connected to the second converter adapter; a third connector for mating with the second interface in the first device;
7f 


 a third converter adapter connected to the third connector; a fourth connector for mating with the second interface in the second device; a fourth converter adapter connected to the fourth connector; a second dual line cable assembly having a first line and a second line, a first end of the second dual line cable assembly connected to the third converter adapter and a second end of the second dual line cable assembly connected to the fourth converter adapter; and the converter adapters including integrated circuit means for (1) multiplexing and then serializing parallel bus and tag information received from the first and second interfaces in either the first device or the second device and sending such multiplexed serial information over the dual line cable assemblies and (2) deserializing and then demultiplexing serial bus and tag information received through the dual line cable assemblies and sending such parallel and demultiplexed information to the first and second interfaces of the either the first device or the second device.
7 ? 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
