<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655140</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WINDSHEAR RADAR TEST SYSTEMS AND METHODS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S740	G01S740	G01S1300	G01S1395	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S7	G01S7	G01S13	G01S13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A portable test system is arranged to enable testing of an aircraft-mounted radar system. Simulated radar returns are transmitted via a test antenna positioned a short distance from an aircraft parked on an airport surface. The varying amplitude of received radar pulses is analyzed as the test antenna is illuminated by the main beam and side lobes of the radar antenna pattern as the radar beam is scanned. By controlling the amplitude of the simulated radar returns in inverse relation to the amplitude of received radar pulses, simulated radar returns inserted off beam center line are interpreted by the radar system as received on the beam center line. Test system transmissions, which may incorporate windshear effect test data, are thus enabled to create simulated effects usable for testing radar system response to a variety of airborne conditions, such as windshear. Test methods are also described.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REPUBLIC ELECTRONICS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REPUBLIC ELECTRONICS CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHAELS JOHN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUBIN WILLIAM F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHAELS, JOHN, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUBIN, WILLIAM, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 WINDSHEAR RADAR TEST SYSTEMS AND METHODSThe invention relates to systems and methods for the testing of operational capabilities of radar systems. More particularly, economical testing of aircraft-mounted windshear detection radar is enabled by operation of a portable test set placed in front of the radar while the aircraft is parked on the ground.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIncreasingly, the potential dangers inherent in operation of commercial and other aircraft in the presence or vicinity of dangerous windshear conditions are being recognized. With such recognition and the development of data representative of the presence of airborne windshear conditions, the capabilities of airborne radar systems have been adapted for detection of conditions indicative of windshear. Two attributes of such detection are significant. First, the indicative conditions are difficult to detect and evaluate when present, thereby requiring regular testing of radar systems to ensure that operation is adequate to meet relevant windshear detection standards. Also, actual windshear conditions are relatively rare and unpredictable, so that the simulation of indicative conditions must be reliably employed in radar system testing. These and other relevant factors establish the need for reliable test systems and methods for field testing aircraft-installed windshear radar systems accurately, reliably, without radar system disassembly, without extended out of service periods, and without requiring complex test equipment or test set ups.The flight hazard represented by the presence of windshear conditions may be represented by a so-called "F-factor". The F-factor has been used as a non- dimensional hazard index directly related to the rate of 

climb capability, or lack thereof, of an aircraft in windshear. Negative values of F indicate a performance- increasing situation and positive values indicate increasingly threatening conditions. Under windshear conditions in a microburst downdraft region with wind vertically downward, a positive F-factor will indicate a potentially dangerous situation.An airborne windshear detection radar typically derives horizontal wind velocity values by Doppler measurement of radar returns from aerosols, raindrops and other materials which may be dispersed in the air (all of which tend to move with the same velocity and direction as the horizontal air movement or wind) . Differences in horizontal wind velocity as a function of range thus permit estimation of the rate of change of the horizontal component
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A portable test system, providing simulated radar returns for testing a radar system radiating radar pulse signals in a scanned antenna beam pattern, comprising: a test antenna suitable for positioning at a predetermined distance from said radar system for illumination by radar pulse signals of varying amplitude via said scanned antenna beam pattern; transmitter means for radiating simulated radar returns via said test antenna; receiver means, coupled to said test antenna, for processing received radar pulse signals of varying amplitude; modulator means, coupled to said test antenna, for providing simulated radar return signals to said transmitter in timed response to said received radar pulse signals; test data means, coupled to said modulator means, for storing test data to be included in said simulated radar return signals; memory means for storing radar data representative of selected characteristics of said radar pulse signals and scanned antenna beam pattern; and signal processing means, coupled to said receiver means and responsive to said radar data stored in said memory means, for controlling amplitude of said simulated radar return signals in inverse relation to said varying amplitude of said received radar pulse signals and for selectively controlling inclusion of test data in said simulated radar return signals; whereby, said simulated radar returns are time and inverse amplitude coordinated with said received radar pulse signals of varying amplitude. 2. A portable test system as in claim 1, wherein said test antenna is proportioned and arranged to be 


supported on an airport surface in front of an aircraft- mounted radar antenna in the vicinity of the beginning of the far field range of said radar antenna.
3. A portable test system as in claim 1, wherein said transmitter means comprises a mixer and filter combination coupled to a local oscillator.
4. A portable test system as in claim 1, wherein said receiver means comprises a crystal receiver providing a video frequency output directly from said received radar pulse signals.
5. A portable test system as in claim 1, wherein said modulator means comprises a surface acoustic wave delay line providing a plurality of time delayed pulses in response to each of said received radar pulse signals.
6. A portable test system as in claim 1, wherein said modulator means comprises a variable gain amplifier responsive to gain control signals inversely related to said varying amplitude of said received radar pulse signals.
7. A portable test system as in claim 1, additionally comprising an analog-to-digital converter, coupled to said receiver means, for sampling each pulse of said received radar pulse signals having an amplitude exceeding a predetermined threshold level to provide radar data representative of the relative amplitudes of said sampled pulses.
8. A portable test system as in claim 7, wherein said signal processing means utilizes said radar data from said analog-to-digital converter to derive a value representative of a least one of the following characteristics of said radar system: radar signal pulse width; radar peak power; antenna beam pattern; and antenna scan rate. 9. A portable test system as in claim 8, additionally comprising a display, coupled to said signal processing means, for displaying data 


representative of at least one of said characteristics derived by said signal processing means.
10. A portable test system, providing simulated windshear returns for testing a radar system radiating radar pulse signals in a scanned antenna beam pattern, comprising: a test antenna suitable for positioning at a predetermined distance from said radar system for illumination by radar pulse signals of varying amplitude via said scanned antenna beam pattern; transmitter means for radiating simulated windshear returns via said test antenna; receiver means, coupled to said test antenna, for processing received radar pulse signals of varying amplitude; modulator means, coupled to said test antenna, utilizing a tapped delay line providing a plurality of delayed pulse signals for providing simulated windshear return signals to said transmitter in response to said received radar pulse signals; test data means, coupled to said modulator means, for storing windshear test data to be included in said simulated windshear return signals; memory means for storing radar data representative of selected characteristics of said radar pulse signals and scanned antenna beam pattern; and signal processing means, coupled to said receiver means and responsive to said radar data stored in said memory means, for determining the amplitude of the largest received radar pulse signal as a reference amplitude, for controlling amplitude of said simulated windshear return signals in relation to a comparison of said varying amplitude with said reference amplitude, and for selectively controlling inclusion of windshear test data in said simulated windshear return signals.
11. A method for testing a radar system radiating radar pulse signals in a scanned antenna beam pattern, 


by transmitting simulated radar return signals, comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving a first radar pulse signal having a first amplitude, a second radar pulse signal having a second amplitude and successive radar pulse signals of different amplitudes as said antenna beam pattern is scanned across a fixed test position;
(b) providing a base signal having predetermined timing relative to the time of receiving said first radar pulse signal in step (a) ;
(c) modifying said step (b) base signal by inclusion of test data to provide a simulated radar return signal;
(d) amplifying said step (c) simulated radar return signal by a gain value representative of the difference between said first amplitude and a predetermined reference amplitude;
(e) transmitting said simulated radar return signal from said fixed test position toward said radar system after said step (d) amplifying of said signal; and
(f) repeating steps (b) through (e) for at least said second radar pulse signal having said second amplitude. 12. A method as in claim 11, wherein said step (b) base signal is provided as a plurality of pulses which are replicas of said first radar pulse signal.
13. A method as in claim 11, wherein step (c) comprises modifying said base signal by inclusion of test data representing a windshear effect.
14. A method as in claim 11, wherein step (d) comprises amplifying said simulated radar return signal by a gain value representative of the difference between said first amplitude and a reference amplitude representative of the largest radar pulse signal received during a complete scan of the radar antenna. 


 15. A method as in claim 11, including the additional step of observing radar performance on an in- aircraft radar display in order to evaluate radar system performance based upon receipt of said simulated radar return signals by said radar system. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
