<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631711</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM FOR CHARACTERIZING AC PROPERTIES OF A PROCESSING PLASMA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05H146	H01J3732	H01J3732	C23F400	C23C1454	C23F400	H05H146	H05H100	C23C1454	H05H100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05H	H01J	H01J	C23F	C23C	C23F	H05H	H05H	C23C	H05H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05H1	H01J37	H01J37	C23F4	C23C14	C23F4	H05H1	H05H1	C23C14	H05H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Probe (5) to be inserted in-line in an AC plasma processing system (3) allows accurate, real time determination of plasma parameters such as power and complex impedance over a broad dynamic range. Any need to know power output from a source is avoided and signals are selected to optimize accuracy such that only two alternating signals need be sensed for many applications. Signals are selected such that magnitudes of simple alternating signals can be easily measured as scalar values in a fashion that affords the use of these values to completely characterize the power actually delivered to the processing plasma (2) and its complex impedance in real time. Plasma characterization can be limited to only specific frequencies for more accurate determination. Microstrip directional couplers are used to sense signals from the power transmission. These signals are then utilized to derive simple alternating signals representative of power or voltage. Three or more scalar values representative of the magnitude of the alternating signals and their combination serve as the variable inputs to determine complex reflection coefficient or impedance using known formulas. Use of a sign bit detector or assumptions with respect to the processing plasma (2) is disclosed for complete characterization of the plasma in an efficient manner.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED ENERGY IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED ENERGY INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HECKMAN RANDY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HECKMAN, RANDY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the accurate measurement of the
characteristics of a processing plasma powered by alternating currents such as is
used in thin film processing. Specifically, the invention focuses upon accurately
determining alternating current characteristics such as delivered power and
complex impedance throughout the broad dynamic ranges typically encountered
during plasma processing.The technique of material processing through the utilization of plasmas has
been known for many years. In one application, it may involve the production of
thin films on a surface through the action of the plasma, while in another it may
involve the etching of those same films, also through the action of the plasma. In
recent years the commercial demand for the equipment involved has increased
significantly as its application to the creation of microchips and other semiconducting
devices has been refined. Basically the technique involves the ignition
and maintenance of a processing plasma through the application of electric power
to the plasma. The plasma then interacts with gases introduced and the surfaces
involved to effect the processing desired.Since the dynamics of the plasma itself and its effect on the gases and
surfaces involved are rather complex, this entire field has evolved in a unique
fashion from a number of perspectives. First, due to the increasing complexity of
the semiconductor device often manufactured, tighter and tighter control of the
process itself has been required. To this end, processes which were previously
thermal or liquid (wet) chemical processes have been converted to plasma
processes. Most of these are processes using alternating current driven processing
plasmas. A second characteristic of the field involved is that this field has evolved
with a primary focus upon the plasma itself, not the circuitry involved. Although
those skilled in the art have long desired certain refinements in electrical circuitry
and capabilities, the suppliers of AC power generation equipment and handling
equipment for plasma processing have generally applied techniques long known in
the communication field, without always recognizing the differences between the
nonlinear plasma load and the linear antenna (the usual load for communications
equipment). While plasma-oriented physicists and chemists have greatly expanded
the understanding of the processes involved, advancements with respect to the
alternating power supplied and the circuits involved have not occurred to the same
degree.As
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an
alternating power transmission, 
characterized by
:

sensing at least two signals from said alternating
power transmission while passing a substantial portion

of said alternating power transmission through to said
plasma, wherein each of said signals is representative

of either a voltage, current or power signal;
deriving at least three alternating signals from said
sensed signals;
measuring at least three scalar values from said
alternating signals wherein each of said scalar values

are representative of the magnitude of the alternating
signals; and
manipulating said measured scalar values as variable
inputs to determine at least one electrical

characteristic of the plasma.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 1 and further comprising the step of limiting

the content of said scalar values to that of only a specific frequency.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 2 wherein said step of limiting the content

of said scalar values to that of only a specific frequency is accomplished prior
to measuring said scalar values.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 1 or 3 wherein said step of manipulating

said measured scalar values as variable inputs to characterize the plasma
comprises the step of ascertaining the power delivered to said plasma.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 1 or 3 wherein said alternating power

transmission created by a power source having an output level, wherein said
power transmission is both accepted and passed through by a probe which

also accomplishes the step of manipulating said measured scalar values as
variable inputs to characterize the plasma and wherein the level of said output

level is unknown to said probe.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 1 or 3 wherein said plasma is 
characterized
by
 a parameter having a positive or negative sign and wherein said step of
manipulating said scalar signals to characterize said plasma comprises the

steps of:

a. calculating the absolute value of said parameter of the plasma through
utilization of said scalar values; and
b. determining the sign of said parameter of said plasma through assuming
the sign of said parameter of the plasma.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein said
three scalar values are derived by sensing a first signal

from said alternating power transmission, deriving a first
alternating signal from said first signal, and measuring a

first scalar value from said first alternating signal
wherein said first scalar value is representative of the

magnitude of said first alternating signal; sensing a

second signal from said alternating power transmission,
deriving a second alternating signal from said second

signal, and measuring a second scalar value from said
second alternating signal wherein said second scalar value

is representative of the magnitude of the second
alternating signal; and combining said first and said

second alternating signals to create a third alternating
signal and measuring a third scalar value representative

of the magnitude of said third alternating signal.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 7 and further comprising the step of limiting

the content of said scalar values to that of only a specific frequency.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 7 wherein said first signal is representative

of the sum of a voltage across said plasma and a multiple of the current
passing through to said plasma, and wherein said second alternating signal is

representative of the difference between said voltage across said plasma and
said multiple of the current passing through to said plasma.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 1 wherein said step of sensing at least two

signals from said alternating power transmission comprises the step of sensing
three signals. 
A method according to any 
of
 claims 7 to 10 wherein said
first signal is representative of the sum of a voltage

across said plasma and a multiple of the current passing
through to said plasma; said second signal is

representative of the difference between said voltage and
said multiple; and wherein there is ascertained a third

alternating signal wherefrom there is measured a third
scalar value representative of the magnitude of said third

alternating signal.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 11 wherein said step of ascertaining said

third alternating signal comprises the step of combining said first and said
second alternating signals to create a third alternating signal.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 12 and further comprising the step of 

limiting the content of said third alternating signal to that of only said specific
frequency.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 13 wherein said step of limiting the content

of said third alternating signal comprises the step of combining said first and
second alternating signals after accomplishing said step of limiting the content

of said first and second alternating signals.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 13 wherein said step of combining said first

and second alternating signals is accomplished before accomplishing said step
of limiting the content of said first and second alternating signals.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 11 wherein said step of ascertaining said

third alternating signal comprises the steps of:

a. sensing a third signal from said alternating power transmission; and
b. deriving a third alternating signal from said third signal.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 16 and further comprising the step of

limiting the content of said third signal to that of only said specific frequency.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 9 or 11 wherein said alternating power

transmission has a voltage and wherein each of said first and second scalar
values are proportional to said voltage.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 9 or 11 wherein said first and second

signals have an angle between them and wherein said step of manipulating 
said first, second, and third scalar values to characterize said plasma

comprises the step of ascertaining the angle between said first and second
signals.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 9 or 11 wherein said plasma has a complex

impedance and wherein said step of manipulating said first, second, and third
scalar values to characterize said plasma comprises the step of ascertaining

the complex impedance of said plasma.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 9 or 11 wherein said plasma has a reflection

coefficient and wherein said step of manipulating said first, second, and third
scalar values to characterize said plasma comprises the step of ascertaining

the reflection coefficient of said plasma.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 21 and further comprising the step of

manipulating said first and second scalar values to ascertain the power
delivered to said plasma.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 9 or 11 wherein said power transmission is

created by a power source having an output level, wherein said manipulation
is accomplished by a probe and wherein said output level by the power source

is unknown to said probe.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 11 wherein said step of limiting the content

of said first signal to that of only a specific frequency comprises the step of
filtering said first signal prior to measuring said first scalar value and wherein

said step of limiting the content of said second signal to that of only a specific
frequency comprises the step of filtering said second signal prior to measuring said second scalar value. 
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 9 or 11 wherein said plasma has a variable

parameter having a positive or negative sign and wherein said step of
manipulating said first, second, and third scalar values to characterize said

plasma comprises the step of:

a. calculating the absolute value of said parameter of the plasma; and
b. determining the sign of said parameter of said plasma through assuming
the sign of said parameter of the plasma.
A method of characterizing a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 3 or 11 wherein said step of limiting the

content comprises the step of filtering, converting to a different signal through
utilization of a coherent oscillator, converting to a different signal through

utilization of a non-coherent oscillator and then filtering, or synchronously
detecting values.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an

alternating power transmission comprising:

a. a means for accepting a power transmission;
b. a means for sensing at least two signals from said
power transmission provided by said means for

accepting while passing a substantial portion of said
power transmission from said means for accepting to

said plasma, wherein said signals are representative
of either voltage, current or power;
c. a means for deriving at least three alternating 
signals from said signals provided by said means for

sensing;
d. a means for measuring at least three scalar values
from said alternating signals wherein said scalar

values are representative of the magnitude of the
alternating signals; and
e. a means for manipulating said measured scalar values
as variable inputs to determine at least one

electrical characteristic of the plasma from the set
of electrical characteristics which include at least:

complex impedance, complex reflection coefficient,
power, voltage, current, phase angle between the load

voltage and load current, or any mathematical
alteration of at least one of these characteristics.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 27 and further comprising a means for

limiting the content of said sensed scalar values to that of only a specific
frequency.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 28 wherein said means for sensing

comprises:

a. a means for sensing a first signal; and
b. a means for sensing a second signal;

and wherein said means for deriving alternating signals comprises:

a. a means for deriving a first alternating signal from said first signal
provided by said means for sensing said first signal;
b. a means for deriving a second alternating signal from said second signal
provided by said means for sensing said second signal; and 
c. a means for deriving a third alternating signal;

and wherein said means for measuring scalar values representative of the
magnitude of the sensed signals comprises:


a. a means for measuring a first scalar value representative of the
magnitude of the first alternating signal;
b. a means for measuring a second scalar value representative of the
magnitude of the second alternating signal; and
c. a means for measuring a third scalar value representative of the
magnitude of the third alternating signal.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 29 wherein said means for deriving the third

alternating signal comprises a means for combining said first and second
alternating signals.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 29 and further comprising a means for

sensing a third signal.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 29 wherein the first alternating signal is

representative of the sum of a voltage across said plasma and a multiple of the
current passing through to said plasma, and wherein said second alternating

signal is representative of the difference between said voltage across said
plasma and said multiple of the current passing through to said plasma. 
A circuit according to any of claims 27 to 32 wherein said
means for sensing, deriving and measuring comprise a means

for sensing a first signal from said power transmission
provided by said means for accepting, a means for deriving

a first alternating signal from said first signal provided
by said means for sensing said first signal, and a means

for measuring a first scalar value representative of the
magnitude of said first alternating signal; a means for

sensing a second signal from said power transmission
provided by said means for accepting, a means for deriving

a second alternating signal from said second signal
provided by said means for sensing said second signal, and

a means for measuring a second scalar value representative
of the magnitude of said second alternating signal; and a

means for combining said first and said second alternating
signals to create a third alternating signal and a means

for measuring a third scalar value representative of the
magnitude of said third alternating signal.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 27 wherein said means for sensing

comprises:

a. a means for sensing a first signal;
b. a means for sensing a second signal; and
c. a means for sensing a third signal;

and wherein said means for deriving alternating signals comprises:

a. a means for deriving a first alternating signal from said first signal
provided by said means for sensing said first signal;
b. a means for deriving a second alternating signal from said second signal 
provided by said means for sensing said second signal; and
c. a means for deriving a third alternating signal from said third signal
provided by said means for sensing said third signal;

and wherein said means for measuring scalar values representative of the
magnitude of the sensed signals comprises:


a. a means for measuring a first scalar value representative of the
magnitude of the first alternating signal;
b. a means for measuring a second scalar value representative of the
magnitude of the second alternating signal; and 
c. a means for measuring a third scalar value representative of the
magnitude of the third alternating signal.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 33 or 34 wherein the first alternating signal

is representative of the sum of a voltage across said plasma and a multiple of
the current passing through to said plasma, and wherein said second

alternating signal is representative of the difference between said voltage
across said plasma and said multiple of the current passing through to said

plasma.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 35 wherein said means for limiting the

content comprises:

a. a means for limiting the content of said first scalar value to that of only
a specific frequency; and
b. a means for limiting the content of said second scalar value to that of
only a specific frequency.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 28 wherein said means for limiting the

content of said scalar signals to that of only a specific frequency comprises a
filter, a coherent oscillator, a non-coherent oscillator and a filter, or a

synchronous detector.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 36 wherein said means for limiting the

content of said scalar signals to that of only a specific frequency comprises a

filter, a coherent oscillator, a non-coherent oscillator and a filter, or a
synchronous detector.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power 
transmission as described in claim 27, 28, or 33 wherein said means for

manipulating is contained within a probe, and wherein said power transmission
has an output level and wherein said output level is unknown to said probe.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 29, 31, or 33 and further comprising:


a. a means for sensing a fourth signal from said power transmission;
b. a means for deriving a fourth alternating signal from said fourth signal;
and
c. a means for measuring a fourth scalar value representative of the
magnitude of said fourth alternating signal.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 40 wherein the aspect which said fourth

scalar value represents is selected to overcome any ambiguity in characterizing
said plasma.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 34 and further comprising:


a. a means for limiting the content of said first signal to a specific
frequency wherein said means for limiting said first signal is connected

between said means for sensing said first signal and said means for
measuring said first scalar value;
b. a means for limiting the content of said second signal to said specific
frequency wherein said means for limiting said second signal is

connected between said means for sensing said second signal and said
means for measuring said second scalar value;
c. a means for limiting the content of said third signal to said specific 
frequency wherein said means for limiting said third signal is connected

between said means for sensing said third signal and said means for
measuring said third scalar value;
d. a means for sensing a fourth signal from said power transmission;
e. a means for deriving a fourth alternating signal from said fourth signal;
f. a means for limiting the content of said fourth signal to said specific
frequency wherein said means for limiting said fourth signal is

connected between said means for sensing said fourth signal and said
means for measuring said fourth scalar value;
g. a means for measuring a fourth scalar value representative of the
magnitude of said fourth alternating signal.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 33 wherein said means for sensing a first

signal and said means for sensing a second signal each comprise a directional
coupler.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 43 wherein said means for combining

comprises an in-phase combiner connected to said first and said second
alternating signals.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 29, 33, or 43 wherein said wherein said

plasma is contained within a processing chamber having an input, wherein said
means for sensing a first signal is responsive to said input, and wherein said

means for sensing a second signal is responsive to said input.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 43 wherein said third scalar value is

representative of a plasma voltage and wherein said means for combining
comprises two substantially equal high impedance resistors connected after 

said means for sensing said first and said second signals.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 27 wherein at least two of said sensed

signals have an angle between them, and wherein said means for manipulating
said measured scalar values as variable inputs to characterize the plasma

comprises a means for determining the angle between said two sensed signals.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 47 wherein said means for determining the

angle between said two signals comprises a sign detector.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 48 wherein said sign detector comprises a

preset input.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 47 wherein said means for determining said

angle comprises two in-phase splitters, a zero crossing detector and a D flip-flop,
or a phase detector.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 33 or 43 wherein at least two of said

sensed signals have an angle between them, and wherein said means for
manipulating said measured scalar values as variable inputs to characterize the

plasma comprises a means for determining the angle between said two sensed
signals.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 51 wherein said means for determining the

angle between said two signals comprises a sign detector. 
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 52 wherein said sign detector comprises a

preset input.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 51 wherein said means for determining said

angle comprises two in-phase splitters, a zero crossing detector and a D flip-flop,
or a phase detector.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 51 wherein said means for combining

comprises a node connected to said first and second alternating signals.
A circuit to characterize a plasma being subjected to an alternating power
transmission as described in claim 54 wherein said means for combining

comprises a node connected to said first and second alternating signals.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
