<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613600</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRANSACTION BASED INTERACTIVE TELEVISION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F1312	A63F1312	G09B700	G09B706	H04H2031	H04H2038	H04N7087	H04N7088	H04N714	H04N714	H04N716	H04N716	H04N7173	H04N7173	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	G09B	G09B	H04H	H04H	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F13	A63F13	G09B7	G09B7	H04H20	H04H20	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transaction based interactive television system (20) includes an insertion system (22) for inserting in a preferred embodiment coded interactive information in the vertical blanking interval of a standard television signal. The signal is received and decoded by a decoded system (24) which includes a settop decoder (30) which sends an infrared signal to a handheld device (28). The viewer using the handheld device (28) can interact with a game, sports, or educational or event or other presentation on television. The system includes proprietary high level command language and a proprietary set of PIU tables which are maintained in non-volatile memory (74) of the handheld device (28). The PIU tables store the transaction of the various events presented on the television. The PIU tables allow the various events to be broken down into a number of transactions. Thus, for a sports event with interleaved commercials, a number of PIU tables would be used to store a collection of transactions used for the main event and additional PIU tables are used for storing transactions for each of the various interleaved commercials.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to an
interactive communication system and in particular,
one adapted for use with existing broadcast, cable,
and satellite television or radio or other
communication systems for allowing participants and
viewers to interact with the system in order, by way
of example only, to shop, enter into games of skill,
and engage in educational presentations and other
events where information is provided and the
participant or viewer can make an appropriate response
thereto.Many products have been introduced that
provide the capability for the viewer to participate
in television programs. These products accept cue
signals transmitted to handheld devices that measure
and control the response of the viewers as the viewers
participate in the program. Some of these devices 
implement hardware that monitors the response or the
results of responses accumulated over time and reports
the results to a central site. One of the early
embodiments of this technology was the QUBE
interactive two-way television system introduced by
Warner Communications at least as early as 1982.
Other systems include the INDAX system field tested at
least as early as 1984 by Cox Communications, and the
Interactive Networks System field tested during 1990
and 1991.The Interactive Network System is at least
in part described in U.S. Patent No. 4,592,546 which
is entitled "GAME OF SKILL PLAYABLE BY A REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS IN CONJUNCTION WITH A LIVE EVENT" and
issued on June 3, 1986. This system, in one
embodiment, contemplates the use of the vertical
blanking interval of the standard NTSC television
signal for downloading to a remote viewer's handheld
device game play or other interactive instructions.
In addition over the vertical blanking interval (VBI)
a lock-out signal can be sent to prevent scores from
being credited after the answer to the event has been
presented on the screen. This system demonstrates the
capability of having the scores accumulate throughout
the television presentation, then allows the final
scores to be burst back as, for example, digital data
over a modem after the program is completed and during
a time interval which is significantly less than the
total time interval of the program.All of the above products fall generally
within one of two categories of product. The first
category consists of software that is coded in
firmware in a remote participant's handheld device
where the participant can start playing along with the
interactive program as soon as the program begins. 
The second
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
e Claim:
1. An interactive presentation system comprising: means for receiving at a remote location interactive data in association with a presentation of an event; means for defining transaction structures (1) for allowing the interactive data to be communicated only as needed for each particular aspect of an event and throughout the event such that there is no interruption of the event and (2) for allowing events and aspects within any event to be interleaved while maintaining interactivity with each event; and means for reporting the results of the interactivity.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said receiving means includes: a settop decoder for decoding interactive data received in conjunction with a signal for the event; a handheld terminal for allowing the user to interact with the event; and means for providing communications between the settop decoder and the handheld terminal.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said transaction structures includes: means for storing an identification for each of a plurality of transaction tables; means for storing at least a portion of the interactive data; and means for storing a user response to the interactive data. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 1 including: said interactive data includes (1) interactive commands and (2) event specific data associated with each specific event or aspect of each event; wherein said interactive data associated with each specific event or aspect of each event is stored in the transaction structures; and said system including processor means for processing the interactive commands in order to control the interactive presentation.
5. The apparatus of claim 4 including: said receiving means including a message display; and said interactive commands in conjunction with the processor means for causing messages to be displayed on said message display.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein: said receiving means can receive messages to be displayed and said transaction structures can store received messages; and said interactive commands for causing selectively either a received message or a stored message to be displayed in order to initiate or continue with an interactive presentation.
7. The apparatus of claim 1 including; said means for defining transaction structures for allowing one transaction to be used interactively by a user while a subsequent transaction is being received by the receiving means for subsequent use by the user.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 8. The apparatus of claim 1 including: said receiving means including means for decoding interactive data encoded in the vertical blanking interval of a television signal in order to receive the interactive data in association with the presentation of an event.
9. The apparatus of claim 2 including: said communicating means including an infrared encoder and transmitter associated with the settop decoder and an infrared receiver and decoder associated with the handheld terminal.
10. The apparatus of claim 1 including: said receiving means including means for receiving the interactive data at a high data rate and for substantially reducing the data rate so that the data can be accurately received by the transaction structures defining means.
11. The apparatus of claim 1 including: said receiving means and said transaction structures defining means for additionally allowing the interactive data to be received in a manner that is transparent to a viewer of the event.
12. An interactive presentation system comprising: means for receiving interactive data which includes commands and event specific data as needed according throughout the presentation of an event in accordance with the specific requirements of any particular aspect of the event; means for storing the event specific data; 


 means for acting responsive to the commands in order to use the event specific data to allow a viewer to interact with a presentation.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 including: means for presenting messages; said means for acting upon said commands for causing the message presenting means to display at least one of a message sent in association with the commands and a message prestored as part of the event specific data.
14. The apparatus of claim 12 including: said means for acting upon said commands for initiating and controlling the ability of the viewer to interact with a presentation and for controlling the event specific data.
15. The apparatus .of 12 including: said means for storing event specific data including means for defining transaction structures (1) for allowing the interactive event specific data to be communicated only as needed for each particular aspect of an event and throughout the event such that there is no interruption of the event and (2) for allowing events and aspects within any event to be interleaved while maintaining interactivity with each event.
16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein: said receiving means includes a settop decoder for decoding interactive data received in conjunction with a signal for the event;
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 said storing means includes a handheld terminal for allowing the user to interact with the event; and means for providing communications between the settop decoder and the handheld terminal.
17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said transaction structures includes: means for storing an identification for each of a plurality of transaction tables; means for storing at least a portion of the interactive event specific data; and means for storing a user response to the interactive event specific data.
18. The apparatus of claim 12 including: a message display: and said commands in conjunction with the acting means for causing messages to be displayed on said message display.
19. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein: said receiving means can receive messages to be displayed and said transaction structures can store received messages; and said commands for causing in conjunction with the acting means selectively either a received message or a stored message to be displayed in order to initiate or continue with an interactive presentation.
20. The apparatus of claim 15 including; said means for defining transaction structures for allowing one transaction to be used interactively by a viewer while a subsequent 


transaction is being received by the receiving means for subsequent use by the viewer.
21. The apparatus of claim 12 including: said receiving means including means for decoding interactive data encoded in the vertical blanking interval of a television signal in order to receive the interactive data in association with the presentation of an event.
22. The apparatus of claim 12 including: said receiving means including an infrared encoder and transmitter and the storing means includes an infrared receiver and decoder for communicating data between the receiving means and the storing means.
23. The apparatus of claim 12 including: said receiving means including means for receiving the interactive data at a high data rate and for substantially reducing the data rate so that the data can be accurately stored by the storing means .
24. The apparatus of claim 12 including: said receiving means and said storing means for additionally allowing the interactive data to be received in a manner that is transparent to a viewer of the event.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
