<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625251</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIPE CONSTRUCTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L912	F16L2300	F16L23024	B29D2318	F16L3714	F16L3700	B29D2318	F16L5810	F16L914	F16L900	F16L5802	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	B29D	F16L	F16L	B29D	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L9	F16L23	F16L23	B29D23	F16L37	F16L37	B29D23	F16L58	F16L9	F16L9	F16L58	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pipe and method of manufacture of the pipe are described. The pipe comprises a core of helically wound steel strip embedded in a plastics material matrix and lined with inner and outer linings of filament wound fibre reinforced plastics material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROYAL ORDNANCE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROYAL ORDNANCE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DABINETT JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLWARD WILLIAM ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DABINETT, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLWARD, WILLIAM, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a composite construction of pipe for use in the oil, gas,
water and chemical industries.It is known to manufacture pipe by helical winding of a plurality of metal strips and
which strips are embedded in a plastics material matrix.US 4,657,049 describes the manufacture of such pipe by helically winding at least one
metallic reinforcing strip onto a mandrel, the strip being coated with and embedded
within a polymeric bonding material. The tube is thus formed of a plurality of
successive helical convolutions of metal strip, completely embedded in the polymeric
material. In this construction the polymeric material provides only a limited degree of
corrosion resistance and hence is not suitable for many pipe applications.US 4,351,364, on which the preamble of claim 1 is based, describes a similar method
of tube construction, but the tube also has inner and outer linings of resin impregnated
glass-fibre layers. The glass-fibre layers comprise woven cloth and chopped fibre
strand mat. The purpose of the inner lining is to provide corrosion resistance and a
low flow resistance, whilst the purpose of the outer lining is to provide resistance to
environmental conditions. Whilst the glass-fibre reinforced linings on the inside and
outside of the pipe enhance the resistance to corrosion, abrasion and other
environmental conditions, they do not significantly improve the strength of the pipe,
nor do they provide optimum corrosion resistance owing to the porosity which is
inevitably retained within the glass fibre mat and cloth.It is an object of the present invention to provide a pipe having a construction which
endows it not only with corrosion and abrasion resistance, but also with enhanced
strength and stiffness. It is a further object to provide a pipe construction which when
used in high pressure applications will produce a leak failure mode at elevated
pressures close to ultimate burst pressure. According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a pipe having
inner and outer linings of fibre reinforced plastics material, the inner and outer linings
including continuous fibres and having therebetween a core of helically wound steel
strip, the steel strip being embedded in a plastics material matrix characterised in that
the inner and outer linings each comprise a plurality of layers of windings of
continuous fibre filaments in a plastics material matrix, each of said layers having
filaments running in a circumferential direction only and all of said filaments
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pipe (10) having inner (16) and outer (30) linings of fibre reinforced plastics
material, the inner and outer linings including continuous fibres and having

therebetween a core of helically wound steel strip (20), the steel strip being
embedded in a plastics material matrix (26) characterised in that the inner and

outer linings each comprise a plurality of layers of windings of continuous fibre
filaments (18, 32) in a plastics material matrix, each of said layers having

filaments running in a circumferential direction only and all of said filaments in
each laver being substantially parallel to each other and running in the same

circumferential direction.
A pipe according to claim 1 wherein the filament windings are monofilaments.
A pipe according to claim 1 wherein the filament windings are multi-filament
tows.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein alternate layers of
filament windings are laid at different positive and negative angles with respect

to the pipe axis.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim from 1 to 3 wherein alternate
layers of filament windings are laid at different positive and negative angles

with respect to each other.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim from 1 to 3 wherein the filament
windings are laid at an angle of + and - 55° relative to the pipe axis.
A pipe according to claim 6 wherein the angle of the filament windings have an
error margin of + or - 5°. 
A pipe according to any one preceding claim further including an impermeable
lining inside the filament wound inner lining.
A pipe according to claim 8 wherein the impermeable lining is selected from a
material in the group comprising aluminium, thermosetting plastics materials

and silicone rubber.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein the filament wound lining
material is at least one selected from the group comprising glass fibre, aramid

fibre and carbon fibre.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein the thickness of the inner
filament wound lining is a minimum of 2mm.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein the thickness of the outer
filament wound lining is a minimum of 1mm.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein the core of helically
wound steel strip comprises a plurality of layers of helically wound strips which

abut along their edges.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim from 1 to 12 wherein the core of
helically wound steel strip comprises at least one strip having successive turns

overlapping in the axial and radial directions.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim from 1 to 13 wherein the winding
pattern of the steel strips is so arranged that no axial gap between adjacent

edges of the wound strip in any layer coincides in the radial direction with the
axial gap of any other layer.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim from 1 to 13 wherein the winding
pattern of steel strips is repeated in the radial direction. 
A pipe according to any one preceding claim from 1 to 13, 15 and 16 wherein
the gap between adjacent edges of successive turns is a maximum of 5mm.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim from 1 to 13 and 15 to 17
wherein the gap between adjacent edges of successive turns lies in the range

from 1mm to 3mm.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein the plastics material
matrix is an epoxy resin.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein the plastics material resin
also includes a filler.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein the steel strip of the core
has a width lying in the range from 50mm to 250mm.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein the steel strip of the core
has a thickness lying in the range from 0.12nm to 1mm.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim wherein it has a diameter lying in
the range from about 150mm to about 1000mm.
A pipe according to any one preceding claim, wherein the strain capability of
the linings in response to increasing internal pressure within the pipe is such

that the linings fail, and therefore provide a leak failure mode, only after the
steel core has been loaded to a significant proportion of its ultimate strain.
A pipe according to Claim 24, wherein the pressure strain capability of the
linings is such that they provide a leak failure mode at a predetermined internal

pressure after the steel core has been loaded beyond its yield strain. 
A method of making a pipe (10), the method comprising the steps of forming
an inner lining (16) by winding a plurality of layers of continuous fibre material

(18) onto a mandrel (12) at a predetermined angle with respect to the pipe axis,
providing a resin matrix for the fibre layer, helically winding a steel strip (20)

core onto said fibre material inner lining, providing said steel strip core with a
resin matrix (26), forming an outer lining (30) by winding a plurality of layers

of a fibre material (32) onto the outside of the core at a predetermined angle
with respect to the pipe axis, providing said outer layer of fibre material with a

resin matrix, at least partially curing said resin matrix and removing said pipe
from said mandrel said method being characterised by winding continuous fibre

filament material (18, 32) in a circumferential direction such that all of said
filaments in each layer are parallel to each other and all of the filaments run in the same

circumferential direction in each layer.
A method according to claim 26 wherein said steel core is formed by helically
winding at least three layers of steel strip.
A method according to either claim 26 or claim 27 wherein the inner and outer
linings are formed by
 passing said fibre material through a resin bath prior to
winding.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
