<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL SIMULCAST TRANSMISSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04H2067	H04W8402	H04W8402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04H	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04H20	H04W84	H04W84	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A simulcast system for broadcasting the same signal for a number of spaced-apart broadcast sites is disclosed. The system (20) of this invention includes a hub (28) adapted to receive the signal to be simulcast and a number of stations (30) that actually broadcast the signal. The hub places the digital signal packets referred to as PDBs (36). As part of the signal packetization process, the hub evaluates the rate at which the signals should be broadcast and assigns a start time at which the signals should be broadcast; this information is attached to the PDBs. After a PDB is created it is forwarded to the stations over a link channel. Each station includes a station controller (32) and a station transmitter (34). The station controller, upon receiving a PDB, forwards the signal therein to the transmitter at the start time indicated and at the appropriate broadcast rate. All of the stations transmitting the signals contained within a single PDB do so based on the start time and broadcast rate information contained in that PDB. Consequently, each station broadcasts the same signals at the same time and at the same rate so as to ensure their simultaneous transmission.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DIGITAL SIMULCAST TRANSMISSION SYSTEMField of the Invention This invention relates generally to simulcast transmission systems and, more particularly, to a simulcast transmission system for broadcasting signals that are for- warded to transmitting sites over one or more digital signal communication networks. This is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/931,789.Background of the InventionSimulcasting is the practice of broadcasting a single radio-frequency signal from multiple locations at the same time. Simulcast transmission networks are estab- lished when it is desirable to maximize the area over which receivers tuned to the network's broadcast frequency are able to pick up and process the broadcast signal. A paging system is one type of radio system that is operated as a simulcast system. In a paging system, system subscribers are provided with small radio receivers, called pagers. The paging system further includes one or more paging terminals and a num- ber of transmitter sites. The paging terminals are connected to the publicly switched telephone network and receive calls for the individual system subscribers. In response to receiving an incoming call, a paging terminal will generate a message, a page. The page is forwarded to the transmitter sites, which broadcast the page for receipt by the subscriber's pager. When a page is received by a pager for the subscriber to whom the pager is assigned, an annunciator or display integral with the pager is actuated to inform the subscriber of the call. Paging systems are provided with multiple, spaced- apart transmitter sites to maximize the coverage area in which a pager can function.The individual transmitter sites of a paging system and of other simulcast net¬ works must operate in concert so as to transmit the same signal at the exact same 

instant. This is important because pagers or other receivers in areas where signals from two or more transmitting sites can be received will receive signals from each transmitter site. If the signals are out of phase, their sum produces a single signal that frequently cannot be processed by the receiver. Thus, paging systems and like broad- cast systems are typically constructed so that each transmitter site broadcasts the same signal simultaneously. This ensures that in overlap areas the signals from multiple transmitter sites will be in phase and combine to produce a single signal that can read¬ ily be processed by the intended receiver.Many simulcast systems have some type of analog
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A simulcast broadcast system comprising: a hub including: a clock for maintaining a system time; an interface unit for receiving signals to be broadcast and connected to said clock for receiving said system time, said interface unit functioning to: determine the rate at which the signals are to be broadcast; packetize the signals into a plurality of signal blocks wherein signals in said signal blocks are in a digital format; and pro¬ vide each said signal block with a start time based on said system time and a rate sig¬ nal representing a desired broadcast rate for the signals; a linking unit connected to said interface unit for receiving said signal block and for forwarding said signal block over a link channel; and a plurality of stations, each said station including: a transmitter for broadcasting said signals to be broadcast; a linking unit connected to the link channel for receiving said signal blocks; a clock for maintaining said system time; and a station processor that is connected to said station clock for receiving said system time, that is connected to said linking unit for receiving said signal blocks, and that is connected to said transmitter for forwarding the signals to be simulcast thereto, said station processor functioning to forward said signals to be broadcast in each said signal block to said transmitter when said system time equals said start time in said signal block and at a rate based on said rate signal in said signal block.
2. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 1, wherein the signals for broadcasting include digital signals having variable broadcast rates, and each digital signal has a bit duration proportional to the broadcast rate of the signal; said interface unit in said hub determines the rate of the digital signals to be broadcast based on the bit durations of the signals, and forwards said signal blocks to said hub linking unit in said hub at a rate faster than the broadcast rate of the signals to be broadcast; and said linking unit in said hub forwards said signal blocks over the link channel to said stations at a rate different from the broadcast rate of the signals to be broad¬ cast. 


 3. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 2, wherein said interface unit in said hub places digital signals to be broadcast at different broadcast rates in a single said signal block by converting the digital signals to be broadcast at a first broadcast rate to equivalent signals based on the broadcast of the signals at a second broadcast rate and bases said signal block rate signal on said second broadcast rate.
4. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 1, wherein the signals for broadcasting include digital signals having variable broadcast rates and each digital signal has a bit duration proportional to the broadcast rate of the signal; said interface unit in said hub determines the rate of the digital signals to be broadcast based on signal status signals received by said interface unit with the digital signals to be broadcast, and forwards said signal blocks to said linking unit in said hub at a rate faster than the broadcast rate of the signals to be broadcast; and said linking unit in said hub forwards said signal blocks over the link channel to said stations at a rate different from the broadcast rate of the signals to be broad¬ cast.
5. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 3, wherein said interface unit in said hub determines the broadcast rate of low-speed digital signals to be broadcast based on the bit duration of the signals and determines the broadcast rate of the high¬ speed digital signals to be broadcast based on signal status signals received by said interface unit with the digital signals to be broadcast.
6. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 3, wherein said interface unit in said hub determines the broadcast rate of digital signals to be broadcast at baud rates equal to or less than a predetermined value based on the bit durations of the sig¬ nals and determines the broadcast rate of digital signals greater than said predeter¬ mined value based on signal status signals received by said interface unit with the digital signals to be broadcast.
7. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 1 , wherein the signals for broadcasting include analog signals and digital signals; said interface unit in said hub functions to: convert the received analog signals into digitized signals having a selected broadcast rate; place the digitized analog sig¬ nals into said signal blocks; base said signal block rate signals for said digitized analog signals on said selected broadcast rate; and forward said signal blocks to said linking unit in said hub at a rate faster than said broadcast rate of said signal blocks; 


 said linking unit in said hub forwards said signal blocks over the link channel to said stations at a rate different from the broadcast rate of the signals; and said processors in said stations each further include a digital-to-analog con¬ verter circuit for receiving said digitized analog signals to convert said signals into analog signals for forwarding to said transmitters in said stations.
8. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 5, wherein the signals for broadcasting include analog signals; said interface unit in said hub functions to determine the form of the signals to be broadcast based on signal status signals received with the signals to be broadcast, and if the signals to be broadcast are in analog form further functions to: convert the analog signals to be broadcast into a digitized signals having a selected broadcast rate; place the digitized analog signals into said signal blocks; base said signal block rate signals for said signal block with said digitized analog signals on said broadcast rate of said digitized analog signals; and forward said signal blocks to said linking unit in said hub at a rate faster than the broadcast rate of the signals; said linking unit in said hub forwards said signal blocks over the link channel to said stations at a rate different from the broadcast rate of the signals to be broad¬ cast; and said processors in said stations each further include a digital-to-analog con¬ verter circuit for receiving said digitized analog signals and converting said signals into analog signals for forwarding to said transmitters in said stations.
9. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 1, wherein: said signal blocks are forwarded from said hub to said stations over a plurality of link channels; and said hub further includes: a plurality of linking units wherein said linking unit are configured to forward said signal blocks to said stations over different link channels; and a central processing unit connected to said interface unit in said hub and said linking units in said hub for controlling the transfer of said signal blocks from said interface unit to said linking units.
10. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 9, wherein said central proc¬ essing unit in said hub is connected to said interface unit in said hub for receiving said signal blocks therefrom and is connected to said linking units in said hub for selec¬ tively sending said signal blocks thereto. 


 11. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 9, wherein one of said plural¬ ity of linking units in at least one of said plurality of stations is configured to receive said signal blocks over two separate link channels.
12. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 1 1 , wherein said central processing unit controls signal block transfer to said at least one station configured to receive said signal blocks over two said link channels so that said signal blocks for¬ warded to said station have different said start times in said signal blocks.
13. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 1, wherein said hub is con¬ figured to forward redundant copies of a signal block to at least one of said plurality of stations and said signal processor in said at least one station forwards to said transmitter associated therewith only the signals to be broadcast that are contained in one copy of said redundant signal block.
14. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 1 1 , wherein said hub is con¬ figured to forward redundant copies of a signal block over two separate link channels to said at least one station configured to receive signal blocks over two said channels and said signal processor at said at least one station only forwards to said transmitter associated therewith the signals to be broadcast that are contained in one copy of said redundant signal block.
15. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 9, wherein said hub further includes: a plurality of interface units for receiving signals to be broadcast that function to generate said signal blocks; and said central processing unit in said hub is connected to said interface units and said linking units for controlling the transfer of said signal blocks to said interface units, wherein said central processing unit forwards said signal blocks to said linking units based on which said interface unit in said hub generated said signal blocks.
16. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 13, wherein: said linking units in said hub encode said signal packets in link frames for transmission of the link channels and said link units include in said link frames error correction data; said linking units in said stations are configured to receive said link frames, perform error correction processing on said link frames based on said error correction 


data included therewith, and remove said signal blocks from said error-corrected link frames; and said processor at said at least one station configured to receive redundant copies of said signal block forwards to said station transmitter associated therewith the signals to be broadcast contained in the copy of said signal block with the least errors.
17. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 1, wherein: said interface unit in said hub provides each said signal block with said rate signal in the form of a broadcast time signal indicative of the time needed to broadcast said packetized signals and a packet length signal indicative of the number of said packetized signals in said signal block; and said processors in said stations determine said rate at which said signals in said signal blocks are to be broadcast based on said broadcast time in said signal blocks and said packet length signals in said signal blocks.
18. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 3, wherein: said interface unit in said hub provides each said signal block with said rate signal in the form of a broadcast time signal indicative of the time needed to broadcast said packetized signals and a packet length signal indicative of the number of said packetized signals in said signal block; and sa'id processors in said stations determine said rate at which said signals in said signal blocks are to be broadcast based on said broadcast time in said signal blocks and said packet length signals in said signal blocks.
19. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim 1, further including: a maintenance operating point including: a receiver adapted to receive signals broadcast by at least one of said plurality of stations; a clock for maintaining said sys¬ tem time; a processor connected to said receiver for receiving said signals that are broadcast, said processor functioning to generate status reports based on said signals that are broadcast; and a communications unit connected to said processor for receiv¬ ing said status reports; and a communications link different from the link channel connected at a first end to said communications unit in said maintenance operating point and at a second end to said hub wherein said status reports generated by said processor in said mainte¬ nance unit operating point are forwarded to said hub over said communications link; and wherein 


 said hub further includes a communications unit connected to said second end of said communications link for receiving said status reports generated by said proces¬ sor in said maintenance operating point, and a central processing unit that is con¬ nected to said communications unit in said hub for receiving said status reports gen¬ erated by said processor in said maintenance operating point, said central processing unit in said hub functioning to generate station commands based on said status reports, and wherein said linking unit in said hub is connected to said central process¬ ing unit in said hub for receiving said station commands and forwarding said station commands over the link channel; and said processors in said stations are further connected to receive said station commands generated by said central processing unit in said hub from said linking units in said stations, and said processors in said stations functioning to control said stations based on said received station commands generated by said central processing unit in said hub.
20. The system of Claim 19, wherein: said at least one said station associated with said maintenance operating point broadcasts signals, including said system clock time based on said clock in said sta¬ tion, to said maintenance operating point; said processor in said maintenance operating point functions to compare said system time from said station with said system time maintained by said clock in said maintenance operating point and in response to said comparison generates a station clock status report; said central processing unit in said hub further functions to generate a station clock reset command based on said station clock status report generated by said proc¬ essor in said maintenance operating point; and said processor in said at least one station is further connected to said clock in said station for adjusting said clock and said processor in said station further functions to adjust said clock in said station in response to receiving a station clock reset com¬ mand generated by said central processing unit in said hub.
21. The simulcast broadcast system of Claim I , wherein said interface unit in said hub bases said start times in said signal blocks on said system time when said initial signal in each said signal block is received. 


 22. A paging system for simulcasting pages, said paging system configured for connection to a publicly switched telephone network, said paging system compris¬ ing: a paging terminal connected to the publicly switched telephone network for receiving calls for system subscribers, said paging terminal functioning to generate pages in response to calls for system subscribers; a hub including: a clock for maintaining a system time; an interface unit connected to said paging terminals for receiving said pages and connected to said clock for receiving said system time, said interface unit functioning to: determine the rate at which said pages are to be broadcast; packetize the signals into a plurality of paging data blocks wherein said pages in said paging data blocks are in a digital format; and provide each said paging data block with a start time based on said system time and a rate signal representing a desired broadcast rate for the pages; a central processing unit connected to said interface unit for receiving said paging data blocks, said central processing unit functioning to place said paging data blocks in station packets; a linking unit connected to said central processing unit for receiving said station packets and for forwarding said station packets over a link channel; and a plurality of stations, each said station including: a transmitter for broadcasting said pages to be broadcast; a linking unit connected to the link channel for receiving said station packets; a clock for maintaining said system time; and a station processor that is connected to said station clock for receiving said system time, that is connected to said linking unit for receiving said stations packets, and that is connected to said transmitter for forwarding said pages to be simulcast thereto, said station processor functioning to remove said paging data blocks from said packets in which said paging data blocks are contained and to for¬ ward said pages to be broadcast in each said paging data block to said transmitter when said system time equals said start time in said paging data block and at a rate based on said rate signal in said paging data block.
23. The paging system of Claim 22, wherein: 


 said central processing unit in said hub provides each said station packet with a station address; and said stations are arranged in groups, each said group of stations having a par¬ ticular station address associated therewith and said processors in said stations each further function to remove said paging data blocks from said station packets and to forward said pages in said paging data blocks to said transmitters only when said sta¬ tion addresses in said station packets match said particular station address of said group of stations with which said processor is associated.
24. The paging system of Claim 23, wherein: said hub includes a plurality of interface units for receiving pages from said paging terminal; and said central processing unit in said hub is further connected to each said interface unit for receiving paging data blocks therefrom, and said central processing unit in said hub further functions to provide said station packets containing said paging data blocks with station addresses based on which said interface unit in said hub forwarded said paging data block to said central processing unit in said hub.
25. The paging system of Claim 23, further including: a plurality of paging terminals connected to the publicly switched telephone network for generating pages; and wherein: said hub includes a plurality of interface units, each of said plurality of inter¬ face units being connected to different ones of said plurality of paging terminals for receiving pages therefrom, and said central processing unit in said hub further func¬ tions to provide said station packets containing said paging data blocks with station addresses based on which said interface unit in said hub forwarded said paging data blocks to said central processing unit.
26. The paging system of Claim 23, wherein said interface units in said hub base said start times in said paging data blocks on said system time when said initial page in each said paging data block is received from said paging terminal.
27. The paging system of Claim 26, wherein: said paging terminal generates analog pages and digital pages; said interface units in said hub further function to: convert the analog pages into digitized form at a selected broadcast rate; place the digitized analog pages into said paging data blocks; base said rate signals for said paging data blocks on said 


 selected broadcast rate; and forward said paging data blocks to said linking unit in said hub at a rate faster than the broadcast rate of the signals to be broadcast; said linking unit in said hub forwards said signal blocks over the link channel to said stations at a rate different from the broadcast rate of the signals to be broad¬ cast; and each said station processor further includes a digital-to-analog converter cir¬ cuit for receiving said digitized analog signals and converting said signals into analog signals for forwarding to said station transmitter.
28. The paging system of Claim 27, wherein: said paging terminal generates said digital pages at variable rates for broadcast by said transmitters in said stations wherein said digital pages include low-speed digi¬ tal pages and high-speed digital pages and said digital pages have a bit duration asso¬ ciated therewith, said bit duration being proportional to said broadcast rate of said pages and said paging terminal further functions to generate page status signals that describe said broadcast rate of said paging signals generated by said paging terminal; and said interface units in said hub are further connected to said paging terminals to receive said page status signals and said interface units in said hub further function to determine said broadcast rate of low-speed digital pages to be broadcast based on
'
 the bit durations of the signals and determine the broadcast rate of high-speed digital pages based on said page status signals received by said interface units.
29. The paging system of Claim 28, wherein each said interface in said hub places digital signals to be broadcast at different broadcast rates in a single said paging data block by converting the digital signals to be broadcast at one rate to equivalent signals based on the broadcast of the signals at a second broadcast rate and bases said rate signal for said paging data block on said second broadcast rate.
30. A method of distributing paging signals generated by a paging terminal for broadcast by stations distal from the hub, the paging signals having a selected transmission rate, including the steps of: forwarding the paging signals to a hub; determining a system time at which each of the paging signals arrives at said hub by reference to a clock at the hub that maintains said system time; determining the transmission rate of the paging signals generated by the pag¬ ing terminal; 


 storing said paging signals in a digital format in a buffer at said hub; when a selected number of paging signals are stored in said buffer at said hub, placing said selected number of paging signals in a paging data block, and providing said paging data block with a start time, said start time based on said system time of reception of the first paging signal in said paging data block, and a rate signal based on the transmission rate of the paging signals; and forwarding said paging data block to the stations.
31. The method of distributing paging signals of Claim 30, wherein selected paging signals are in analog format, further including the steps of: digitizing and compressing the analog paging signals to produce digit¬ ized, compressed analog paging signals having a selected broadcast rate; storing said digitized, compressed analog signals in said buffer in said hub; and setting the trans¬ mission rate of said paging data block containing said digitized, compressed analog paging signals equal to said broadcast rate of said digitized, compressed analog pag¬ ing signals.
32. The method of distributing paging signals of Claim 31, wherein selected paging signals are in digital format and consecutive sets of signals generated by the paging terminal are generated at two separate transmission rates, further including the steps of: converting a first set of paging signals stored in said buffer in said hub into equivalent paging signals having the transmission rate of a second set of paging sig¬ nals stored in said buffer.
33. The method of distributing paging signals of Claim 32, wherein selected paging signals are in analog format, further including the steps of: digitizing and compressing the analog paging signals to produce digit¬ ized, compressed analog paging signals having a selected broadcast rate; storing said digitized, compressed analog signals in said buffer in said hub; and setting the trans¬ mission rate of said paging data block containing said digitized, compressed analog paging signals equal to said broadcast rate of said digitized, compressed analog pag¬ ing signals.
34. A hub unit for a paging system having a paging terminal from which pages are generated, a number of spaced-apart stations from which pages are 


broadcast, and a number of link channels over which signals are forwarded to the sta¬ tions, said hub comprising: a clock for maintaining a system time; an interface unit connected to the paging terminal for receiving the pages and connected to said clock for receiving said system time, said interface unit functioning to: determine the rate at which the pages are to be broadcast; packetize the pages into a plurality of paging data blocks wherein the pages in said paging data blocks are in a digital format; and provide each said paging data block with a start time based on said system time and a rate signal based on the rate the pages should be broadcast; a linking unit connected to the link channels and connected to said interface unit for receiving said paging data blocks from said interface unit and for selectively forwarding said paging data blocks over link channels to the stations; a central processing unit connected to said interface unit for monitoring the generation of said paging data blocks and connected to said link unit for establishing over which link channel a particular paging data block is forwarded to the stations.
35. The hub unit of Claim 34, further including: a plurality of interface units for receiving pages from the paging terminal; a plurality of linking units wherein each of said plurality of linking units is connected to a different one of the link chan¬ nels; and wherein said central processor unit further functions to control interface unit-to-linking unit paging data block transfer based on which said interface unit gen¬ erated said paging data block.
36. The hub unit of Claim 35, wherein said central processing unit is con¬ nected to said plurality of interface units for receiving said paging data blocks there¬ from and is connected to said plurality of linking units for sending said signal blocks thereto.
37. The hub of Claim 35, wherein said plurality of interface units provide said start times in said paging data blocks based upon said system times the pages are received by the interface units.
38. The hub of Claim 37, wherein when the pages are in digital format and wherein said plurality of interface units further function to provide said rate signals in said paging data blocks based on the rate the pages are received by said interface units. 


 39. The hub of Claim 38, wherein selected pages are in analog format and wherein said interface units further function to: digitize and compress the analog pages for placement into said paging data blocks, said digitized, compressed analog pages having a selected broadcast rate; and provide said rate signals for said paging data blocks containing said digitized, compressed analog pages on said selected broadcast rate of said digitized, compressed analog pages.
40. A station for a paging system for broadcasting pages contained in paging data blocks, each said paging data block includes a start time signal and a broadcast rate signal, and wherein the paging data blocks are forwarded over a link channel, said station including: a transmitter for broadcasting the pages; a linking unit connected to the link channel for receiving the paging data blocks; a clock for maintaining a system time; and a station processor that is connected to said station clock for receiving said system time, to said linking unit for receiving said paging data blocks, and to said transmitter for forwarding the signals to be simulcast thereto, said station processor functioning to remove the pages from the paging data blocks and forward the pages to said transmitter for broadcast based on a relationship between said system time and said start time in the paging data block and at a rate based on the broadcast rate in the paging data block.
41. The station of Claim 40, wherein redundant copies of the same paging data block are forwarded to the station and wherein said station processor further functions to correct for any errors in said paging data blocks and when said multiple paging data blocks are received, forwards pages from the first received, most error- free redundant paging data block to said transmitter for broadcast.
42. The station of Claim 40, wherein said station processor forwards said pages to said transmitter when said system time equals said start time in said paging data block.
43. A paging system for simulcasting pages and comprising: a paging terminal for receiving calls for system subscribers and functioning to generate corresponding pages; a system controller including: 


 a clock for maintaining a system time; means for receiving said pages and for receiving said system time, said means functioning to packetize said pages into a plurality of paging data blocks, wherein said paging data blocks are in a digital format, and further functioning to provide each paging data block with a start time based on said system time; and a first linking unit for forwarding said paging data blocks over a link channel; and a plurality of paging stations, each paging station including: a transmitter for broadcasting said pages; a second linking unit for receiving said paging data blocks from the link channel; a station clock for maintaining a station time having a predetermined relationship to said system time; and a station controller for receiving said station time from said station clock and for receiving said paging data blocks from said second linking unit, and for forwarding said pages to be simulcast to said transmitter, said station controller functioning to remove said pages from said paging data blocks and forward said pages to said transmitter when said station time equals said start time in said paging data blocks.
44. The system of Claim 43 wherein said clock includes a receiver for receiving an external absolute time reference, said clock using said external absolute time reference to correlate said system time of said clock thereto.
45. The system of Claim 43 wherein said station controller further includes regeneration means for regenerating said pages for broadcast by said transmitter, said pages comprised of a plurality of bits, said regeneration means determining a bit broadcast time for each of said plurality of bits, each of said plurality of bits being broadcast by said transmitter when said station time equals said bit broadcast time.
46. The system of Claim 45 wherein said regeneration means calculates said bit broadcast times to correspond to a value of said station time that falls exactly on a minimal resolution of said station clock, said regeneration means being operative to automatically compensate and calculate said bit broadcast times to adjust for any fraction portion of said minimal resolution of said station clock to minimize jitter in said broadcast of pages. 



 47. A method of simulcasting pages generated by a paging terminal from a plurality of paging stations, each paging station having a transmitter over which the pages are broadcast and a clock, said method comprising the steps of: packetizing the pages in a plurality of paging data blocks, and providing each paging data block with a message indicative of a broadcast start time; transmitting said paging data blocks to the paging stations, wherein each said paging data block is sent to at least two paging stations; maintaining the clocks at each paging station so that the clocks all indicate a station time having a predetermined relationship to a system time; and upon receipt of one of said paging data blocks at a paging station, removing the pages in said paging data block therefrom, reading said broadcast start time, and then forwarding the pages to the transmitter for broadcast when said station time equals said start time in said paging data block.
48. The method of Claim 47 further including the steps of: regenerating said pages for broadcast by said transmitter, said pages comprised of a plurality of bits, by determining a bit broadcast time for each of said plurality of bits; and broadcasting each of said plurality of bits by said transmitter when said station time equals said bit broadcast time.
49. The system of Claim 48 further including the steps of: calculating said bit broadcast times to correspond to a value of said station time that falls exactly on a minimal resolution of said station clock; and automatically compensating and calculating said bit broadcast times to adjust for any fraction portion of said minimal resolution of said station clock to minimize jitter in said broadcast of pages. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
