<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624280</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
X-RAY MICROSCOPE WITH A DIRECT CONVERSION TYPE X-RAY PHOTOCATHODE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01T100	G01T128	G21K700	G21K700	H01J2910	H01J2938	H01J3108	H01J3150	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01T	G01T	G21K	G21K	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01T1	G01T1	G21K7	G21K7	H01J29	H01J29	H01J31	H01J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A direct conversion X-ray photo-electron cathode has specially designed secondary emission layers which provide high efficiency, low noise, high speed and broad band X-ray photo detection. The X-ray photocathode (7, 8) is integrated with a microchannel plate (9) and an output phosphor display screen (10) to form a panel type X-ray intensifier. The X-ray intensifier is combined with a micro-focus X-ray source to provide a projection type X-ray microscope for use in X-ray microscopic diagnostic applications.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CSL OPTO ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CSL OPTO-ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAO WEILOU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN SHIZHENG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHE YONGZHENG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIH YANHUA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAO, WEILOU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, SHIZHENG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHE, YONGZHENG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIH, YANHUA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 X-RAY MICROSCOPE WITH A DIRECT CONVERSION TYPE X-RAY PHOTOCATHODEDESCRIPTIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention generally relates to X-ray image intensifiers and, more particularly to an X-ray microscope utilizing a direct conversion X-ray photocathode in conjunction with an electron multiplier.Description of the Prior ArtX-ray to visible converters are well known in the art but generally use indirect conversion techniques, where an X-ray image is converted to visible light in a scintillator, the visible light (photons) are then converted to a corresponding electron image, and the electrons are multiplied and strike a phosphor display screen to provide an enhanced directly viewable visible image. There are numerous disadvantages in having to convert an X-ray image to a visible light image before generating and multiplying a corresponding electron image. Conversion of an X-ray image to a visible light image is normally accomplished by using a scintillator, as described in U.S. Patents No. 4, 104,516, No. 4.040,900, No. 4,255,666, and No. 4,300,046. In each instance, the scintillator exhibits a limited response time, poor spacial resolution and sensitivity, and due to the 

complicated fabrication techniques and the attendant requirement to use light shielding, the cost is prohibitive.In panel type X-ray image intensifiers, scintillation noise also becomes a problem, which mostly comes from the exponential pulse height distribution of the micro channel plate(MCP) gain.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a photo-electron cathode, having specially designed secondary electron emission layers, which will directly convert an X-ray image to an equivalent electron image, while exhibiting high efficiency, low noise, high speed and a broad band x-ray photon detection capability.The shortcomings of the prior art have been effectively overcome by designing a direct conversion X-ray photo-electron cathode consisting of a heavy metal layer which functions as an X-ray absorber, and a transmission secondary electron emission layer which functions as an electron multiplier with a multiplication factor of twenty or more. It has been found that by increasing the number of input electrons per channel of theMCP by a factor of twenty or more, the scintillation noise is drastically reduced. In the instant case, this is accomplished by using a compound multiplier, which is a direct conversion type X-ray photocathode consisting of two parts.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
Having thus described our invention, what we claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent is as follows:
1. A direct conversion X-ray photocathode comprising: a thin substrate of light metal having a thickness of approximately 50 μm: a layer of heavy metal deposited on the light metal substrate to provide an X-ray absorber; and a layer of secondary electron emissive material deposited on the layer of heavy metal for providing electron multiplication.
2. The X-ray photocathode of claim 1, wherein said substrate of light metal is aluminum and said layer of heavy metal is selected from the group consisting of tantalum, tungsten, lead, bismuth and gold.
3. The X-ray photocathode of claim 2, wherein said layer of secondary emissive material is selected from the group of materials consisting of Csl. CsBr, DC1, CsCl and MgO. 

4. The X-ray photocathode of claim 3, wherein the optimum thickness of the heavy metal layer is determined by the energy of the X-rays in accordance with the following table
5. The X-ray photocathode of claim 4, wherein said secondary emissive material is Csl grown on the heavy metal layer to exhibit a normal density profile for 60 KV of X-ray energy and whose optimal thickness in μms is selected in accordance with the heavy metal used as the X-ray absorber to correspond to thicknesses of 8.2 for W, 7.0 for Pb, 8.2 for Ta. 6.8 for Bi and 7.4 for Au.
6. The X-ray photocathode of claim 4, wherein said secondary emissive material is a low density layer of Csl for 60 KV X-ray energy and whose optimal thickness in μms is selected in accordance with the heavy metal used as the X-ray absorber to correspond to thicknesses of 405 for W, 350 for Pb, 410 for Ta, 


340 for Bi and 370 for Au. 7. A panel type direct conversion real time X-ray image intensifier, comprising: an input window having a high transmission coefficient for X-rays, with the capability of reducing the scattering of the incident X-rays; a direct conversion, photo-electron cathode having a light metal substrate of sufficient thickness to withstand the attraction force from the high static electric field. X-ray absorbing heavy metal layer, and a compound secondary electron emitter; a micro channel plate; and a phosphor display screen for providing an output image, such that an X-ray image impinging on the input window is transmitted to the direct conversion photo-electron cathode where is converted to an equivalent electron image which is enhanced by secondary electron multiplication within the compound secondary electron emitter and then by accelerating the electrons and further multiplication within the micro channel plate, the electron image strikes the phosphor display screen to effect an output image.
8. The X-ray image intensifier of claim 7, wherein the micro channel plate has a 3-7 μm layer of material, selected from the group consisting of Csl and CsBr, deposited on the input face thereof, which exhibits a non-uniform density profile across high density sub-layer and a low density sub-layer which decreases in density from the interface with the high density sub-layer to its surface. 


9. A portable projection type real time X-ray microscope, comprising; an X-ray source having a focal spot size falling between a micron and sub-micron; a workpiece for holding an item to be investigated; an X-ray direct conversion type image intensifier; a parabolic illuminator coupled to the input of the X-ray image intensifier; adjustment means for vertically moving said workpiece between the X-ray source and the parabolic illuminator for controlling the magnification of the X-ray image.
10. The X-ray microscope of claim 9, further including a co- axial optical microscope for aligning an object under test. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 1 December 1993 (01 .12.93) ; original claims 9 and 10 cancel led ; original claims 1 -8 amended ; new claim 11 added ; (4 pages) ] 1. A direct conversion X-ray photocathode comprising: a thin substrate of light metal, having a thickness of approximately 50 μm; a layer of heavy metal selected from the group consisting of tantalum, tungsten, lead, bismuth and gold, deposited on one surface of the light metal substrate to provide an X-ray absorber; and at least one layer of secondary emissive material deposited on the layer of heavy metal the combination of the secondary emissive material and the heavy metal layer being an independent cathode for electron multiplication.
2. The X-ray photocathode of claim 1, wherein said substrate of light metal is Aluminum and the materials selected for said layer of heavy metal and said layer of secondary electron emissive material function to form a compound electron multiplier.
3. The X-ray photocathode claim 2, wherein said at least one layer of secondary emissive material is selected from the group of materials consisting of Csl. CsBr. DC1. CsCl. and MgO. 

4. The X-ray photocathode of claim 3 wherein the optimum thickness of the heavy metal layer is determined by the energy of the incident X-rays intercepted by the photocathode in accordance with the following table:
5. The X-ray photocathode of claim 4 wherein said secondary emissive material is Csl grown on the heavy metal layer to exhibit a normal density profile for 60 KV of X-ray energy and whose optimal thickness in μms is selected in accordance with the heavy metal used as the X-ray absorber to correspond to the thicknesses of 8.2 for W, 7.0 for Pb, 8.2 for Ta, 6.8 for Bi, and 7.4 for Au.
6. The X-ray photocathode of claim 4 wherein said secondary emissive material is a low density layer of Csl for 60 KV X-ray energy and whose optimal thickness in μms is selected in accordance with the heavy metal used as the X-ray absorber to correspond to thicknesses of 405 for W, 350 for Pb, 410 for Ta, 340 for Bi, and 370 for Au.
7. A panel type direct conversion real time X-ray image intensifier, comprising: an input window having a high transmission coefficient for X-rays, with the capability of reducing the scattering of incident X-rays 


intercepted by the photocathode; a direct conversion, photo-electron cathode having a light metal substrate of sufficient thickness to withstand the attraction force from an applied static electric field, an X-ray absorbing heavy metal layer, and a cathode electron emitter functioning as a compound secondary electron emitter; a microchannel plate, having input and output surfaces; and a phosphor display screen for providing an output image, such that an X-ray image impinging on the input window is transmitted to the direct conversion photo-electron cathode where said X-ray image is converted to an equivalent electron image which is enhanced by secondary electron multiplication within the cathode electron emitter and then by accelerating the electrons and further multiplication within the microchannel plate, the electron image strikes the phosphor display screen to effect and output image.
8. The X-ray image intensifier of claim 7, wherein the microchannel plate has a 3-7 μm layer of material, selected from the group consisting of Csl and CsBr, deposited in two stages to form two distinct sub-layers on the input surface thereof, which exhibits a non-uniform density profile across a first sub-layer exhibiting approximately a 50% density profile, and a second sub-layer which decreases in density from the interface with the first sub-layer to its surface.
9. (cancel)
10. (cancel)
11. The X-ray photocathode of claim 1 wherein the at least one layer of secondary electron emissive material functions as an independent cathode and comprises at least two sub-layers of materials having different densities, with the first sub-layer having a density of 


approximately 50% and the second sub-layer exhibits a decreasing density profile from the interface with the high density first layer to its output emission surface. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
In response to the international search report mailed November 8, 1993, attached to this letter are substitute pages 9, 10, 11 and 12 for the original claims found on pages 9, 10, 11, and 12 of the application. New claims 1 to 8 and 11 have been substituted for original claims 1 to 10.
The applicant requests this amendment be entered with the application and forwarded to the designated states. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
