<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638601</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Alkylation resins from polycyclic aromatic compounds
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G6100	C08G6100	C08G6102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	C08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G61	C08G61	C08G61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The alkylation resins of this invention comprise the 
alkylation reaction product of (a) at least one substituted 

or unsubstituted polycyclic aromatic compound and (b) at 
least one ethylenically unsaturated hydrocarbon monomer 

having at least two carbon-carbon double bonds that reacts 
with the polycyclic aromatic compound by alkylation in the 

presence of an acid catalyst, wherein the ratio of (a) to 
(b) in the resin is 1:9 to 3:1 by weight. The resins have a 

weight average molecular weight of less than 10,000 measured 
by size exclusion chromatography, and a Ring 
&
 Ball 
softening point of 50° to 250°C. Because of their high 

softening point and low molecular weight, the resins are 
useful in a variety of applications such as flow rate 

modifiers for engineering polymers, tackifiers for 
adhesives, and flushing agents for inks. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERCULES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERCULES INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BISWAS ATANU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLOSIEWICZ DANIEL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BISWAS, ATANU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLOSIEWICZ, DANIEL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to essentially amorphous hydrocarbon resins made by
the catalytic alkylation of an aromatic reaction solvent
with an ethylenically unsaturated monomer.Alkylation of polycyclic aromatic compounds with
monoolefins in the presence of an acid catalyst to produce a
resinous product is disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 2,229,018;
1,741,473 and 2,233,964.Preparation of alkylation resins by reacting
dicyclopentadiene (DCPD) with aromatic reaction solvents in
the presence of a catalyst such as AlCl3 is disclosed in
U.S. Patent No. 4,255,297. The solvents disclosed include
alkylaromatic hydrocarbons having a boiling point of 110° to
220°C and tetrahydronaphthalene.The essentially amorphous alkylation resins of this invention are
characterized in that they comprise the reaction product of
(a) at least one substituted or unsubstituted polycyclic
aromatic compound, and (b) at least one ethylenically
unsaturated hydrocarbon monomer having at least two carbon-carbon 
double bonds capable of reacting with the polycyclic
aromatic compound by alkylation in the presence of an acid
catalyst, wherein the ratio of (a) to (b) in the resin is
1:9 to 3:1 by weight, the resin having a weight average
molecular weight Mw of less than 10,000 measured by size
exclusion chromatography, and a Ring & Ball softening point
of 50° to 250°C.Also according to the invention, the resins are
produced by reacting the ethylenically unsaturated
hydrocarbon monomer and the polycyclic aromatic compound in
the presence of an acid catalyst that promotes the
alkylation of the polycyclic aromatic compound by the
ethylenically unsaturated monomer. In a preferred
embodiment of the invention, resins that are the reaction
product of dicyclopentadiene and a naphthalenic aromatic
compound have a z average molecular weight Mz measured by
size exclusion chromatography and a Ring and Ball softening
point in °C that falls within Area A of Figure 1.Also according to the invention, the resins of this
invention can be used in adhesive and ink compositions and
as modifiers for engineering polymers.At the highest level of aromatic incorporation, the
softening point of the resins of this invention made with 
polycyclic aromatic compounds is about 60°C higher at an
equivalent degree of polymerization than that of resins made
with benzene aromatic compounds. The resin products of this
invention therefore have a unique combination of properties,
i.e., high softening point and low molecular weight.
Figure 1 shows the relationship of Mz, the z average
mol
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An essentially amorphous alkylation resin characterized in that it is the
alkylation reaction product of (a) at least one substituted or unsubstituted polycyclic

aromatic compound having at least two aromatic rings, and (b) at least one
ethylenically unsaturated hydrocarbon monomer having at least two carbon-carbon

double bonds that reacts with the polycyclic aromatic compound by alkylation in the
presence of an acid catalyst, wherein the ratio of (a) to (b) in the resin is 1:9 to 3:1

by weight, the resin having a weight average molecular weight Mw of less than
10,000 measured by size exclusion chromatography, and a Ring and Ball softening

point of 50° to 250°C. 
The resin of claim 1, further characterized in that
the polycyclic aromatic compound is a fused ring aromatic

compound.
The resin of claim 2, further characterized in that
the polycyclic aromatic compound is selected from the group 

consisting of substituted or unsubstituted naphthalene,
anthracene, fluorene, phenanthrene, acenaphthalene, and

biphenylene aromatic compounds, and mixtures thereof.
The resin of claim 3, further characterized in that
the polycyclic aromatic compound is a naphthalenic

hydrocarbon.
The resin of any of the preceding claims, further
characterized in that the ethylenically unsaturated monomer

that reacts by alkylation is a diolefin.
The resin of claim 5, further characterized in that
the diolefin contains at least one cyclic olefin group.
The resin of claim 6, further characterized in
that the diolefin is dicyclopentadiene.
The resin of any of the preceding claims, further
characterized in that (b) additionally comprises at least

one diolefin that reacts by vinyl polymerization. 
The resin of claim 8, further characterized in that
the diolefin that reacts by vinyl polymerization is selected

from the group consisting of piperylene concentrate,
isoprene, butadiene, and 1,3-hexadiene.
The resin of claim 9, further characterized in
that (b) comprises a mixture of dicyclopentadiene and

piperylene concentrate.
The resin of claims 1-7, further characterized in
that (b) additionally comprises at least one monoolefin.
The resin of claim 11, further characterized in
that the monoolefin is selected from the group consisting of

dihydrodicyclopentadiene, cyclopentene, and norbornene.
The resin of claim 12, further characterized in
that (b) comprises a mixture of dicyclopentadiene and the

monoolefin.
The resin of any of the preceding claims,
further characterized in that the polycyclic aromatic

compound is mixed with a benzene aromatic compound. 
The resin of claim 14, further characterized
in that the benzene aromatic compound is selected from

the group consisting of benzene, toluene, xylene,
ethylbenzene, and mixtures thereof. 
A process for preparing an essentially amorphous alkylation resin, characterized
by reacting (a) at least one ethylenically unsaturated hydrocarbon monomer

having at least two carbon-carbon double bonds that reacts with a polycyclic aromatic
compound by alkylation and (b) at least one substituted or unsubstituted polycyclic

aromatic compound having at least two aromatic rings, in the presence of an acid
catalyst that promotes the alkylation of the polycyclic aromatic compound by the

ethylenically unsaturated monomer, to produce a resin having a weight average
molecular weight of less than 10,000 measured by size exclusion chromatography

and a Ring and Ball softening point of 50° to 250°C, and wherein the ratio of (b) to
(a) in the resin is 1:9 to 3:1. 
The process of claim 16, further characterized in
that the polycyclic aromatic compound is a fused ring

aromatic compound.
The process of claim 17, further
characterized in that the polycyclic aromatic compound

is selected from the group consisting of substituted or
unsubstituted naphthalene, anthracene, biphenylene,

acenaphthalene, fluorene, and phenanthrene aromatics,
and mixtures thereof.
The process of claims 16-18, further characterized
in that the ethylenically unsaturated monomer that reacts by

alkylation is a diolefin.
The process of claim 19, further characterized in
that the diolefin contains at least one cyclic olefin group.
The process of claim 20, further
characterized in that the diolefin is

dicyclopentadiene. 
The process of claims 16-21, further
characterized in that the catalyst is a Lewis acid.
The process of claim 22, further characterized in
that the Lewis acid is selected from the group consisting of

SnCl
4
, SbCl
5
, AlCl
3
, and ZnCl
2
.
The process of claim 23, further characterized in
that the catalyst is AlCl
3
.
The process of claims 16-24, further
characterized in that the polycyclic aromatic compound

is selected from the group consisting of naphthalene,
alkyl-substituted naphthalenes, and mixtures thereof

with each other or with alkyl-substituted
tetrahydronaphthalenes.
The process of claim 16, further characterized in
that (b) additionally comprises at least one diolefin that

reacts by vinyl polymerization. 
The process of claim 26, further characterized in
that the diolefin that reacts by vinyl polymerization is

selected from the group consisting of piperylene
concentrate, isoprene, butadiene, and 1,3-hexadiene.
The process of claim 26, further characterized in
that (b) comprises a mixture of dicyclopentadiene and

piperylene concentrate.
The process of claim 16, further characterized in
that (b) additionally comprises at least one monoolefin.
The process of claim 29, further characterized in
that the monoolefin is selected from the group consisting of

dihydrodicyclopentadiene, cyclopentene, and norbornene.
The process of claim 30, further characterized in
that (b) comprises a mixture of dicyclopentadiene and the

monoolefin.
The process of claim 16, further characterized in
that the polycyclic aromatic compound is mixed with a

benzene aromatic compound. 
The process of claim 32 further characterized in
that the benzene aromatic compound is selected from the

group consisting of benzene, toluene, xylene, ethylbenzene,
and mixtures thereof.
The process of claims 16-33, further characterized
in that a cocatalyst is also present.
The process of claim 34, further characterized in
that the cocatalyst is acetic acid.
The process of claim 16, further characterized in
that dicyclopentadiene and a naphthalenic aromatic compound

are reacted in the presence of an AlCl
3
 catalyst to produce
an alkylation resin having a z average molecular weight Mz

measured by size exclusion chromatography and a Ring and
Ball softening point in °C that fall within Area A of Figure

1.
Use of the resin of claims 1-15 in an adhesive
composition, further characterized in that the composition

also comprises an elastomer. 
The use of claim 37, further characterized in that
the resin is hydrogenated.
Use of the resin of claims 1-15 as an additive for
engineering polymers.
The use of claim 39, further characterized in that
the engineering polymer is selected from the group

consisting of polyphenylene ether, polysulphone, and
polycarbonate polymers.
Use of the resin of claims 1-15 in an ink
composition, further characterized in that the ink also

comprises a pigment.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
