<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610071</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrochemical cells using a polymer electrolyte
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M618	H01M406	H01M616	H01M462	H01M466	H01M1036	H01M406	H01M462	H01M616	H01M618	H01M466	H01M1036	H01M402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M6	H01M4	H01M6	H01M4	H01M4	H01M10	H01M4	H01M4	H01M6	H01M6	H01M4	H01M10	H01M4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An article suitable for use as a cathode comprising active cathode 
material and an ionically nonconductive prepolymeric composition as 

a binder, as well as electrochemical cells comprising such a 
cathode and a process for their preparation are provided. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for preparing an electrochemical cell
comprising a polymer electrolyte.Polymer electrolytes are typically either solid or semi-solid and their use in
electrochemical cells may eliminate the need for a microporous separator in the cell, as
well as rendering the resultant cell free of liquid electrolyte. Conventional cells in
which the electrolyte is an organic liquid normally contain a microporous separator;
however, these separators are an expensive component of the cell. Furthermore, such
separators can increase the internal resistance of the cell and, consequently, may
decrease the high rate performance of the cell. The liquid organic electrolytes used in
such conventional cells are often highly volatile liquids and, if these liquids escape from
the cell, a hazardous situation can occur.Polymer electrolytes are known and typically comprise a polymer matrix
material and an ionically conductive salt. Examples of polymer matrix materials which
are generally used in such electrolytes include the polyalkylene oxides, such as
polyethylene oxide or polypropylene oxide; and substituted polyethylene glycols
lonically conductive salts which form the second part of the electrolyte include, for
example, LiCF3SO3, and LiClO4.The prior art describes several examples of solid polymeric electrolyte cells.
U.S. Patent Number 4,925,751 discloses a solid state laminar cell containing an alkali
metal anode, a solid ionically conducting electrolyte, a composite cathode and a carrier.
The composite cathode comprises active material, a conductive filler and an ionically
conductive electrolyte. The electrolyte comprises a liquid monomeric or prepolymeric
curable composition and an ionisable alkali metal salt. During assembly of this cell, the
composite cathode mixture is applied to a current collector and then a layer of polymer
electrolyte is coated over this mixture. The polymer electrolyte layer and the polymer
in the cathode are then cured in place, after which a thin foil anode layer is applied to
the polymeric surface. U.S. Patent 
Number 4,748,542 and U.S. Patent Number 4,638,407 both disclose solid
state capacitors and multicell batteries in which a layer of a solid polymer
electrolyte is laminated to a layer of the cathode and anode.Another example of a solid electrolyte cell is disclosed in U.S. Patent
Number 4,594,299. The cell disclosed in this patent is made by protecting an
electrode, such as a lithium electrode, with an ionically conductive polymer.
The resulting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for the preparation of an electrochemical cell that contains a polymer
electrolyte, comprising preparing a cathode by mixing an active cathode material with

sufficient of an ionically nonconductive prepolymeric composition to bind the cathode
material and applying the resulting ionically nonconductive mixture to an electrically

conductive current collector, polymerising the prepolymeric composition, forming an
electrode assembly with an anode and electrically insulating ion permeable material

disposed between the cathode and anode, loading the resulting electrode assembly into a
cell housing and, thereafter, adding an amount of an ionisable electrolyte salt solution

sufficient to provide ionic conductivity to the polymer film in the cathode and between
the cathode and anode to form an active electrochemical cell wherein prior to placing

the assembly in the housing, a continuity check can be made on the assembly to detect
any shorts.
A process for making an electrochemical cell according to Claim 1 comprising:

a) preparing a cathode and prepolymeric composition mixture by contacting active
cathode material with a binding amount of an ionically nonconductive prepolymeric

composition, the active cathode material forming at least 50% of the mixture by
volume;
b) applying the cathode and prepolymeric composition mixture to an electrically
conductive carrier and polymerising the prepolymeric composition to provide a polymer

film thereon having active cathode material dispersed throughout;
c) placing an active anode material next to the ionically nonconductive cathode
with an electrically insulating ion permeable material disposed between the cathode and

the anode to form an electrode assembly;
d) placing the electrode assembly inside a housing for the cell, and
e) adding an amount of an ionisable electrolyte salt solution sufficient to provide
ionic conductivity to the polymer film in the cathode and between the cathode and

anode to form an active electrochemical cell.
A process according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein polymerising the prepolymeric
composition comprises curing and crosslinking. 
A process according to any preceding Claim, in which the active cathode
material is dispersed in an ionically nonconductive polymer film, which film is in

contact with an electrically conductive current collector.
A process according to any preceding Claim, wherein the active cathode
material is a transition metal chalcogenide.
A process according to Claim 5, wherein the active cathode material is FeS
2
,
MnO
5
, TiS
2
, V
2
0
5
, V
6
O
13
 or WO
3
.
A process according to any preceding Claim, wherein the prepolymeric
composition comprises ethylenically unsaturated monomers, comonome
rs and
oligomers; alkylene oxide monomers, comonomers and oligomers; acrylic acid-based

monomers, comonomers and oligomers; or mixtures of such monomers, comonomers
and oligomers, as the polymerisable component.
An process according to Claim 7, wherein the polymerisable component is
selected from polypropylene oxide, polyethylene oxide, polyethylene-polypropylene

oxide, polyethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol acrylates, diacrylates and triacrylates,
modified siloxanes, urethanes with polyethylene glycol side chains, epoxides and

acrylated epoxides, and mixtures of such compounds.
A process according to any preceding Claim, wherein the current collector is a
metallic foil.
A process according to any preceding Claim, wherein the active cathode
material is FeS
2
, the prepolymeric composition is a mixture comprising polyethylene
glycol acrylate, polyethylene oxide and polyethylene glycol diacrylate, and the current

collector is aluminium foil.
A process according to any preceding Claim, wherein the active cathode
material is FeS
2
; the prepolymeric composition is comprised of polyethylene oxide,
polyethylene glycol acrylate, and polyethylene glycol diacrylate; the cathode current

collector is aluminium foil, the anode is lithium; the electrically insulating ion
permeable material is a polymer film of polyethylene oxide; the electrode assembly is a 

jelly roll assembly and the ionisable electrolyte salt solution is 1.5 M LiCF
3
SO
3
 in a
solvent comprising dioxolane, propylene carbonate, and dimethoxyethane.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
