<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612980</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Signal processing for vibratory gyroscope
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C1956	G01P904	G01C1956	G01P904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01P	G01C	G01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C19	G01P9	G01C19	G01P9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Two piezoelectric elements (16a), (16b) for detecting 
of a vibratory gyroscope (12) are connected to a first 

differential amplifier circuit (38) and a summing circuit 
(46). An output of the first differential amplifier circuit 

(38) is detected in synchronism with a feedback signal of 
the vibratory gyroscope (12) by a first synchronized 

detection circuit (40), and further smoothed by a first 
smoothing circuit (44). The output signal of the first 

differential amplifier circuit (38) is detected in 
synchronism with an output signal of a phase correction 

circuit (48) by a second synchronized detection circuit 
(42), and further smoothed by a second smoothing circuit 

(50). By a level adjusting circuit (52), it is adjusted 
that a drift component of an output signal of the first 

smoothing circuit (44) and a drift component of an output 
signal of the second smoothing circuit (50) are the same 

level. A difference between the output signal of the first 
smoothing circuit (44) and an the output signal of the level 

adjusting circuit (52) is obtained by a second differential 
amplifier circuit (54). Furthermore, the output signal of 

the first differential amplifier circuit (38) may be 
detected in synchronism with an output signal of the summing 

circuit (46), smoothed and applied to the level adjusting 
circuit (52). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MURATA MANUFACTURING CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MURATA MANUFACTURING CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA TAKESHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA, TAKESHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for detecting 
an output of a gyroscope, more particularly to a method for 
detecting an output of, for example, a prism-shaped 
vibratory gyroscope used a bending vibration. Fig. 14 is a block diagram showing an example of a 
detecting circuit used in a conventional method for 
detecting an output of a gyroscope which is a background of 
the present invention. The detecting circuit 1 is used for 
measuring an output of, for example, a triangular prism-shaped 
vibratory gyroscope 2. Between two piezoelectric elements 3 and other 
piezoelectric element 4 of the vibratory gyroscope 2, an 
oscillation circuit 5 is connected. The oscillation circuit 
5 is connected to the piezoelectric elements 3 via resistors 
6. Outputs of the piezoelectric elements 3 are applied to a 
differential circuit 7. An output of the differential 
circuit 7 is synchronously detected by a synchronized 
detection circuit 8. The detected signal is amplified by a 
DC amplifier circuit 9.  
 By the oscillation circuit 5, the vibratory gyroscope 2 
bends and vibrates in the direction perpendicular to the 
surface whereon the piezoelectric element 4 is formed. In 
this state, when the vibratory gyroscope 2 is rotated about 
its axis, the direction of the bending vibration is changed 
by a Coriolis force. Thereby, a difference of outputs is 
generated between two piezoelectric elements 3 used as 
detecting members, an output is obtained from the 
differential circuit 7. In this case, driving signals for 
driving the vibratory gyroscope 2 are the same phase and in 
the same level at two piezoelectric elements 3. Thus, the 
signals for driving the vibratory gyroscope 2 are offset by 
the differential circuit 7. Therefore, only a signal 
corresponding to the magnitude of the rotational angular 
velocity is obtained from the differential circuit 7. 
Accordingly, by measuring an output wherein the output of 
the differential circuit 7 is synchronously detected and DC 
amplified, the rotational angular velocity applied to the 
vibratory gyroscope 2 can be measured. An example of a vibratory gyroscope is given by US 5 110 583. The output signals of two piezo-detectors are fed into a differentiator, the output of which is synchronously detected and smoothed, providing drift suppression. However, by changing the atmospheric temperature and so 
on, a phase difference is generated between the outputs of 
the piezoelectric elements for detecting, the phase 
difference causes to drift. When the phase
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for detecting an output of a gyroscope for 
measuring an output of a vibratory gyroscope including a 

prism-shaped vibrating body and two detecting members (16a, 16b) formed 
on a surface of said vibrating body comprising: 


a step for detecting a difference between output 
signals of said two detecting members by a differential 

circuit (38) ; 
a step for detecting a sum of the output signals of 
said two detecting members by a summing circuit (46) ; 
a step for shifting an output signal of said summing 
circuit by 90 degree by a phase correction circuit (48) ; 
a step for detecting an output signal of said 
differential circuit in synchronous with a Coriolis 

detecting signal of said vibratory gyroscope by a first 
synchronized detection circuit (40) ; 
a step for detecting the output signal of said 
differential circuit in synchronous with an output signal of 

said phase correction circuit by a second synchronized 
detection circuit (42) ; 
a step for smoothing an output signal of said first 
synchronized detection circuit by a first smoothing circuit (44) ; 
a step for smoothing an output signal of said second 
synchronized detection circuit by a second smoothing 

circuit (50) ; and  
 
a step for eliminating a drift component by composing 
an output signal of said first smoothing circuit and an 

output signal of said second smoothing circuit with 
adjusting a level thereof. 
A method for detecting an output of a gyroscope 
according to claim 1, wherein said step for eliminating the 

drift component includes a step for adjusting the level of 
the output signal of said second smoothing circuit by a 

level adjusting circuit. 
A method for detecting an output of a gyroscope 
according to claim 2, wherein said step for eliminating the 

drift component includes a step for detecting a difference 
between the output signal of said first smoothing circuit 

and an output of said level adjusting circuit by another 
differential circuit. 
A method for detecting an output of a gyroscope for 
measuring an output of a vibratory gyroscope including a 

prism-shaped vibrating body and two detecting members (16a, 16b) formed 
on a surface of said vibrating body comprising: 


a step for detecting a difference between output 
signals of said two detecting members by a differential 

circuit (38) ; 
a step for detecting a sum of the output signals of 
said two detecting members by a summing circuit (46) ; 
a step for shifting an output signal of said summing  
 

circuit by 90 degree by a phase correction circuit (48) ; 
a step for detecting an output signal of said 
differential circuit in synchronous with a Coriolis 

detecting signal of said vibratory gyroscope by a first 
synchronized detection circuit (40) ; 
a step for detecting the output signal of said 
differential circuit in synchronous with an output signal of 

said phase correction circuit by a second synchronized 
detection circuit (42) ; 
a step for detecting the output signal of said 
differential circuit in synchronous with the output signal 

of said summing circuit by a third synchronized detection 
circuit (56) ; 
a step for smoothing an output signal of said first 
synchronized detection circuit by a first smoothing circuit (44) ; 
a step for smoothing an output signal of said second 
synchronized detection circuit by a second smoothing 

circuit (50) ; 
a step for smoothing an output signal of said third 
synchronized detection circuit by a third smoothing circuit (58) ; 

and 
a step for eliminating a drift component by composing 
an output signal of said first smoothing circuit, output 

signals of said second smoothing circuit and said third 
smoothing circuit with adjusting levels thereof. 
A method for detecting an output of a gyroscope 
according to claim 4, wherein said step for eliminating the 

drift component includes a step for adjusting the levels of 
the output signals of said second smoothing circuit and said 

third smoothing circuit by a level adjusting circuit. 
A method for detecting an output of a gyroscope 
according to claim 5, wherein said step for eliminating the 

drift component includes a step for detecting a difference 
between the output signal of said first smoothing circuit 

and an output signal of said level adjusting circuit by 
another differential circuit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
