<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651670</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WISHBONE TETHER FOR MOUTHGUARD ASSEMBLIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C500	A61C514	A63B7108	A63B7108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C5	A61C5	A63B71	A63B71	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wishbone tether (70) is provided for remote anchor attachment of the mouthguard assembly (60) which is worn by the user to protect the teeth, tongue, mouth and lips of the user. The wishbone tether (70) has a U-shaped portion (72) extending from the canine regions (41, 42) of the mouthguard (60) to permit clearance at the forward end (40) of the mouthguard (60) for the unhindered movement of the tongue and lips for clear speaking while wearing the mouthguard assembly (60). A tab remote connecting portion (78) extends forwardly from the U-shaped portion (72) having attachment means (80) for remote attachment of the wishbone tether (70) and mouthguard assembly (60) to a remote anchor (82) chosen from a group comprised of a helmet, a headgear, a face mask and an user's neck.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EZ GARD IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E-Z GARD INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELVEDERE PAUL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITTELSEN JON D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELVEDERE, PAUL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITTELSEN, JON, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 WISHBONE TETHER FOR MOUTHGUARD ASSEMBLIESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention generally relates to a protective mouthguard assembly for use in athletics and more particularly to a wishbone tether for remote attachment of a mouthguard assembly which permits unhindered movement of the tongue and lips for clear speaking while wearing the mouthguard.A number of outhguards currently exist in the art for protecting the teeth, gums, tongue and lips and for further reducing the chance of shock, concussion or other injury as a result of high impact collisions and blows during athletic competition. In general, mouthguards existing in the art can be placed in two broad categories: tethered and untethered.Untethered mouthguards are commonly fabricated by the user applying the boil-and-bite methodology or by dentists who fit the mouthguard to the exact contour of the user's teeth. These mouthguards are manufactured in a single configuration. The mouthguard may also be trimmed to the correct size with a scissors to assist in comfortably forming the mouthguard to fit to the contour of the user's teeth and mouth.In certain athletic activities, which utilize a helmet or other protective headgear, and in particular in high impact sports such as football and hockey, it is desirable for the mouthpiece to be tethered to the helmet, headgear, face mask or about the user's neck. The principal reasons are twofold. First, having the mouthguard tethered to the helmet or face mask eliminates the chance that the mouthguard will be lost or misplaced. Secondly and perhaps most important, a number of instances have occurred where the user inadvertently swallows the mouthguard as a result of impact or otherwise during physical activity. This can result in the user choking on the mouthpiece, thus causing severe injury or death. 

 The tethered mouthpieces that currently exist in the art are generally of a one piece construction comprising a moldable mouthpiece and an integrally formed tether strap constructed of the same material as the mouthpiece and extending from the forward end of the mouthpiece or mouthguard for connection to the helmet or the like. Tethered mouthguards also exist where the tether is removable from the mouthguard.There is a principal limitation relating to presently existing permanent and removable tethered mouthguards. Because the tether straps are constructed of the same material as the mouthguards, the straps are generally quite wide in order to prevent the straps from inadvertently breaking. As a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS ;
1. A wishbone tether for remote attachment of a mouthguard assembly having a mouthguard portion with a forward protective flange, a rearward protective flange and a connecting protective web for receiving and protectively engaging incisor, canine, bicuspid and molar teeth of the wearer to protect the teeth, tongue and lips of the user, the mouthpiece portion having a forward end and two canine regions, the wishbone tether comprising:
(a) a U-shaped portion extending from the canine regions to permit clearance at the forward end of the mouthguard portion for the unhindered movement of the tongue and lips for clear speaking while wearing the mouthguard assembly; and
(b) a tab remote connecting portion extending forwardly from the U-shaped portion and having attachment means for remote attachment of the wishbone tether and mouthguard assembly to a remote anchor chosen from a group comprising a helmet, a headgear, a facemask and an user's neck.
2. The wishbone tether of claim 1, wherein the U-shaped portion further comprises left and right legs each extending from one of the canine regions.
3. The wishbone tether of claim 2, wherein the left and right legs join at the tab remote connecting portion.
4. The wishbone tether of claim 1, wherein the wishbone tether is integral with the mouthguard portion. 


 5. The wishbone tether of claim 1, wherein the attachment means is adapted for selectively attaching a tether thereto and detaching the tether therefrom facilitating a breakaway feature of the remotely attached tether from the attachment means.
6. The wishbone tether of claim 1, wherein the attachment means is adapted to extend forwardly for the selective attachment to and detachment from the remote anchor to facilitate a breakaway feature of the mouthguard assembly from the remote anchor.
7. A wishbone tether for remote attachment of a mouthguard assembly having a mouthguard portion with a forward protective flange, a rearward protective flange and a connecting protective web for receiving and protectively engaging incisor, canine, bicuspid and molar teeth of the wearer to protect the teeth, tongue and lips of the user, the mouthpiece portion having a forward end and two canine regions, the wishbone tether comprising:
(a) a U-shaped portion having left and right legs each extending from one of the canine regions to permit clearance at the forward end of the mouthguard portion for the unhindered movement of the tongue and lips for clear speaking while wearing the mouthguard assembly; and
(b) a tab remote connecting portion extending forwardly from the U-shaped portion and having attachment means for remote attachment of the wishbone tether and mouthguard assembly to a remote anchor chosen from a group comprising a helmet, a headgear, a facemask and an user's neck.
8. The wishbone tether of claim 7, wherein the left and right legs join at the tab remote connecting portion. 


 9. The wishbone tether of claim 7, wherein the wishbone tether is integral with the mouthguard portion.
10. The wishbone tether of claim 7, wherein the attachment means is adapted for selectively attaching a tether thereto and detaching the tether therefrom facilitating a breakaway feature of the remotely attached tether from the attachment means.
11. The wishbone tether of claim 7, wherein the attachment means is adapted to extend forwardly for the selective attachment to and detachment from the remote anchor to facilitate a breakaway feature of the mouthguard assembly from the remote anchor. 

12. A wishbone tether for remote attachment of a mouthguard assembly having a mouthguard portion with a forward protective flange, a rearward protective flange and a connecting protective web for receiving and protectively engaging incisor, canine, bicuspid and molar teeth of the wearer to protect the teeth, tongue and lips of the user, the mouthpiece portion having a forward end and two canine regions, the wishbone tether comprising:
(a) a U-shaped portion integral with the mouthpiece portion having left and right legs each extending from one of the canine regions to permit clearance at the forward end of the mouthguard portion for the unhindered movement of the tongue and lips for clear speaking while wearing the mouthguard assembly; and
(b) a tab remote connecting portion extending forwardly from the U-shaped portion and having attachment means for remote attachment of the wishbone tether and mouthguard assembly to a remote anchor chosen from a group comprising a helmet, a headgear, a facemask and an user's neck.
13. The wishbone tether of claim 12, wherein the attachment means is adapted for selectively attaching a tether thereto and detaching the tether therefrom facilitating a breakaway feature of the remotely attached tether from the attachment means.
14. The wishbone tether of claim 12 , wherein the attachment means is adapted to extend forwardly for the selective attachment to and detachment from the remote anchor to facilitate a breakaway feature of the mouthguard assembly from the remote anchor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
