<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615391</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mobile communication network.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W3600	H04W3612	H04W3614	H04W8400	H04W8400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W36	H04W36	H04W36	H04W84	H04W84	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention concerns a mobile network 
(MCN) for setting up a communication path between a mobile 

terminal (MT) and a telecommunication network (FTN). This 
path may include a radio access link (ICMRN) between the 

mobile terminal and a relay station (RS) and a relay link 
(GCFN/GCRN) between this relay station and a fixed base 

station (FBS). The hand-over decision in the present mobile 
communication network is based on measurement data relating 

to the radio access links (DCMRN/ICMRN) as well as to the 
relay links (GCFN/GCRN) included in the possible paths 

corresponding to the mobile terminal. 
In this way, the relay links (GCFN/GCRN) may be of 
different types and/or have varying characteristics. Allowing 

such flexibility for these relay links is tantamount to 
providing a mobile network (MCN) which can be adapted to a 

great variety of environments of the mobile terminal (MT) and 
which can to a large extent be integrated with the 

telecommunication network (FTN). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCATEL NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BELL TELEPHONE MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BELL TELEPHONE MANUFACTURING COMPANY NAAMLOZE VENNOOTSCHAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERCAUTEREN LEO ALBERT ALBERTI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERCAUTEREN, LEO ALBERT ALBERTINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a mobile 
communication network adapted to set up communication paths 
between any one of a plurality of mobile terminals and a 
fixed telecommunication network and each including a radio 
access link and at least one of said paths including such a 
radio access link between one of said mobile terminals and 
one of a plurality of relay stations and a relay link between 
said one relay station and one of a plurality of base 
stations, said network including path selection means for 
selecting, as part of a hand-over decision, at least one 
communication path from a plurality of possible communication 
paths between said one mobile terminal and said fixed network 
based on measurement data of characteristics of radio access 
links included in said possible paths. Such a mobile communication network is already 
known in the art, e.g. from the recommendations specifying 
the Pan-European digital cellular GSM network. In this known network the terminals can be both 
hand-held and vehicle-operated. Whereas high speed vehicle-operated 
terminals require large cell sizes to reduce the 
number of hand-overs between cells, hand-held terminals 
necessitate small cell sizes as they inherently cover only a 
relatively small area due to their relatively low power 
consumption. Therefore the network infrastructure comprises 
two cellular structures each adapted to a specific 
environment: a first one with large cell sizes or macro-cells 
e.g. around rural areas in which only vehicle-operated 
terminals need to be supported and a second one with small 
cell sizes or micro-cells e.g. for pedestrian areas. In the first structure the radio access links are 
used to directly access the base stations, known as base 
station controllers, one of which is provided in each macro-cell. 
These controllers are relatively complex as they have 
to provide the mobility control, including the hand-over  
 
decisions, and the routing to the fixed network. In the 
second structure such a solution would lead to a commercial 
drawback since providing such a complex base station in each 
micro-cell would require huge investments. Therefore, in the 
micro-cells use is made of relay stations, called base 
transceiver stations, which have a minimum intelligence in 
the micro-cells and the traffic of a number of which, for 
instance corresponding to a macro-cell, is concentrated in a 
base station. In this known mobile network the relay links are so 
designed that their influence on the over-all communication 
p
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Mobile communication network (MCN) adapted to 
set up communication paths (DCMRN, FBS, LE or ICMRN, RS, 

GCFN/GCRN, FBS, LE) between any one of a plurality of mobile 
terminals (MT) and a fixed telecommunication network (FTN) 

and each including a radio access link (DCMRN, ICMRN), at 
least one of said paths including such a radio access link 

(ICMRN) between one of said mobile terminals and one of a 
plurality of relay stations (RS) and a relay link (GCFN/GCRN) 

between said one relay station and one of a plurality of base 
stations (FBS), said network including path selection means 

(FBS) for selecting, as part of a hand-over decision, at 
least one communication path from a plurality of possible 

communication paths between said one mobile terminal and said 
fixed network based on measurement data of characteristics of 

radio access links (DCMRN/ICMRN) included in said possible 
paths, characterized in that said path selection means (FBS) 

also bases its selection on measurement data of 
characteristics of the relay links (GCFN/GCRN) included in 

said possible paths. 
Mobile communication network (MCN) according to 
claim 1, characterized in that said mobile network (MCN) 

includes a plurality of types of said relay links (GCFN, 
SGCRN, MTGCRN, STGCRN) and a plurality of types of said relay 

stations (FFRS, SRS, RRS, FRRS), and that each relay station 
provides a specific coverage area for said mobile terminals 

(MT) whilst the type of each relay link is dependent on 
characteristics of the relay station and of the base station 

(FBS) interconnected by it. 
Mobile communication network (MCN) according to 
claim 2, characterized in that on said radio access links 

(TMRN, SMRN) use is made of a plurality of predetermined 
transmission protocols corresponding to distinct types of 

 
relay stations (TRS, SRS), and that said path selection means 

(FBS) makes said hand-over decision regarding communication 
paths (TMRN, TRS, TGCRN/GCFN, FBS or SMRN, SRS, SGCRN, FBS) 

including radio access links by way of either one of said 
transmission protocols. 
Mobile communication network (MCN) according to 
claim 3, characterized in that at least one of said mobile 

terminals (DMT) is a multi-mode mobile terminal adapted to 
operate according to either one of at least two transmission 

protocols of said plurality of protocols, and that said 
selection also comprises a selection among said distinct 

types of relay stations (TRS, SRS). 
Mobile communication network (MCN) according to 
claim 2, characterized in that a first one (FFRS) of said 

types of relay stations (FFRS, FRRS, RRS, SRS) is constituted 
by a fixed relay station (FFRS) connected to at least one of 

said base stations (FBS) via at least one type of relay link 
(GCFN) which is at least partly constituted by a link of said 

fixed network (FTN). 
Mobile communication network (MCN) according to 
claim 5, characterized in that said first type of relay 

stations (FFRS) includes at least one relay station coupled 
to a plurality of base stations (FBS) via a corresponding 

plurality of relay links of said last mentioned type of relay 
links (GCFN). 
Mobile communication network (MCN) according to 
claim 2, characterized in that a second one (FRRS, RRS, SRS) 

of said types of relay stations (FFRS, FRRS, RRS, SRS) is 
constituted by a relay station (FRRS, RRS, SRS) connected to 

at least one base station (FBS) via at least one relay link 
(GCRN) which is at least partly constituted by a radio link 

(GCRN). 
Mobile communication network (MCN) according to 
claim 7, characterized in that said second type of relay 

stations (FFRS, RRS, SRS) includes at least one roaming relay 
station (RRS) connected to at least one base station (FBS) 

via at least one relay link (MTGCRN) at least partly 
constituted by a mobile radio link (MTGCRN). 
Hand-over protocol for making said hand-over 
decision in a mobile communication network (MCN) according to 

claim 1, characterized in that it includes a tracking step in 
which said measurement data are collected in and organized by 

said one mobile terminal (MT), a forwarding step in which 
said organized measurement data are forwarded to said path 

selection means (FBS) which are included in said one base 
station (FBS), a decision step and an execution step in which 

said hand-over decision is made and executed by said 
selection means (FBS) based on said organized measurement 

data respectively. 
Mobile terminal (MT) adapted to operate 
according to a hand-over protocol as per claim 9, 

characterized in that to perform said tracking step it 
includes: 


receive means for receiving tracking signals transmitted by 
base stations (FBS) and/or relay stations (RS) included in 

said possible paths and connected to said mobile terminal via 
a radio access link (DCMRN, ICMRN) and said tracking signals 

including information indicative of said measurement data; 
measurement extraction means for extracting said radio link 
and relay link measurement data from said received tracking 

signals; and, 
organization means for deriving said organized measurement 
data under the form of a communication tree (dashed 

lines/Fig. 2) with branches corresponding to said possible 
paths. 
Base station (FBS) adapted to operate according 
to a hand-over protocol as per claim 9, characterized in that 

to perform said decision step and execution step, it 
includes: 


said path selection means for making said hand-over 
decision based on said organized measurement data (dashed 

lines/Fig. 2) under the form of: 

an active communication set consisting of at 
least one communication path which is to be used 

for said communication between said mobile terminal 
and said fixed network; 
a redundant communication set consisting of 
stand-by communication paths; and, 
execution means for executing said hand-over decision by: 

activating/deactivating a communication path 
which is added/removed with respect to a previous 

active set in such a way that said communication is 
performed via said active set; 
allocating/deallocating to said communication a 
communication path which is added/removed with 

respect to a previous redundant set in such a way 
that all preparations for activating said redundant 

set are performed. 
Base station (FBS) according to claim 11, 
characterized in that said redundant/active set contains 

communication paths which are not included in said organized 
measurement data (dashed lines/Fig. 2) and are set 

up/released as a part of said allocating/deallocating step. 
Base station (FBS) according to claim 11, 
characterized in that said active set contains a plurality of 

parallel communication paths over which the same information 
is transmitted and which are all coupled to said one base 

station (FBS). 
Base station (FBS) according to claim 12 and 
13, characterized in that said parallel communication paths 

include a radio access link (DCMRN, ICMRN) not included in 
said organized measurement data (dashed lines/Fig. 2). 
Base station (FBS) according to claim 12, 
characterized in that said selection means learns from 

experience which communication paths have to be included in 
said redundant/active set for based on said organized 

measurement data (dashed lines/Fig. 2). 
Base station (FBS) according to claim 11, 
characterized in that one of said characteristics is the 

ownership of said radio access links, relay stations and 
relay links, said selection means taking into account the 

availability and cost of said communication paths associated 
to said ownership. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
