<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0479900</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STORAGE BATTERY CHARGING CONTROL APPARATUS WITH TEMPERATURE-SENSITIVE VOLTAGE MONITORING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J700	H02J700	H02J710	H02J710	H02J714	H02J714	H02J716	H02J724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	H02J	H02J	H02J	H02J	H02J	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for monitoring voltage as a function of temperature of a storage battery and an apparatus for controlling the charging voltage of the battery based on battery temperature, voltage, and charging system loads. The battery monitoring apparatus includes a comparator for comparing, at any temperature in the working temperature range of the battery, the actual battery voltage with a reference battery voltage. The reference battery voltage is the voltage gassing curve for the storage battery. The comparator is given a temperature coefficient provided by a temperature-sensitive band-gap voltage reference. A plurality of the temperature-sensitive band-gap reference cells may be connected together in order to accurately track any differently sloped battery gassing voltage curve. An apparatus for controlling charging voltage of the storage battery is also provided, which includes a comparator for comparing, at any temperature in a predetermined range, the actual charging voltage with a reference charging voltage. The reference charging voltage curve is a function of charging system component temperatures and electrical system loads. A plurality of comparators may be connected together in order to approximate any desired charging voltage reference curve or combination of curves.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANALOG DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANALOG DEVICES, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROKAW A PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROKAW, A., PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STORAGE BATTERY CHARGING CONTROL APPARATUS WITH TEMPERATURE-SENSITIVE VOLTAGE MONITORING APPARATUSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to the field of charging control circuitry that acts to effect charging of a storage battery in response to the actual battery voltage and battery temperature. The present invention also relates to voltage monitoring circuits and more particularly to circuits that monitor voltage as a function of temperature.Discussion of the Prior ArtStorage batteries, such as those used in automobile electrical systems, must be recharged after use to restore the full electrical capacity of the battery. While it is desirable to charge the storage battery fully, it is possible to damage the battery by over-charging it. An automobile battery charging system therefore must monitor the battery voltage and charge the battery when the voltage is low, but limit charging as the battery voltage approaches a predetermined limit. This predetermined limit is defined by the gassing voltage, that is, the voltage at which the electrolyte is dissociated and evolves hydrogen and oxygen. The state of charge of a storage battery 

is maximized as the battery voltage approaches the gassing voltage. The gassing voltage depends upon the temperature of the battery and is inversely proportional to battery temperature. A "cold" battery will have a high gassing voltage, while a "warm" battery will have a lower gassing voltage. For example, FIG. 1 shows the gassing voltage versus temperature of a typical 12 volt automobile storage battery. When the battery voltage is higher than the gassing voltage for a particular temperature, the battery electrolyte will begin to dissociate. Since the state of charge of the battery is maximized just below the gassing voltage, as shown in FIG. 1, a "cold" battery charged only to the "warm" battery gassing voltage would be severely below capacity. Therefore, in order to maintain the battery in the highest state of charge, the battery voltage should track the gassing voltage curve.One prior art charging system has a temperature-sensitive characteristic which limits the battery charging voltage as a function of the temperature of the voltage regulator. However, the voltage regulator is often physically separated from the battery and is therefore frequently at a different temperature than the battery. For example, if the voltage regulator is mounted on or in the alternator, it senses the alternator temperature which is generally
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An apparatus for monitoring storage battery voltage as a function of battery temperature, comprising:
means for determining actual battery voltage;
a comparator means for comparing, at any temperature in a predetermined range in the working temperature range of the battery, the actual battery voltage with a reference battery voltage; and
means for indicating, for a predetermined temperature, when the actual battery voltage differs from the reference battery voltage.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an output means for providing a signal responsive to the comparator means, the signal provided by the output means being in a first state when the storage battery should be charged, and the signal provided by the output means being in a second state when the storage battery should not be charged.
3. The apparatus of Claim 2 further comprising:
a plurality of comparator means for respectively comparing, at any temperature, in a respective predetermined range within the working temperature 


range of the battery, actual battery voltage with a corresponding respective reference battery voltage, each of the plurality of comparator means indicating, for a predetermined temperature, when the actual battery voltage differs from the corresponding respective battery reference.
4. An apparatus for controlling charging voltage of a storage battery comprising:
means for determining actual charging voltage;
a comparator means for comparing, at any temperature in a predetermined range, the actual charging voltage with a reference charging voltage; and
means for indicating, for a predetermined temperature, when the actual charging voltage diffsrs from the reference charging voltage.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising an output means for providing a signal responsive to the comparator means, the output means being in a first state when charging voltage should be supplied and the output means being in a second state when charging voltage should not be supplied. 


6. The apparatus of Claim 5 further comprising:
a plurality of comparator means for respectively comparing, at any temperature in a respective predetermined range, actual charging voltage with a corresponding respective reference charging voltage, each of the plurality of comparator means indicating, for a predetermined temperature, when the actual charging voltage differs from the corresponding respective reference charging voltage.
7. A system for controlling storage battery charging as a function of temperature comprising:
a storage battery means;
a battery monitoring means connected to the storage battery means comprising a first comparator means for comparing, at any temperature in a predetermined range in the working range of the battery, actual battery voltage with a reference battery voltage, the comparator means indicating, for a predetermined temperature, when the actual battery voltage differs from the reference battery;
a generating means connected to the storage battery means for providing battery charging voltage and battery charging current; 


 a generating control means connected to the battery monitoring means and the generating means comprising a second comparator means for comparing, at any temperature in a predetermined range, actual charging voltage with a reference charging voltage, the comparator means indicating, for a predetermined temperature, when the measured charging voltage differs from the reference charging voltage;
the generating control means being additionally respons
"
ve to the battery monitor means to additionally control charging of the battery means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
