<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634731</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Output apparatus and method using plural data processing units
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K1502	G06K1502	B41J530	B41J530	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K15	G06K15	B41J5	B41J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An output apparatus and method controls a 
combination of a plurality of font data stores and a 

plurality of conversion methods for converting font 
data to dot pattern data in accordance with a condition 

of a using right of a print data processing unit and a 
bit map pattern producing unit. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIGISHIMA ISAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIGISHIMA, ISAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an output
apparatus and method for controlling combinations of
print data processing units and bit map pattern
producing units.Recently, some printing devices have been
developed which have a plurality of processing units
for processing print data and a plurality of producing
units for producing bit map patterns from a plurality
of font data. In these devices, all processing units
for processing print data can use all producing units
for producing bit map patterns because all processing
units can refer to all font data. Some printing devices have been developed which
can select one of a plurality of character sets and
which select the character set which corresponds to a
name of the character set indicated by input data.
However, if no character set corresponds to the name of
the character set indicated by the input data, the
device cannot change from one character set to another. The European Patent Application EP-A-0 119 395 discloses an
output apparatus and a method for text processing wherein a
plurality of electronically-stored fonts are managed and
selected for use in particular presentation processes, for
example printing, display and the like. The data evaluation
is performed on the basis of designated names of the
characters (completely defined font) or on the basis of
predetermined characteristics. The predefined
characteristics are interpreted by automatic data
processing to complete font definitions for use by document
presentation devices.Furthermore, the European Patent Application EP-A-0 480 399
discloses a method of commonly using font information for
transmitting information in a system having a plurality of
information processing devices, wherein the transmission of
information is based on font information. If font
information about an instructed font is not stored and thus
not available in the data evaluation apparatus, it is
checked whether or not any font information about the
instructed font is stored in other information processing
devices connected to the particular information processing
device. If there is no information available on the font
instructed font data of one or more information processing
devices is selected which approximates to the required font
data selected during the data evaluation process.Moreover, document EP-A-0 357 383 discloses an output
apparatus wherein pattern data to be output are temporarily
stored. Depending upon the input data a font is stored as
an ordinary dot pattern or is stored in a compressed format
in order
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An output apparatus comprising:

a plurality of processing means (109, 110) for processing
inputted data;
a plurality of character pattern generating means (111,
113, 112, 114) for generating a character pattern in accordance

with the inputted data;
first recognizing means (Fig. 5(1)) for recognizing
information on a right to use one of said plurality of

processing means;
second recognizing means (Fig. 5(3)) for recognizing
information on a right to use one of said plurality of

character pattern generating means;
comparing means (Fig. 5(4)) for comparing the information
on the right to use one of said plurality of processing means

recognized by said first recognizing means, and the information
on the right to use the one of said plurality of character 

pattern generating means recognized by said second recognizing
means; and
setting means (Figs. 5(5) and 5(6) for setting to allow or
prohibit use of the one of said plurality of character pattern

generating means by the one of said plurality of processing
means in accordance with the result of the comparison by said

comparing means.
An output apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
comparing means compares the information on a right to use by a

logical multiplication.
An output apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the right
to use is expressed by a number.
An output apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the right
to use is expressed by a sign.
An output apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising
output means (105) for outputting a character generated by the

character generating means which was allowed by said setting
means.
An output apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said
output means is a printer.
An output apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
setting means allows use of the one of said plurality of

character pattern generating means by the one of said plurality
of processing means when the information on the right to use

one of said plurality of processing means and the information
on the right to use one of said plurality of character pattern

generating means are equal, and prohibits use of the one of
said plurality of character pattern generating means by the one

of said plurality of processing means when the information on 
the right to use one of said plurality of processing means and

the information on the right to use one of said plurality of
character pattern generating means are not equal.
An output method using a plurality of data processing means
(109, 110) and a plurality of character pattern generating

means (111, 113, 112, 114), said method comprising the steps
of:


recognizing (Fig. 5(1)) information on a right to use one
of the plurality of data processing means;
recognizing (Fig. 5(3)) information on a right to use one
of the plurality of character pattern generating means;
comparing (Fig. 5(4)) the information on the right to use
one of said plurality of processing means recognized by said

recognizing step, and the information on the right to use the
one of said plurality of character pattern generating means

recognized by said recognizing step; and
setting (Figs. 5(5) and 5(6)) to allow or prohibit use of
the one of said plurality of character pattern generating means

by the one of said plurality of processing means in accordance
with the result of the comparison in said comparing step.
An output method according to claim 8, wherein the comparing
step compares the information on a right to use by a logical

multiplication.
An output method according to claim 8, wherein the right to
use is expressed by a number.
An output method according to claim 8, wherein the right to
use is expressed by a sign.
An output method according to claim 8 further comprising a
step of outputting a character generated by the character 

generating means which was allowed by said setting means into
an outputting means (105).
An output method according to claim 12, wherein said output
means is a printer.
An output method according to claim 8, wherein said setting
step allows use of the one of said plurality of character

pattern generating means by the one of said plurality of
processing means when the information on the right to use one

of said plurality of processing means and the information on
the right to use one of said plurality of character pattern

generating means are equal, and prohibits use of the one of
said plurality of character pattern generating means by the one

of said plurality of processing means when the information on
the right to use one of said plurality of processing means and

the information on the right to use one of said plurality of
character pattern generating means are not equal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
