<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646650</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
New spheroidal crystal sugar and method of manufacuture.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A21D1500	A21D1508	A23G300	A23G300	A23G302	A23G310	A23G334	A23G334	A23G336	A61K900	A61K900	A61K920	A61K920	A61K970	A61K970	C13F100	C13F102	C13F300	C13F300	C13K100	C13K110	C13K1300	C13K1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A21D	A21D	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C13F	C13F	C13F	C13F	C13K	C13K	C13K	C13K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A21D15	A21D15	A23G3	A23G3	A23G3	A23G3	A23G3	A23G3	A23G3	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	C13F1	C13F1	C13F3	C13F3	C13K1	C13K1	C13K13	C13K13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is a new spheroidal 
polycrystallite product and a process for making the same. 

In the present invention amorphous sugar is transformed to 
crystalline sugar by hydrating rather than dehydrating 

sugar. The product of the present invention is unique in 
shape, size, and possesses a high degree of uniformity. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUISZ TECHNOLOGIES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUISZ TECHNOLOGIES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATTIST GERALD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUISZ RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MYERS GARRY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATTIST, GERALD E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUISZ, RICHARD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MYERS, GARRY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to crystalline sugar 
products, and, in particular, to a new form of crystalline 
sugar. Crystallization is one of the oldest industrial 
chemical transformation processes known. Vast quantities 
of crystalline substances are produced for commercial 
purposes, e.g., in excess of 100 x 10⁶ metric tons per 
year. One of the most common products prepared by 
crystallization is sugar. Crystallization of sugar is complex. The growth of 
crystals involves simultaneous transfer of heat and mass 
in a multi-phase, multi-component system. While the coexistence 
of these conditions alone present complex 
control problems, fluid and particle mechanics and 
thermodynamic instability create further complications. Conventional wisdom in the science of sugars teaches 
crystallization by supersaturation. Supersaturation 
requires removal of water. Cooling, evaporating, and 
precipitating are used. Manufacturing procedures for 
crystallizing sugar are heat and energy intensive. 
Moreover, nucleation of sugar crystals during 
supersaturation is relatively uncontrollable. 
Consequently, the size and shape of the resulting crystals 
are unpredictable. The drawbacks of known sugar manufacturing procedures 
are especially manifested when preparing sugar having 
reduced-size crystals. Reduced-size crystalline sugar 
product is referred to herein as microcrystals. 
Individual particles of microcrystalline product are no 
greater than 50 µm.  Classification of crystallizers known in the industry 
follows the methods by which supersaturation is achieved. 
The technical aspects of procedures used for sugar 
crystallization are well documented, and they are 
generally high-energy procedures. For example, one method of manufacturing reduced-size 
crystals involves grinding and sieving crystalline sugar. 
Grinding is energy intensive. Moreover, fracturing sugar 
results in a wide distribution of ground sugar crystals. 
The large crystals must be reground and sieved. Much of 
the product is lost as fines. Thus, grinding and sieving 
is expensive and inefficient. U.S. Patent No. 3,981,739 to Dmitrovsky, et al. 
discloses preparation of crystalline sugar from solution 
by 1) concentrating a solute in the presence of seed 
crystals added thereto, followed by 2) further removal of 
solvent through heating and evaporation of the stream 
resulting from the first stage concentration. This energy 
intensive procedure produces sugar crystals having an 
average size in the range of 325-425 microns. The 
Dmitrovsky,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of making a new sugar product 
comprising: 

   contacting amorphous sugar with a non-aqueous 
sugar-nondissoluble liquid and water, said water made 

available to said amorphous sugar at a rate and in an 
amount which provides substantially spheroidal 

polycrystallite structures. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said structures 
are monodispersed. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said amorphous 
sugar is provided by shearform processing a sugar-containing 

feedstock. 
The method of Claim 3 wherein said shearform 
process comprises subjecting a feedstock having a sugar 

carrier to shear created by high speed spinning on a 
spinning head which casts material outwardly, said 

feedstock subjected to heating and shear in said head 
sufficient to create flash flow in said sugar carrier. 
The method of Claim 3 wherein said shearform 
process comprises heating a non-solubilized feedstock 

having a sugar carrier sufficiently to provide internal 
flow in said sugar carrier, ejecting said feedstock while 

said sugar has said internal flow condition, and 
subjecting said feedstock to disruptive fluid shear force 

to form multiple masses of carrier. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said amorphous 
sugar further comprises an additive whereby said additive 

is co-crystallized in said substantially spheroidal 
polycrystallite structures. 
The method of Claim 6 wherein said additive is a 
material which can be integrated into said amorphous sugar 

without reducing the amorphism of said sugar and without 
deteriorating said substantially spheroidal 

polycrystallite structures. 
The method of Claim 7 wherein said additive is 
selected from the group consisting of flavorants, bio-affecting 

agents, dyes, fragrances, food products, food 
ingredients, and other compatible agents. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said water further 
comprises an additive which co-crystallizes with said 

sugar to form said substantially spheroidal 
polycrystallite structures. 
The method of Claim 9 wherein said additive is 
selected from the group consisting of flavorants, bio-affecting 

agents, dyes, fragrances, food products, food 
ingredients, and other compatible agents. 
The method of Claim 10 wherein said additive is 
a bio-affecting agent selected from inhalants. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said substantially 
spheroidal polycrystallite structures are 

microcrystalline. 
The method of Claim 12 wherein the mean diameter 
of said polycrystalline structures are not greater than 

about 50 µm. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said non-aqueous 
sugar-nondissoluble liquid is maintained at a temperature 

of not less than about -20°C. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said non-aqueous 
sugar-nondissoluble liquid and water form an azeotrope. 
The method of Claim 15 wherein said water and 
said sugar non-dissoluble liquid are combined in a 

azeotropic range. 
The method of Claim 15 wherein said non-aqueous 
sugar-nondissoluble liquid is ethanol. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said water is 
present in an amount not greater than about 5%. 
The method of 18 wherein said water is present 
in an amount not greater than about 2.0%. 
The method of Claim 3 wherein said feedstock 
further comprises a surfactant. 
The method of Claim 1 which further comprises 
disintegrating said spheroidal polycrystalline structures 

to form crystallites. 
The method of 21 wherein said disintegrating 
comprises contacting said spheroidal polycrystallite 

structures with an essentially sugar-saturated aqueous 
liquid. 
The method of Claim 21 wherein said crystallites 
are not greater than within monodispersibility of 5µm. 
A new sugar product comprising: 
   substantially spheroidal polycrystallite 

structures. 
The new sugar product of Claim 24 wherein said 
spheroidal polycrystallite structures are monodispersed. 
The new sugar product of Claim 25 wherein said 
spheroidal polycrystallite structures are 

microcrystalline. 
The new sugar product of Claim 24 which further 
comprises an additive co-crystallized in said spheroidal 

polycrystallite structure. 
The new sugar product of Claim 27 wherein said 
additive is selected from the group consisting of 

flavorants, bio-affecting agents, dyes, fragrances, food 
products, food ingredients, and other compatible agents. 
The new sugar product of Claim 24 wherein said 
substantially spheroidal polycrystallite structures are 

produced by contacting amorphous sugar with a non-aqueous 
sugar-nondissoluble liquid and water, said water made 

available to said amorphous sugar at a rate and in an 
amount sufficient to form said structures. 
The new sugar product of Claim 29 wherein said 
amorphous sugar is a shearform product. 
The new sugar product of Claim 29 wherein said 
liquid and water combine to form an azeotrope. 
The new sugar product of Claim 31 wherein said 
liquid is ethanol. 
A new sugar product comprising: 
   monodispersed sugar crystallites. 
The new sugar product of Claim 33 wherein said 
monodispersed sugar crystallites are microcrystalline. 
The new sugar product of Claim 34 wherein said 
microcrystalline monodispersed sugar crystallites are not 

greater than about 20 µm. 
The new sugar product of Claim 35 wherein said 
crystallites are not greater than about 10 µm. 
The new sugar product of Claim 33 which further 
comprises an additive co-crystallized in said 

crystallites. 
The new sugar product of Claim 34 wherein said 
additive is selected from the group consisting of 

flavorants, bio-affecting agents, dyes, fragrances, food 
products, food ingredients, and other compatible agents. 
The new sugar product of Claim 33 wherein said 
monodispersed sugar crystallites are produced by 

disintegrating spheroidal polycrystallite structures 
prepared by contacting amorphous sugar with a non-aqueous 

sugar-nondissoluble liquid and water, said water made 
available to said amorphous sugar at a rate and in an 

amount sufficient form said structures. 
The new sugar product of Claim 39 wherein said 
disintegrating comprises contacting said spheroidal 

polycrystallite structures with an essentially sugar-saturated 
liquid. 
A new fondant product comprising: 
   substantially spheroidal polycrystallite 

structures. 
A new fondant product comprising: 
   monodispersed sugar crystallites. 
A method of making a fondant product comprising: 
   mixing an ingredient selected from the group 

consisting of substantially spheroidal polycrystallite 
structures, monodispersed sugar crystallites and 

combinations thereof with other fondant ingredients, 
whereby said fondant product is provided. 
A new crystalline product resulting from the 
process comprising: 

   contacting an amorphous solid form of a solvent-soluble 
compound, which is capable of forming crystals, 

with a non-dissoluble liquid and solvent in a controlled 
amount sufficient to form said new crystalline product. 
The new crystalline product of Claim 44 wherein 
said solvent is water. 
A method of making a new crystalline product 
comprising: 

   contacting an amorphous solid form of a solvent-soluble 
compound, which is capable of forming crystals, 

with a non-dissoluble liquid and a solvent in a controlled 
amount sufficient to form said new crystalline product. 
The method of Claim 46 wherein said solvent is 
water. 
A comestible composition for use with baked 
edible food products comprising: 

   a substantially spheroidal polycrystalline sugar 
product and at least one other ingredient selected from 

the group consisting of gums, humectants, fats, flavors, 
and combinations thereof. 
A comestible composition for use with baked 
edible food products comprising: 

   monodispersed sugar crystallites and at least 
one other ingredient selected from the group consisting of 

gums, humectants, fats, flavors, and combinations thereof. 
A baked food product comprising: 

A. a baked portion, and 
B. a composition comprising 

(i) a sugar portion selected from the 
group consisting of a substantially 

spheroidal polycrystalline sugar, 
monodispersed sugar crystallites and a 

combination thereof, and 
(ii) at least one ingredient selected from 
the group consisting of gums, 

humectants, fats, flavors and mixtures 
thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
