<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638411</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for registration of a seal on a plastic bag.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D520	B26D520	B26D522	B26D534	B29C6500	B29C6500	B29C6518	B29C6518	B31B174	B31B174	B31B1900	B31B1974	B31B2300	B31B2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B31B	B31B	B31B	B31B	B31B	B31B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D5	B26D5	B26D5	B26D5	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B31B1	B31B1	B31B19	B31B19	B31B23	B31B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plastic bag making machine including a 
cylindrical drum (28) with a variable diameter is 

disclosed. A plurality of seal bars (30), substantially 
parallel to the drum's rotational axis, define the 

circumference of the drum. Bags are made from a film 
(11) that includes registration marks (100) detected by 

a detector (19) disposed near the film's path. A 
detector (23) detects the revolution of the drum and an 

encoder (47) provides signals indicative of the position 
of the film. A controller (15) determines the distance 

between the registration marks using the output of an 

encoder as a position signal and adjusts the diameter of 
the drum in response to the determined distance. The 

controller also determines the position of the seal 
bars relative to the registration marks and adjusts the 

diameter of the drum in response to the relative 
position. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CMD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CMD CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIETMAN PETER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAINDON STEPHEN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIETMAN, PETER J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAINDON, STEPHEN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to the art of 
plastic bag making machines. More specifically, the present 
invention relates to a bag machine which employs a rotary 
sealing drum. Still more specifically, the present 
invention relates to a bag machine in which the sealing drum 
is adjustable in size to produce different bags of different 
lengths. This application is a continuation-in-part of 
prior co-pending United States application Serial No. 
08/105,434, filed August 12, 1993, entitled " Method And 
Apparatus For Registration Of A Seal On A Plastic Bag." Many different types of plastic bag making 
machines are known in the art of producing plastic bags for  
 
industrial and individual consumers for many different 
applications (e.g. small sandwich bags and trash bags). 
While the present invention has a wide range of applications 
for the production of such products, the related art will be 
explained by reference to one particular class of bags i.e., 
polyethylene trash bags or, garbage bags and wastebasket 
liners of the type usually sold in boxes of folded bags or 
rolls of bags. Further discussion of the history and operation of 
these machines can be found in U.S. Patent No. 4,642,084 
(the '084 patent) entitled "Plastic Bag Making Machine", 
issued to the present inventor on February 10, 1987 and 
assigned to Custom Machinery Design, Inc. The '084 patent 
discloses a bag machine which includes a rotary drum with 
seal bars attached thereto and which includes a gear 
mechanism adapted for analog variation of the drum diameter 
between a first smaller diameter and a second larger 
diameter. Manual rotation of a hex nut assembly while the 
machine is stopped increases or decreases the drum's 
diameter through a series of appropriately mounted mitre 
gears and ring gears. Once this adjustment is made, the 
machine begins operation. Readjustment of the drum diameter 
can only be accomplished by stopping the machine to adjust 
the hex nut assembly. Additionally, very small errors in drum diameter 
size can lead to acute problems, particularly an 
accumulating error in the seal to print registration 
distance every revolution of the drum. An error of a 
fraction of an inch leads to serious problems when the bag 
width is only several inches across and the speed of the 
film moving through the machine is 500-900 bags per minute.  
 
By the time the error is detected, a considerable amount of 
film is wasted. The control of the spacial relationship between a 
repetitive print pattern on the web and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for making plastic bags from plastic 
film (11) having a plurality of registration marks (100) 

comprising: 
   a cylindrical drum (28) with a variable diameter, 

a circumference, an axis and at least one seal bar (30) 
substantially parallel to the axis and defining the 

circumference, wherein the at least one seal bar seals 
the plastic bags; 

   a sensor (23) disposed to detect the rotation of 
the drum; 

   a registration mark detector (19) disposed to 
detect the registration marks; 

   an encoder (47); 
   means (15) for determining the nominal length of 

the bags from the detection of the registration marks 
and the rotation of the drum; 

   means (46) for adjusting the diameter of the drum 
in response to the nominal bag length; 

   seal phase means (15) for determining a phase of 
the registration mark relative to the seal on the 

plastic bag; 
   means for temporarily adjusting the diameter of 

the drum in response to the phase of the registration 
mark relative to the seal on the plastic bag. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further 
comprising a device located downstream from the drum 

that processes the plastic film and means for adjusting 
the speed of the device in response to the nominal bag 

length. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 further 
comprising downstream phase means for determining a 

phase of the device relative to the seal on the plastic 
bag and means for temporarily adjusting the speed of the 

 
device in response to the phase of the device relative 

to the seal on the plastic bag. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the 
device is a perforator (22). 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the 
device is a die cutter. 
A method for making plastic bags from plastic 
film (11) having a plurality of registration marks (100) 

using a bag making machine (10) having a cylindrical 
drum (28) with a variable diameter, a circumference, an 

axis and at least one seal bar (30) substantially 
parallel to the axis and defining the circumference, 

comprising, 
   detecting the rotation of the drum; 

   detecting the registration marks on the film; 
   determining the nominal length of the bags from 

the detection of the registration marks and the rotation 
of the drum; 

   adjusting the diameter of the drum in response to 
the nominal bag length; 

   determining a phase of the registration mark 
relative to a seal on the plastic bag; 

   temporarily adjusting the diameter of the drum in 
response to the phase of the registration mark relative 

to the seal on the plastic bag. 
A method as claimed in claim 6 further 
comprising the step of processing the plastic film 

downstream from the drum and adjusting the speed of the 
process in response to the nominal bag length. 
A method as claimed in claim 7 further comprising 
the step of determining a phase of the process relative 

to the seal on the plastic bag and temporarily adjusting 

the speed of the process in response to the phase of the 
process relative to the seal on the plastic bag. 
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the 
 

process includes perforating the plastic film. 
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the 
process includes die cutting the plastic film. 
An apparatus for making plastic bags from plastic 
film (11) having a plurality of registration marks (100) 

comprising: 
   a cylindrical drum (28) with a variable diameter, 

a circumference, an axis and at least one seal bar (30) 
substantially parallel to the axis and defining the 

circumference, wherein the at least one seal bar seals 
the plastic bags; 

   a sensor (23) disposed to detect the rotation of 
the drum; 

   a registration mark detector (19) disposed to 
detect the registration marks; 

   a controller (15) connected to receive a first 
input from the sensor and a second input from the 

detector, wherein the controller has a first signal 
indicative of the nominal length of the bags; 

   a motor (46) responsive to the first signal and 
connected to the drum, wherein the diameter of the drum 

is adjusted in response to the nominal bag length; 
   further wherein the controller has a second 

signal indicative of a phase of the registration mark 
relative to the seal on the plastic bag; and 

   the motor being responsive to the second signal, 
wherein the diameter of the drum is temporarily adjusted 

in response to the second signal. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein the 
first and second signals are digital signals and the 

controller includes a microprocessor. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein the 
first and second signals are analog signals and the 

controller includes an analog circuit. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 further 
 

including a processing device located downstream from 
the drum, and a second motor, responsive to the first 

signal, connected to the processing device, wherein the 
speed of the processing device is adjusted in response 

to the nominal bag length. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein the 
controller has a third signal indicative of a phase of 

the device relative to the seal on the plastic bag and 
wherein the second motor is responsive to the third 

signal and the speed of the device is temporarily 
adjusted in response to the phase of the device relative 

to the seal on the plastic bag. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein the 
device is a perforator. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein the 
device is a die cutter. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
