<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631471</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A HORSESHOE ARRANGEMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01L300	A01L700	A01L304	A01L702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01L	A01L	A01L	A01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01L3	A01L7	A01L3	A01L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A horseshoe arrangement comprising individually replaceable wearing parts which makes it possible to increase the life of the parts of a horseshoe which are worn-out. Consequently, the horseshoe arrangement comprises separate nail-receiving devices (14) which are mounted in holes (12) of a basis profile (1) as well as wearing soles (35) and locking devices (46). The individual parts may be replaced according to requirement when these are worn-out without replacing the remaining parts, if these are not yet completely worn-out.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VINDRIIS SOEREN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VINDRIIS, SOEREN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VINDRIIS SOEREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VINDRIIS, SOEREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a horseshoe comprising a basis profile 
consisting of a body which is provided with holes for nails, a 
wearing plate with means for fixation of this to the basis profile as 
well as wearing soles with means for fixation of these to the basis 
profile and the wearing plate. US patent No. 646,029 discloses a similar horseshoe in which a basis 
profile is provided with a wearing plate and shock absorbing wearing 
soles which are fixed to the basis profile. The disadvantage of this 
horseshoe is that due to the insufficient thickness of the material of 
the basis profile there is a substantial risk for cracks appearing 
around the nail-receiving holes because of the notch effect which the 
nail holes provide. Furthermore, the screws which are used for fixation 
of the wearing plate and the wearing soles, are exposed to hard 
wear and consequently these cannot be unscrewed when the wearing plate 
or the wearing soles have to be replaced. DK publication No. 157,520 discloses a horseshoe in which the problem 
with hard wearing of the fixation means is remidied by means of simple 
tenon and hole mechanisms. The wearing plate and the shock absorbing 
wearing soles are constituted as one single unit as the wearing soles 
extend as one single wearing sole along the entire basis profile and 
the wearing plate is embedded in the wearing sole which is manufactured 
from plastics. Therefore, these parts cannot be individually replaced. 
Furthermore, a substantial risk for cracks appearing around 
the nail-receiving holes also exist because the basis profile is manufacured 
of a plate materiale having an insufficient thickness of material 
and thus it does not have a sufficient strength around the nail-receiving 
holes. A primary disadvantage in the known prior art is that the horseshoe 
does not possess sufficiently flexibility regarding the individual 
adjustment of the basis profile to the geometry of the individual 
hoof. The adjustment of the prior art horseshoes will cause a great 
risk that the fixation devices between the basis profile, the wearing 
sole and the wearing plate, respectively, will change size thus the 
fixation is weakned. This may cause that the wearing sole and the  
 
wearing plate are disconnected and lost during daily use. A secondary disadvantage by this prior art is that the horseshoes do 
not possess sufficiently flexibilty regarding replacement of the individual 
parts which are exposed to daily hard wear. The wearing arises 
in the nail-receiving holes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A horseshoe comprising a basis profile (1) consisting of a body (2) 
which is provided with holes (12) for nails, a wearing plate (56) with 

means for fixation of this to the basis profile as well as wearing 
soles (35) with means for fixation of these to the basis profile and 

the wearing plate, 
characterized
 in that it furthermore 
comprises nail-receiving devices (14), that the nail-receiving devices 

are mounted in the holes (12) of the basis profile (1), that the wearing 
plate (56) comprises a lock fitting (46) which is arranged between 

the wearing plate and the basis profile and which co-operates with 
locking devices on the basis profile and that the wearing soles (35) 

comprise first locking devices comprising coupling pins (36) and pawl-receiving 
elements (42) which are mounted in the foremost and rearmost 

part of each wearing sole, respectively, and which co-operate with second 
locking devices comprising holds (50) and pawls (17) on the wearing 

plate and basis profile, respectively. 
A horseshoe according to claim 1, 
characterized
 in that 
the inner contour (25) of the nail-receiving devices (14) have a centre 

axis (C) which is not perpendicular in relation to the plane of 
the basis profile. 
A horseshoe according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized
 in 
that the basis profile (1) is provided with at least one pawl (17) 

which is mounted in each of the lateral heels (16) of the basis profile 
and that the basis of the pawl extends across the longitudinal axis 

of the basis profile in the lateral heel, and that the wearing sole 
(35) is provided with a hole (42), which is provided thus the pawl in 

the lateral heels of the basis profile engages firmly with the hole 
when the wearing sole is mounted on the basis profile. 
A horseshoe according to any of the preceding claims, 
characterized
 
in that the holes (12) of the basis profile (1) are conical 

or pyramidical-cone shaped, and that the nail-receiving devices 
(14) have a corresponding outer contour. 
A horseshoe according to any of the preceding claims, 
characterized
 
in that the locking devices of the basis profile comprise  

 
locking parts which are arranged on both the foremost and rearmost 

part of the locking devices, and that the lock fitting (46) of the 
wearing plate (56) comprises locking parts of a lock which corresponds 

to the locking devices of the basis profile, and which is arranged on 
both the foremost and rearmost part of the lock fitting. 
A horseshoe according to any of the preceding claims, 
characterized
 
in that the wearing soles (35) are manufactured from a 

flexible material, preferably by urethan. 
A horseshoe according to any of the preceding claims, 
characterized
 
in that the basis profile (1) over a part of or over the 

entire extension is provided with a wearing band (30) which is mounted 
along the surface facing towards the hoof. 
A horseshoe according to any of the preceding claims, 
characterized
 
in that the basis profile (1) consists of a body (2) 

with a substantially plane surface at the side facing towards the hoof 
and where the surface facing away from the hoof and which co-operates 

with the wearing soles (35) optionally comprises a central positioned 
extending bar (8) or two protruding edges (3) which are positioned 

along the side areas of the body (2) and which together with the body 
form a U-shaped canal (4). 
A horseshoe according to claim 3, 
characterized
 in that 
the wearing sole (35) at its side facing downwards comprises a depressing 

bead (39) extending along a central part of the longitudinal axis 
of the wearing sole and ending at a distance from the element (42) of 

the wearing sole which element is intended to engage with the pawl 
(17). 
A method for shoeing horses by which method the horseshoe according 
to any of the preceding claims is used and, 
characterized
 
in that nail-receiving devices (14) are secured in the holes 

(12) of the basis profile (1), that the basis profile in abutment with 
the hoof, that nails are inserted through the nail-receiving devices 

and are driven into the hoof, the wearing plate (56) and the wearing 
soles (35) are connected by means of coupling pins (36) and holds (50) 

as well as pawl-receiving elements (42) and pawls (17) and the wearing  
 

plate and wearing soles are secured to the basis profile by means of a 
lock fitting (46). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
