<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634470</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Transport gasifier.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10J346	C10J346	C10J348	C10J348	C10J354	C10J356	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10J	C10J	C10J	C10J	C10J	C10J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10J3	C10J3	C10J3	C10J3	C10J3	C10J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transport reactor useful for the gasification of 
carbonaceous substrates and a gasification process are 

disclosed. The transport gasifier has a combustion zone 
for burning recirculated char particles with a 

substoichiometric oxygen supply, a feed injection zone 
for mixing a carbonaceous feed such as coal with the 

substoichiometric combustion products, a riser in which 
the coal is generally adiabatically devolatilized and 

gasified, a separation zone to disengage entrained 
particles from riser effluent, a solids holdup zone to 

receive the particles, and a transfer line for 
recirculating the particles from the holdup zone t
o the 
combustion zone. By introducing a coal feed into a 

gasification reaction zone downstream of a 
substoichiometric combustion reaction zone, volatile 

hydrocarbons contained in the coal can be conserved to 
increase the heating value of the coal gas produced. 

Also disclosed is a transport combustor for burning 
spent solids from the transport gasifier. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KELLOGG M W CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
M. W. KELLOGG COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMPBELL WILLIAM MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GBORDZOE EUSEBIUS ANKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENNINGSEN GUNNAR BAGGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIN YUNG-YI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMPBELL, WILLIAM MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GBORDZOE, EUSEBIUS ANKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENNINGSEN, GUNNAR BAGGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIN, YUNG-YI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a transport fluid 
bed reactor useful for gasification of a carbonaceous 
feed for power generation, and more particularly the 
present invention relates to transport gasification 
wherein the carbonaceous feed is introduced to a 
gasification zone downstream from a substoichiometric 
combustion zone. The use of fluid bed coal gasification for power 
generation has increased in importance as petroleum 
reserves have declined, reliance on nuclear energy has 
diminished and coal reserves remain abundant. The art 
is currently in a state of rapid change as operating 
experience leads to improved performance. Part of this 
operating experience includes forty years of refining 
petroleum in fluidized catalytic cracking (FCC) 
reactors. Campbell, "Operating Experience with FBCs in 
the Petroleum Industry," Energy and Power Research 
Institute, May 3, 1988 describes FCC reactor technology 
and presents analogies to fluid bed reactors in power 
generation. Fluid bed processes in general are based on an 
interaction of solid and gaseous phases to promote a 
chemical reaction. It is known that performance can be 
improved substantially by making the solids phase more 
accessible to the gas phase in terms of surface area 
available for reaction. However, solids size has 
generally been limited by separation technology needed 
to remove entrained particulates. Earliest systems used 
gas bubbled through a bed of particulates. The so-called 
"bubbling bed reactor" comprised a substantially 
continuous solids phase made up of relatively coarse 
sized particles (<5 cm) and a discontinuous gas phase 
having a low superficial velocity of about 0.9-1.5  
 
m/sec. Due to the greater density of the solids phase, 
a relatively small amount of solids were carried over 
from the reactor. The development of high efficiency cyclone 
separators improved solids separation and permitted the 
reaction operating regime to be extended beyond the 
bubbling bed through the turbulent region to a transport 
hydrodynamic regime. In the fast bed transport regime, 
particle size is generally less than about 1.5 cm with a 
superficial velocity of 4.5-6 m/sec. In the pneumatic 
transport regime, particle size can generally be less 
than 0.3 mm with a superficial velocity of as much as 
12-18 m/sec. With finest particle size and highest 
velocity, the transport operating regime represents the 
current state of the art for fluid bed reactor design. Transition to the transport regime has also 
improved process
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for gasifying a carbonaceous substrate, 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) introducing a carbonaceous feed into a stream 
of substoichiometric combustion products; 
(b) passing the resulting mixture from step (a) 
through an essentially adiabatic riser under 

transport conditions to devolatilize and 
gasify the substrate; 
(c) recovering finely divided particles from the 
gasification products of step (b) to obtain a 

fuel gas essentially free of particulates; and 
(d) supplying a primary portion of the recovered 
particles and a substoichiometric amount of 

reactive oxygen to a combustion zone to form 
the stream of combustion products for the feed 

introduction step (a). 
The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate 
comprises oil shale, tar, asphalt, thermoplastics, 

rubber, or heavy hydrocarbon sludge or bottoms 
products. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate 
comprises coal. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate 
contains sulfur, and the feed in step (a) includes 

a sulfur sorbent. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the particles are 
supplied to the combustion zone in step (d) at a 

rate from about 10 to about 250 times the mass flow 
rate of the substrate feed in step (a). 
The method of claim 1, wherein air is fed to the 
combustion zone at a rate to supply said 

substoichiometric amount of oxygen in step (d). 
The method of claim 1, wherein reactive oxygen is 
supplied to the combustion zone in step (d) in an 

amount less than about 5 percent of stoichiometric 
relative to carbon in the particles supplied to the 

combustion zone. 
The method of claim 1, comprising feeding a second 
portion of the recovered particles to a secondary 

combustion zone, and extracting heat from the 
secondary combustion products. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the recovered 
particles comprise char and sulfur sorbent. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the recovered 
particles comprise essentially inert particles with 

a deposition of carbon compounds thereon. 
The method of claim 1, further comprising: 
supplying steam to the substoichiometric combustion 

products for gasification of the substrate in the 
presence thereof in step (b). 
A method for gasifying coal, comprising the steps 
of: 


(a) introducing coal and sulfur sorbent particles, 
optionally with steam, into substoichiometric 

combustion products containing carbon monoxide 
and essentially free of molecular oxygen; 
(b) passing the resulting mixture from step (a) 
through an essentially adiabatic riser in a 

high velocity stream under transport 
conditions to devolatilize and gasify the coal 

particles to form residual char particles, and 
to absorb sulfur compounds onto the sorbent 

particles; 
(c) recovering the char and sorbent particles from 
the gasification products from step (b) to 

obtain a fuel gas essentially free of 
particulates; 
(d) supplying oxygen and a first portion of the 
recovered char and sorbent particles to a 

substoichiometric combustion zone, wherein the 
first portion of the recovered particles 

comprises from 10 to 250 times the mass flow 
rate of the feed, and wherein the oxygen is 

supplied at less than about 5 percent of 
stoichiometric relative to the first portion 

of the char particles. 
The method of claim 12, comprising the further 
steps of: 


(e) feeding a second portion of the recovered char 
and sorbent particles from step (c) to a 

mixing zone of a transport combustor supplied 
with recycled particles and a 

substoichiometric source of oxygen; 
(f) passing the mixture from step (e) through a 
transport combustion riser and introducing an 

additional supply of oxygen in one or more 
stages into the transport combustion riser for 

substantially complete combustion therein; 
(g) recovering finely divided particles from the 
combustion products from step (f) to obtain a 

flue gas essentially free of particulates; 
(h) recirculating the particles recovered from the 
transport combustion products in step (g) to 

the mixing zone in step (e); 
(i) recovering heat from the flue gas; and 
(j) recovering heat from the particles recovered 
from the transport combustion products in step 

(g). 
The method of claim 13, comprising the further 
steps of: 


(k) receiving the particles recovered in step (g) 
in a holdup vessel; 
(l) recovering heat from an external heat exchanger 
through which particles from the holdup vessel 

are circulated at a controllable rate. 
The method of claim 14, comprising the further step 
of: 


(m) recovering heat from coils positioned in the 
holdup vessel. 
Apparatus for gasification of a carbonaceous 
substrate, comprising a transport gasifier 

including: 
   a combustion zone adapted for burning particles 

including char with a substoichiometric 
oxidant supply to form a stream of combustion 

products essentially free of reactive oxidant; 
   a feed injection zone adjacent a riser inlet 

adapted for continuously introducing a 
carbonaceous feed into the stream of 

combustion products to form a mixture of the 
feed and the combustion products; 

   a riser adapted for receiving the mixture from the 
feed injection zone, the riser including an 

essentially adiabatic zone for 
devolatilization and gasification; 

   a separation zone for receiving the gasification 
products from the riser and recovering finely 

divided particles therefrom to form a gas 
product essentially free of particulates; 

   a solids holdup zone for receiving the recovered 
particles including char; 

   a transfer line for conveying particles from the 
holdup zone to the combustion zone; and 

   a charge of particles including char in the solids 
holdup zone and recirculating through the 

riser, separation zone and transfer line in an 
amount sufficient to sustain substantially 

continuous operation of the combustion, feed 
injection and adiabatic zones. 
The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising: 
   a gasifier discharge line for transferring spent 

solids from the gasifier holdup zone to a 
transport combustor;

 
   wherein the transport combustor comprises a mixing 

zone, a transport combustion riser, a 
separation zone and a holdup zone; 

   wherein the combustor mixing zone is adapted to mix 
the spent solids from the gasifier discharge 

line and recirculated solids from the 
combustor holdup zone with a substoichiometric 

oxidant supply; 
   wherein the transport combustion riser is adapted 

to receive the mixture from the mixing zone, 
and has staged oxidant injection points for 

substantial completion of combustion therein; 
   wherein the combustor separation zone is adapted to 

disengage entrained particles from flue gas 
from the transport combustion riser to form an 

essentially particulate-free flue gas; 
   wherein the combustor holdup zone includes a vessel 

adapted to receive the particles from the 
combustor separation zone; 

   a heat exchanger adapted for transferring heat from 
the combustor holdup zone; 

   a solids recirculation line for transferring solids 
from the combustor holdup zone to the mixing 

zone; and 
   an ash discharge chute for discharging ash from the 

transport combustor. 
The apparatus of claim 17, comprising an external 
steam generation loop including an external steam 

generator, and a solids supply line for 
recirculating solids from the holdup vessel, 

through the steam generator and back to the 
transport combustor. 
The apparatus of claim 18, comprising internal 
steam heating coils positioned in the combustor 

holdup zone. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
