<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612860</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reactive ionized cluster beam deposition method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J3732	H01L21203	C23C1400	H01L21285	C23C1432	C23C1432	H01L2102	C23C1422	H01J3732	C23C1400	C23C1422	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01L	C23C	H01L	C23C	C23C	H01L	C23C	H01J	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J37	H01L21	C23C14	H01L21	C23C14	C23C14	H01L21	C23C14	H01J37	C23C14	C23C14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed are a reactive ionized cluster beam 
deposition method and an apparatus for forming a deposited 

film on a substrate by the same method according to this 
invention. 
 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition method 
according to this invention is embodied by utilizing two 

vacuum subregions partitioned by a partition wall formed 
with an opening. A closed heating crucible and an 

ionization accelerating unit are disposed in one vacuum 
subregion partitioned by the partition wall. A substrate 

is also disposed in the other vacuum subregion, and at the 
same time a reactive gas is introduced thereinto. Degrees 

of vacuums in the two vacuum subregions partitioned by the 
partition wall are equal to or different from each other. 

Particularly, a gas concentration in the latter vacuum 
subregion is enhanced. Then, the ionized cluster beams 

formed in the former vacuum subregion are introduced into 
the latter vacuum subregion via the opening of the 

partition wall and react to the reactive gas within the 
latter vacuum subregion. The ionized cluster beams 

reacting to the reactive gas impinge on the substrate, 
thereby forming the deposited film on the substrate 

surface. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAYASHI AKIRA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAYASHI, AKIRA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI, AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a reactive 
ionized cluster beam deposition method, 
and more particularly, to a method of 
deposition-forming a high quality thin film 
on the surface of, e.g., a plastic film or the like 
serving as a substrate. A technique of deposition-forming a thin film of a 
metal on a surface of, e.g., a plastic film, etc. is 
disclosed in, e.g., Japanese Patent Laid-Open Publication 
No.52-10869. The conventional thin film forming method 
disclosed in this Patent Laid-Open Publication basically 
involves the following steps. A deposition substance is 
vaporized in a closed type crucible. The vaporized 
deposition substances are injected from injection nozzles 
into a vacuum region whose pressure is equal to or less 
than at least 1/100 of a vapor pressure in the crucible as 
well as being equal to or smaller than approximately 1.33 Pa (10-2 
Torr). At the same time, the injected deposition substance 
bombards the surface of the substrate. An injection speed 
during the injection is changed, thus controlling a 
hyperfine structure during the formation of the thin film. Further, for obtaining a ceramic thin film of a metal 
oxide or a metal nitride, there exists a reactive ionized 
cluster beam deposition method requiring an introduction  
 
of a reactive gas in addition to the above-mentioned 
ionized cluster beam method. By the way, according to the 
ordinary reactive ionized cluster beam (R-ICB) method, a 
degree of vacuum within the vacuum region is on the order 
of 27~ 67 mPa (2 x 10-4~ 5 x 10-4 Torr). Reaction is induced by 
supplying the reactive gas in the vicinity of the 
injection nozzles in the crucible enough to maintain this 
degree of vacuum. According to the conventional reactive ionized 
cluster beam deposition method, however, an advancement 
of 10 ~ 100 cm is required for causing a collision and 
reaction between the deposition substance and the 
reactive gas atoms under a degree of vacuum of × 10-4. 
This is based on the following formula obtained 
approximately from a mean free path theory when a distance 
from a vaporizing source to the substrate is set to, e.g., 
about 50 cm. 
λ ≒ 10-2 / Pr  
where λ is the mean free path (cm), and Pr is the pressure 
(Torr). The complete reaction is therefore hard to appear 
in the setting described above. Then, if the reactive gas concentration is enhanced to 
obtain such a degree of vacuum on the order of x 130 mPa (10-3 Torr) 
that a collision advancing distance needed for a 
sufficient advancement of reaction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming a deposited film on a 
substrate, comprising the steps of: 


(a) heat-vaporizing a deposition substance in a 
closed heating crucible (5); 
(b) injecting a vapour thereof into a vacuum 
region; 
(c) ionizing atom clusters of said vapour by 
means of an electron emitter (7) immediately after the 

injection and transforming said ionized clusters into 
ionized cluster beams by giving said clusters an 

acceleration energy at an acceleration voltage; 
(d) introducing the ionized cluster beam into a 
second
 vacuum subregion (4) through an opening formed 
in a wall which separates the vacuum region into two 

vacuum subregions: a first subregion (3) where the 
closed heating crucible and an ionization accelerating 

unit are located and the second vacuum subregion (4) 
where a deposited film forming portion is located; 
(e) introducing a reactive gas into said second 
vacuum subregion (4); and 
(f) causing reaction of said ionized cluster 
beams to said reactive gas in said second vacuum 

subregion (4), and impinging said ionized cluster beam 
on said substrate of said deposited film forming 

portion 
  
 

characterised in that the method further comprises 
injecting said heat-vaporized deposition substances 

out of said closed heating crucible (5) into said 
vacuum region to satisfy P
0
/P
>
 about 10
4 ~
 10
5
 (P is 
the pressure outside said closed heating crucible) 

where P, is the vapour pressure when heat-vaporizing 
said deposition substance within said heating crucible 

(5), setting said first vacuum subregion (3) at a 
degree of vacuum on the order of approximately x 13 
~
 
0.013 mPa (10
-4 ~
 10
-7
 Torr), the vapour pressure P
0
 of 
the deposition substance within said closed heating 

crucible thus being ≥ 130 mPa (10
-3
 Torr), and setting 
said second vacuum (4) subregion at a degree of vacuum 

on the order of approximately x 13 
~
 0.013 mPa (10
-2 ~
 
10
-4
 Torr) with the introduction of said reactive gas. 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition 
method as set forth in claim 1, characterised in that 

the vapour pressure P
0
 of the deposition substance 
within said closed heating crucible is ≥ 130 Pa (1 

Torr). 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition 
method as set forth in claim 1 or claim 2,
 
characterised in that the vapour pressure P
0
 of the 
description substance within said closed heating 

crucible is ≤ 1300 Pa (10 Torr).  
 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition 
method as set forth in claim 1, 2 or 3, characterised 

in that said deposition substance is a metal such as 
indium, aluminium, titanium and an intermediate 

compound such as silicon monoxide. 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition 
method as set forth in any preceding claim, 

characterised in that said closed heating crucible (5) 
is made of a resistance heating material which 

involves the use of tantalum, tungsten or graphite. 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition 
method as set forth in any preceding claim, 

characterised in that said reactive gas introduced 
into said second vacuum subregion (4) is oxygen or 

nitrogen. 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition 
method as set forth in any preceding claim, 

characterised in that said substrate serving as said 
deposited film forming portion is a plastic film (13). 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition 
method as set forth in claim 7, characterised in that 

said plastic film (13) is biaxially oriented.  
 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition 
method as set forth in claim 7 or claim 8, 

characterised in that said plastic film (13) is 
continuously moved by means of a running unit (10), 

and said deposited film (13) is formed on the surface 
of said plastic film during its movement. 
The reactive ionized cluster beam deposition 
method as set forth in any preceding claim, 

characterised in that a vaporizing unit (56) of said 
closed heating crucible (5) is formed with seven 

pieces of injection nozzles (6) each having an 
aperture diameter of 2mm and arranged at intervals of 

3cm in the horizontal direction, said each injection 
nozzle (6) injects SiO vapour toward said first vacuum 

subregion (3) kept at a degree of vacuum on the order 
of 67
~
6.7 mPa (5 x 10
-4 ~
 10
-5
 Torr), atom clusters of 
the SiO vapour injected from said each injection 

nozzle (6) are ionized by an electron emitter (7) 
(ionization voltage: 0.5 kV, ionization current: 

200mA) immediately after the injection, an 
acceleration energy is given at an acceleration 

voltage of 5 kV toward said substrate just when a 
distribution of SiO vapour concentration becomes 

uniform in the horizontal direction, said ionized atom 
clusters of the SiO vapour are made to pass through 

said opening (18cm x 7cm) of said partition wall (2)  
 

installed 20cm upward from said injection nozzle (7) 
and thereby introduced into said second vacuum 

subregion (4), an oxygen gas (O
2
) as said reactive gas 
is supplied to said second vacuum subregion (4) formed 

upwardly of the partition wall (2), an exhaust 
quantity is controlled so that the degree of vacuum 

falls with the range of 67 
~
 6.7 mPa (5 x 10
-4 ~
 10
-5
 
Torr), and the gas concentration is set so that a 

bombardment distance of 10cm or less required for a 
sufficient advancement of reaction of said SiO vapour 

to said reactive gas is to be expected. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
