<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640381</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Modified zeolite for trapping hydrocarbons.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5304	B01D5304	B01D5346	B01D5372	B01D5386	B01D5386	B01D5394	B01D5394	B01J2900	B01J29072	B01J3500	B01J3502	F01N308	F01N308	F01N320	F01N320	F01N324	F01N324	F02M2507	F02M2507	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01J29	B01J29	B01J35	B01J35	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F02M25	F02M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A molecular sieve structure is disclosed for adsorbing 
hydrocarbons emitted during engine start-up, before the 

catalytic converter has attained its effective operating 
temperature. The molecular sieve can be zeolites or 

ceramic substrates having a zeolite surface. The molecular 
sieve is modified by inserting certain metal ions into the 

molecular sieve structure. The molecular sieve structure 
is also capable of releasing or desorbing the hydrocarbons 

when the molecular sieve reaches a certain temperature. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERTL WILLIAM CORNING INCORPOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LACHMAN IRWIN MORRIS CORNING I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATIL MALLANAGOUDA DYAMANAGOUD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERTL, WILLIAM, CORNING INCORPORATED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LACHMAN, IRWIN MORRIS, CORNING INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATIL, MALLANAGOUDA DYAMANAGOUDA, CORNING INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to method, device and system for 
trapping or removing hydrocarbons from exhaust gases before 
they are discharged into the atmosphere, using molecular 
sieve with non-framework cations, especially at start-up or 
cold-start of internal combustion engines. Start-up emission control with catalyst converters has 
been unsatisfactory, because of fairly high catalyst, 
light-off temperatures. In addition to emitted large molecular weight 
hydrocarbons, low molecular weight hydrocarbons (e.g. 
alkanes and alkenes) are difficult to control, creating a 
problem (olefins) especially since alkenes (olefine) tend 
to form ozone, a major smog-forming constituent. Zeolites are less suitable for hydrocarbon adsorption 
because unlike NOx conversion, the hydrocarbons must be 
adsorbed at much lower temperatures at cold start than the 
300° NOx reaction temperatures. Among zeolites, it has been shown that ZSM-5 and Beta 
type zeolites are particularly effective in adsorbing 
alkenes, particularly, propylene, acetylene, propyne and 
butene, under certain conditions, as they have very small 
pore sizes. To improve their adsorption capacities, they 
are typically mixed with larger pore zeolites to adsorb a 
wider range of molecular sizes occurring in exhaust gases. 
Thus, a substrate may be coated with mixed powders of ZSM-5 
zeolite ion-exchanged with Cu and Pd, and placed inline and  
 
upstream from a Pt/Rh catalyst, but there is a need for 
better and improved methods for reducing or removing 
unburned hydrocarbons, particularly, low molecular weight 
alkenes, from exhaust emissions. Accordingly, it is the 
objective of the present invention to provide emissions 
control devices, methods and systems capable of adsorbing 
significant amounts of a wide range of hydrocarbons, 
especially with a small pore molecular sieve material 
effectively adsorbing low molecular weight hydrocarbons 
such as ethylene, acetylene, propyne. A surprising discovery leading to the invention was 
that low molecular weight hydrocarbons can be efficiently 
adsorbed by small pore size molecular sieve materials if 
cations of non-noble, transition metals, rare earth oxides 
and alkaline earth metals are inserted into the molecular 
sieve structure. A major aspect of the invention is to 
provide a hydrocarbon trap which will "hold" the 
hydrocarbons until the catalyst reaches its full operating 
temperature, at which time, the trap desorbs the 
hydrocarbons. In one aspect, the invention discloses a device and 
method method
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An exhaust emission control device for converting 
hydrocarbons in a hydrocarbon-containing engine exhaust 

stream to water and carbon dioxide comprising a housing 
adapted to receive a molecular sieve structure, the 

molecular sieve structure comprising non-framework cations 
selected from ions of non-noble, transition metals, rare 

earth oxides, alkaline earth metals and combinations of 
these, the molecular sieve being further characterized by 

at least one set of pores having maximum pore openings no 
greater than 5.6 Angstroms. 
The device of claim 1, wherein the molecular sieve 
structure comprises zeolites, metallosilicates, 

titanosilicates, metalloaluminates, germaniumaluminates, 
metallophosphates, aluminophosphates, 

silicoaluminophosphates, metalloaluminophosphates, 
gallogerminates, gallosilicates, chromosilicates, 

borosilicates, ferrisilicates and combinations of these. 
The device of claim 1, or 2 wherein the molecular 
sieve is a zeolite selected from ZSM-5, Beta, gmelinite, 

mazzite, offretite, ZSM-12, ZSM-18, Berryllophosphate-H, 
boggsite, SAPO-40, SAPO-41, or combinations of these. 
The device of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the base 
metal transition metal is copper. 
The device of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein the molecular 
sieve is supported on a substrate, especially in form of 

beads, pellets, monoliths, or honeycombs, metals, metal 
alloys, ceramics, glass-ceramics, glass, temperature stable 

oxides, or combinations thereof, or a ceramic structure 
selected from cordierite, mullite, clay, talc, ziron, 

zirconia, spinel, alumina, silica, borides, lithium 
aluminosilicates, alumina, silica, feldspar, titania, fused 

silica, nitrides, carbides and mixtures of these or a metal 
 

structure comprising iron group metals selected from Fe-Al, 
Fe-Cr-Al alloys, stainless steel, Fe-Ni alloys and 

combinations of these. 
The device of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the 
substrate is characterized by wall porosity in the range of 

30-70% by volume, and/or no set of pores of the molecular 
sieve have maximum pore openings greater than 7.0 

Angstroms. 
The device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the cations are formed to the sieve structure by 

impregnation, gaseous diffusion, adsorption, or ion 

exchange. 
The device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
the substrate is a honeycomb structure. 
Use of the device according to any one of the preceding 
claims, in an engine exhaust system for converting 

hydrocarbons in a hydrocarbon-containing engine exhaust 
stream to water and carbon dioxide, wherein the 

   molecular sieve means adsorb hydrocarbons from the 
engine exhaust stream and desorbe hydrocarbons therefrom 

upon heating to a desorption temperature; 
   main catalytic converter means for converting 

hydrocarbons in the stream to water and carbon dioxide, the 
main catalytic converter means having a light-off 

temperature; and 
   one or more conveying means for selectively conveying 

the engine exhaust stream to the catalytic converter and to 
the molecular sieve means, optionally comprising a 

thermostatically controlled valve. 
The exhaust system of claim 9, wherein the conveying 
means operate to 


(i) convey, for a first period of time prior to the 
molecular sieve means attaining its desorption temperature, 

 
substantially all of the exhaust stream through the 

molecular sieve means and the converter means; 
(ii) convey, for a second period of time thereafter, 
substantially all of the exhaust stream through the 

catalytic converter means, bypassing the molecular sieve 
means; and 
(iii) convey, for a third period of time thereafter, 
after the catalytic converter means attains at least its 

light-off temperature, at least a portion of the exhaust 
stream through the molecular sieve means and thereafter 

through the main catalytic converter, the conveyed portion 
of exhaust stream being 

sufficient to raise the temperature of the molecular sieve 
means to its desorption temperature and thereby effect 

desorption of hydrocarbons therefrom. 
The exhaust system of claim 10, wherein the conveying 
means operate, for the third period of time, to convey 

through the molecular sieve means a portion of the exhaust 
stream sufficient to effect desorption of substantially all 

hydrocarbons from the molecular sieve means and to convey 
the desorbed hydrocarbons to the main catalytic converter 

means. 
The exhaust system of claim 11, wherein, for a fourth 
period of time subsequent to the desorption of 

substantially all hydrocarbons from the molecular sieve, 
the one or more conveying means operate to convey 

substantially all of the exhaust to the converter means, 
bypassing the molecular sieve means. 
The exhaust system of claim 9, 10, 11 or 12 wherein 
the main catalytic converter is an electrically heated 

catalyst, and/or a heater is positioned in the exhaust 
system upstream from the main catalytic converter. 
The exhaust system according to claim 13, further 
comprising heat exchanger means for cooling the engine 

 
exhaust stream prior to its passage through the molecular 

sieve means and for re-heating the stream prior to its 
passage through the converter means. 
The engine exhaust system of claim 14, wherein the 
heat exchanger means is a counter-current heat exchanger 

having a cold fluid inlet and a hot fluid inlet. 
The engine exhaust system of claim 15, wherein the hot 
fluid is the engine exhaust stream prior to its passage 

through the molecular sieve means and wherein the cold 
fluid is the engine exhaust stream after passage through 

the molecular sieve means but before passage through the 
converter means. 
A method of controlling hydrocarbon emissions with the 
system according to any one of claims 9-16, characterized 

by 
   selectively directing the exhaust stream so as to 


(i) direct, for a first period of time prior to 
the molecular sieve means attaining its 

desorption temperature, substantially all of 
the exhaust stream through the molecular 

sieve means and the converter means; 
(ii) direct, for a second period of time 
thereafter, substantially all of the exhaust 

stream through the catalytic converter means, 
bypassing the molecular sieve means; and 
(iii) direct, for a third period of time thereafter, 
after the catalytic converter means attains 

at least its light-off temperature, at least a 
portion of the exhaust stream through the 

molecular sieve means and thereafter through 
the main catalytic converter means, the 

directed portion of exhaust stream being 
sufficient to raise the temperature of the 

molecular sieve means to its desorption 
temperature and thereby effect desorption of 

 
hydrocarbons therefrom. 
The method of claim 17, wherein the molecular sieve is 
formed by 

   mixing the zeolites with a precursor of a permanent 
binder, and a temporary binder; 

   shaping the mixture into a honeycomb structure; and 
   heating the shaped mixture to a temperature and for a 

time sufficient to develop a strong permanent binder, 
optionally to a temperature in the range of 500 to 1000°C. 
The method of claim 18, wherein the precursor of a 
permanent binder is selected precursors of alumina, silica, 

titania, zirconia or mixtures thereof, and/or comprises 
silicone resin, hydrated alumina, aluminum chlorohydrate, 

and hydrolyzed aluminum isopropoxide. 
The method of claim 18, wherein the temporary binder 
is selected from the group consisting of methylcellulose, 

ethylcellulose, hydroxybutylcellulose, 
hydroxybutylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, 

hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, 
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylmethylcellulose, 

and mixtures of these. 
The method according to any one of claims 17-20 
wherein the molecular sieve material comprises a substrate 

having formed thereon a washcoat slurry comprising zeolites 
and binders. 
Use of the device according to any one of claims 1-8 
in a method of removing hydrocarbons from exhaust gas 

stream by contacting the gas stream with an adsorber at a 
temperature below 200°C, adsorbing hydrocarbons from the 

stream and desorbing hydrocarbons therefrom upon heating to 
a desorption temperature. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
