<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648991</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for supporting a strand or a plurality of strands
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F26B1300	F26B1320	F26B1300	F26B1310	F26B2100	F26B2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F26B13	F26B13	F26B13	F26B13	F26B21	F26B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an apparatus for supporting a strand 
or a plurality of strands comprising:

 
pairs of first and second spaced apart nozzles (94, 96) 

wherein each of said pairs of nozzles (94, 96) are tilted 
generally towards each other such that a generally upwardly 

directed gas stream issuing from said first nozzle (94) of 
each of said pairs of nozzles (94, 96) intersects a generally 

upwardly directed gas stream issuing from said second nozzle 
(96) of said pair along a line; means to support said nozzles 

(94, 96) in a generally inclined orientation; means (76) to 
allow delivery of pressurized gas to said nozzles (94, 96) 

wherein said line of intersection between gas streams from 
each of said pairs of first and second nozzles (94, 96) and a 

strand (14) positioned between each of said pairs of nozzles 
(94, 96) each forms a generally vertical plane. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PPG INDUSTRIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PPG INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN THOMAS HULEGAARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN, THOMAS HULEGAARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and an apparatus 
for supporting a conveyed strand. It is useful in a method 
and an apparatus for drying a coated glass strand which is 
the subject of European Patent 0477 807. The disclosure of 
the latter method and apparatus contained herein is intended 
to explain how and where to use the present invention and 
does not form part of it. Fiber glass, which was originally developed in the 1930s, 
has been used over the years as fibrous strand and yarns in numerous 
end uses, such as textiles, reinforcement polymeric matrices, and 
rubber goods. Glass fibers are traditionally produced through 
attenuation from small orifices in a bushing of a glass batch melting 
furnace. The glass fibers issue forth from the orifices in molten 
streams and are cooled and treated with a sizing composition. The 
sizing composition is ordinarily an aqueous composition having, e.g. 
coupling agents, lubricants and film-forming polymer components. The 
sized glass fibers are gathered into one or more bundles of fibers or 
strands and wound into a forming package or chopped. For textile 
applications, the bundles of fibers in the forming packages can be 
twisted and/or combined with other strands to form yarns. When the 
glass fibrous strands from the forming packages are used for 
reinforcement of rubber goods, a second chemical treatment or coating 
is usually applied to the strands to make the strands or bundles of 
strands compatible with the rubber matrix. In this latter 
application, the elastomer coating is generally applied by passing the 
strands through a vessel containing a solution or liquid dip 
containing the elastomer. The wet or saturated glass fiber strands 
are then supported and conveyed under slight tension over rollers or 
the like as they pass through a heated atmosphere to dry the elastomer  
 
coating. Some of the problems which arise with this type of drying 
arrangement include difficulties in processing the coated glass fiber 
strands over conveyor rolls, pulleys and the like without stripping 
off coating material and/or without depositing coating material on the 
conveying and supporting elements and maintaining the coated product 
cross section during the drying process. Contact with guides and 
support rolls may result in buildup of coating material on guides and 
supports which generally degrades of the coated product and may result 
in the coated fibers moving out of the guides and sticking together. One way to avoid these problems is to provide a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A support apparatus having (i) a plurality of pairs of 
first and second spaced apart nozzles (94, 96) wherein 

the nozzles of each of said pairs of nozzles (94, 96) are 
tilted generally towards each other such that a generally 

upwardly directed gas stream issuing from said first 
nozzle (94) of each of said pairs of nozzles (94, 96) 

intersects a generally upwardly directed gas stream 
issuing from said second nozzle (96) of each of said 

pairs of nozzles (94, 96) along a line of intersection; 
(ii) means (82) to support said nozzles (94, 96) in a 

generally inclined orientation; and (iii) means (76) to 
allow delivery of pressurized gas to said pairs of 

nozzles (94, 96); said apparatus being characterized in 
that 


said line of intersection of said gas stream issuing 
from said first nozzle (94) and said gas stream 

issuing from said second nozzle (96) of each of said 
pairs of nozzles (94, 96) is inclined to support a 

strand (14) or a plurality of strands (14) positioned between 
each of said pairs of nozzles (94, 96); and 
said line of intersection between gas streams from 
each nozzle of said pairs of first and second nozzles 

(94, 96) and a strand (14) positioned between 

each of said pairs of nozzles (94, 96) lie in the 
same generally vertical plane. 
The apparatus as in claim 1 further including a 
plurality of adjacent nozzle assemblies (82) each having 

first and second nozzles (94, 96) wherein said first nozzle 
(94) of a first nozzle assembly is spaced from and 

tilted toward said second nozzle (96) of a second assembly 
adjacent to said first nozzle assembly. 
The apparatus as in claim 2 further wherein said 
nozzles (94, 96) are inclined at an angle of approximately 

45 degrees. 
The apparatus of claim 3 further including means 
(106, 108) to pivotally mount said nozzle assemblies (82) 

to allow rotational movement of said assemblies (82) about a 
horizontal axis generally transverse to said strand (14). 
The apparatus as in claim 4 further including an  
 

alignment plate (106) having spaced apart fingers (110) such 
that the spacing between adjacent fingers (110) generally 

corresponds to the spacing between said first and second 
nozzles (94, 96) on adjacent nozzles assemblies (82). 
The apparatus as in claim 5, further including 
means (108) to pivotally mount said alignment plate (106) 

relative to said nozzle assemblies (82). 
The apparatus as in claim 6 wherein each of said 
nozzle assemblies (82) includes a first generally U-shaped 

member (84) seated within and secured to a second generally 
U-shaped member (86) wherein legs (88) of said first 

member (84) are spaced from adjacent legs (90) of 
said second member (86) and further wherein said adjacent 

first and second member legs (88, 90) form said 
first and second nozzles of said nozzle assemblies (82). 
The apparatus as in claim 7 wherein said support 
means, said pivoting means, and said delivery means include 

a header member (76) and further wherein said gas flows 
through said header member (76) and out of said nozzles (94, 

96) between said adjacent legs (88, 90) of said U-shaped 
members (84, 86).  

 
A method of supporting a strand or a plurality of 
strands comprising: 


positioning a strand between a pair of first and 
second spaced apart nozzles;  

 
tilting said nozzles generally towards each other 
such that a generally upwardly directed gas stream 

issuing from said first nozzle of each of said pairs 
of nozzles intersects a generally upwardly directed 

gas stream issuing from said second nozzle of each of 
said pairs along a line; 
supporting said nozzles in a generally inclined 
orientation; 
providing pressurized gas to said nozzles so that 
a strand positioned between said first and second 

nozzles is supported by said gas streams intersecting 
along said line wherein (a) said line of intersection 

and (b) said strand positioned between and above each 
of said pairs of nozzles lie in the same generally 

vertical plane. 
The method as in claim 9 further including the 
step of providing a plurality of adjacent nozzle assemblies 

each having 
first and second nozzles wherein said first nozzle of a 

first nozzle assembly is spaced from and tilted toward said 
second nozzle of a second nozzle assembly adjacent to said 

first nozzle assembly. 
The method as in claim 10 further including the 
step of pivotally mounting said nozzle assemblies to allow 

rotational movement of said assemblies about a horizontal 
axis generally transverse to said strand. 
The method as in claim 10 further including the 
steps of providing an alignment plate having spaced apart 

fingers and aligning said spacings between said adjacent 
fingers with the spacing between said first and second 

nozzles on adjacent nozzles assemblies. 
The method as in claim 10 further including the 
steps of advancing said strand between said nozzle 

assemblies and orienting said nozzle assemblies such that 
said streams issuing from said nozzles have a horizontal 

component in the same direction as the advancing direction 
of the strand. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
