<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637221</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARTHROSCOPIC INDENTER AND METHOD FOR USING THE SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5103	A61B5103	A61B522	A61B522	A61B1000	A61B1000	G01N300	G01N300	G01N302	G01N306	G01N340	G01N342	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B10	A61B10	G01N3	G01N3	G01N3	G01N3	G01N3	G01N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An arthroscopic indenter (10) for measuring creep deformation behavior, stress relaxation behavior and thickness of cartilage in vivo and in situ. A computer-based system (76) measures deformation or force information upon cartilage and processes that information for closed-loop control of an indenter tip (66) while also calculating intrinsic properties associated with the cartilage such as stiffness, compressibility and/or permeability.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV TEXAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOARD OF REGENTS THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATHANASIOU KYRIACOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONSTANTINIDES GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATHANASIOU, KYRIACOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONSTANTINIDES, GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONARTHROSCOPIC INDENTER AND METHOD FOR USING THE SAMEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to an arthroscopic indenter in general and, more particularly, to an apparatus and method for measuring internal properties of cartilage.2. Description of the Relevant ArtThe effects of articular cartilage degenerative diseases (such as osteoarthritis or 

 patella) are visible to the naked eye when ■'...he disease has reached an advanced stage. Manifestations of these diseases include changes in the tissue's: 1) bio echanical properties (stiffness, permeability, compressibility), 2) biochemical composition (type II collagen, proteoglycan macromolecules, interstitial water content) , and 3) morphological characteristics (surface fibrillation and fraying, osteophyte formation) . At the early stages of cartilage degeneration, the tissues's stiffness decreases and its compressibility and permeability increase. Thus, a reliable means to quantify the initial stages of cartilage degeneration is to obtain its mechanical (or material) properties. This can be accomplished during arthroscopy, which is an in vivo and in situ procedure, using a probe to examine qualitatively the articular surfaces. Using direct vision provided by an arthroscopic fiberoptic tube connected to a videocamera, the probe is used to palpate the tissue and, based on the tissue's indentation, the 

orthopaedist decides on the existence or severity of the disease. During this procedure, the orthopaedist also examines visually the surface characteristics of cartilage. This procedure is neither objective nor successful in determining the early stages of degenerative diseases, during which visual abnormalities are not present.A device used to measure the "deformation resistance" of tissue, and particularly the articular surface of the patella, is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,364,399. This arthroscopic instrument simply measures the amount of resistance pressure exerted by the cartilage at a given indentation. Positioning of the probe is manually accomplished, and perpendicularity of the probe relative to the cartilage surface is subjectively determined. The distance of indentation is mechanically calculated often using manual placement of the pressure transducer against the cartilage surface. Manual indentation process is not sufficiently accurate to allow repeatable, objective measurements. Manual indentation devices cannot programmably vary the applied indentations or forces in order to more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An arthroscopic indenter, comprising:
a loading shaft;
an electromechanical actuator adapted to axially move said loading shaft; and
a force transducer adapted to measure a force exerted upon said shaft and programmably energize said actuator in accordance with said force.
2. The indenter as recited in claim 1, wherein said loading shaft comprises an elongated cylindrical body having an outside diameter less than about 2.5 mm.
3. The indenter as recited in claim 1, wherein said electromechanical actuator comprises a motor attached to a cam for axially driving said shaft.
4. The indenter as recited in claim 1, further comprising a computer coupled between said actuator and said motor and capable of energizing said actuator in accordance with stored programmed input and the force received upon said force transducer.
5. The indenter as recited in claim 1, wherein said force transducer comprises:
a surface placed in pressure communication with one end of said loading shaft; and 


 an electrical circuit attached to said surface to measure changes in electrical resistance in linear response to the force placed on said surface.
6. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising a system for aligning the loading shaft comprising:
a frame;
a protective sheath movably attached to said frame; and
means for optically aligning said sheath and for placing said loading shaft within said aligned sheath.
7. An arthroscopic indenter, comprising:
a loading shaft;
an electromechanical actuator adapted to axially move said loading shaft; and
a positional detector adapted to measure the displacement of said shaft and programmably energize said actuator in accordance with said displacement .
8. The indenter as recited in claim 7, wherein said loading shaft comprises an elongated cylindrical body having an outside diameter less than about 2.5 mm. 


9. The indenter as recited in claim 7, wherein said electromechanical actuator comprises a motor attached to a cam for axially driving said shaft.
10. The indenter as recited in claim 7, further comprising a computer coupled between said actuator and said positional detector and capable of energizing said actuator in accordance with stored programmed input and the displacement received upon said positional detector.
11. The indenter as recited in claim 7, wherein said positional detector comprises a linear variable differential transformer having a displacement resolution.
12. The indenter as recited in claim 7, further comprising a system for aligning the loading shaft comprising:
a frame;
a protective sheath movably attached to said frame; and
means for optically aligning said sheath and for placing said loading shaft within said aligned sheath.
13. A method for determining substantially perpendicular placement of an arthroscopically placed loading shaft upon the surface of a cartilage, comprising: 


 positioning a frame proximate to an articular joint containing cartilage;
movably securing a protective sheath to said frame;
slidably placing a light transmitter and at least one light receiver into said protective sheath with the distal tip of said transmitter and receiver placed adjacent each other and proximate to the outer surface of said cartilage;
directing a light beam from said transmitter at said outer surface;
detecting light received from said outer surface by said receiver according to the angular orientation of the surface relative to the position of said protective sheath; and
securing said protective sheath to said frame when the detected light received upon said receiver is at a maximum.
14. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein said slidably placing step comprises inserting an alignment shaft having an outside diameter slightly less than the inside diameter of said protective sheath, said alignment shaft comprises an elongated fiber optic light transmitter surrounded by at least one light receiver.
15. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein said detecting light step comprises placing at least one photodetector at the distal tip of said receiver. 


16. A method for determining mechanical properties of cartilage, comprising:
positioning the distal end of a loading shaft through skin substantially perpendicular to underlying cartilage;
programmably extending said distal end upon said cartilage at a known force; and
measuring deformational response of said cartilage.
17. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein said positioning step comprises securing said loading shaft to a frame fixed relative to said cartilage.
18. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein said extending step comprises:
applying said force at a constant magnitude upon said loading shaft; and
measuring the resulting displacement by which said distal end extends upon said cartilage at said constant magnitude.
19. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein said extending step comprises:
applying a set distance by which said distal end extends upon said cartilage; and 


measuring the resulting force exerted by said cartilage upon said loading shaft at said set distance. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
