<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658941</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Field effect transistor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21338	H01L2966	H01L29778	H01L29812	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a field effect 
transistor with high speed and excellent high frequency 

characteristics. A hetero junction field effect transistor, 
comprising a first semiconductor layer that contains In, a 

second semiconductor layer that contains In whose composition 
ratio is smaller than that of the first semiconductor layer, 

and a third semiconductor layer whose electron affinity is 
smaller than that of the first semiconductor layer, wherein 

the first semiconductor layer, the second semiconductor 
layer, and the third semiconductor layer are successively 

disposed in the order, and wherein the thickness of the 
second semiconductor layer is equal to or larger than the 

thickness of two monolayers thereof and less than 4 nm. A 
current of this field effect transistor flows in the first 

semiconductor layer 3 and the second semiconductor layer 4 of 
the transistor. When the thickness of the second 

semiconductor layer 4 is 4 nm or more, the ratio of electrons 
that exist in the first semiconductor layer 3 is 85 % or less 

of the case that the thickness of the second semiconductor 
layer 4 is almost zero. Thus, when the thickness of the 

second semiconductor layer 4 is decreased to the thickness of 
two monolayers thereof, the ratio of electrons that exist in 

the first semiconductor layer 3 becomes nearly 100 %. 
Consequently, the high frequency characteristics of the 

transistor are improved. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a field effect 
transistor with high speed and excellent high frequency 
characteristics. When a semiconductor layer with high composition ratio 
of In is used for a channel layer of a field effect 
transistor, since it has high electron mobility and high 
electron concentration, it provides excellent high frequency 
characteristics. For example, a technique for increasing the 
composition ratio of In in the channel layer of a field 
effect transistor on an InP substrate from 0.53 to 0.65 and 
thereby improving electron mobility and transconductance is 
known. This technique is disclosed in Applied Physics 
Letters, Vol. 52, No. 9, 1988, pp. 728-730. However, even if 
the composition ratio of In is increased, as is disclosed in 
Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 62, 1987, pp. 2880-2884, if 
x ≧ 0.7, the electron mobility of InxGa1-xAs was deteriorated 
and more higher characteristics could not be expected. As a conventional method for preventing electron 
mobility from deteriorating, a structure for disposing a 
layer with a thickness of 4 nm that contains In whose 
composition ratio is equal to lattice constant of a substrate  
 
in a hetero interface of a field effect transistor having a 
semiconductor layer with high composition ratio of In was 
proposed in "Technical Report of IEICE ED92 -102,CPM92-139" 
The Institute of Electronics, Information and Communication 
Engineers, Japan, 1992. FIG. 5 shows the structure of the 
field effect transistor. As shown in FIG. 5, an In0.52Al0.48As layer 10 is 
disposed on a high resistance InP substrate 9. An 
In0.8Ga0.2As layer 11 with a large composition ratio of In is 
disposed on the In0.52Al0.48As layer 10. An In0.53Ga0.47As 
layer 12 of whose is as thick as the lattice constant of the 
base substrate 9 , and is low composition ratio of In , is 
disposed on the In0.8Ga0.2As layer 11. A non-doped 
In0.52Al0.48As layer 13 is disposed on the In0.53Ga0.47As 
layer 12. An n-type In0.52Al0.48As layer 14 is disposed on 
the non-doped In0.52Al0.48As layer 13. The electron mobility 
of the structure with the In0.53Ga0.47As layer 12 shown in 
FIG. 5 was more improved by 9 % than that of the structure 
without the In0.53Ga0.47As layer 12. However, in the conventional field effect transistor 
shown in FIG. 5, the thickness of the In0.53Ga0.47As layer 
12, which is the second semiconductor layer, is as thick as 4 
nm and is over thick. Thereby the ratio of electrons that 
exist in the In0.8Ga0.2As layer 11 as the first semiconductor 
layer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A field effect transistor having a semiconductor 
including In, comprising: 

   a first semiconductor layer that contains In; 
   a second semiconductor layer that contains In whose 

composition ratio is smaller than that of said first 
semiconductor layer; and 

   a third semiconductor layer whose electron affinity is 
smaller than that of said first semiconductor layer, 

   wherein said first semiconductor layer, said second 
semiconductor layer, and said third semiconductor layer are 

successively disposed in the order, and 
   wherein the thickness of said second semiconductor 

layer is equal to or larger than the thickness of two 
monolayers thereof and less than 4 nm. 
The field effect transistor as set forth in claim 1, 
   wherein said first semiconductor layer is composed of 

InxGa1-xAs (where 0.70 ≦ x ≦ 1.0), and 
   wherein said second semiconductor layer is composed of 

InyGa1-yAs (where 0 
<
 y 
<
 x). 
A field effect transistor, comprising: 
   a first semiconductor layer that contains In; 

   a second semiconductor layer that contains In whose 
energy band gap is larger than that of said first 

semiconductor layer; and 
   a third semiconductor layer whose electron affinity is 

smaller than that of said first semiconductor layer, 
   wherein said first semiconductor layer, said second 

 
semiconductor layer, and said third semiconductor layer are 

successively disposed in the order, and 
   wherein the thickness of said second semiconductor 

layer is equal to or larger than the thickness of two 
monolayers thereof and less than 4 nm. 
The field effect transistor as set forth in claim 3, 

   wherein said first semiconductor layer is composed of 
InxGa1-xAs (where 0.70 ≦ x ≦ 1.0), and 

   wherein said second semiconductor layer is composed of 
AlxGa1-xAs (where 0 ≦ x ≦ 1), AlyGa1-yP (where 0 ≦ y ≦ 1), 

GaAszP1-z (where 0 ≦ z ≦ 1) or AlAsuP1-u (where 0 ≦ u ≦ 1). 
The field effect transistor as set forth in claim 3, 
   wherein said second semiconductor layer is composed of 

InxGa1-xP (where 0 ≦ x ≦ 1) or InyAl1-yP (where 0 ≦ y ≦ 1). 
A field effect transistor that contains In, 
comprising: 

   a high resistance substrate; 
   a buffer layer disposed on said high resistance 

substrate; 
   a first semiconductor layer that contains In and that 

is disposed on said buffer layer; 
   a second semiconductor layer that contains In whose 

composition ratio is smaller than that of said first 
semiconductor layer and that is disposed thereon; 

   a third semiconductor layer whose electron affinity is 
smaller than that of said first semiconductor layer and 

that is disposed on said second semiconductor layer; 
   a fourth semiconductor layer that is a higher 

 
concentration n-type semiconductor layer than said third 

semiconductor layer and that is disposed on said third 
semiconductor layer; 

   an ohmic electrode that is ohmic-contacted with a part 
of said fourth semiconductor layer; and 

   a gate electrode disposed onto said third semiconductor 
in a recess region of said fourth semiconductor layer, 

   wherein the thickness of said second semiconductor 
layer is equal to or larger than the thickness of two 

monolayers thereof and less than 4 nm. 
A field effect transistor that contains In, 
comprising: 


a)a substrate with a high resistance; 
b)a layer that contains Al, that serves as a buffer 
layer, and that is disposed on said substrate a); 
c)an auxiliary activation layer that serves as a sub 
channel and that is disposed on said layer b); 
d)a first semiconductor layer with high electron 
mobility and high electron saturation velocity and that is 

disposed on said auxiliary activation layer c); 
e)a second semiconductor layer that contains In whose 
composition ratio is smaller than that of said first 

semiconductor layer d) and that is disposed thereon; 
f)a third semiconductor with high purity that has 
smaller electron affinity than that of said first 

semiconductor layer and that is disposed on said second 
semiconductor layer e); 
g)an n-type semiconductor layer that is contained in 
 

said third semiconductor layer f); 
h)a high purity layer that is purer than said third 
semiconductor layer f) , that is disposed on said n-type 

semiconductor layer g) of said third semiconductor, and 
contained in said third semiconductor; and 
i)a fourth semiconductor layer that is an n-type 
semiconductor layer whose concentration is higher than that 

of said third semiconductor layer and that is disposed on 
said high purity layer h). 
The field effect transistor as set forth in claim 7, 
further comprising: 


j)an ohmic electrode that is ohmic-contacted with a part 
of said fourth semiconductor layer; and 
k)a gate electrode that is disposed in a recess region 
of said third semiconductor layer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
