<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619100</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dental procedures and apparatus using ultraviolet radiation.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1724	A61B1724	A61B1800	A61B1800	A61B1820	A61B1820	A61B1822	A61C100	A61C100	A61C302	A61C302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61C1	A61C1	A61C3	A61C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved dental procedure and apparatus where ultraviolet 
radiation pulses are used to etch selectively both 

hard tissue and soft tissue in dental procedures. There 
exists distinct ablation thresholds for hard and soft 

tissue which are dependent on the material being ablated 
for a given wavelength of the ultraviolet radiation. Sufficient 

differences in ablation threshold exist for enamel, 
dentin, and carious material, thereby allowing dentists to 

perform both hard tissue and soft tissue procedures without 
excess damage to healthy enamel, dentin or other pulp 

structures. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODMAN BARRY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBS JASON M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAUFMAN HERSHALL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WYNNE JAMES J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODMAN, BARRY D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBS, JASON M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAUFMAN, HERSHALL W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WYNNE, JAMES J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to improved procedures and apparatus 
for procedures on teeth using ultraviolet radiation, 
wherein ultraviolet laser pulses having selected energy 
fluences can be used to perform several different procedures 
on different materials found in teeth. Lasers are optical devices which produce intense and narrow 
beams of light at particular wavelengths by stimulating the 
atoms or molecules in a lasing material. Many types of 
lasing materials are known including gases, liquids and 
solids. The lasers are typically named in accordance with 
the element or compound that emits light when energized, 
such as carbon dioxide, argon, copper vapor, neodymium-doped 
yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Nd:YAG), erbium, 
holmium,rare gas halide gas mixtures such as ArF, XeCl, KrF 
(excimers) etc., alexandrite, ruby, Ti:sapphire and many 
dyes. When applied to human tissue, the beam of light 
produced by the laser will be partially absorbed in a 
process which typically converts the light to heat. This 
is used to change the state of the tissue for purposes of 
etching or cutting. In the case of nonultraviolet 
radiation-producing lasers, the dominant mechanism for 
cutting or etching is a thermal one. However, in the case 
of ultraviolet laser pulses having energy fluences in 
excess of a threshold dependent upon the wavelength of the 
radiation and the material being irradiated, a "cool" 
etching is achieved in which there is minimal heat transferred 
to the surrounding tissues. Instead, the energy of 
the ultraviolet radiation pulses is primarily transformed  
 
into the kinetic energy of the particles which explode or 
ablate from the tissue being irradiated. This fundamental 
discovery and its application for both medical and dental 
purposes is described by S.E. Blum et al in US 4,784,135. In the development of a laser system for specific dental 
and medical applications, factors to be considered are the 
wavelength of the light produced by the laser, the pulse 
width of the radiation pulses, the energy per pulse, the 
laser beam spot size on the target and the apparatus and 
method of delivery of the laser light to the tissue to be 
irradiated. It is necessary to deliver a precise amount of 
light to the tissue, whether the mechanism for cutting is a 
thermal one or ablative photodecomposition as can be 
achieved through the use of pulsed ultraviolet radiation. 
If there is application of energy of high intensity to the 
tissue, rapid absorption and heating can occur which can 
cause undue damage
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for performing dentistry, including the 
steps of: 

irradiating a region of a tooth with ultraviolet radiation 
of sufficient energy fluence F₁ to ablate enamel 

therefrom by a mechanism which causes minimal thermal 
diffusion to areas surrounding said region, 

continuing said irradiating until the desired amount of 
enamel is removed from said region, 

changing the energy fluence of said ultraviolet radiation 
to an amount F₂ sufficient to ablate carious 

material in said tooth but less than that which is necessary 
to ablate enamel, and 

irradiating carious material in said tooth with ultraviolet 
radiation of energy fluence F₂ for a time period 

sufficient to ablate said carious material, thereby 
restoring a more healthy state to said tooth. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said ultraviolet 
radiation is provided by ultraviolet laser pulses, and 

the energy of said ultra violet laser pulses is changed 
depending upon whether enamel, dentin, or carious material 

is being ablated. 
The method of claim 1 or 2 with said ablation causing 
a colored jet to emanate from said irradiated area 

accompanied by an audible sound, said colored jet and 
said audible sound being characteristic of whether 

enamel, dentin, or carious material is being ablated 
from said tooth, 

detecting said colored jet to produce a signal representative 
of said colored jet,

 
analyzing said signal to determine the material being 

ablated from said region, and 
providing a control signal to change the characteristics 

of said ultraviolet laser pulses in accordance 
with whether enamel, dentin, or carious material is 

being ablated from said irradiated region of said 
tooth. 
The method of claim 3, including the further steps 
of detecting the presence of selected biological material 

emanating from said irradiated region and controlling 
the energy of said ultraviolet laser pulses in 

accordance with the presence or absence of said 
selected biological material. 
The method of one of more of the preceding claims 
1 to 4, where said energy fluence F₁ is greater than 

about 5.8 J/cm² said energy fluence F₂ is less than 
about 5.8 J/cm² and greater than about 1.3 J/cm². 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 
1 to 5, where said ultraviolet radiation is in the 

wavelength range of about 100-400nm, preferably of 
about 300-400nm and most preferably of about 185-220nm. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 
1 to 6, including the step of irradiating both carious 

material and dentin with an energy fluence sufficient 
to ablate both carious material and dentin, and 

removing said carious material at a rate greater than 
the rate of removal of dentin. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 
1 to 7, where said energy fluence is lowered to a level 

less than the level necessary to ablate dentin, carious 
 

material, and enamel, said ultraviolet radiation being 
used to cleanse the mouth of germs. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 
1 to 8, where the fluence of said ultraviolet radiation 

is changed to a fluence F₃ that is less than both F₁ 
and F₂ and greater than the threshold amount needed to 

ablate dentin, and irradiating said tooth with ultraviolet 
radiation of fluence F₃ to ablate dentin therefrom. 
A method of fluoride treatment of a tooth, including 
the steps of: 

contacting said tooth with a fluoride-carrier to 
produce a fluoride containing layer therein, said 

carrier being an inorganic solvent for a fluoride compound 
and having the property that it does not char 

when irradiated by UV radiation and is at least about 
70% transparent to UV radiation, and 

irradiating said fluoride-carrier with UV radiation in 
the wavelength range 100-400nm, said radiation having 

an energy sufficiently low that the temperature of said 
tooth remains less than the temperature which would 

produce a painful sensation. 
A method for removing stain from teeth, comprising 
the step of: 

irradiating a stained area of said teeth with pulses of 
ultraviolet radiation of sufficient energy fluence to 

ablate the matter producing said stained area, said 
energy being less than that which would cause tooth 

enamel to be ablated. 
An apparatus for performing laser dentistry, 
comprising in combination: 

a laser producing ultraviolet radiation, 
means for establishing the energy fluence of said 

ultraviolet radiation at an amount sufficient to ablate 
tooth enamel, 

means for establishing the energy fluence of said 
ultraviolet radiation at an amount less than that which 

is sufficient to ablate enamel but greater than the 
threshold amount
 necessary to ablate carious material, 
and 

means for sending a beam of said ultraviolet radiation 
to a selected region of said tooth to selectively 

ablate enamel and carious material therefrom. 
The apparatus of claim 12, where said laser produces 
pulsed radiation and comprises an excimer laser or a 

solid state laser. 
The apparatus of claim 12 or 13, where said means 
for establishing the energy fluence of said radiation 

can establish the energy fluence at a level in excess 
of about 5.8 J/cm² and also less than about 1.3 J/cm². 
The apparatus of one or more of the preceding claims 
12 to 14, where said means for sending includes an 

optical fiber for delivering said radiation to said 
tooth. 
The apparatus of one or more of the preceding claims 
12 to 15, further including means for adjusting the 

repetition rate of said pulsed radiation to be less 
than that which would cause excessive thermal heating 

in said tooth. 
The apparatus of one or more of the preceding claims 
12 to 16 further including 

a signature including a popping sound and a colored jet 
emanating from said area when said ablation occurs, 

control means for controlling said laser system to vary 
the energy of said UV pulses in accordance with the 

presence of enamel, dentin, or carious material at the 
region being irradiated by said pulses, 

sensor means responsive to said color signature or said 
sound signature for providing a signal to said control 

means, thereby regulating the energy output of said 
laser in accordance with the presence of enamel, 

dentin, or carious material at the region of said tooth 
to be irradiated by said pulses. 
The apparatus of claim 17, where said sensor means 
includes a detector comprising an acoustic transducer 

to detect the intensity or wavelength spectra of said 
color jet and an analyzer to analyze the output of said 

detector. 
The apparatus of claim 17 or 18 further including a 
biosensor for detecting biological material emanating 

from said irradiated area, the output of said biosensor 
providing feedback to control the output of said laser. 
A laser dental system, including: 
a laser system for producing UV laser pulses of sufficient 

energy to ablate material from a tooth, said 
ablation producing a sound characteristic of the type 

of material being ablated, and differing in accordance 
with whether the ablated material is enamel, dentin, or 

carious material,
 

detector means responsive to said sound to produce a 
signal indicative of the type of material being 

ablated, said signal being transmitted to a control 
means, and 

control means for regulating said laser to change the 
energy of said laser pulses in accordance with said 

signal received from said detector means. 
The system of claim 20, where the energy of said 
pulses is changed between an amount F₁ sufficient to 

ablate enamel, a lesser amount F₂ sufficient to ablate 
carious material, and a still lesser amount F₃ necessary 

to ablate dentin. 
A laser dental system, including: 
a laser for producing UV laser pulses of selected 

energy fluence sufficient to ablate material from a 
tooth, said material including enamel, dentin and 

carious material, 
a fiber optic delivery system for delivering said UV 

laser pulses to said tooth, 
detector means responsive to temperature and/or pressure, 

said detector means being located sufficiently 
close to the tooth being irradiated by said UV laser 

pulses that said detector means can detect temperature 
and/or pressure in a region close to the region of said 

tooth being ablated and provide an output indicative of 
said temperature and/or pressure, 

feedback control means receiving the output of said 
detector means and regulating said laser to change the 

repetition rate of said UV laser pulses. 
An apparatus for performing laser dentistry on a tooth 
in a patient's mouth, comprising: 

a laser system for producing ultraviolet radiation 
pulses, 

delivery means for delivering said radiation pulses to 
said tooth to ablate material therefrom without substantial 

heat buildup at said tooth, and 
control means for automatically controlling the energy 

fluence of said ultraviolet radiation pulses to 
selected energy fluences in accordance with the type of 

material being ablated from said tooth, a first 
selected energy fluence being at least the threshold 

fluence F₁ necessary to ablate enamel at a selected 
ultraviolet wavelength, and a second selected energy 

fluence being greater than the threshold fluence F₂ 
necessary to ablate carious material but less than the 

fluence F₁, at said selected ultraviolet wavelength. 
The apparatus of claim 23, where said control means 
includes sensor means for detecting the type of tooth 

material to be ablated and feedback means to provide a 
signal to said control means, said control means then 

regulating said laser system to provide ultraviolet 
radiation pulses having either said first or second 

selected energy fluence. 
The apparatus of claim 23 or 24, where said control 
means can control the energy fluence of said ultraviolet 

radiation pulses to a third selected energy 
fluence greater than the threshold F₃ necessary to 

ablate dentin but less than the fluence F₂. 
The apparatus of one or more of the preceding claims 
23 to 25, including means for automatically changing 

the energy fluence of said ultraviolet radiation pulses 
 

between said first and second selected energy fluences 
during laser ablation of said teeth and means for automatically 

changing the repetition rate of said ultraviolet 
radiation pulses during laser ablation of said 

tooth. 
The apparatus of one or more of the preceding claims 
23 to 26, including means for sensing the presence of 

harmful biological material in the patient's mouth and 
means for automatically decreasing the energy fluence 

of said ultraviolet radiation pulses to an energy 
fluence level that is insufficient to ablate material 

from said tooth. 
The apparatus of one or more of the preceding claims 
23 to 27, where said delivery means includes an optical 

fiber for transmitting said ultraviolet radiation 
pulses to said tooth including a sensor located near 

the tip of said optical fiber, said sensor producing a 
signal indicative of the type of material to be ablated 

from said tooth. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
