<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617711</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A HALOGEN-FREE ACRYLIC URETHANE SHEET MATERIAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09J702	C08G1800	C09J13300	C09J702	C09J20100	C08G1840	C08G1880	C08J518	C09J20100	G09F310	C08J518	G09F302	G09F310	C08G1842	G09F302	C08G1862	C09J13300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09J	C08G	C09J	C09J	C09J	C08G	C08G	C08J	C09J	G09F	C08J	G09F	G09F	C08G	G09F	C08G	C09J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09J7	C08G18	C09J133	C09J7	C09J201	C08G18	C08G18	C08J5	C09J201	G09F3	C08J5	G09F3	G09F3	C08G18	G09F3	C08G18	C09J133	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOEB SIEGFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAASSEN IRIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOEB, SIEGFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAASSEN, IRIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is related to a halogen-free acrylic urethane 
sheet material which is markable with conventional as well as 
radiation methods. Furthermore, the invention is related to a 
process for preparing this halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet 
material as well as single or multilayer halogen-free acrylic 
urethane sheet materials and label stocks. Polymeric films such as plasticized polyvinyl chloride have 
been used for many years as backings for adhesive labels, tapes 
and decorative sheets. Polymeric films have had wide acceptance 
for such applications because, among other things, they are 
inexpensive and weather resistant and can be colored easily with 
pigments and dyes. In addition, plasticized polyvinyl chloride 
has had particularly wide acceptance because its properties can be 
modified over a wide range by incorporation of plasticizers. Recently, however, halogen-containing materials in general 
have been recognized as producing undesirable by-products when 
burned. The gases given off are corrosive, present a health risk 
and have been implicated in destruction of the atmospheric ozone 
layer. Specifically, plasticized polyvinyl chloride has an 
additional drawback when used as a backing for adhesive coated 
sheet material or tapes. Problems are often encountered with 
migration of the plasticizer into the adhesive coating. The 
adhesive properties are altered or destroyed as the plasticizer 
migrates from the polyvinyl chloride into the adhesive coating. 
Plasticizers are also known to evaporate with time or at elevated 
temperatures, thereby producing an unacceptably brittle film. Thus, there exists a need for a polymeric backing which has 
the physical properties and advantages of plasticized polyvinyl 
chloride, but does not contain halogen atoms or other moieties 
which produce noxious by-products upon incineration and which are 
even more resistant to the effects of aging, chemicals, high 
temperatures and natural weathering. US 4,271,223, Lambert, discloses a plastic film label stock 
to which ordinary printing inks adhere strongly without any 
surface treatment of the plastic backing so that the printing on 
the labels is highly resistant to abrasion. The plastic film 
which is used for the label stock comprises a polymer of an 
addition-polymerizable urethane oligomer. The urethane oligomer 
is based on oligomeric alcohols which can include polyester 
polyols, polyether polyols, polyacrylate polyols, polyolefin  
 
polyols and polysiloxane polyols. The oligomeric alcohols
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material (10) 
comprising a polymer comprising components A, B and C 

wherein 

component A comprises a copolymer of 


(i) a monoester of acrylic or methacrylic acid and an aliphatic 
diol having 2 to 8 carbon atoms and 
(ii) an ester of acrylic or methacrylic acid and an aliphatic 
alcohol having 1 to 8 carbon atoms except monoesters (i), 

and optionally a vinyl aromatic monomer as well as optionally 
N-vinylpyrrolidone or N-vinylcaprolactame, 
 
said component A having a T
g
 of 30°C to 100°C, 
component B comprising an aliphatic polyester diol with an 
weight-average molecular weight less than 20,000 and 
component C comprising a polyfunctional isocyanate or blocked 
polyfunctional isocyanate. 
The halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of claim 1 
wherein the aliphatic diol of subcomponent (i)has 2 to 4 carbon atoms 

and the aliphatic alcohol of sub-component (ii) has 1 to 4 carbon 
atoms. 
The halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of claim 1 
and/or 2 wherein the ester of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid and an 

aliphatic alcohol having to 8 carbon atoms is substituted by styrene 
derivatives, N-vinylpyrrolidone or N-vinylcaprolactame or combinations 

thereof up to 70 % by weight. 
The halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of any one 
of the claims 1 to 3 wherein additionally are present coloring agents, 

thickeners and/or levelling agents. 
The halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of any one 
of the claims 1 to 4 wherein component A is present in amounts of from 

15 to 80 percent by weight based on total amount of components A, B and 
C, 


component B is present in amounts of from 5 to 50% by weight 
based on total amount of components A, B and C,  

 
component C is present in amounts of from 15 to 50% by weight 
based on total amount of components A, B and C. 
The halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of claim 5 
wherein component A is present in amounts of from 30 to 60% by weight 

based on total amount of components A, B and C, 

component B is present in amounts of from 15 to 30% by weight 
based on total amount of components A, B and C, 
and component C is present in amounts of from 20 to 45% by weight 
based on total amount of components A, B and C. 
The halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of any one 
of the claims 1 to 6 wherein component B is a poly-epsilon-caprolactone-diol 

with a weight-average molecular weight of 500 to 
10,000. 
The halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of any of the claims 1 to 7 
wherein component C is an adduct of 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate and 

2-butanone oxime or a dimer of the polyfunctional isocyanate. 
The halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of any one 
of claims 1 to 8 which is markable by conventional printing methods 

and/or by radiation methods. 
The halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of any one 
of claims 1 to 9 wherein the sheet material is laser-markable. 
A multilayer halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material 
having at least one layer provided with coloring agents each layer 

comprising a polymer composition of components A, B and C as defined in 
any one of the claims 1 to 8. 
The multilayer halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material 
of claim 11 which is markable by conventional printing methods and/or 

by radiation methods. 
The multilayer halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material 
according to claims 11 and/or 12 wherein the multilayer sheet material 

is laser-markable. 
A label stock comprising a single layer or multilayer 
halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material according to any one of  

 
the claims 1 to 13 provided with a heat activatable adhesive or a 

pressure sensitive adhesive. 
The label stock according to claim 14 having a protective 
sheet on its exposed adhesive surface. 
Process for preparing a halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet 
material according to claim 1 


by copolymerizing the subcomponents (i) and (ii) of 
component A as defined in claim 1 in solution 
mixing the component A in solution with components B and C as 
defined in claim 1, 
optionally adding the components of claim 4, 
casting the mixture on a removable support followed by thermal 
curing and priming one or both surfaces. 
A process for preparing the multilayer sheet material of 
claim 11 wherein the individual layers are produced as films by coating 

or printing or by mono- or multilayer casting or by laminating prefabricated 
sheet materials of claim 1 or combinations of the process 

measures and priming the printable surface with corona discharge 
treatment if the sheet material is prepared for use in conventional 

printing methods. 
A process for preparing a label stock according to the 
method of claim 17 followed by arranging a layer of a pressure 

sensitive adhesive or heat-activatable adhesive on one side of the 
sheet material. 
A process of claim 18 wherein the side on which the 
pressure-sensitive or heat activatable adhesive is arranged said side 

has been primed by chemical or physical methods. 
A process for producing the multilayer sheet material of 
claim 11 by spray-coating and/or screen-print coating of a removable 

support with a thin reactive layer of a composition comprising the 
components A, B and C as defined in any one of claims 1 to 8, 


followed by drying for a short time to partially cure the first 
layer (1) of said mixture,  

 
coating onto the first layer (1) a second layer (2) of a mixture 
having a different color than the first layer, 
optionally repeating the previous step for producing a third 
layer (3), 
drying the layers to finally cure them, 
removing the multilayer sheet material from the support, 
providing one side of the multilayer sheet with a pressure-sensitive 
adhesive material onto a side which has been treated 

with a primer 
and applying a protective sheet (5) onto the pressure-sensitive 
adhesive layer (4). 
A process according to any one of the Claims 16 to 20 
wherein the removable support has a rough surface structure for 

providing a matte surface structure of the first layer (1). 
A method of using a composition comprising components A, B 
and C as defined in any one of the claims 1 to 8 for producing the 

halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material of claim 1. 
A method of using a composition comprising components A, B 
and C as defined in any one of the claims 1 to 8 for producing a 

multilayer sheet material of claim 11. 
A method of using a composition comprising components A, B 
and C as defined in any one of claims 1 to 8 for preparing a label 

stock according to claims 14 and/or 15. 
A method of using a composition comprising components A, B 
and C as defined in any one of the claims 1 to 8 for producing a 

markable halogen-free acrylic urethane sheet material according to 
claims 1, 11 and 14. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
