<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612641</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of and apparatus for cruise control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1393	B60Q152	B60Q150	B60K3100	B60K3104	B60K3100	B60K3102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	B60Q	B60Q	B60K	B60K	B60K	B60K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	B60Q1	B60Q1	B60K31	B60K31	B60K31	B60K31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vehicle cruise controller is provided which monitors the range to and 
relative speed of a target vehicle ahead of the vehicle being controlled 

by the cruise controller. A radar (1) provides measurements of range and 
relative speed.
 The range measurement is compared by a subtracter (3) 
with a desired range which is a function of vehicle speed, so as to form a 

distance error. The relative speed signal represents a speed error. An 
acceleration demand is formed as a function, for example a weighted 

sum, of the distance and speed errors. More significance is given to the 
distance error when the target is relatively close. This is achieved by 

varying the gain of a multiplier (6). The acceleration demand may be 
supplied to vehicle brake and drive systems, but preferably the 

acceleration demand is compared with actual vehicle acceleration to 
provide the advantages of closed loop control. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUCAS IND PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUCAS INDUSTRIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILLING SIMON PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PONSFORD DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHOKOUFANDEH REZA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILLING, SIMON PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PONSFORD, DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHOKOUFANDEH, REZA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of and an apparatus for cruise 
control. Known cruise controllers for vehicles allow a driver to set a target 
vehicle speed. The cruise controller then acts to maintain the vehicle 
speed at the target speed. Such a controller does not monitor the 
distance to or speed of vehicles ahead of the vehicle under cruise 
control. Thus, the driver has to intervene if the vehicle under cruise 
control approaches another vehicle too closely for the target speed, for 
instance so as to ensure that a safe braking distance remains between the 
vehicles. Even if the other vehicle is under cruise control and the driver 
of the other vehicle has set the same nominal target vehicle speed, 
variations and tolerances between the vehicles and the cruise controllers 
are such that the actual vehicle speeds when under cruise control will 
generally be slightly different. Again, if the following vehicle approaches 
the lead vehicle too closely, the driver has to intervene, for instance by 
switching off the cruise controller or by applying the vehicle brake, 
which normally disengages at least temporarily the cruise controller. EP-A-0 443 644 relates to an adaptive cruise control system for a source 
vehicle which maintains a desired selected driver-set speed in the 
absence of a detected preceding obstructing vehicle and adjusts the 
source vehicle speed when an obstructing vehicle is detected to maintain 
a following distance that is set by the vehicle operator. DE-A1-4 100 993 discloses a following control apparatus for an 
automotive vehicle which controls the output of an engine and the  
 
brakes of a vehicle so as to maintain a target vehicle separation from a 
preceding vehicle. According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a cruise 
control apparatus for a vehicle, comprising distance error determining 
means for determining a distance error as the difference between a 
desired distance between a target and the vehicle and the actual distance 
between the target and the vehicle, speed error determining means for 
determining a speed error as the difference between the speed of the 
target and the speed of the vehicle, and acceleration demand producing 
means for producing a vehicle acceleration demand as a function of the 
distance error and of the speed error, characterised by further comprising 
acceleration error producing means for producing an acceleration error 
as the difference between the acceleration demand and the actual 
vehicle acceleration.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cruise control apparatus for a vehicle, characterised by 
distance error determining means (1, 3, 4, 5) for determining a distance 

error as the difference between a desired distance between a target and 
the vehicle and the actual distance between the target and the vehicle, 

speed error determining means (1) for determining a speed error as the 
difference between the speed of the target and the speed of the vehicle, 

and acceleration demand producing means (2, 6, 7, 28) for producing a 
vehicle acceleration demand as a function of the distance error and the 

speed error, characterised by further comprising acceleration error 
producing means (8, 9) for producing an acceleration error as the 

difference between the acceleration demand and the actual vehicle 
acceleration. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, characterised 
in that the vehicle acceleration demand producing means (2, 6, 7, 28) is 

arranged to calculate the vehicle acceleration demand as the sum of the 
product of the distance error and a first gain parameter and the product 

of the speed error and a second gain parameter. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, 
characterised by further comprising desired distance determining means 

(4) for determining the desired distance as a function of vehicle speed. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 2 or Claim 3 
when dependent on Claim 2, characterised by further comprising gain  

 
setting means (2, 28) for setting at least one of the first and second gain 

parameters such that the quotient of the first gain parameter divided by 
the second gain parameter is a function of at least one of the distance 

and the distance error. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, characterised 
in that the gain setting means (2) is arranged to set the quotient to a first 

value for a first distance error or a first actual distance and to a second 
value less than the first value for a second distance error or second actual 

distance greater than the first distance error or the first actual distance. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 5, characterised 
in that the gain setting means (2) is arranged to set the quotient as a 

monotonically decreasing function of the distance error between the first 
and second distance errors or of the actual distance between the first and 

second distances. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 4 to 
6, characterised in that the gain setting means (2, 28) is arranged to 

substantially halve the value of the quotient when the distance error is 
greater than a first predetermined distance error (T7) which is greater 

than zero and the speed error is greater than a first predetermined speed 
error which is greater than zero. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised by further comprising gating means (11, 

12) for supplying the acceleration demand to a vehicle drive system 
when the acceleration demand is greater than a first threshold which is 

greater than or equal to zero, and for supplying the acceleration demand  
 

to a vehicle brake system when the acceleration demand is less than a 
second threshold which is less than or equal to zero. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, characterised 
by further comprising inhibiting means (18-21) for inhibiting the supply 

of the acceleration demand to the vehicle brake system when the 
acceleration demand is greater than the second threshold (T2), the 

distance error is greater than a second predetermined distance error (T4) 
which is less than zero, and the speed error is greater than a second 

predetermined speed error (T3) which is less than zero. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 
7, characterised by further comprising gating means (11, 12) for 

supplying the acceleration error to a vehicle drive system (16) when the 
acceleration demand or error is greater than a first threshold (T1) which 

is greater than or equal to zero, and for supplying the acceleration error 
to a vehicle brake system (17) when the acceleration demand or error is 

less than a second threshold (T2) which is less than or equal to zero. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 10, characterised 
by further comprising inhibiting means (18-21) for inhibiting the supply 

of the acceleration error to the vehicle brake system (17) when the 
acceleration demand or error is greater than the second threshold (T2), 

the distance error is greater than a second predetermined distance error 
(T4) which is less than zero, and the speed error is greater than a second 

predetermined speed error (T3) which is less than zero. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in any one of the 

preceding claims for use in a vehicle driven by an internal combustion  
 

engine having a throttle controlled in cruise mode by an integrating 
controller (16), characterised by further comprising further gain setting 

means (13, 14) for multiplying the acceleration demand by a third gain 
parameter which is a function of vehicle speed. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 
7, Claim 11 or Claim 12 for use in a vehicle driven by an internal 

combustion engine having a throttle controlled in a cruise mode by an 
integrating controller (16), characterised by further comprising further 

gain setting means (13, 14) for multiplying the acceleration error by a 
third gain parameter which is a function of the vehicle speed. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 12 or 13, 
characterised in that the third gain parameter has a constant value below 

a predetermined vehicle speed and a value which increases 
monotonically with vehicle speed above the predetermined vehicle 

speed. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 
9 or 12 or 14 when dependent on 12, characterised by further 

comprising limiting means (10) for limiting the acceleration demand to 
less than a first positive demand threshold and greater than a negative 

demand threshold. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 2 or any claim 
dependent on Claim 2, characterised in that the second gain parameter is 

a constant.  
 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in Claim 16, characterised 
in that the second gain parameter has a value of one. 
A cruise control apparatus as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that the distance to and relative speed 

of the target are measured using a radar system (1). 
A method of cruise control for a vehicle, comprising 
determining a distance error as the difference between a desired distance 

between a target and the vehicle and the actual distance between the 
target and the vehicle, determining a speed error as the difference 

between the speed of the target and the speed of the vehicle, and 
controlling the vehicle in accordance with a vehicle acceleration demand 

formed as a function of the distance error and the speed error, 
characterised in that the vehicle is controlled in accordance with an 

acceleration error formed as a difference between the acceleration 
demand and an actual vehicle acceleration. 
A method as claimed in Claim 19, characterised in that the 
vehicle acceleration demand is calculated as the sum of the product of 

the distance error and a first gain parameter and the product of the speed 
error and a second gain parameter. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
