<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629331</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPATIAL LIGHT MODULATOR SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N574	G02B2718	G02B2718	G09F937	G02B2608	G03B2100	G09F937	G03B2100	G02B2608	H04N574	H04N931	H04N931	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G02B	G02B	G09F	G02B	G03B	G09F	G03B	G02B	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	G02B27	G02B27	G09F9	G02B26	G03B21	G09F9	G03B21	G02B26	H04N5	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A display projection apparatus comprising a light source, means for splitting light from the source into different color component beams, and a plurality of deformable mirror device spatial light modulators, characterised in that the light paths to said splitting means and modulators are provided as a single prism assembly to which said modulators are mounted.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIGITAL PROJECTION LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIGITAL PROJECTION LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELDING RAYMOND GORDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAVANAGH MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELDING, RAYMOND GORDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAVANAGH, MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a spatial light modulator
system. Particularly, but not exclusively, this
invention relates to a projection system in which a
projected display is formed by modulating light from a
light source by a spatial light modulator device, and
then projecting the modulated light on to a display
area. Particularly, but not exclusively, the
invention relates to a color spatial light modulator
system in which beams having different color content
are reflected from different spatial light modulator
devices each driven in accordance with a different
video signal, and the modulated beams are combined to
form a single projected color display.A spatial light modulator is an optical component
which is controllable to modulate an incident light
beam. A relatively old example is the eidophor, a
layer of oil scanned by a cathode ray. One class of
spatial light modulators is active matrix devices,
comprising a matrix of individually addressed pixel
light valves or modulators; the liquid crystal
modulator array described in, for example, EP-A-0401912
is one modulator array of this type. In EP-A-0401912, a
liquid crystal matrix is provided in a light path to 
variably transmit, and hence amplitude modulate, the
incident light beam (without altering its path or
optical axis). Another example of such an active
matrix comprises an array of the tiltable mirror
devices, for example the deformable mirror device
(DMD) described in, for example, US-A-4856863, US
-A-4615595, and US-A-4596992.Such devices comprise miniature mirrored cantilever
beam elements carrying electrodes so as to be electro
statically deflectable between two positions. The
extent of the deflection can be controlled by the
applied electrostatic potential to provide variable
degrees of reflection, or the device can be operated
in a binary manner by applying predetermined electro
static potentials to switch between discrete
deflection states. It thus angularly deflects the
incident light beam and hence changes the optical axis
of the light beam.Using an array of such devices, each individually
addressable, a two dimensional image can be reproduced
by exposing the array to an incident light beam,
modulating the incident beam by controlling the
individual mirror devices from a picture signal, and 
collating the beam reflected in a particular
direction. The small size and fast switching times of
devices of the kind described in the above mentioned
patents makes them usable at video picture data rates,
enabling the display of television or video
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A projection apparatus comprising:

means (30a/18b,30b/18a) for splitting light from a
light source (16) into different color component beams,
a plurality of spatial light modulators (20a, b, c)
each comprising an array of tiltable mirror devices (M
11
-M
mn
),
each mirror device of each array having a first

orientation effective to reflect light incident on the
mirror device along an "ON" path for the respective

array, and a second orientation effective to reflect
light incident on the mirror device along an "OFF" path

for the respective array, different from the "ON" path,
said "ON" and "OFF" paths not being parallel to the

direction of the light incident on the mirror elements of
the respective array;
means (7, 8, 12) for directing a different one of
the different color component beams onto each of said

arrays of tiltable mirror devices and for combining light
directed along the "ON" path from each of the mirror

devices in each of the arrays of mirror devices;
a projection lens system; and
means (19) for directing said combined light towards
said projection lens system (10);
the apparatus being characterised in that:

   the light paths to said splitting means
(30a/18b,30b/18a) and modulators (20a, b, c) are provided

within a single prism assembly (4) comprising prism
portions, on surfaces of which assembly said

modulators (20a, b, c) are mounted, said means for 
splitting, means for combining and means for directing

being provided on surfaces of the prism portions.
An apparatus according to claim 1, in which the
surface (3, 15) of the prism assembly (4) which receives

light from the light source (16) is convex so as to
converge the light beam onto each spatial light modulator

(20a, b, c).
An apparatus according to either of the preceding
claims including light absorbing means (11) positioned

to absorb light reflected by any of the tiltable mirror
devices (M
11
-M
mn
) of the spatial light modulators (20a, b,
c) when said tiltable mirror device (M
11
-M
mn
) is in an
"off" position.
An apparatus according to claim 3, including means
(13) for dissipating heat corresponding to the light

absorbed by the light absorbing means (11).
An apparatus according to claim 3 or claim 4, in
which the light absorbing means comprises a layer (11)

mounted on a face of the prism and having a refractive
index matched to that of the prism assembly (5).
An apparatus according to claim 5, in which the
layer (11) comprises a black glass layer. 
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims including means (3a) for filtering light incident

on the prism assembly (5) to reject unwanted spectral
components prior to entering the prism assembly (5).
An apparatus according to claim 7, in which the
filter means (3a) is such as to reject infrared

components of the incident light.
An apparatus according to claim 7 or 8, in which the
filter means (3a) is arranged to reject ultraviolet

components of the incident light.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 9,
in which the filter means (3a) is arranged on a convex

surface (3) so as to divergingly reflect said unwanted
components of the incident light.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 10,
in which the filter means (3a) is arranged so as not to

refocus rejected radiation onto the light source (16).
An apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 11
wherein said filter means is arranged on a surface (15)

of the prism assembly (5).
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims including means (5,6) positioned in the light path

to the spatial light modulators (20a, b, c), for
absorbing portions of the light incident on the prism

assembly (5) which would not illuminate the spatial light
modulators (20a).
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims including an optical component (50, 51) comprising

a surface (57) defining an array of curved rectangular
reflectors, the component being arranged to direct light

onto the spatial light modulators (20a, b, c).
An apparatus according to claim 14, in which the
curved reflectors are concave.
An apparatus according to claim 14 or claim 15, in
which the array (51) of curved reflectors is provided on

a curved surface.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to
16, further comprising optical means for superimposing

the rays from each rectangular reflector of said array
(51) of curved reflectors onto the spatial light

modulators (20a, b, c).
An apparatus according to claim 17, further
comprising an array of lenses, each lens being aligned 

with a respective rectangular reflector in said array of
curved reflectors so as to focus the light beam incident

on the array of lenses onto the array of curved
reflectors.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 12
including a component (52) for producing a rectangular

optical beam comprising an array of rectangular optical
lenses or reflectors, each said lens or reflector being

combined with a surface of the prism assembly (5), said
prism surfaces being progressively tilted, relative to a

point on said array of lenses or reflectors, so as to
superimpose the rectangular beams from each said lens or

reflector into a single uniform rectangular spot at each
spatial light modulator (20a, b, c).
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims including an output lens arrangement (10), in

which the light path from the light source (16) via each
spatial light modulator (20a, b, c) to the lens (10) is

folded by reflectors (5,6) to reduce the physical
distance to the output lens arrangement (10).
An apparatus according to claim 14, in which the
optical component (50, 51) is integral with the prism

assembly (5). 
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims including a light source (16).
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims in which said means for directing comprises a reflective means (12b) provided in

the optical path for spatially modulated light reflected
from one of the spatial light modulators (20a, b, c) in

order to equalise the number of reflections undergone by
the spatially modulated light from all the spatial light

modulators (20a, b, c).
A projection system including a projection apparatus
according to any one of the preceding claims and a

display screen.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
