<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630471</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING THE PHYSICAL AND/OR CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF A SAMPLE, PARTICULARLY OF BLOOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N1504	G01N1505	G01N2722	G01N2722	G01N33487	G01N33487	G01N3349	G01N3349	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N15	G01N15	G01N27	G01N27	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and method for correlating certain physical and chemical properties of blood and other samples by means of remote simultaneous multi-frequency dielectric measurement or when one said frequency is applied and compared with an externally entered paramater proportional to the magnitude of a chosen dielectric parameter at another frequency(ies). Apparatus particularly useful for the near instantaneous assessment of the expected sedimentation condition of red blood cells or other fibrinogen and erythrocyte related parameters.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARNS CHRISTOPHER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARNS, CHRISTOPHER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNS CHRISTOPHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNS, CHRISTOPHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING THE PHYSICAL AND/OR CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF A SAMPLE, PARTICULARLY OF BLOOD.This invention relates to a non-contacting apparatus ami method for investigating certain properties of blood such as red cell count, haemoglobin and fibrinogen content , sedimentation rate and related physical and chemical 5 parameters and for use with similar evaluations in other biological media and for more general use with other samples. In one example the invention is concerned with measurement of fibrinogen to establish instantly the expected sedimentation condition of red cells in blood and certain plasma properties.10 Throughout this embodiment ,the term " non-contacting" implies a means remote from the sample and the terms "instant" and " instantaneous" imply very near instant with process times only being limited by the speed of electron flow in circuitry, real time electronic calculation and the operation time of15 electronic display devices.Protein concentration in biological media is usually assessed by biochemical methods or by methods of physical chemistry such as viscosity measurement and optical, rotational dichorism. Also possible are various forms of spectroscopic analysis and20 chro atography. In one specific situation, that of whole blood, the proteins with the highest concentration are haemoglobin, iound in the erythrocyte nuclei and secondly fibrinogen , found dissolved in th plasma. Fibrinogen concentration is medically important, in that in excess it is a non-specific indicator25 of disease state in a person. Fibrinogen levels manifest their effects in c vaπerv oi different ways ; firstly, they effect th 

sedimentation rate of the red ceils ( erythrocytes ) giving rise to the so called erythrocyte sedimentation rate or e.s.r. and secondly, they cause effect upon the physical and chemical properties of the plasma. Manifestations of increased fibrinogen levels have traditionally been monitored in pathology laboratories by two tests, namely; the e.s.r. and the plasma viscosity or p.v. , more recently a third biochemical assay , the so called c-reactive protein or c.r.p. test has also become more popular. E.s.r. tests are however still the most popular with clinicians the World over. The e.s.r. test traditionally uses about 5 milli-litres of venous blood and takes one hour to perform , during which time the red cell fraction (haematocrit ) separates from the clearer plamsa fraction and sediments slowly under the control of gravity and internal viscoelastic forces down a capillary
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 GLAIMS
1. Apparatus lor determining the physical and/ or chemical properties of a sample , comprising means for retaining the sample , means remote from the sample for applying at least one frequency to the sample , means for measuring magnitude of dielectric properties of the sample at each of said frequencies simultaneously , and means for correlating required physical and /or chemical property of the sample from a simultaneous comparison of the magnitude of said dielectric property at one of the measured frequencies with that at the other measured frequencies or with an alternative parameter proportional thereto.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are stable and non-varying.
3. Apparatus according to claim 1 , where said frequencies are applied through circumferential electrodes spaced in line.
4. Apparatus according to claim 1 , where said frequencies are received after passage through sample by circumferen ial electrodes.
5. Apparatus according to claim 1 , where said frequencies are aμpj ii.-cj t hrough inductors. 


b. Apparatus according to claim 1.- where said frequencies are applied by link coupled inductor(s) connected to an exciter via a voltage standing wave meter ( reflectometer ) .
1 . Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are applied through tapped inductors.
8. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are applied by a variable crystal oscillator (v.x.o.).
9. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are received at parallel resonance .
10. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are received as reflected power in a low impedance line, after reflection from link coupled inductor.
11. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are received as reflected power in a low impedance line, after reflection from a tap coupled inductor.
12 . Apparatus according to claim 1, where means for measuring magnitude of dielectric properties involves r.f voltage measurement and/or d.c voltage measurement after detection, said voitage arising irom receive electrodes and /or inductors. 


13.
"
 Apparatus according to claim 1 , where means for measurin magnitude of dielectric properties involves measurement of voltage levels at transmit electrodes.
14. Apparatus according to claim 1 and 8, where means for measuring magnitude of dielectric properties involves monitoring output frequency of said v.x.o.
15. Apparatus according to claim 1 and 8, where means for measuring magnitude of dielectric properties involves monitoring amplitude output of said v.x.o.
16. Apparatus according to claims 1, 6 and 10, where means for monitoring magnitude of dielectric properties involves measuring voltage standing wave ratio in feed line to link.
17. Apparatus according to claims 1, 7 and 11,' where means for monitoring magnitude of dielectric properties involves measuring voltage standing wave ratio in feed line to tap.
18. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said magnitude is mainly that of capacitive facet of dielectric property at each simultaneous measurement frequency.
19. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said magnitude is mainiv of. conductive facet of dielectric property at eacii simultaneous measurement irequency. 


20. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said magnitude of dielectric properties is dependent on both capacitive and conductive facets of sampie.
21. Apparatus according to claim I , wherein said means for correlating physical and/or chemical properties of sample from simultaneous magnitude of comparison of dielectric property at one measured frequency with that at other(s) is achieved by internal electronic circuit.
22. Apparatus according to claim 1, where correlation of said properties from said simultaneous comparison of magnitude of dielectric property at one measured frequency with alternative parameter proportional to said magnitude at other frequencies employs an electronic cicuit for manual entry of said alternative parameter.
23. Apparatus according to claim 1 and claim 22, as per claim 22 .except where said electronic circuit permits the automatic entry of said alternative parameter from an external source e.g. cell counter and/or haemoglobinometer,
Appparatus as in claim 1. operated in a differential mode. 


25. Method for determining the physical and /or chemical properties of a sample employing apparatus as in claim 1 , comprising the steps of; inserting /retaining the sample, applying at least one frequency, correlating chosen physical and/or chemical property of sample from simultaneous comparison of magnitude of desired dielectric property as at one of applied frequencies with that at other (simultaneous) measurement frequencies or with alternative parameter proportional thereto, then scaling and reading instantaneous output parameter which is correlate of required physical or chemical property.
26. Method according to claim 25 above, wherein the sample is blood.
27. Method according to claim 25, wherein the safple is any blood fraction and /or component.
2.8. Method according to claims 25 and 26, wherein the correlate parameter is any or all of the following: red cell count (r.b.c); mean cell volume ( .c.v.); haemoglobin cont.net (Hb) ; fibrinogen content or any or all of fibrinogen related parameters namely; e.s.r., p.v. , c-reactive protein and i.s.r.
29. Method according to claim 25, where the sample, is biofluid other than blood. 


0 . Method according to claim 25, where the sample is a liquid other than biofluid.
31. Method according to claim 25 and 26 but where the output is scaled in arbitary units of "general health status indication".
31. Method according to claim 25 where the sample is a composite comprising a liquid of constant physical chemical and dielectric property and an insulating tube /holder where thus said required correlate becomes a physical dimnsion of tube/holder.
32. Method according to claim 25 where the sample.,is a digit of the human body.
33. Method according to claim 25 where the sample is a limb of the human body. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 23 July 1993 (23.07.93); original claim 1 amended; claims 25-34 replaced by amended claims 29-38 new claims 2-5, and 39-45 added; claims 2-24 renumbered as claims 6-28 wherein claims 9,13,16,18,19 and 22-26 are amended (7 pages)]
1. Apparatus for determination of the physical and/ or chemical properties of a sample , comprising means for retaining the sample , and comprising a chosen measuring cell and comprising means of correlating said physical and/or chemical properties of sample from two or more parameters , where said two or more parameters comprise of magnitudes of dielectric properties of sample arising from simultaneous measurement at various measurement frequencies and /or an externally entered parameter whose magnitude is proportional to the sample dielectric property(ies) at alternative measurement frequency (ies).
2. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the said determination is instant.
3. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the said determination is contactlesε, i:e without direct electrical contact to the sample.
4. Apparatus as in claim 1 , here the said various frequencies are in the range above 10 KHz and below 1000 MHz.
5. Apparatus as in claim 1 where the said correlation occurs simultaneously with frequency application and dielectric property measurement. 


6. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are stable and non-varying.
7. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are applied through circumferential electrodes spaced in line.
8. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said simultaneous frequencies are received after passage through sample by circumferential electrodes.
9. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said simultaneous frequencies are applied through multiple inductors.
10. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are applied by link coupled inductor(s) connected to an exciter via a voltage standing wave meter (reflectometer).
11. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are applied through tapped inductors.
12. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are applied by variable crystal oscillator (v.x.o.).
13. Apparatus according to claim 1 , where said frequencies are received at parallel resonance . 


14. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are received as reflected power in a low impedance line, after reflection from link coupled inductor.
15. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said frequencies are received as reflected power in a low impedance line, after reflection from a tap coupled inductor.
16 . Apparatus according to claim 1, where means for measuring magnitude of dielectric properties at each simultaneous frequency involves simultaneous r.f. voltage measurement and/or d.c voltage measurement after detection, said voltage arising from receive electrodes and /or inductors, after frequency selective (filtered) recovery.
17. Apparatus according to claim 1, where means for measuring magnitude of dielectric properties involves measurement of voltage levels at transmit electrodes.
18. Apparatus according to claim 1 , where means for measuring magnitude of dielectric properties involves monitoring output frequency of said v.x.o.
19. Apparatus according to claim 1 , where means for measuring magnitude of dielectric properties involves monitoring amplitude output of said v.x.o. 


20. Apparatus according to claims 1, 10 and 14, where means for monitoring magnitude of dielectric properties involves measuring voltage standing wave ratio in feed line to link.
21. Apparatus according to claims 1, 11 and 15, where means for monitoring magnitude of dielectric properties involves measuring voltage standing wave ratio in feed line to tap.
22. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said magnitudes of said dielectric properties ares mainly those of the capacitive facet of the dielectric property as at each simultaneous measurement frequency.
23. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said magnitudes of said dielectric properties are mainly those of the conductive facet of the dielectric property as at each simultaneous measurement frequency.
24. Apparatus according to claim 1, where said magnitudes of said dielectric properties are dependent on both capacitive and conductive facets of sample.
25. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for correlating physical and/or chemical properties of sample from said magnitude of comparison of dielectric property at one of simultaneous frequencies with that at other(s) is achieved by internal electronic 


26. Apparatus according to claim 1, where correlation of said physical and/or chemical sample properties from said simultaneous comparison of magnitude of dielectric property at one measured frequency with alternative external entry parameter employs an electronic cicuit for manual entry of said alternative parameter.
27. Apparatus according to claim 1 and claim 26, as per claim 26 ,except where said electronic circuit permits the automatic entry of said alternative parameter from an external source e.g. cell counter and/or haemoglobinometer
28. Appparatus as in claim 1, operated in a differential mode.
29. Apparatus according to claim 1 where the said preferably two or more frequencies may be close to or within the sample dielectric Beta dispersion frequency band.
30. Apparatus according to claim 1 above, capable of use with blood.
31. Apparatus according to claim 1 , capable of use with any blood fraction and /or component. 


32. Apparatus according to claims 1- and 30, wherein the correlate parameter is any or all of the following: red cell count (r.b.c); mean cell volume (m.c.v.); haemoglobin content (Hb) ; fibrinogen content or any or all of fibrinogen related parameters namely; p.v , c-reactive protein and i.s.r. (instantly predicted erythrocyte sedimentation rate).
33. Apparatus according to claim 1 capable of use with biofluid other than blood.
34. Apparatus according to claim 1 capable of use with liquid other than biofluid.
35. Apparatus according to claims 1 and 30 but where the output is scaled in arbitary units of "general health status indication".
36. Apparatus according to claim 1 capable of using a sample composite comprising a liquid of constant physical , chemical and dielectric property and an insulating tube /holder where thus the said correlate becomes a physical dimension of the tube and /or holder.
37. Apparatus according to claim 1 where the sample is a digit of the human body.
38. Appartus according to claim 1 where the sample is a limb of the human body. 


39. Apparatus as in claim 1 ,but where the frequencies are applied as fast frequency steps or sweeps rather than simultaneously and thus wherein said correlation output will suffer a slight time delay and hence be described as psuedo instantaneous.
40. Apparatus as in claim 1 ,but where the said frequencies are all applied through a single electrode.
41. Apparatus as in claim 1 , but where the said frequencies are all applied through a single inductor.
42. Apparatus as in claim 1 capable of use with a sample where protein concentration is assessed by its effects on the position and magnitude of the high frequency tail of the beta dispersion.
43. Apparatus as in claim 1 where digital and analogue methods are employed.
44. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein phase sensitive detection is employed.
45. Apparatus as in claim 1 but wherein the said chosen measuring cell is fabricated as a probe. 


 STATEME T UNDER ARTICLE 19
Various claims have been amended , extra claims 2-5 and 39 - 45 have been added. Most importantly, changes have been made to claim 1 which it is felt, together with the new claims 2-5 , ought now to distinguish this present invention more fully from those of the prior art. The changes and amendments do not draw upon anything which is not in concept contained in the full present description. In the new claim 2, the " instant" nature of the determination is highlighted as is , the "contactleεε nature",in new claim 3, i:e, use of this invention without direct electrical contact to the sample has been emphasised, to distinguish it from those citations of the International Search Report where contact is made to a sample where that sample is respectively blood and a human finger and the respective citations concerned are : FR, A, 2 201 762 and Proceeding of the Annual Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, vol . 10 , November 1988, New Orleans , PP 761-762. Importantly, claim 1 has been amended to show that this invention has an integral measuring cell as part of the apparatus thus to distinguish it from cited apparatus which does not use measuring cells and unlike the current invention , have antennas for remote investigation of biological targets such as : US,A, 4 135 131 and US, ,A, 3 483 860 as have also been cited in the International Search report. Furthermore in the amended claim 1 the technical aspects of this present invention have been clarified with regard to the number of applied frequencies and input /output parameters required for the correlation of sample properties to show by implication from lines 5-13 of the new claim 1 that the invention may correlate the sample properties from dielectric properties 


 dependent on the application of multiple measurement frequencies two or more in number , see also page 8 , line 16 of the original description and/or by the use of a single frequency or one or more frequencies together with the use of the said externally entered parameter , see page 8 lines 18-22 , page 10, lines 18 -25 and figure 9. It was assumed that the original wording of claim 1 carried the same meaning , i:e that this was a condensed way of making the same statement but obviously it was phrased in such a way that the Search unearthed several single frequency resonance Q techniques namely: GB, A, 2 130 728; GB ,A, 595 720 ; GB, A, 2 248 301; FR, A, 2 378 282 and EP , A, 0 157 496 which do not of course have the added advantage of the said externally entered parameter and thus it is hoped these differences, now clarified , establish sufficent difference to the prior art. Finally the working frequency range of the present invention has been included in the alternative claim 4, see also pages 10,13,17 and 21 of the existing description, to more fully distinguish this invention from those of the International Search Report which employ different frequencies and different hardware for the application of those frequencies than those of the present invention e:g, those cited which emplo microwaves in the range 1-100 GHz applied either by cavities, antennas or waveguides as single or swept frequencies , those citations are namely: US, A, 4 135 131; US , A,3 483 860; GB, A, 1 084 860; DE, A, 3 722 213 ; DE, A, 3 637 549 and US,A, 4 257 001, and to distinguish it from the one which uses substantially lower frequencies to make a time dependent assessment (as opposed to instant as in this present invention) of erythrocyte sedimentation rate, namely W0 , A, 


Further minor amendments have been made to various other of the claims only drawing on material from the body of the description and not significantly altering the understanding therein. All reference to a method has been removed from original claims 25-34 , now replaced by amended claims numbered 29-38. Additional claims 39-45 have been added. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
