<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650420</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO GOODS STORAGE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60P100	B60P102	B60P100	B65G6702	B65D9000	B60P102	B65G6704	B65D9000	B60P300	B65G6702	B60P304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60P	B60P	B60P	B65G	B65D	B60P	B65G	B65D	B60P	B65G	B60P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60P1	B60P1	B60P1	B65G67	B65D90	B60P1	B65G67	B65D90	B60P3	B65G67	B60P3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to the provision of movable floors in a storage area and to the solution of the problem with conventional floors wherein the capacity of said storage areas are not utilised due to inaccessible areas or the machinery required to provide existing movable floors. The invention is of particular use in trailers or trucks for road or rail movement. The invention provides at least one frame (54) which forms a goods lifting and storage base, said frame supported by a series of first guide (10) means and, in one aspect said first means are mounted on a series of second guide means (56). At least one frame provided is capable of movement in relation to at least one of the guide means provided to ensure that goods can be moved into previously inaccessible areas. The formation of the guide means also ensures that minimum space is lost due to the provision of the movable frames.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADAMS MARK WILLIAM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADAMS, MARK WILLIAM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS WILLIAM MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS, WILLIAM MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention of this application relates to improvements in
the loading and unloading of goods in a goods storage area
in transit.
Typically the invention will be
used in trailers or trucks for the transport of goods.
The invention leads to improvements in the
storage capacity of said storage areas. The invention
provides a system for an adjustable floor or series of
floors which will be movable in relation to the storage area.Typically vehicle trailers or trucks, whether they be road or
rail trailers or trucks are used to carry articles which,
when carried, do not fill the trailer or do not properly fit
into the trailer. Alternatively, trailers and trucks are
built to a cubic capacity which enables safe loading but
which falls short of the designed carrying capacity of the
vehicle. This is due typically to difficulties encountered in
the loading of said goods into the trailer or truck and
stacking said goods when they are in the trailer itself. When
attempting to stack goods problems are encountered in safely
stacking the goods and also preventing damage to said goods.
It is therefore commonly the case that conventional vehicle
trailers or trucks, although carrying the maximum possible
load, have unused space left therein due to the inability to
stack the goods in that space whether due to safety or size
restraints. This is a problem which has been attempted to be
solved by the use of scissor lifts let into the floor of the
lower deck. A further problem is encountered in those
trailers or trucks which incorporate a step at the front of
the trailer to utilise the space available above the vehicle
and trailer coupling. The main problem involves lifting the
goods onto this stepped area and it is found that this area 
is on occasion not used due to these difficulties.Furthermore it is evident that current lifting and goods
moving requirements lead to the human loaders undertaking
tasks which are in contravention of increasingly stringent
Health & Safety requirements. At present up to 17 million
working days are lost through back injury caused by bad
lifting techniques, and companies which operate goods storage
and transporting facilities are increasingly accountable for
non-compliance of the correct loading practice.As a result of these problems several solutions have been
used to date. The first is to provide a second deck inside
the trailer or truck which provides in effect two loading
floors. This has been found to be effective in relation to
the transport of white goods such as washing machines, but
pr
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transportable storage system in a storage area defined by a

floor, ceiling, side walls and at least one end wall, said system
comprising at least one goods supporting base (54) and two sets of

guide means (10;12;14;16;56) therefore, said sets of guide means
(10;12;14;16;56) positioned at or adjacent to said side walls of the

storage area, and arranged to allow movement of the at least one
base in vertical and horizontal directions within the storage area and

characterised in that the at least one goods supporting base (54) is
moved in a vertical or horizontal direction along a first set of guide

means (10;12;14;16) and the goods supporting base (54) and first set
of guide means (10;12;14;16) are arranged to move along the second

set of guide means (56) in the other of the vertical or horizontal
directions.
A transportable storage system according to claim 1 characterised
in that the first set of guide means and/or base are provided for

movement along a second set of guide means (56) arranged to lie
perpendicular to the first set of guide means.
A transportable storage system according to claim 2 characterised
in that the second set of guide means (56) are mounted on a

substantially horizontal plane and the first set of guide means are
mounted in a substantially vertical plane.
A transportable storage system according to claim 1 characterised
in that at least one base is capable of movement within the goods 

storage area in vertical and horizontal planes along first and second
sets of guide means.
A transportable storage system according to claim 1 characterised
in that each of said guide means is provided on and/or adjacent to

a side wall of the storage area to allow substantially all of the floor
space of the storage area to be available to store goods thereon.
A transportable storage system according to claim 1 characterised
in that the base (54) is mounted on the first set of guide means, said

guide means provided with banks of rollers (68) or skates thereon
and said rollers or skates are arranged to engage and pass along the

second set of guide means.
A transportable storage system according to claim 6 characterised
in that the second set of guide means are mounted on the floor of

the goods storage area.
A transportable storage system according to claim 1 characterised
in that at least one of the guide means (10; 12; 14; 16) includes a

drive means locator for engaging drivable means provided on the
base.
A transportable storage system according to claim 8 characterised
in that at least one of the said guide means (10; 12; 14; 16) includes

a hydraulically powered ram mounted within the same. 
A transportable storage system according to claim 8
characterised in that the drive means locator is in the form of a

length of cable or wire.
A transportable storage system according to claim 8
characterised in that the drive means locator is in the form of a rack

member (34).
A transportable storage system according to claim 11
characterised in that the rack member is a shaped length of plastics

or metal material and includes a plurality of spaced indents along
the length thereof.
A transportable storage system according to claim 11
characterised in that the rack member is a length of chain mounted

along the length of the guide means (10; 12; 14; 16).
A transportable storage system according to claim 11
characterised in that the rack member (34) acts in conjunction with

the drivable means (30) including pawls (38) provided on the base
(54) said pawls acting, when driven as means for driving the base

(54) along the rack member (34) and, when not driven, as means for
locating the base (54) at a particular position on the said rack

member (34).
A transportable storage system according to claim 14
characterised in that the pawls (38) act as a safety lock when not 

powered to prevent movement of the base (54) when the pawl is not
powered.
A transportable storage system according to any preceding claim
characterised in that the drivable means are connected to the drive

means provided on the base via a central drive shaft into which is
linked a series of link shafts, each of said link shafts connected for

rotatable movement and connected with the drive means locators on
the guide means.
A transportable storage system according to any of the
preceding claims characterised in that the movement of the base

and/or first set of guide means along the said second set of guide
means is manually controlled.
A transportable storage system according to claim 17
characterised in that a locking system is provided to allow the

manual locking of the base and/or first set of guide means in
position on the said second set of guide means said system including

locking members which locate in the second set of guide means to
prevent movement therealong.
A transportable storage system according to any of the
preceding claims characterised in that the first set of guide means

comprises four guide means, two provided at spaced intervals along
and adjacent to each side wall of the storage area to provide

improved stability for the base mounted thereon.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
