<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627121</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CHARGED PARTICLE GENERATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J3706	H02H902	H05H500	G21K504	H02H902	H01J3724	G21K504	H01J3706	H01J3702	H01J37248	H05H500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H02H	H05H	G21K	H02H	H01J	G21K	H01J	H01J	H01J	H05H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J37	H02H9	H05H5	G21K5	H02H9	H01J37	G21K5	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H05H5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for generating a stream of charged particles, for example for use in an electron beam welding device. The apparatus includes a charged particle source (5) such as a filament and a target (6). The charged particle source (5) is connected in series with a resonant electrical circuit and the target is connected in parallel with the circuit. The source and target (5, 6) are relatively juxtaposed such that under working conditions, when the circuit is in resonance, electric current passing through the source (5) causes emission of first charged particles and the potential difference between the source (5) and the target (6) accelerates the first charged particles towards the target.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WELDING INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE WELDING INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDERSON ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDERSON, ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to apparatus for generating a
stream of charged particles for use, for example, for
heating in generating a stream of electrons in electron
beam welding apparatus or streams of ions for use in other
applications.In electron beam welding, an electron gun produces
from a heated cathode a stream of electrons which is
accelerated and focused onto a workpiece. Electron beam
welding is extremely advantageous where deep penetration
and a narrow heat-affected zone are required but a suitable
electron beam generator requires a very high accelerating
voltage, typically 150 kV is used. In US-A-4020318 we
describe an electron beam generating system in which the
auxiliary supply for at least one electrode of the electron
gun (for example the filament or biassing electrode) is
provided by a high frequency oscillator connected to a
transformer or other coupling means, the output of which is
applied at the electron beam gun column to a component
which is itself connected to the received output of the
high voltage generator. The advantage of this arrangement
is that it dispenses with the superimposition of the
auxiliary supply on the HT voltage at a remote high voltage
generator and with the corresponding auxiliary supply
conductor in the conventional high voltage cable between
the high voltage generator and the electron beam gun
column. This system has worked well for filament and bias
supplies for a simple triode gun but the control of the
system for an indirectly heated or "back-bombardment" type
of gun is complex.In a back-bombardment system, the filament generates
a stream of electrons which are accelerated onto a target
(cathode) which is thereby heated and energised to generate
its own stream of electrons which is then accelerated
through an anode onto the workpiece. In order to control
the system, it is first necessary to set up the back-bombardment 
system. This involves causing current to flow
through the filament and then to monitor the electron flow
to the target (which is held at a positive voltage of the
order of 1 kV relative to the filament) until the correct
operating filament emission current is reached. The
procedure is known as "peaking" the filament. Thereafter,
the main beam current from the target cathode to the
workpiece must be optimised by adjusting the back
bombardment accelerating voltage onto the target. Not only
must this process be carried out at start-up, but also
during use since the filament itself will gradually thin
necessitating adjustment of the filament
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for generating a stream of charged
particles, the apparatus comprising a charged particle

source and a target connected respectively in series with
and parallel to a series resonant electrical circuit and

relatively juxtaposed such that under working conditions,
when the circuit is in resonance, electric current passing

through the source causes emission of first charged
particles and the potential difference between the source

and the target accelerates the first charged particles
towards the target.
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the resonant
circuit includes a single capacitance and a single

inductor.
Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the inductor
comprises a single turn.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the resonant circuit resonates at a radio

frequency.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the target generates second charged particles in

response to bombardment by the first charged particles.
Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the second
charged particles comprise electrons.
Apparatus for generating a stream of charged
particles, the apparatus comprising first and second

resonant circuits, each formed by a set of reactive
elements, a source of first charged particles connected in

series with the first resonant circuit and a target
connected in parallel with the second resonance circuit,

wherein the first and second resonant circuits have a
reactive element in common, and wherein the source and

target are relatively juxtaposed such that under working
conditions, when the circuits are in resonance, electric

current passing through the source causes emission of first
charged particles and the potential difference between the 

source and the target accelerates the first charged
particles towards the target.
Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the reactive
element of the two circuits which is formed in common

comprises an inductance.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the source comprises a filament.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the or each resonant circuit is powered remotely

via a transformer.
Apparatus according to claim 10, when dependent on
claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the resonant circuits are

powered via a single turn coil inductively coupled with the
inductive elements of the resonant circuits.
Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein each
inductive element comprises a single turn in the form of a

spiral or annulus.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the target comprises a source of further charged

particles.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the target includes a hole facing towards the

source.
Apparatus for generating a stream of charged
particles, the apparatus comprising a charged particle

source and a target connected in respective electrical
circuits, each circuit including a respective secondary

coil or antenna of a common transformer having a primary
coil or antenna loosely coupled to each secondary coil or

antenna, the source and target being relatively juxtaposed
such that under working conditions, electric current

induced in the circuit including the charged particle
source causes the source to emit first charged particles

and the potential difference between the source and the
target accelerates the first charged particles towards the

target. 
Apparatus according to at least claim 7 or claim 15,
wherein the pair of circuits are energised from a common

source.
A particle accelerating device including apparatus
according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the

target electrode comprises a source of charged particles,
the device further including means for accelerating the

particles.
A device according to claim 17, wherein the device
comprises an electron beam generator.
A light source comprising a device according to any of
the preceding claims.
Electron beam welding apparatus including apparatus
according to claim 18.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the target is composed of more than one material.
Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein one material
of the target faces the source and is of a relatively

higher work function and lower emission characteristics such
as tantalum, while the other material is of lower work

function and higher emission characteristics such as
lanthanum hexaboride.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
