<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630341</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEANS FOR PROTECTING CONDUCTING EQUIPMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D6502	B65D6508	H02G304	H02G304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	H02G	H02G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D65	B65D65	H02G3	H02G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A protective sleeve assembly (10) for use in protecting conducting equipment such as cables, wiring and tubing is disclosed as comprising a longitudinal body portion (12) which includes an inner surface (16) and an outer surface (14), a male locking member (18) extending from one longitudinal edge of the longitudinal body portion and a female locking member (32) extending from a second longitudinal edge of the longitudinal body portion. The protective sleeve is selectively closeable by connecting the male and female locking members (18) and (32) respectively. An elastomeric sealing material (52) can be provided between the male and female locking members to assist in providing a fluid resistant seal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARTHOLOMEW DONALD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARTHOLOMEW, DONALD,D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MEANS FOR PROTECTING CONDUCTING EQUIPMENT BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe invention relates to a protective sleeve for enclosing lengths of electrical andE & M conducting devices, such as cables, wiring, and tubing, and more particularly, to a one piece plastic sleeve having male and female locking members located along first and second longitudinal edges which allow the plastic sleeve to be closed by inserting the male member within the female member.2. Description of Related ArtMany protective .tubular enclosures having longitudinal points of attachment are known. Generally, the tubular enclosures are sheets of material wrapped around elongated objects such as wiring, cables, or other forms of tubing which are closed along the longitudinal edges to provide a sealed environment for the object or objects contained therein. For example, United States Patent Nos. 1,895,133 to Quamstrom; 2,067,665 to Holt; 3,625,259 to Kennedy; 4,513,787 to Hegler; and 4,944,976 to Plumer all disclose various designs of tubular enclosures, however, each of the above-mentioned patents fall short of the advantages offered by the present invention.The tubular enclosures presently available do not include separate sealing means for preventing the introduction of undesirable elements such as soil or water into the protective sleeve over an extended period of time. Further, the sealing means of the present invention can be attached to the protective sleeve after the object or objects to be contained have been inserted into the protective sleeve.The invention provides a protective sleeve having increased tubular strength for spooling the sleeve onto a reel to facilitate transportation of the sleeve. The sleeve is extruded in the form of a closed conduit and has an outwardly projecting female locking member. The sleeve is slit longitudinally to allow for the insertion of object or objects and once the object or objects have been inserted, the edge of the sleeve distal to the female locking member is inserted into the gap provided by the female locking member- The distal edge and the female locking member are then sealed together.Accordingly, it is the primary object of the present invention to provide a protective sleeve which incorporates sealing means which preclude the introduction of undesired elements such as soil and water. 

 It is another object of the present invention to provide a protective sleeve which allows for the introduction of sealing means after the object or objects to be contained have
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1- An apparatus for protecting conducting equipment such as cables, wiring and tubing, comprising: a selectively closeable sleeve formed from a single piece of plastic having a longitudinal body portion which includes an inner surface, an outer surface, a male locking member and a mating female locking member; said male locking member extending from said body portion at a first longitudinal edge wherein said male locking member has a reduced width along said inner surface providing a step, said male locking member having an outwardly projecting longitudinal flange located a first end thereof which includes a blocking wall disposed relatively perpendicular to said second diameter portion, and a mating wall adjoining said blocking wall disposed substantially parallel to said outer surface of said body portion at a first end and tapering downward at a second end; said female locking member having a substantially U-shaped cross-section comprising a first leg extending from said body portion wherein the inner surface of said first leg is contiguous with the inner surface of said body portion and a second L-shaped flexible leg projecting upwardly from said body portion, said second leg having an inwardly projecting flange located at a first end which is provided with a first surfaced design to contiguously abut said blocking wall during engagement by said male locking member; and gap means provided within said U-shaped cross-section of said female locking member when said male locking member is engaged within said female locking member; whereby said male and female locking members are connected to provide a closed sleeve.
2. The apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said male and female locking members are plastic welded together.
3. The apparatus as claimed in Claim 1. wherein said gap means is provided with sealing means.
4. The apparatus as claimed in Claim 3, wherein said sealing means comprises an elastomeric material which is deformable to substantially fill said gap means when said male lockin∑r member is connected within said female locking member. 


 5. The apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said male and female members are joined as continuous material and separated at a later time.
6. The apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the first end of said second leg is chamfered.
7. The apparatus as claimed in Claim 5, wherein said male and female locking members are plastic welded together. 

8. An apparatus for protecting conducting equipment such as cables, wiring and tubing, which comprises: a selectively closeable sleeve formed from a single piece of plastic having a longitudinal body portion, a male locking member, a mating female locking member and an intermediate severable web portion selectively connecting the male and female locking members; said male locking member extending from said body portion at a first longitudinal edge wherein said male locking member has a reduced width along said inner surface providing a step, said male locking member having an outwardly projecting longitudinal flange located a first end thereof which includes a blocking wall disposed relatively perpendicular to said second diameter portion, and a mating wall adjoining said blocking wall disposed substantially parallel to said outer surface of said body portion at a first end and tapering downward at a second end; said female locking member having a substantially U-shaped cross-section comprising a first leg extending from said body portion wherein the inner surface of said first leg is contiguous with the inner surface of said body portion and a second L-shaped flexible leg projecting upwardly from said body portion, said second leg having an inwardly projecting flange located at a first end which is provided with a first surfaced design to contiguously abut said blocking wall during engagement by said male locking member; and gap means provided within said U-shaped cross-section of said female locking member when said male locking member is engaged within said female locking member; whereby said web portion may be severed to permit insertion of the conducting equipment and thereafter said male and female locking members may be connected to provide a closed sleeve around said equipment. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
