<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617390</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fire receiver
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B1700	G08B1700	G08B2514	G08B2514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B17	G08B17	G08B25	G08B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fire receiver including: an operation selection 
switch for selecting a desired operation from a plurality of 

operations that can be executed; an address selection switch for 
selecting a desired address from different addresses 

respectively given to a plurality of fire detectors and lines; 
an address changing device for continuously changing the address 

to be selected in accordance with the operation of the address 
selection switch; an address display device for displaying the 

address to be instructed which has been changed by the address 
changing device; and a command device for commanding a fire 

detector or a line corresponding to the address displayed by the 
address display device to perform the operation selected by the 

operation selection switch. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOHMI BOSAI LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOHMI BOSAI LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI KEIICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI, KEIICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a fire receiver that
receives fire information from a fire detector to display a fire
area and the like and to control devices, such as fire-block and
smoke exhausting devices and fire extinguishing devices and the
like, which are the subjects to be controlled, in accordance
with fire information, according to the preamble of claim 1.
Such a fire receiver is disclosed in US-A-5 189 394, for example.When a fire test is manually performed to examine a
fire detector or a line of a conventional fire receiver, the
address of the fire detector or the line, which is the subject
of the fire test, is supplied by using a ten key and an
execution key is depressed after the address has been supplied
to start executing the fire test.That is, "1" is inputted by using a ten key to select
"Test" shown on a menu screen of a display unit 1a
as shown in Fig. 14A, and then an execution key is depressed.
Then, "2" is inputted by using the ten key to select "Manual
Fire Test" displayed on a test screen shown in Fig. 14B, and the
execution key is depressed. Then, the address of the line
intended to be tested is inputted through the screen of the
manual fire test shown in Fig. 14C, and the execution key is
depressed.Since the thus-constituted conventional example is
arranged in such a manner that the address of the line is
inputted by using the ten key, the key operation must be 
performed by the times which are the same as the number of
digits of the address, the keys to be depressed being usually
different from one another: The operator must perform the key
operation while looking the ten key whenever the operator inputs
one of the digits of the address. Therefore, a problem is
raised in that the key operation is too complicated, and another
problem is raised in that a too long time takes to set the
address. If an erroneous address is inputted, the address input
operation must be again performed. What is worse, there arises
another problem in that the re-input operation to be performed
after the error has been made in the address inputting operation
is too complicated. Although the foregoing conventional example
is adapted to a case where the fire test is performed for each
line, similar problems rise if the fire test is performed for
each fire detector.In the display unit 1a, "5. Guide List" is displayed
on the lowermost line of the menu screen shown in Fig. 14A.
When "5" corresponding to the guide list is inputted by using
the ten key, a guide list screen shown in Fig. 14D is displayed,
the guide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fire receiver (R) connected to a plurality of fire detectors and/or control devices
having different addresses through lines in a fire alarm system, comprising a CPU (2) and

display means (1), connected to said CPU (2), for displaying the operation of the fire alarm
system, characterised by:


operation selection switch means (20), connected to said CPU (2), for selecting a
desired operation from a plurality of operations that can be executed,
address selection switch means (21, 22) for selecting a desired address from different
addresses respectively given to the plurality of fire detectors and/or control devices.
address changing means (2) for continuously changing the address to be selected in
accordance with the operation of said address selection switch means,
address display means provided in said display means (10) for displaying the address to
be instructed which has been changed by said address changing means, and
command means for commanding a fire detector and/or control device through a line
corresponding to the address displayed by said address display means (10) to perform the

operation selected by said operation selection switch means (20).
A fire receiver according to claim 1, characterised in that said address changing means
(2) is arranged to stop the continuous change of the address for a first predetermined time

regardless of the operation of said address selection switch means (21, 22) if a predetermined
address has been displayed by said address display means (10).
A fire receiver according to claim 2, characterised in that said address changing means
(2) is arranged to stop the continuous change of the address for a second predetermined time

regardless of the operation of said address selection switch means (21, 22) if said address
changing means (2) starts performing an address changing operation, the second predetermined

time being shorter than the first predetermined time.
A fire receiver according to one of claims 1 to 3, characterised in that said address
display means (10) is arranged to also display a term for specifying a fire detector and/or a

control device or a line corresponding to the address to be displayed. 
A fire receiver according to one of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that said address
selection switch means (21, 22) comprises an upward scroll key (21) and a downward scroll

key (22).
A fire receiver according to one of claims 1 to 5, characterised in that

a transmitting/receiving circuit (5), connected to said CPU (2), is arranged to transmit/
receive signals to and from said fire detectors and/or control devices in said fire alarm system,
said display means (1), connected to said CPU (2) includes:
an operation display portion (11) for displaying the state of the operation performed by
said fire alarm system,
a menu display portion (12) for displaying a plurality of menus of the contents of
operations, and
an operation description display portion (13) for displaying the description of a switch
operation about the contents of the operation of a menu of said plurality of menus of the

contents of the operations displayed in said menu display portion (12) that has been selected by
said operation switch means (20).
A fire receiver according to claim 6, characterised in that the operation description
display portion (13) is arranged to display information denoting a subject fire detector and/or

control device, at least one operation of which is set from among stop of local alarm, interlock
stopping, retransmission stopping, start of fire-block and smoke exhausting.
A fire receiver according to claim 6 or 7, characterised in that the operation description
display portion (13) is arranged to display information denoting the fire detectors and/or

control devices disposed in front and in the rear of said displayed fire detector and/or control
device, said information being displayed on the two sides of the information of said displayed

fire detector and/or control device.
A fire receiver according to claim 7 or 8, characterised in that said operation
description display portion (13) is arranged to display said subject fire detector and/or control

device by means of terms. 
A fire receiver according to one of claims 1 to 9, characterised in that said CPU (2) is
arranged to cause said display means (1) to display a predetermined content at a low brightness

if said fire alarm system is supervising a fire, and to cause said display means (1) to display a
predetermined content at a high brightness if fire information is supplied from said fire

detectors and/or control devices.
A fire receiver according to one of claims 1 to 10, characterised in that said display
means (1) includes a liquid crystal panel (31).
A fire receiver according to claim 11, characterised in that said display means (1)
includes a back-light (32) for irradiating said liquid crystal panel (31).
A fire receiver according to claim 12, characterised in that said CPU (2) is arranged to
lower the brightness of display performed by said liquid crystal panel (31) by lighting off said

back-light (32), and to raise the brightness of display performed by said liquid crystal panel
(31) by lighting on said back-light (32).
A fire receiver according to claim 13, characterised in that said CPU (2) is arranged to
flash on and off said back-light (32) when said CPU (2) has received fire information from said

fire detectors and/or control devices in said fire alarm system, and continuously to light on said
back-light (32) when said operation switch means (20) has been operated in a predetermined

manner.
A fire receiver according to one of claims 1 to 10, characterised in that said display
means (1) includes a cathode ray tube (CRT).
A fire receiver according to claim 15, characterised in that said CPU (2) is arranged to
lower the brightness of said cathode ray tube (CRT) when said CPU (2) has received fire

information from said fire detectors and/or control devices in said fire alarm system, and to
cause said cathode ray tube (CRT) to perform a display when said operation switch means (20)

has been operated in a predetermined manner.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
