<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658090</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STERILIZABLE ENDOSCOPE WITH SEPARABLE DISPOSABLE TUBE ASSEMBLY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1012	A61B104	A61B104	A61B1015	A61B105	A61B100	A61B100	A61B112	A01B4300	A01B4300	A61B1012	A61B112	A61B1018	A61B105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A01B	A01B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A01B43	A01B43	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An endoscope (E, E', E'') has a sterilizable, reusable, elongated, optical capsule section (C, C') and a separable, disposable, sterile channel section (S). The capsule (C, C') has a window at a distal end in front of an image sensor (14). Image transmitting electronic cables (16), connected to the image sensor (14), extend proximally from the capsule (C, C'). Light transmitting fibers (20) extend from the window proximally for transmitting light to a site under investigation from a remote light source. The channel section (S) is removably attached in a fixed position to the capsule (C) and has plurality of longitudinal channels (24, 26) for transmitting fluids or for receiving an operative instrument. A flexible tube is connected to the proximal end of each channel for supplying fluid or for manipulating the operative instrument from a remote location. The separable section (S) is disposable after use. An umbilicated balloon catheter (130) or a telescopic catheter (160) can be used to position the tethered endoscope (E) in a passageway. Circumferentially spaced fluid vents (176) can supply jets of gas or liquid selectively to position the endoscope (E). Alternatively, a magnet (184) can be used for manipulating a cpasule (C) with a ferrous housing along a passageway by use of a strong magnet (184) located exteriorally thereof.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADAIR EDWIN LLOYD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADAIR, EDWIN L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAIR EDWIN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAIR, EDWIN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a sterilizable and/or
"fluid immersable" endoscope and particularly to a
tethered endoscope with a separable disposable tube
assembly which can be replaced after each use and
resterilization of the endoscope.In recent years the popularity of endoscopic
surgery has proliferated. This has occurred because
of the advances in technology which allow smaller and
smaller endoscopes to be used, thereby permitting
operative procedures to be undertaken in a less
invasive manner for the patient than was previously
possible. Thus, the patient suffers less trauma and
recuperates much more rapidly and experiences less
pain and discomfort than with more conventional
surgical procedures.Because of the sophisticated optics and electrooptics
contained in modern endoscopes, they generally
are very expensive. In order for this expense to be
justified, they must be reused with a large number of
patients.Of course, multiple use means that the endoscope
must be sterilized or at least disinfected after use
with each patient prior to use with the next patient.
One protocol for sterilization involves immersing the
endoscope in a disinfectant solution for a
predetermined period of time. It is also important to
flush the channels which carry gases or fluids and
those channels which are used for receiving operative
instruments. Another protocol is to heat sterilize 
the endoscope by placing it in an autoclave. However, the
optics and electronics of many endoscopes will not permit them
to be subjected to heat sterilization. When using the
disinfectant, sometimes the endoscope is not placed in the
disinfecting solution for a sufficient length of time nor are
the channels flushed out completely, because of the urgency to
get the endoscope back into service as soon as possible. Over
time, the disinfectant solution may lose some of its strength,
thereby limiting its effectiveness.Because of these shortcomings, many studies have shown
that transmission of infectious diseases from one patient to
another has occurred in many instances. By way of example,
transmission of salmonella typhi has been reported. In
addition, pseudomonas aeruginosa has been linked to endoscopy.
Also, an outbreak of serratia marcescens has been associated
with the use of a bronchoscope. Furthermore, hepatitis B has
been transmitted by endoscopes when the endoscopes were
processed in an inappropriate manner between patients.
Finally, with respect to endoscope used on AID's patients it
has been found that the sterilizing procedures have not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An endoscope comprising:

a first segment including an elongated capsule (C)
having distal and proximal ends, a first curved exterior

surface (39), a transparent window (10,196) located at said
distal end, an image sensor (14) mounted adjacent said window

(10) and within said first segment and an image transmitting
cable (16) connectable to said image sensor (14) and extending

proximally from said first segment for transmitting an image
from said image sensor (14) to a video control unit (97), and

then to an image display device (98),
a second segment releasably attachable to said first
segment and having a second curved exterior surface, and
at least one longitudinal channel(24,26,28) for
transmitting fluids or for receiving an operative instrument,

characterized in that said second segment comprises a
separable disposable channel section (S) having said at least

one longitudinal channel (24,26,28), said first segment has a
first substantially planar mating surface (34) located

opposite said first curved exterior surface (39), said second
segment has a second substantially planar mating surface (32)

located opposite said second curved exterior surface, said
second substantially planar mating surface (32) being

releasably attachable to said first substantially planar
mating surface (34) of said capsule (C) whereby said first and

second segments, when attached, form an endoscope having a
substantially contiguous smooth curved exterior surface

(39,41) such that after use on a patient, said second segment
is disposable while said first segment is sterilizable for re-use

with a new second segment on another patient.
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, further including
a flexible tube (46) having a proximal end connected to said

at least one longitudinal channel (28) for supplying fluid or
for manipulating the operative instrument from a remote

location, said flexible tube (46) being positionable adjacent
and outside said exterior surfaces of said first and second

segments.
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, further including
a common conduit (18) connected to and extending proximally

away from said capsule (C) and housing said image transmitting
cable (16) and said at least one light transmitting fiber(20).
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, wherein one of said
first and second substantially planar mating surfaces (34)

includes a longitudinal keyway (38) having a recessed portion
and the other of said first and second substantially planar

mating surfaces (32) includes a longitudinal key (36) which is
engageable with the longitudinal keyway (38) for releasably

attaching the channel section (S) to the capsule (C).
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, wherein said
capsule (C) is an end-viewing device.
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second
segment is shaped so that said first segment and said second

segment, when attached, have a common radius as defined from
a central axis extending through the geometric centre of the

endoscope. 
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, further including
an umbilicated balloon catheter (130) having a tubular wall

with an inflatable balloon (140) adjacent a distal end
thereof, and


at least one longitudinal channel (144) extending
longitudinally within said tubular wall in fluid communication

with said balloon (140) for inflation of the balloon (140) to
center the endoscope in a passageway of a patient into which

said catheter (130) has been introduced to protect the
passageway as said endoscope is moved along the passageway.
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, including a
telescope catheter (160) having an outer tubular wall folded

back upon itself at a distal end of said catheter (160) to
form an inner tubular wall (170) telescoped within said outer

tubular wall,

a generally cylindrical housing (162) in which said
telescoped portion of said inner tubular wall (170) is stored

before expansion thereof, said housing (162) including a
distal end to which said proximal end of said outer tubular

wall is attached and a proximal end to which a proximal end of
said inner tubular wall (170) is attached, said distal end of

said first segment being positioned just beyond said distal
end of said catheter (160) with said at least one longitudinal

channel (24,26,28) extending through said inner tubular wall
(170) and out of said proximal end of said housing (162),
and means (174) in said housing (162) for admitting gas
under pressure into the space between said inner and outer

tubular walls to expand said catheter (160) so that the distal
end thereof moves in a distal direction to push said endoscope

in said distal direction.
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, including at least
three fluid vents (176,178) spaced around said exterior

surfaces of said first and second segments, and a fluid
delivery tube (180,182) connected to each of said fluid vents

(176,178) to selectively supply a gas or liquid thereto to
guide the endoscope through a passageway.
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, wherein said
endoscope is of ferrous material for manipulation along a

passageway of a patient by use of a magnet located exteriorly
of the passageway.
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, including a prism
(194) between said image sensor (14) and said window (10),

said window (10) being mounted on the side of said capsule (C)
so that said capsule (C) is a side-viewing device.
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, including a ferrous
material (226) on one of said capsule (C) and said channel

section (S), and a magnetic strip (230) on the other of said
capsule (C) and said channel section (S) for releasably

attaching said channel section (S) to said capsule (C).
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, including an
elastic band (238) for releasably attaching said channel

section (S) to said capsule (C).
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, wherein, when
attached, said channel section (S) and said capsule (C) form

a generally cylindrical shape with a substantially circular
cross-section. 
An endoscope as claimed in claim 1, wherein, when
attached said channel section (S) and said capsule(C) form a

generally cylindrical shape with a substantially oval-shaped
cross-section.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
