<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0900000</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF MILKING ANIMALS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01J5017	A01K1504	A01K100	A01J500	A01K112	A01J500	A01K1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01J	A01K	A01K	A01J	A01K	A01J	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01J5	A01K15	A01K1	A01J5	A01K1	A01J5	A01K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method of milking animals, in particular goats, a number of animals is arranged side by side in a milking parlour (1), whereafter a robot arm construction (12) is moved along the rear of the animals for the purpose of seizing consecutively teat cups (11) provided behind each of the animals arranged in the milking parlour (1) and connecting same to the teats of the animals. The position of the teats is determined by means of a sensor which is active between the hind legs of the animals, while also the teat cups (11) are connected to the teats between the hind legs of the animals.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DEN BERG KAREL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DEN BERG, KAREL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of
milking animals according to the preamble of claim 1, in which a number of
animals in particular goats
is arranged side by side in a milking parlour.There is known a method of automatically milking
cows which are arranged behind each other in milk boxes that
are adjacent to each other in longitudinal direction, in which
method a robot arm construction is movable in longitudinal
direction along the milk boxes, by means of which robot arm
construction for each milk box a carrier with teat cups can be
seized and be brought to under the udder of an animal,
whereafter the teat cups can be connected one by one to the
teats of the animal.Another method milking cows using a robot arm construction which
is moved along the rear of the animals to be milked is known
from GB-2 218 888.In particular for milking goats this method is
rather time-consuming. The production time of the robot arm
construction is defined by the cleaning of the teats and the
connection of teat cups to the teats of animals. The robot arm
construction serves two or at the most three milk boxes
positioned behind each other in longitudinal direction.In order to. make the method suitable for milking
goats, the method according to the invention is characterized
in that the robot arm construction is moved along the rear of
the animals or that the section of the milking parlour where
the animals are arranged is moved along the front of the robot
arm construction for the purpose of seizing consecutively teat
cups 
provided behind each of the animals arranged in the milking
parlour and connecting same to the teats of the animals. In
other words, it is not only possible to dispose the robot arm
construction movably along the rear of the animals, but the
animals may also be arranged in a movable carrousel which
moves them along a rigidly disposed robot arm construction.
In this manner, ten, twenty or even more goats can be arranged
side by side, while, with the aid of the robot arm
construction, teat cups can be connected consecutively to the
teats of the goats. In this method, the position of the teats
can be determined by means of a detector which sends its
radiation between the hind legs to the udder of the animals.
This detector is preferably fitted to the robot arm construction
itself, more in particular at such a level that, when
the robot arm construction is moved along the rear of the
animals, the detector is capable of observing the two teats
of the goats. Also the teat cups are connected to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of milking animals, in particular goats, in
which a number of animals is arranged side by side in a

milking parlour (1), thereafter a robot
arm construction (12) is moved along the rear of the animals

or the section of the milking parlour (1) where the
animals have been arranged is moved along the front of the

robot arm construction (12) 
characterized in that
 the robot arm construction seizes
consecutively teat cups (11) provided behind each of the

animals arranged in the milking parlour (1) and connects
same to the teats of the animals.
A method as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized in
that
 the position of the teats is determined by means of a
detector (30) which sends its radiation between the hind legs

to the udder of the animals.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 or 2,

characterized in that
 the teat cups (11) are connected to the
teats between the hind legs of the animals.
An implement for milking animals, in particular
goats, in which the method as claimed in any one of the

preceding claims can be applied, which implement is provided
with a milking parlour (1) in which the animals can be

arranged side by side and a robot arm construction (12) which
is movable along the rear of the animals arranged in the

milking parlour (1), 
characterized in that
 to the robot arm construction (12)
there are connected seizing means (22) for seizing teat cups

(11) provided behind each of the animals arranged in the
milking parlour (1) and connecting same to the teats of the

animals.
An implement as claimed in claim 4, 
characterized in
that
 the seizing means (22) are connected with the robot arm
construction (12) so as to be pivotable about a pivotal axis

(23) and be movable in height under the animal's udder.
An implement as claimed in claim 5, 
characterized in
that
 the pivotal axis (23) for the seizing means (22) extends
substantially horizontally and is located at or near the upper 

side of the milking parlour (1) in the longitudinal direction
X thereof.
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 5 or 6,

characterized in that
 the robot arm construction (12) is
provided with a support unit (13) which is movable in the

longitudinal direction X of the milking parlour (1) along at
least one rail (14, 15), relative to which support unit (13)

the pivotable portion (20) of the robot arm construction (12)
is pivotable in sideward direction Y and consequently in

forward and rearward direction relative to the animals
arranged in the milking parlour (1).
An implement as claimed in claim 7, 
characterized in
that
 the support unit (13) is movable along two rails (14, 15)
fitted at different levels to the fencing (3) of the milking

parlour (1).
An implement as claimed in claim 7 or 8,

characterized in that
 there are provided rollers (16, 17) by
means of which the support unit (13) is movable along the

rails (14, 15).
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 9,

characterized in that
 the support unit (13) is movable along
the rails (14, 15) by motor drive.
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 7 to
10, 
characterized in that
 the sidewardly pivotable portion
(20) of the robot arm construction (12) is pivotable in

sideward direction Y relative to the milking parlour (1) by
means of an operating cylinder (24) disposed between said

pivotable portion (20) and the support unit (13).
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 5 to
11, 
characterized in that
 the robot arm construction (12)
comprises a substantially downwardly extending carrier (21)

for the seizing means (22), which carrier (21) is pivotable
about the pivotal axis (23).
An implement as claimed in claim 12, 
characterized
in that
 the seizing means (22) are connected with the carrier
(21) so as to be movable in height. 
An implement as claimed in claim 12 or 13,

characterized in that
 the seizing means (22) are movable in
height relative to the carrier (21) by means of an operating

cylinder (25) disposed between the robot arm and the
carrier (21).
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 4 to
14, 
characterized in that
 the seizing means (22) are connected
with the robot arm construction (12) so as to be rotatable

about a substantially vertical pivotal axis.
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 4 to
15, 
characterized in that
 the seizing means (22) are provided
with a detector (30) for determining the position of the

teats.
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 4 to
16, 
characterized in that
 the seizing means (22) are provided
with a seizing element (28) that is pivotable about a

substantially horizontal axis (23).
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 4 to
17, 
characterized in that
 the teat cups (11) are supported
under pressure in a holder (31) disposed behind each milk box

(4) for an animal.
An implement as claimed in claim 18, 
characterized
in that
 each teat cup (11) is capable of individually being
taken from the holder (31) and being connected to a teat of an

animal present in the relevant milk box (4).
An implement as claimed in claim 18 or 19,

characterized in that
, for the purpose of withdrawing a teat
cup (11) into the holder (31) after the milk flow has at least

almost finished, each teat cup (11) is provided with
withdrawing means.
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 4 to
20, 
characterized in that
 the implement comprises turnstiles
(6) to be operated by the animals themselves, functioning such

that, each time when an animal occupies a milk box (4), a
partition for a next animal is being formed. 
An implement as claimed in any one of claims 4 to
21, 
characterized in that
 each milk box (4) is provided at its
front side with a movable feed trough (8).
An implement as claimed in claim 22, 
characterized
in that
 a feed trough (8) is pivotable upwards.
An implement as claimed in claim 22 or 23,

characterized in that
 the feed trough (8) constitutes an exit
of the milk box (4), which exit is released when the feed

trough (8) is pivoted upwards.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
