<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655971</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF BINDING PARTICLES TO FIBERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1315	D04H164	D06M2300	D06M13256	D04H164	A61F1353	A61L1560	D06M13292	D06M2300	D06M13184	D06M1300	D06M13285	C08J300	A61F1349	D06M13342	D21H1116	D06M13288	A61L1516	A61F1300	A61F1315	D21H1100	D06M2308	D06M2308	A61F1300	C08J300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	D04H	D06M	D06M	D04H	A61F	A61L	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	D06M	C08J	A61F	D06M	D21H	D06M	A61L	A61F	A61F	D21H	D06M	D06M	A61F	C08J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	D04H1	D06M23	D06M13	D04H1	A61F13	A61L15	D06M13	D06M23	D06M13	D06M13	D06M13	C08J3	A61F13	D06M13	D21H11	D06M13	A61L15	A61F13	A61F13	D21H11	D06M23	D06M23	A61F13	C08J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A binder is applied to fibers (600) to bind particles (602) to the fibers. The fibers have hydrogen bonding functional groups. The particles have functional groups capable of forming a hydrogen bond or a coordinate covalent bond. The binder comprises binder molecules, wherein the binder molecules have at least one functional group that forms a hydrogen bond or a coordinate covalent bond with the particles, and at least one functional group that forms a hydrogen bond with the fibers. A substantial portion of the particles that may be adhered to the fibers are adhered in particulate form by hydrogen bonds or coordinate covalent bonds to the binder, and the binder in turn may be adhered to the fibers by hydrogen bonds. Fibers containing particles bound by this method are easily densified.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEYERHAEUSER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN MICHAEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG RICHARD H SR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN, MICHAEL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG, RICHARD, H., SR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is concerned with a method of binding particles to fibers, using a non-polymeric organic binder.
The fibers and bound particles may be easily densified by external application of pressure. The binders are reactivatable,
and may be applied to fibers on a wet-laid fiber sheet manufacturing line. In particular embodiments, the invention
concerns binding superabsorbent particles to cellulosicfibers which may then be used, for example, to make absorbent
fibers that are densified and incorporated into absorbent products. In other embodiments, the invention concerns the
activation and use of such fibers, preferably at an article manufacturing plant, at a location remote from a pulp sheet
manufacturing line to bind superabsorbent and/or other particles to cellulosic fibers which may then be used, for example,
as absorbent fibers incorporated into absorbent products.Superabsorbent polymers have been developed in recent years that are capable of absorbing many times
their own weight of liquid. These polymers, which are also known as water insoluble hydrogels, have been used to
increase the absorbency of sanitary products such as diapers and sanitary napkins. Superabsorbent polymers are
often provided in the form of particulate powders, granules, orfibers that are distributed throughout absorbent cellulosic
products to increase the absorbency of the product. Superabsorbent particles are described, for example, in U.S.
Patent No. 4,160,059; U.S. Patent No. 4,676,784; U.S. Patent No. 4,673,402; U.S. Patent No. 5,002,814; and U.S.
Patent No. 5,057,166. Products such as diapers that incorporate absorbent hydrogels are shown in U.S. Patent No.
3,669,103 and U.S Patent No. 3,670,731.One problem with the use of superabsorbents is that the superabsorbent material can be physically dislodged
from the cellulosic fibers of an absorbent product. Separation of the superabsorbent from its substrate reduces the
absorbency of the product and diminishes the effectiveness of the superabsorbent material. This problem was addressed
in European Patent Application 442 185 A1, which discloses use of a polyaluminum chloride binder to bind
an absorbent polymer to a fibrous substrate. The polyaluminum binder, however, suffers from the drawback of being
an inorganic product that is not readily biodegradable. Moreover, that European patent does not offer any guidance
for selecting binders other than polyaluminum chloride that would be useful in binding absorbent particles.A method of immobilizing superabsorbents is disclosed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of binding particles to fibers with a binder, comprising the steps of:

providing fibrous material comprising wood pulp fibers having a hydrogen bonding
functionality;
selecting a non-polymeric organic binder having a volatility less than water, the
binder comprising binder molecules, the binder molecules having at least one functional
group capable of forming a hydrogen bond or a coordinate covalent bond with
the particles, and at least one functional group capable of forming a hydrogen bond
with the fibrous material,
applying the binder to the fibers before the addition of the particles, the binder being
present on the fibers in an amount from 1 to 40 weight % based on the weight of the
fibrous material;
thereafter providing particles having a hydrogen bonding or a coordinate covalent
bond forming functionality, and binding the particles to the fibrous material.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the functional groups are
each capable of forming hydrogen bonds.
The method of claim 2, wherein the non-polymeric organic binder has
functional groups that are selected from the group consisting of a carboxyl, a carboxylate,

a carbonyl, a sulfonic acid, a sulfonate, a hydroxyl, a phosphoric acid, a
phosphate, an amide, an amine and combinations thereof. 
The method of claim 3, wherein the non-polymeric organic binder is
selected from the group consisting of glycerin, a glycerin monoester, a glycerin diester,

glyoxal, ascorbic acid, urea, glycine, pentaerythritol a monosaccharide, a disaccharide,
citric acid, taurine, tartaric acid, dipropylene glycol, an urea derivative,

and combinations thereof.
The method of claim 4 wherein the non-polymeric organic binder is
selected from the group consisting of glycerin, a glycerin monoester, a glycerin diester,

a polyglycerin oligomer, urea and combinations thereof.
The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are present in an amount
of 0.05 to 80 percent of the total weight of the fibrous material and particles.
The method according to claim 6 wherein the particles are superabsorbent
particles which are present in an amount of 3 to 70 percent of the total

weight of the fibrous material and particles.
The method of claim 1 wherein the binder is allowed to assume an inactive
state, then later activating the binder from an inactive state in the presence of

the particles and fibrous material by providing heat, an activating fluid, or by applying
kinetic energy to the fibrous material and inactive binder.
The method of claim 8 in which the step of the activating the binder is
performed by an activation fluid.
The method of claim 8 wherein the step of exposing the particles to the
binder in the presence of the fibrous material comprises the step of later activating

the binder from an inactive state at a second location which is remote from a first
location where the step of providing the binder on the fibrous material is performed

such that particles adhered to the fibrous material need not be shipped between the
first and second locations. 
The method according to claim 8 wherein the non-polymeric binder includes
a functionality selected from the group consisting of a carboxyl, a carboxylate,

a carbonyl, a sulfonic acid, a sulfonate, a phosphate, a phosphoric acid, a hydroxyl,
an amine, an amide, and combinations thereof.
The method according to claim 11 wherein there are at least two functionalities
on the molecule selected from this group, and the two functionalities are

the same or different.
The method of claim 8 wherein the fibers are wood pulp fibers in a wet
laid fiber sheet or web manufacturing line, and the binder is applied to the fibers

while the fibers are on the wet laid sheet or web manufacturing line.
The method of claim 1 wherein the binder is allowed to assume an inactive
state, then later activating the binder from an inactive state by.adding an activating

fluid before, simultaneously with, or after exposing the particles to the binder
in the presence of the fibrous material.
The method of claim 14 wherein the activating fluid comprises water in
the form of a liquid, steam or humid gas.
The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of:

providing individualized cellulose fibers that have hydrogen bonding functional sites,
wherein the individualized fibers are cured in the presence of a crosslinking material

to produce high bulk fibers with intrafiber covalent crosslinks while leaving hydrogen
bonding functional sites available on the cured fibers for hydrogen bonding, and the

fibers are fiberized to reduce interfiber bonding between the cured fibers:
applying the binder to the fibers before, during or after the fibers are cured or fiberized,
thereafter binding the particles to the fibers, whereby the particles retain their

individual particulate form on the surface of the fiber.
The method of claim 16 wherein the curing step comprises: 

a) using any crosslinking material and curing the crosslinking material before applying
the binder; or
b) curing the crosslinking material in the presence of the binder, wherein the binder
is not a crosslinking material; or
c) curing the crosslinking material in the presence of the binder, wherein the binder
is also a crosslinking material, and the fibers contain sufficient water when the curing

step begins to retard curing so that adequate binder functional groups will remain to
bind the particles to the fibers.
The method of claim 16, wherein the binder also is a crosslinking material,
and the nonpolymeric organic binder is selected from the group consisting of a

polycarboxylic acid, a polyol, a polyaldehyde, and a polyamine, and wherein the fibers
contain sufficient water when the curing step begins to retard curing so that

adequate binder functional groups will remain to bind the particles to the fibers.
The method of claim 16, wherein the curing step comprises curing the
crosslinking material in the presence of the nonpolymeric organic binder, wherein at

least one of the nonpolymeric organic binder and crosslinking material are selected
from the group consisting of a polycarboxylic acid, a polyaldehyde, a polyol and a

polyamine, and the fibers contain at least 20% water by weight of the fibers when
the curing step begins.
The method of claims 1 or 17 wherein the particles comprise superabsorbent
particles.
The method of claim 1 including the step of densifying the fibers and
the bound particles by applying external pressure to the fibers.
The method according to claim 21 wherein the particles are superabsorbent
particles. 
The method according to claims 8 or 14 including the step of densifying
the fibers and the bound particles by applying external pressure to the fibers wherein

the step of densifying occurs with the binder in an active state.
The method of claim 21 including the step of forming the fibers into a
web or sheet before the densifying step such that the web or sheet is densified by

applying external pressure on the web or sheet.
The method of claim 1 in which the step of selecting a non-polymeric
organic binder comprises the step of selecting a crosslinking material for application

to the fibrous material, the crosslinking material being curable to produce internally
crosslinked high bulk fibers, the method further comprising curing the crosslinking

material and fibers to produce high bulk fibers which are internally crosslinked while
leaving hydrogen or coordinate covalent bonding functional sites available on the

crosslinking material such that during the step of providing the particles, the particles
are bound.
The method of claim 25 further including the step of densifying the fibers
and the bound particles by applying external pressure to the fibers.
The method of claim 26 wherein the particles are superabsorbent particles.
The method according to claim 1 wherein the particles comprise more
than one type of particle, and at least one type of particle is a superabsorbent particle.
The method according to claim 28 in which one type of particle is a
nonsuperabsorbent particle which is present in the amount of 0.05 percent to 10.0

percent of the total weight of fibrous material and particles. 
The method of claim 27 further comprising the step of forming the fibers
into a web or sheet before the densifying step such that the web or sheet is

densified by applying external pressure on the web or sheet.
The method of claim 27 wherein the densifying step comprises densifying
the fibers and adhered particles under conditions of ambient temperature.
The method of claim 27 in which the densifying step comprises applying
pressure to the web or sheet to produce a product having a density of from 0.05

g/cm
3
 to 0.7 g/cm
3
.
The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are soluble in water and
are sparingly soluble in the binder.
The method of claim 1 wherein the particles have a solubility in water
of at least 10 g in 300 ml of water at 25° C, and a solubility in the binder of no more

than about 5 g in 300 ml of the binder at 25° C.
The method according to claim 1 wherein the particles are non-water-absorbent
particles and the particles are soluble in water and are sparingly soluble

in the binder.
The method of claim 33 wherein the binder is capable of forming a
solid upon drying.
The method of claim 33 further comprising the step of activating the
binder on the fibers from an inactive state by providing heat, an activating fluid, or by

applying kinetic energy to the fibrous material and binder.
The method according to claim 7, wherein the non-polymeric organic
binder is selected from the group consisting of propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol,

ethylene glycol, trimethylene glycol and 2,3-butane diol. 
The method according to claim 8 in which the step of activating the
binder is performed by applying kinetic energy to the fibrous material and inactive

binder.
A method of binding particles to fibers with a binder comprising the
steps of:


providing fibrous material comprising a fiber having a hydrogen bonding functionality;
selecting a non-polymeric organic binder having a volatility less than water, the
binder comprising binder molecules, the binder molecules having at least one functional

group capable of forming a hydrogen bond or a coordinate covalent bond with
the particles, and at least one functional group capable of forming a hydrogen bond
with the fibrous material;
the step of providing fibrous material comprising the step of providing individualized

cellulose fibers that have hydrogen bonding functional sites, wherein the individualized
fibers are cured in the presence of a crosslinking material to produce high bulk

fibers with intrafiber covalent crosslinks while leaving hydrogen bonding functional
sites available on the cured fibers for hydrogen bonding, and th.e fibers are fiberized

to reduce interfiber bonding between the cured fibers;
applying the binder to the fibers before, during or after the fibers are cured or fiberized,
the binder being present on the fibers in an amount from 1 to 40 weight %

based on the weight of the fibers;

   thereafter binding the particles to the fibers, whereby the particles retain their
individual particulate form on the surface of the fiber.
A fibrous product obtainable by the methods according to anyone of
claims 1 to 40.
A fibrous product comprising:

fibrous material comprising a wood pulp fiber having a hydrogen bonding functionality;
and 
a binder having a volatility less than water and being selected from the group consisting
of a monoglyceride a diglyceride and combinations thereof, the binder being

present on the fibers in an amount from 1 to 40 weight % based on the weight of the
fibers and in which the fibrous product is without particles.
A fibrous product comprising:

wood pulp having hydrogen bonding functionalities; and
a binder selected from the group consisting of glycerin, a glycerin monoester, a
glycerin diester, a polyglycerin oligomer; urea, and combinations thereof, the binder

being present on the fibers of the wood pulp in an amount from 1 to 40 weight %
based on the weight of the fibers and in which the fibrous product is without particles.
The product of claim 43 wherein the binder is glycerin.
The product of claim 44, wherein the binder is present in an amount of
from 2 percent to 30 percent based on the total weight of the product.
The product of claim 43 wherein the binder is glycerin and urea.
The product according to claim 46, wherein the binder is present in an
amount of from 2 percent to 30 percent based on the total weight of the product.
A fibrous product comprising:

fibrous material comprising a wood pulp fiber having a hydrogen bonding functionality;
and
a binder having a volatility less than water, the binder comprising binder molecules,
wherein the binder molecules are selected from the group consisting of glycerin, a

glycerin monoester, a glycerin diester, urea and combinations thereof and the
amount of the binder being on the fibers is 1 to 40 weight % of the total weight of the

fibrous material and in which the fibrous product is without particles.
A fibrous product comprising wood pulp fibers with an inactive or activatable
nonpolymeric organic binder having a volatility less than water, the binder comprising binder molecules having at least one functional group capable of forming a hydrogen bond or a coordinate covalent bond wi
th particles and at least one functional group capable of forming a hydrogen bond with the wood pulp fibers, the binder
being present on the fibers in an amount from 1 to 40 weight % based on the weight

of the fibers and in which the fibrous product is without particles.
The fibrous product of claim 49, wherein the non-polymeric binder
comprises a diol.
The fibrous product of claim 50, wherein the diol is propylene glycol.
The fibrous product of claim 50, wherein the diol is trimethylene glycol.
The product of claim 49, wherein the non-polymeric binder is lactic
acid.
The fibrous product of claim 50, wherein the diol is dipropylene glycol.
The fibrous product of claim 50, wherein the diol is ethylene glycol.
The fibrous product of claim 50, wherein the diol is 2,3-butane diol.
An absorbent article comprising the fibrous product according to claim
41.
The method of claim 7, wherein the non-polymeric organic binder is
lactic acid.
The fibrous product of claim 49, wherein the non-polymeric organic
binder has functional groups that are selected from the group consisting of a carboxyl,

a carboxylate, a carbonyl, a sulfonic acid, a sulfonate, a hydroxyl, a phosphoric
acid, a phosphate, an amide, an amine, and combinations thereof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
