<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652711</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOVING MEAT FROM BONES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22C1700	A22C1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22C	A22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22C17	A22C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention describes a method and apparatus for removal of meat from bones. Bones particularly suitable are round elongate bones, such as commonly found in the limbs of animals. The apparatus uses a collar where, as the collar travels along the length of the bone, meat is pushed aheat of the collar resulting in its separation from the bone. Various clamping and retaining means may be used in conjunction with the apparatus. It may also be desirable to sever any tendons connecting meat to the bone before effecting travel of the collar.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBERTS COLIN ANDREW
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBERTS, COLIN ANDREW
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS COLIN ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS, COLIN ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the separation of meat from bone material. Most embodiments 
are more suited to the removal of meat from elongate bones and/or bones of a relatively 
constant cross-sectional configuration and/or diameter. Preferred embodiments are especially 
suitable for the removal of meat from the humerus and radius bones of cattle or livestock 
though embodiments of the present invention will also find use with other bones and animals. Traditional methods of removing meats from bones have centred around the use of a skilled 
worker to cut meat away from a bone. However, a reasonably high level of skill is required to 
become proficient with the techniques so as to remove a substantial proportion, if not all, meat 
from the bone and to avoid damage to the meat cut and bone (bone chips). In addition, the 
worker must be able to work at a relatively fast rate to keep pace with the semi-automated 
facilities and chains at many meat works. Scraping methods have apparently been investigated, using a blade to attempt to remove meat 
from bone material though these are not entirely successful, especially for the round bones of 
an animal i.e. those bones which are substantially round in cross-section. EP-0 278 122 discloses a method and apparatus for removing meat from poultry bones and the 
like. The apparatus comprises stripping collar having an aperture through which the bone is 
driven so as to strip off the flesh therefrom. The bone passes completely through the aperture 
and can be removed once this has occurred. However, such an arrangement is unusable for longer and more irregular bones. Firstly, if a 
bone is irregularly shaped, it is difficult to ensure that the scraping collar successfully engages 
the bone throughout its length. Secondly, meat from larger animals adheres much more 
strongly to the bone, and the arrangement described in EP-0 278 122 could not successfully 
remove such meat without a secondary cutting means.  
 It is an object of the present invention to address the foregoing problems or at least to provide 
the public with a useful choice. Further aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the ensuing 
description which is given by way of example only. According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for the removal of 
meat from round bones comprising the use of a collar with a flexible aperture, said method 
comprising the positioning of the meat with bone such that the bone portion nearest the collar is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the removal of meat (1) from round bones (2) comprising the use of a 
collar (5) with a flexible aperture (6), said method comprising the positioning of the meat (1) 

with bone (2) such that the bone portion nearest the collar (5) is substantially aligned with the 
collar's aperture (6), engaging the bone portion within the collar (5) and wherein meat (1) is 

scraped from bone material as said collar (5) travels in a first direction (4) relative to said bone 
(2), characterised in that said scraped meat (1) is substantially severed from the bone (2) by the 

interaction of the collar (5) or its housing bearing against a rigid face or member, and in that 
after scraping the collar (5) travels relative to the bone (2) in a reverse direction until the bone 

(2) is removed therefrom. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 in which first restraining means (3) opposes induced 
travel of said bone (2) by the scraping action of said collar (5) in a first direction (4). 
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the first restraining means (3) comprises, or 
can assume, a concave configuration for accommodating an end of a bone (2). 
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the first restraining means (3) provides 
support against the lateral movement of bone (2). 
A method as claimed in claim 1 in which a guide member (24) assists in pushing a 
bone (2) through the collar (5) for its removal therefrom. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 an inwardly directed force or forces acting on the 
collar (5) are applied to influence the collar (5) towards bone (2) positioned within its aperture 

(6). 
A method as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2 in which a bone (2) is initially located 
by initial restraining means (13). 
A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the initial restraining means (13) comprises a 
rotatable pin arrangement (15) providing a clamping action on said bone (2). 
A method as claimed in claim 1 in which at least one end portion, or part thereof, of a 
bone or bone assemblage is removed prior to meat (1) removal by the collar (5).  

 
A method as claimed in claim 1 which includes partially or completely severing 
tendons securing meat to bone material at at least one end of said bone material prior to 

scraping. 
A method according to claim 1 for the removal of meat from an elongate bone 
comprising steps of: 


i) positioning an end of the bone (2) in first restraining means (3); 
ii) directing a longitudinally oriented guide (24) against the alternate end of the bone (2), 
clamping the bone (2) against the first restraining means (3); 
iii) causing a flexible collar (5) to travel longitudinally along said bone (2) to scrape, 
ahead of it, meat (1) from the bone; 
iv) subsequently reversing the direction of collar (5) travel with respect to the bone (2) and 
v) ejecting the bone (2) from the collar (5), the guide (24) assisting in the removal of 
the bone (2) from the collar (5). 
A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein an initial restraining means (3) is used to 
position the bone (2) until clamped between said guide (24) and restraining means (3). 
A method as claimed in claim 12 in which the initial restraining means (3) comprises a 
rotating pin arrangement (15) providing a clamping action on the bone (2). 
A method as claimed in any one of claim 11 in which the collar (5) is part of a collar 
assembly, and wherein the method includes the severing of the scraped meat from the bone by 

the action of the collar assembly encountering the first restraining means (3). 
Apparatus for the removal of meat (1) from bone (2), said apparatus comprising: 

first restraining means (3) for restricting movement of a bone (2) or bone assemblage 
in at least one longitudinal direction (4); 
a collar (5) having an internal aperture (6) and being resiliently deformable in this 
region (6) to accommodate variations in the cross-sectional dimensions and configuration of 

bone material when positioned therein; 
means for effecting travel of the collar (5) with respect to said bone (2) in a first 
scraping direction (4); and 
means associated with removing the bone (2) from said collar (5); 
 
   characterised in that the apparatus further comprises:  

 

means for effecting travel of collar (5) with respect to said bone (2) in a direction the 
reverse of said first scraping direction (4); and 
means (27) for severing at least one of tendons and connecting tissue between the 
removed meat (1) portion and bone (2) material. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 which includes withdrawable initial restraining 
means (13) capable of holding and positioning a bone (2) or bone assemblage. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 in which the initial restraining means (13) comprises 
a rotatable pin arrangement (15) providing a bone clamping action. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 17 in which the initial restraining means (13) comprises 
an assembly with at least one fixed pin (14) and a rotatable arrangement (15) comprising a 

plurality of extending pins (16, 17) the assembly characterised in that the pins (16, 17) of the 
rotatable arrangement (15) can pierce or be positioned about the meat (1) either side of said 

bone (2), and wherein the rotatable arrangement (15) can be subsequently rotated so that a 
clamping action of the bone (2) results from said fixed pin(s) (14) and pins (16, 17) of the 

rotatable arrangement (15) bearing substantially against said bone (2). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 which includes a guide member (24) providing a 
clamping action on said bone (2) against the first restraining means (3). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 19 in which the guide member (24) assists or provides 
the relative travel of said collar (5) with respect to said bone (2) in a reverse direction. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 19 in which said first restraining means (3) comprises a 
concave portion, or can as
sume a concave configuration, for accommodating an end of a bone 
(2). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 18 which includes collar deformation means capable of 
providing an influence on the collar (5) resulting in an inwardly directed force or forces by the 

collar (5) onto a bone (2) positioned within its aperture (6). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 18 wherein said collar (5) is positioned within an 
assembly having a peripheral wall about said collar (5), and wherein said peripheral wall 

extends past the face of said collar (5) in the direction (4) of movement of said collar (5) with  
 

respect said bone (2) or bone assemblage, and wherein said extending portion of the peripheral 
wall interacts with said means (3) for restricting movement of the bone (2) or bone assemblage 

to substantially sever any remaining tendons securing meat to bone material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
