<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651761</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MODIFICATION OF RECOMBINANT POLYPEPTIDES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K1900	C12N1562	C12N1509	C07K1107	C07K100	C12P2102	C07K1113	C07K112	C07K1900	C07K106	C07K1447	C07K14475	C12P2102	C07K1460	C12N1562	C07K700	C07K500	C07K14435	C12N1509	C07K100	C07K718	C07K511	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C12N	C12N	C07K	C07K	C12P	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C12P	C07K	C12N	C07K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C07K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K19	C12N15	C12N15	C07K1	C07K1	C12P21	C07K1	C07K1	C07K19	C07K1	C07K14	C07K14	C12P21	C07K14	C12N15	C07K7	C07K5	C07K14	C12N15	C07K1	C07K7	C07K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides for a chemical method for preparing a recombinant single copy polypeptide or a portion thereof with a modified terminal amino acid (alpha)-carbon reactive group selected from the group consisting of N-terminal (alpha)-amine, C-terminal (alpha)-carboxyl, and a combination thereof. The steps of the method involve forming the recombinant single copy polypeptide or a portion thereof so that the single copy polypeptide is protected with one or more biologically added protecting groups at the N-terminal (alpha)-amine, C-terminal (alpha)-carboxyl. The recombinant single copy polypeptide can then be reacted with up to three chemical protecting agents to selectively protect reactive side chain groups and thereby prevent side chain groups from being modified. The recombinant single copy polypeptide can be cleaved with at least one cleavage reagent specific for the biological protecting group to form an unprotected terminal amino acid (alpha)-carbon reactive group. The unprotected terminal amino acid (alpha)-carbon reactive group is modified with at least one chemical modifying agent. The side chain protected terminally modified single copy polypeptide is then deprotected at the side chain groups to form a terminally modified recombinant single copy polypeptide. The number and sequence of steps in the method can be varied to achieve selective modification at the N- and/or C-terminal amino acid of a recombinantly produced polypeptide.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIONEBRASKA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIONEBRASKA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOLIDGE THOMAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMQUIST BART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOUT JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAGNER FRED W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOLIDGE, THOMAS, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMQUIST, BART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOUT, JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAGNER, FRED W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Many naturally occurring proteins and peptides
have been produced by recombinant DNA techniques.
Recombinant DNA techniques have made possible the
selection, amplification and manipulation of expression
of proteins and peptides. For example, changes in
the sequence of the recombinantly produced proteins or
peptides can be accomplished by altering the DNA
sequence by techniques like site-directed or deletion
mutagenesis.However, some modifications to a recombinantly
produced protein or peptide can not be accomplished by
altering the DNA sequence. For example, the C-terminal
α-carboxyl group in many naturally occurring protein and
peptides often exists as an amide, but this amide
typically is not produced through recombinant expressing
and is biologically converted after expression in vivo
from a precursor protein to the amide. Another example
is the addition of a D-amino acid to the N- and/or
C-terminal end of a recombinantly produced protein or
peptide.In addition, it may be desirable to selectively
modify both the N- and C-terminal α-carbon reactive
groups of a recombinantly produced protein or peptide.
Recombinantly produced protein or polypeptides have a
multiplicity of reactive side chain groups, as well as
the N- and C-terminal amino acid α-carbon reactive
groups. Side chain reactive groups include thiols,
carboxyls, imidazoles, and ε-amine reactive groups.
Selective modifications at the N- and/or C-terminal
α-carbon reactive groups, such as adding an N-terminal
pyroglutamyl residue and/or forming an amide at the
C-terminal amino acid, need to be conducted without
adversely affecting the reactive side chain groups. A method of forming a C-terminal amide on a
recombinantly produced polypeptide by the action of an
enzyme is known. The enzyme is peptidyl glycine
α-amidating monoxygenase and is present in eukaryotic
systems. The enzyme has been used to form an amide on
the C-terminal amino acid of recombinantly produced
peptides, like human growth hormone releasing hormone in
vitro as described by J. Engels, Protein Engineering,
1:195-199 (1987).In addition many recombinantly produced small
proteins and peptides have a limited number of reactive
side chain groups. For example, the 27 amino acid human
gastrin releasing peptide contains N-terminal α-amine
and side chain hydroxyl and ε-amine reactive groups.
The myosin light chain kinase inhibitor contains 10
amino acids and has N-terminal α-amine and side chain ε-amine
reactive groups. The C-terminal α-carboxyl groups
are amidated in both of these
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of preparing a modified recombinantly produced polypeptide including (i) a
reactive side chain group which includes an amine group, a hydroxyl group, a carboxyl

group, or a thiol group, and (ii) a modified N-terminal α-amine group or C-terminal α-carboxyl
group, the method comprising:


recombinantly forming a polypeptide having a biologically added protecting
group on an N-terminal α-amine group or C-terminal α-carboxyl group;
conducting the following reacting and cleaving steps in any order to produce a
terminally reactive, side chain protected polypeptide having an unprotected terminal

amino acid α-carbon reactive group;

a) reacting an amine, hydroxyl, carboxyl or thiol reactive side chain group with
up to three chemical protecting agents; and
b) cleaving the biologically added protecting group with a cleavage reagent to
form the unprotected terminal amino acid α-carbon reactive group;
modifying the unprotected terminal amino acid α-carbon reactive group with a
chemical modifying agent to form a terminally modified, side chain protected single copy

polypeptide; and
deprotecting the terminally modified, side chain protected polypeptide to form a
terminally modified single copy polypeptide.
The method of claim 1 wherein the recombinantly produced polypeptide comprises a first
polypeptide protected at an N-terminal α-amine group or a C-terminal α-carboxyl group

by the biologically added protecting group, and the first polypeptide includes at least two
copies of a second polypeptide, with adjacent copies of the second polypeptide being

linked by an intraconnecting peptide. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the recombinantly produced polypeptide comprises a first
polypeptide protected at an N-terminal α-carbon reactive group or a C-terminal α-carboxyl

group by the biologically added protecting group, and the first polypeptide

includes at least two tandemly linked copies of a second polypeptide.
The method of any of claims 1-3 wherein the chemical protecting agent comprises an
agent that selectively protects amine and hydroxyl groups selected from the group

consisting of alkyl substituted anhydrides, aryl substituted anhydrides, alkoxy substituted
anhydrides, diazo compounds, cyclic anhydrides, alkyl substituted carbamating agents,

and aryl substituted carbamating agents.
The method of any of claims 1-3 wherein the reacting step comprises reacting a carboxyl
side chain group with a carboxyl protecting agent to form an o-nitrophenol ester, alkyl

ester,benzyl ester, alkylchlorocarbonate, azide or hydrazide.
The method of any of claims 1-3 wherein the reacting step comprises (i) reacting an
amine reactive side chain group with a chemical protecting agent that selectively protects

amine and hydroxyl groups; and (ii) reacting a carboxyl reactive side chain group with a
chemical protecting agent that selectively protects carboxyl groups.
The method of any of claims 1-6 wherein the chemical modifying agent is an aoudating
agent which includes (i) ammonia; and (ii) a carbodiimide, an acid chloride, a mixed

anhydride, an azide, o-nitrophenol, or 1-hydroxybenzotriazole. 
The method of any of claims 1-7 wherein the recombinantly produced polypeptide
includes an N-terminal α-amine group protected by a first biologically added protecting

group and a C-terminal α-carboxyl group protected by a second biologically added
protecting group.
The method of any of claims 1-8 wherein the recombinantly produced polypeptide
comprises a biologically added protecting group by connected to a C-terminal α-carboxyl

group by an amide bond;

   the cleaving step includes severing the amide bond with an enzymatic cleavage
reagent to produce an unprotected C-terminal α-carboxyl reactive group.
The method of claim 9 wherein the modifying step includes reacting the unprotected C-terminal
α-carboxyl reactive group with a chemical modifying agent to form an activated

C-terminal α-carboxylate group; and reacting the activated α-carboxylate group with an
α-amine group of an amino acid or peptide to form a C-terminal modified α-carboxyl

group.
The method of any of claims 1-10 wherein the recombinantly produced polypeptide
comprises a first polypeptide protected at an N-terminal α-amine group or a C-terminal α-carboxyl

group by the biologically added protecting group; and the first polypeptide
includes at least two copies of a second polypeptide.
The method of any of claims 1-11 wherein biologically added protecting group comprises
a binding protein connected to the N-terminal α-amine group or C-terminal α-carboxyl

group by an interconnecting peptide. 
The method of any of claim 1-12 wherein the reacting step comprises reacting an amine
side chain group with an acylating agent or a carbamating agent to form an amine side

chain protected polypeptide; and

   the cleaving step includes severing an amide bond between the biologically added
protecting group and a C-terminal arginine residue with trypsin to produce an unprotected

C-terminal α-carboxyl reactive group.
The method of claim 13 wherein the modifying step comprises reacting the unprotected
C-terminal α-carboxyl reactive group with an amidating agent to form a C-terminal α-carboxamide.
The method of any of claim 1-14 wherein the cleaving step includes severing a
connecting amide bond between the biologically added protecting group and the N-terminal

α-amine group with the cleavage reagent to produce an unprotected N-terminal
α-amine reactive group; and

   the modifying step includes modifying the unprotected N-terminal α-amine
reactive group with the chemical modifying agent to form an acylated N-terminal α-amine

group.
The method of claim 15 wherein the modifying step includes adding a urethane blocked
amino acid to the unprotected N-terminal α-amine reactive group in the presence of

carbodiimide.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
