<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654681</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hyper-precision SAR interferometry using a dual-antenna multi-pass SAR system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1390	G01S1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An interferometric synthetic aperture radar system for 
producing a highly precise three dimensional SAR image comprises 

a synthetic aperture radar system having two antennas separated 
by a predetermined separation distance which generates data 

comprising complex image pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
) representative of an 
image scene. Further provided are processing means for processing 

(21-24) the data comprising the complex image pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
), 
for calibrating (21) the data comprising the complex image pairs 

(A
2k
, A
2k+1
) to provide calibrated data, for processing (22) the 
calibrated data to generate a low ambiguity SAR elevation map, 

for processing (23) the low ambiguity SAR elevation map to 
provide an enhanced SAR elevation map, and for processing (24) 

the enhanced SAR elevation map to produce a precise three 
dimensional SAR image. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYTHEON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYTHEON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANKOT ROBERT T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANKOT, ROBERT T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to SAR interferometry, and more particularly, to
hyper-precision SAR interferometry using a dual-antenna multi-pass SAR system and
processing method.Previous SAR interferometers were either dual antenna systems, such as are
described in L. C. Graham, "Synthetic Interferometer Radar for Topographic Mapping",
Proc. IEEE, Vol. 64, pp. 763-768, June 1974, achieving limited relative accuracy,
or were derived from post processing of data from pass-to-pass, as is described
by F. Li and R. Goldstein, "Studies of Multi-baseline Spaceborne Interferometric
Synthetic Aperture Radars", IEEE Trans. Geocsience and Remote Sensing, Vol. 28,
pp. 88-97, January 1990, achieving limited absolute accuracy due to phase ambiguities
and lack of relative calibration.The synthesis of dual-antenna and multi-pass interferometry is technically difficult
because of problems in effectively combining the two types of data. A process of
simply averaging data from different passes is not effective because the phase functions
have imprecisely known differences in scale (interferometer baseline), they have
unknown systematic error terms (at least affine in range-azimuth), they include possibly
severe random noise, and, after all of these degradations, are only measurable modulo
2π. This also precludes the superficial application of traditional ambiguity resolution
techniques, for example the independent application of the Chinese Remainder Theorem
in each range-azimuth cell. Selecting the phase difference basically from one image pair
or another, as a function of phase variance, also fails for the same reasons. The present invention is an interferometric SAR system and processing method
that combines multi-pass SAR interferometry with dual-antenna SAR interferometry to
obtain elevation maps with accuracy unobtainable by either method alone. A single
pass of the dual-antenna system provides coarse elevation maps. High accuracy maps
are obtained through additional passes, with accuracy determined by the number of
passes. The processing method employed in the interferometric SAR system combines
the acquired data to provide a calibrated, high precision, low ambiguity elevation map,
using approximate least-squares and maximum-likelihood processing methods.The traditional dual-antenna SAR interferometer (used as a component of the
present invention) collects two complex SAR images from slightly different elevation
angles on each pass using two antennas on the same platform, providing calibrated
maps that have coarse
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An interferometric synthetic aperture radar system
(10) for producing a highly precise three dimensional SAR image,

said system (10) comprising:

a synthetic aperture radar system (11) having two antennas
(12, 13) separated by a predetermined separation distance (B
0,1
)
which generates data comprising complex image pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
)
representative of an image scene (15); and
processing means for processing (21-24) the data comprising
the complex ima
ge pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
), for calibrating (21) the
data comprising the complex image pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
) to provide
calibrated data, for processing (22) the calibrated data to

generate a low ambiguity SAR elevation map, for processing (23)
the low ambiguity SAR elevation map to provide an enhanced SAR

elevation map, and for processing (24) the enhanced SAR elevation
map to produce a precise three dimensional SAR image.
The system of claim 1, characterized in that said
processing means comprises:


means for processing (25) the data using low frequency
phase error processing to remove low frequency phase inconsistencies

between same-pass image pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
);
means for processing (26) the data using inter-pass, low
frequency processing to remove low frequency phase inconsistencies

between inter-pass image pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
); and
means for processing (27) the data using inter-pass baseline
processing to provide a coarse estimate of the elevation angle

separation between each pass.
The system of claim 2, characterized in that said
processing means comprises:


means for processing the calibrated data to add (72) data
from the dual-antenna interferometer (11) to reduce the effects

of noise; and
means for spatially phase unwrapping (73) the calibrated
data to resolve minor ambiguities in the coarse elevation

estimate.
The system of claim 2 or claim 3, characterized in
that said processing means comprises:


means for providing inter-pass residual phase processing
(81) of the data to compute the phase update attributable to

each pass of the interferometer (11),
means for providing average scaled residual processing
(83) of the data to combine these multiple phase updates with

desired relative scaling into a single update; and
means for processing the single update to update (88) the
elevation map provided by coarse elevation angle estimation.
The system of claim 4, characterized in that said
processing means comprises:

   means for iteratively processing (90) the updated elevation
map to provide an enhanced elevation map having greater accuracy.
The system of any of claims 1 - 5, characterized in
that said processing means comprises:


means for predicting phase and magnitude of a dominant
surface in the image scene to provide (92) predicted data;
means for subtracting the predicted data from the image
data to provide (92) residual data; and
means for estimating (95) the elevation of the residual
data.
A method (20) of processing synthetic array radar
data comprising complex image pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
) generated by a dual-antenna
interferometric synthetic aperture radar system (10) to produce

a precise three dimensional SAR image, said method (20) comprising
the steps of:


calibrating (21) the data comprising the complex image
pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
) to provide calibrated data;
generating (22) low ambiguity SAR elevation map from the
calibrated data;
generating (23) enhanced SAR elevation map by processing
the low ambiguity SAR elevation map; and
generating (24) a highly precise three dimensional SAR
image by processing the enhanced SAR elevation map.
The method of claim 7, characterized in that said
step (21) of calibrating the data comprises the steps of:


processing (25) the data using low frequency phase error
processing to remove low frequency phase inconsistencies between

same-pass image pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
);
processing (26) the data using inter-pass, low frequency
processing to remove low frequency phase inconsistencies between

inter-pass image pairs (A
2k
, A
2k+1
); and
processing (27) the data using inter-pass baseline processing
to provide a coarse estimate of the elevation angle

separation between each pass.
The method of claim 7, characterized in that said
step (22) of generating a low ambiguity SAR elevation map

comprises the steps of:

processing (72) the calibrated data to add data from the
dual-antenna interferometer (11) to reduce the effects of noise

and
spatially phase unwrapping (73) the calibrated data to
resolve minor ambiguities in the coarse elevation angle estimation

step (27).
The method of claim 7 or claim 8, characterized in
that said step (23) of generating an enhanced SAR elevation

map comprises the steps of:

inter-pass residual phase processing (81) to compute the
phase update attributable to each pass of the interferometer;
average scaled residual processing (82) to combine these
multiple phase updates with desired relative scaling into a

single update; and
processing (88) the single update to update the elevation
map provided by the coarse elevation step (22).
The method of claim 10, characterized in that said
step (23) of generating an enhanced SAR elevation map further

comprises the step (90) of:

   iteratively processing the updated elevation map to provide
greater accuracy under adverse conditions and to provide an

enhanced elevation map.
The method of any of claims 7 - 11, characterized
in that said step (24) of generating a highly precise three

dimensional SAR image comprises the steps of:

predicting (92) the phase and magnitude of a dominant
surface in the image scene (15) to provide predicted data;
subtracting (92) the predicted data from the image data;
estimating (95) the elevation of residual data; and
repeating (97) the above three steps (92, 95) for each
pass.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
