<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625100</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VEHICLE WITH RETRACTABLE WHEEL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60F300	B60F300	B62D6100	B62D6112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60F	B60F	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60F3	B60F3	B62D61	B62D61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vehicle has a wheel (10) which is movable between a lower position in which it can be used, and a raised position for storage, by a wheel retraction mechanism (14). The retraction mechanism comprises a support element (48) connected to the wheel via a coupling on the element and includes a rotary member movable by a chain (50) drive for moving the element in a path encompassing a highest position of the coupling, a lowest position of the coupling, a downward return beyond the highest position and an upward return beyond the lowest position. The mechanism includes respective abutment stops (56, 58) disposed in the path of the element on the downward and upward returns to block further movement of the element with the coupling over-centred. This supports the wheel in both the raised and lowered positions against the prevailing forces on the element. An additional independent locking system for the extreme positions of the retraction mechanism is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDOX LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDOX LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROYLE DAVID ALBERT CYRIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROYLE, DAVID ALBERT CYRIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VEHICLE WITH RETRACTABLE WHEELThe present invention relates to vehicles with retractable wheels, particularly, but not exclusively, suitable for use in amphibious craft. In particular the invention concerns the supporting of the wheel position while the wheel is in use.There are many different disclosures of amphibious craft but in most cases the wheels are moveable between a lower position in which they engage the ground and via which the craft is driven on land, and a raised position in which they are stored while they are not in use. In order to reach the required current levels of safety it is necessary to support the wheels in at least the lower position. In most disclosures the wheels are held in the lower position by the retraction mechanism which raises and lowers the wheels, for example a hydraulic ram. This does not provide adequate safety as it does not cater for ram failure. In the upper position the wheels are also held and firmly supported by the retraction mechanism.It is the object of the invention primarily to provide a safety stop for the wheel mechanism to support the wheels, particularly in the lower position when carrying the vehicle weight. According to the present invention there is provided a vehicle having a wheel which is moveable between a lower position and a raised position by a wheel retraction mechanism, characterised in that the retraction mechanism comprises a support element connected to the wheel via a coupling on the element and means for moving the said element in a path encompassing a highest position of the coupling, a lowest position of the coupling, and an upward return beyond the said lowest position; the means for moving the element comprising a rotary member and the mechanism including 

an abutment disposed in the path of the element to limit the upward return of the element.The support element may be an arm which is swung by the rotary member so that the said highest and lowest positions of the coupling are on a vertical plane taken through the axis of the rotary member. The rotary member may be directly driven from a motor, or may be turned indirectly by a transmission such as a chain, band or rope. Alternatively the support element may be a bar or rod which is carried on an elliptical path by a transmission such as a chain, band or rope. The transmission may be continuous. Alternatively the tranmission may have fixed ends and means is provided to transmit the rotary movement by action on the transmission between the ends. It is preferred that the rotary
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A vehicle having a wheel which is moveable between a lower position and a raised position by a wheel retraction mechanism, characterised in that the retraction mechanism comprises a support element connected to the wheel via a coupling on the element and means for moving the said element in a path encompassing a highest position of the coupling, a lowest position of the coupling, and an upward return beyond the said lowest position; the means for moving the element comprising a rotary member and the mechanism including an abutment disposed in the path of the element to limit the upward return of the element.
2. A vehicle according to claim 1 wherein the said path includes a downward return beyond the said highest position and the retraction mechanism includes an abutment disposed in the path of the support element to limit the down return of the element past the highest position of the coupling.
3. A vehicle according to any of the preceding claims wherein the support element is connected to the wheel via a suspension device or shock absorber.
4. A vehicle according to any of the preceding claims wherein the rotary member is driven via a transmission.
5. A vehicle according to claim 4 wherein the rotary member is a wheel in the form of a sprocket or truckle.
6. A vehicle according to claim 4 or 5 wherein the transmission is in the form of chain means. 


7. A vehicle according to any of claims 4,5, or 6 wherein the transmission is a conveyor driven over upper and lower sprocket or truckle wheels and the said element is a member mounted on the conveyor, the abutment or abutments being located adjacent the conveyor in the path of the member to stop the member in an over-centred position.
8. A vehicle according to any of the preceding claims including a guide fitted to determine the path of the wheel during retraction in response to movement of the support element.
9. A vehicle according to claim 8 wherein the said guide is a pillar, the wheel being attached to a collar which is slidable along the pillar and the collar being connected to the said element optionally via a suspension device or damper unit.
10. A vehicle according to any of claims 4 to 6 wherein the element comprises at least one crank arm which is rotatable about an axis between upper and lower extreme pivotal positions defined by respective abutments, the said coupling being spaced from the said axis and the total angle of movement of the arm between the extreme positions being greater than 180 degrees.
11. A vehicle according to claim 10 characterised by a subsidiary locking arrangement for the retractable wheel mechanism, wherein the locking arrangement comprises a locking bar pivotally connected at one end to the crank arm to pivot with respect to the arm, and pivotally mounted via a support at the other end, the arrangement including means allowing for the change in distance between the said one end of the locking bar and the said support as the crank arm pivots, and means operable to 


lock the locking bar when the crank arm is in an extreme pivotal position.
12. A vehicle according to claim 11 wherein the locking bar is mounted via the said support to pivot, and to slide on a first path, as the crank arm pivots; wherein the means operable to prevent the said one end of the locking bar from moving includes a locking member which is moveable in a second path intersecting the first path; wherein a locking operation includes the transfer of the locking member on the second path to block the first path to prevent sliding movement of the locking bar across the first path and thus to prevent movement of the crank arm and wheel.
13. A vehicle according to claim 12 wherein the locking member is supported and guided on a track, or slidable within a passage, which intersects the said first path of the locking bar.
14. A vehicle according to any of claims 11 to 13 wherein the locking member is at least partially tapered or wedge-shaped. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
