<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613350</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EYE FIXATION DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1702	A61B1702	A61B1730	A61B1730	A61F9007	A61F9007	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61F9	A61F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHER NEAL A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHER, NEAL A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHER NEAL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHER, NEAL A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EYE FIXATION DEVICEFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe invention relates to an eye fixation device useful in restraining movement of an eye during ophthalmic procedures.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn a variety of surgical procedures on the eye, it is desirable or necessary to prevent the eye from moving. Examples include corneal refractive surgery, corneal laser surgery (e.g., with the 193nm excimer laser), and radial keratotomy. Currently, ophthalmologists often merely use a pair of forceps to stabilize the eye during such procedures. Obviously, this can be less than satisfactory, as it can sometimes be difficult to get a secure grip on the eyeball, squeezing the eye with the forceps can elevate intraocular pressure, thereby temporarily deforming the shape of the cornea (which can adversely affect the procedure being performed), and this technique occupies one of the surgeon's hands, preventing him from using both hands to hold other instruments or hold the patient's head still.One device that has been proposed for use in fixating the eye of a patient is shown in U.S. Patent No. 5,009,660 (Clapham). The Clapham device utilizes a vacuum ring carried at the end of a handle which extends away from the vacuum ring at an angle. The vacuum ring can be secured to the eye around the cornea. The device is somewhat cumbersome, however, and still requires the surgeon to hold the device manually to prevent movement of the eye.U.S. Patent No. 4,718,418 (L'Esperance) uses a vacuum ring which can be placed on the eye, but the vacuum ring is rigidly connected to an external piece of equipment (in this case, a laser used in treatment of the eye). This technique has inherent dangers, however, in that if the patient should panic or, for whatever reason, attempt to move away from the rigid device, serious trauma to the eye can result.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention provides a fixation device for securing a patient's eye during an ophthalmic procedure. The device includes a speculum for holding the patient's eyelid open, the speculum seating against the bony orbit of the eye. A fixation ring 

 includes means for fixating the ring with respect to the eye (such as by vacuum), and means for adjustably attaching the ring to the speculum.In use, the speculum is first inserted into the eye and seated against the bony orbit. The fixation ring is then placed concentrically around the cornea (typically seating on the episclera). The surgeon then has the patient look directly at a particular target (to properly align the eye, e.g.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An ophthalmic instrument for fixating a patient's eye during an ophthalmic procedure, comprising:
-it a speculum including a pair of opposed blades securable against the ^ patient's bony orbit; a fixation ring including means for fixating the ring with respect to the eye; and attachment means for adjustably attaching the ring to the blades of the speculum and permitting lateral and longitudinal adjustment of the fixation ring with respect to the speculum after the fixation ring is fixated with respect to the eye.
2. The instrument of Claim 1 wherein the attachment means includes a pair of attachment plates secured to the fixation ring.
3. The instrument of Claim 2 wherein the attachment means further comprises vacuum means connected to the speculum for securing the attachment plates to the speculum.
4. An ophthalmic instrument for fixating a patient's eye during an ophthalmic procedure, comprising: a speculum securable against the patient's bony orbit, a fixation ring including means for fixating the ring with respect to the eye; and attachment means for adjustably attaching the ring to the speculum, the attachment means including a pair of attachment plates secured to the fixation ring and vacuum means connected to the speculum for securing the attachment plates to the speculum, the speculum including a pair of opposed blades, each blade including a generally flat top surface having holes therein associated with the vacuum means, the holes being located to provide vacuum to secure the attachment plates to the speculum blades when the vacuum means is actuated.
5. The instrument of Claim 1 including further attachment means for securing the speculum to a head band worn by the patient.
6. The instrument of Claim 1 wherein the opposed blades engage the 


 patient's eyelid against the patient's bony orbit, the blades being biased away from one another.
7. The instrument of Claim 1 wherein the means for fixating the ring with respect to the eye comprises a vacuum source and passageways defined in the fixation ring for communicating the vacuum source with a bottom surface of the ring securable against the patient's eye.
8. An ophthalmic instrument for fixating a patient's eye during an ophthalmic procedure, comprising: a speculum securable against the patient's bony orbit, the speculum including a pair of opposed blades for engaging the patient's eyelid against the patient's bony orbit, and means for biasing the blades away from one another, each blade including a generally flat top surface having holes therein communicatable with a vacuum source; a fixation ring including fixation means for fixating the ring with respect to the eye, the fixation means comprising a vacuum source and passageways defined in the fixation ring for communicating the vacuum source with a bottom surface of the ring securable against the patient's eye; and attachment means for adjustably attaching the ring to the speculum, the attachment means including a pair of attachment plates secured to the fixation ring, and a second vacuum source connected to the speculum for providing vacuum in the holes in the speculum blades to secure the attachment plates to the speculum blades when the vacuum means is actuated.
9. An ophthalmic instrument for fixating a patient's eye during an ophthalmic procedure, comprising: a fixation ring including means for fixating the ring to the eye; and a level carried on the fixation ring for indicating orientation of the ring with respect to a reference plane.
10. The instrument of Claim 9 wherein the fixation ring includes a top and an outer side, and further comprising two such levels carried on the fixation ring, one being visible from the top of the ring, and the other being visible from a side of the ring.
11. The instrument of Claim 10 wherein the two levels are oriented 


generally perpendicularly with respect to one another.
12. The instrument of Claim 9 wherein the level comprises a liquid bubble- type level.
13. The instrument of Claim 9 including two such levels located generally perpendicular to one another for indicating orientation of the ring with respect to two generally perpendicular lines.
14. An ophthalmic instrument for fixating a patient's eye during an ophthalmic procedure, comprising: a speculum including a pair of opposed blades securable against the patient's bony orbit; a fixation ring including means for fixating the ring with respect to the eye; and attachment means for adjustably attaching the ring to the speculum and permitting lateral and longitudinal adjustment of the fixation ring with respect to the speculum after the fixation ring is fixated with respect to the eye.
15. A method of fixating a patient's eye during an ophthalmic procedure, comprising: securing a speculum having a pair of opposed blades against the patient's bony orbit; positioning a fixation ring on the surface of the patient's eye generally coaxially of the patient's cornea and then securing the ring to the surface of the patient's eye; and allowing the patient to move his/her eye to properly position it with respect to the speculum, and then securing the fixation ring to the speculum. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
