<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658201</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DNA SEQUENCES INVOLVED IN SORAPHEN BIOSYNTHESIS BY MYXOBACTERIA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N121	C12N1552	C12N1574	C12P2102	C12N1509	C12N1582	C07K14195	C12Q168	C12N1552	C12N1582	C12N1509	C12Q168	C07K14195	C12P2102	C12R101	C12N1578	C12N121	C07K1421	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12N	C12P	C12N	C12N	C07K	C12Q	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12Q	C07K	C12P	C12R	C12N	C12N	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N1	C12N15	C12N15	C12P21	C12N15	C12N15	C07K14	C12Q1	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C07K14	C12P21	C12R1	C12N15	C12N1	C07K14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention primarily relates to a DNA fragment which can be obtained from the gene cluster, which is responsible for soraphen biosynthesis, within the genome of (S. cellulosum) and comprises at least one gene or a part of a gene which codes for a polypeptide which is involved directly or indirectly in the biosynthesis of soraphen, and to methods for the preparation of said DNA fragment. The present invention further more relates to recombinant DNA molecules which comprise one of the DNA fragments according to the invention, and to the plasmids and vectors derived therefrom. Likewise embraced are host organisms which are transformed with said plasmid DNA or vector DNA.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNGENTA PARTICIPATIONS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNGENTA PARTICIPATIONS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIGON JAMES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEFF SNEZANA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUPP THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIGON, JAMES, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEFF, SNEZANA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUPP, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the area of recombinant DNA technology and in particular
to the application thereof to myxobacteria, but preferably to myxobacteria of the
Sorangium/Polyangium group, for the localization, identification and cloning of individual
genes and even of entire gene clusters within the bacterial genome.The myxobacteria of the Sorangium/Polyangium group are highly specialized organisms
which are frequently detectable in soil samples, dead plant material or in animal dung.
Characteristic of this group of microorganisms is, inter alia, their ability to utilize
cellulose or cellulose-containing degradation products as sole C source. Another
characteristic feature of this group is their ability to produce highly active secondary
metabolites.To date, numerous strains of this group of organisms which are able, for example, to
synthesize plant-microbicidal compounds have been described. Of particular importance
in this connection are the so-called soraphens, whose structural particulars are described in
detail, for example, in EP 0 358 606. The soraphens are macrocyclic compounds which
have a cytostatic activity and a favorable biocidal spectrum against pathogenic
microorganisms, but especially against phytopathogenic fungi. These compounds have
very advantageous curative, systemic and, in particular, preventive properties and are
therefore outstandingly suitable for use for the therapeutic treatment of mammalians and
protecting numerous crop plants.It is also known of other representatives of the group of myxobacteria that they are able to
synthesize highly active compounds with antibiotic and cytostatic potency [Reichenbach
et al (1988)]. Because of the pharmaceutical potential of these compounds and the
importance, resulting therefrom, for plant protection, there is great interest in
understanding the genetic bases of their synthesis in order thus to provide the possibility of
being able to influence them specifically where appropriate.This is desirable in particular because the natural producer strains, as also in the case of 
soraphen biosynthesis, very often provide the interesting secondary metabolites only in
inadequate concentrations which are far from sufficient to satisfy the demand for
substance for wider-ranging activity assays, to say nothing of commercial production.Furthermore, these strains prove in many cases to be problematical and difficult to handle
and therefore unsuitable for use on an industrial scale, for example in a fermentation
process.It would therefore be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A DNA fragment of a myxobacterial genome which comprises a DNA region
comprising at least one gene which is involved directly or indirectly in the biosynthesis

of soraphen, including the adjacent DNA regions on the right and left, which, because
of their function in connection with soraphen biosynthesis, are revealed as constituent

of the "soraphen gene cluster" and which can be identified with the aid of the 4.6 Kb
BamHI fragment from the gral region of the granaticin gene cluster of 
Streptomyces
violaceoruber
 Tü22 as hybridization probe within the genomic gene bank.
A DNA fragment according to claim 1, wherein the said DNA region is obtainable
from the gene cluster which is responsible for soraphen biosynthesis in the genome of

a myxobacterium from the 
sorangium
/
polyangium
 group.
A DNA fragment according to claim 1 , wherein the said DNA region is obtainable
from the gene cluster which is responsible for soraphen biosynthesis in the genome of


S. cellulosum.
A DNA fragment according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said fragment
comprises a 1.8 Kb SalI DNA region which is obtainable from the 
Sorangium
cellulosum
 genome and which comprises the nucleotide part-sequence depicted in
SEQ ID NO 1, as well as all other DNA sequences which are involved directly or

indirectly in the biosynthesis of soraphen and which, because of homologies which are
present, can be regarded as structural and functional equivalents and therefore are

able to hybridize with this sequence.
A DNA fragment according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said fragment
comprises a Pvul DNA region of about 6.5 Kb which is obtainable from the 
Sorangium
cellulosum
 genome and has the restriction pattern depicted in Fig. 1 and additionally
also includes the 1.8 Kb region 
characterized in
 detail above.
A DNA fragment according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said fragment
comprises a DNA region comprising at least one gene which is involved directly or

indirectly in the biosynthesis of soraphen, including the adjacent DNA regions on the
right and left, which have homologies with the 4.6 Kb BamHI fragment from the gral

region of the granaticin gene cluster [ORF 1 -4] of 
Streptomyces violaceoruber
 Tü22
and which therefore can be found by use of this 4.6 Kb fragment or of parts of this

fragment as hybridization probe within a genomic gene bank of a soraphen-producing
organism. 
A DNA fragment according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said DNA fragment
comprises exclusively genomic DNA.
A DNA fragment according to claim 4, wherein said 1.8 Kb DNA fragment is a SalI
fragment from the genome of 
Sorangium cellulosum.
A DNA fragment according to any of claims 1 to 8, which comprises the
nucleotide part-sequence depicted in SEQ ID NO 1, or else a sequence which is

involved directly or indirectly in the biosynthesis of soraphen and which, because
of homologies which are present, can be regarded as structural and functional

equivalent to said part-sequence and is therefore able to hybridize with this
sequence.
A DNA fragment which has the nucleotide sequence depicted in SEQ ID NO 1.
A DNA fragment according to claim 5, wherein said DNA fragment of about
6.5 Kb is a Pvul fragment from the genome of 
Sorangium cellulosum.
A recombinant DNA molecule comprising one of the DNA fragments according
to any of claims 1 to 11.
A vector comprising one of the DNA fragments according to any of claims 1 to 11.
A vector according to claim 13, which is a transformation vector.
A vector according to claim 13, which is an expression vector.
A host organism comprising a vector according to any of claims 13 to 15.
A method for the identification, isolation and cloning of a DNA fragment which
can be obtained from the gene cluster, which is responsible for soraphen

biosynthesis, within the genome of 
S. cellulosum
 and comprising at least one gene
which is involved directly or indirectly in the biosynthesis of soraphen, which

method essentially comprises the following measures:

(a) construction of a representative gene library of a soraphen-producing organism
from the group of myxobacteria, which essentially comprises the totality of the

bacterial genome distributed on single clones; 
(b) screening of said clones using a specific DNA probe of the 4.6 Kb BamHl
fragment from the gral region of the granaticin gene cluster of 
Streptomyces
violaceoruber
 Tü22 or of the DNA according to claim 1, which hybridizes at least
with a part of the gene cluster which is involved directly or indirectly in the ,

biosynthesis of soraphen, including the adjacent DNA regions on the right and
left, which, because of their function in connection with soraphen biosynthesis,

are revealed as constituent of the "soraphen gene cluster";
(c) selection of those clones which exhibit a hybridization signal with the DNA probe;
and
(d) isolation of a DNA fragment from said clone, which comprises at least one gene
which is involved directly or indirectly in the biosynthesis of soraphen.
A method according to claim 17, wherein said soraphen-producing organism is a
myxobacterium from the 
sorangium
/
polyangium
 group.
A method according to claim 17, wherein said soraphen-producing organism is

Sorangium cellulosum.
A method according to claim 17, wherein said gene library is a genomic gene
library.
A method according to claim 17, wherein said hybridization probe is a DNA
fragment according to any of claims 4 to 6.
A method according to claim 17, wherein said hybridization probe is a DNA
fragment according to any of claims 8 to 11.
A method according to claim 17, wherein sequence sections which originate
from the flanking regions, located on the right and left, of said DNA fragments are

used as hybridization probe.
A method according to claim 17, wherein the function of the DNA fragment,
isolated according to (d), in soraphen biosynthesis is detected within the scope of

gene disruption investigations. 
A method for the identification and isolation of all those DNA sequences which
are involved in the construction of the 'soraphen gene cluster' flanking the initial or

start region, which comprises

(a) constructing a representative gene library of a soraphen-producing organism from
the group of myxobacteria, which essentially comprises the totality of the bacterial

genome distributed on single clones;
(b) hybridizing said clones using one of the previously isolated DNA fragments
according to claim 1 or selected parts thereof as probe molecule, which overlap at

least with a part of the adjacent DNA regions located on the right and left,
respectively, within the 'soraphen gene cluster';
(c) selecting those clones which exhibit a strong hybridization signal with the DNA
probe;
(d) isolating those fragments which comprise overlapping DNA regions from the clones
selected according to (c), and isolating the fragment which projects furthest beyond

the region of overlap;
(e) testing the DNA fragments isolated according to (d) for its ability to function
within the 'soraphen gene cluster';
(f) if it is possible to detect a function of the DNA fragment isolated according to
(d) within the scope of soraphen biosynthesis, repeating the method

according to steps (a) to (e), wherein the DNA fragment isolated according to
(d), or selected parts thereof, but especially those from the left or right

flanking region of said fragment, now function as DNA probe, until a function
in soraphen biosynthesis is no longer detectable within the scope of the

function test on the particular newly isolated DNA fragment, and thus the end
of the gene cluster is reached; and
(g) carrying out the method according to steps (a) to (f) where appropriate in
the other direction which has not previously been selected.
A method according to claim 25, wherein said soraphen-producing
organism is a myxobacterium from the 
sorangium
/
polyangium
 group. 
A method according to claim 25, wherein said soraphen-producing
organism is 
Sorangium cellulosum.
A method according to claim 25, wherein said gene library is a genomic gene library.
A method according to claim 25, wherein said hybridization probe is a
DNA fragment according to any of claims 4 to 6.
A method according to claim 25, wherein said hybridization probe is a
DNA fragment according to any of claims 8 to 11.
A method according to claim 25, wherein sequence sections which
originate from the flanking regions, located on the right and left, of said DNA

fragments are used as hybridization probe.
A method according to claim 25, wherein a suitable fragment is identified
in step (d) by hybridization analysis.
A method according to claim 25, wherein the function of the DNA fragment,
isolated according to (d), in soraphen biosynthesis is detected within the scope of gene

disruption investigations.
A probe molecule comprising selected parts of the DNA regions which are located
on a DNA fragment according to any of claims 1 to 11 for finding adjacent regions

which overlap with said DNA regions.
A probe molecule according to claim 34, wherein said selected parts are
obtainable from the flanking regions, located on the right and left, of said DNA region.
The use of a DNA fragment according to any of claims 8 to 11 as probe molecule
in a method according to either of claims 17 or 25.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
