<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620751</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTRAVASCULAR MEMBRANE LUNG APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M114	A61M114	A61M116	A61M116	A61M118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An intravascular membrane lung is adapted for percutaneous venous insertion into a living body and comprises an elongated multi lumen catheter and elongated gas exchange members in the form of a large number of microporous fibers tethered at one end to the catheter and extending away from the catheter in all directions. The microporous fibers are in communication with the lumina of the catheter which includes one conduit for delivery of 100% oxygen to the fibers and another conduit for flushing away carbon dioxide from the fibers. The catheter extends between a proximal end and a distal end being a leading end for insertion into the body. The distal end includes a selectively inflatable balloon having an enlarged size larger than a nominal transverse dimension of said catheter and smaller than the inner nominal dimensions of any of the body cavities into which it extends. Upon insertion into the femoral vein, the blood flowing back to the natural lungs of the body propel the catheter and its attached microporous fibers through the inferior vena cava, then into and through the right ventricle, then into and through the pulmonary artery. Another lumen of the catheter serves to receive a fiber optic bundle to monitor oxygenation of the blood which has passed over the device and still another lumen is provided for sampling blood at the tip of the catheter.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PENN STATE RES FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PENN STATE RES FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIGH KANE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PANOL GEORG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICHARD RUSSELL B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSSELL GARFIELD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SNIDER MICHAEL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STENE JOHN K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ULTMAN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIGH KANE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PANOL GEORG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICHARD RUSSELL B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSSELL GARFIELD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SNIDER MICHAEL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STENE JOHN K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ULTMAN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTRAVASCULAR MEMBRANE LUNG APPARATUSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to artificial lungs and, more particularly, to a new configuration intravascular membrane lung which, after percutaneous insertion, will be capable of exchanging the entire basal oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production of an adult man or woman.2. Description of the Prior ArtIntravascular membrane lungs have notable benefits. They do not require blood pumps, nor lung resection. In addition, the intravascular membrane lung has the advantage that the skin and circulation need only be violated at one location for its insertion at a peripheral site. This may lessen the risk of infection. However, known devices also have significant shortcomings. Unfortunately, the largest model of the most advanced current design, the intravenous oxygenator (IVOX) , disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,583,969 to Mortensen, can at best exchange only approximately 40% of basal metabolic needs of the adult patient. Most current designs of intravascular membrane lungs cannot be inserted percutaneously, and 

 require cutdown on the vessel prior to insertion. Any device which is to have widespread use must be capable of rapid insertion using something similar to the well known Seldinger technique. Membrane lungs mounted paracorporeally outside the chest wall, with or without a blood pump, is actually extracorporeal membrane oxygenation with a special cannulation site. Also, a device with a single insertion site has little effect on the turning of a patient for chest physical therapy as would a paracorporeal mounted lung with two cannulae protruding from the chest.The physical/chemical properties of the oxygen dissociation curve presented in Fig. 1 shows the limit of the amount of oxygen which can be transferred into a given blood flow stream by an intravascular lung. Even if an intravascular lung had no convective or diffusion limitations to oxygen transfer, the maximum oxygen transfer would still be limited by the blood flow rate across the device and the oxygen saturation of the input blood. This occurs because the oxygen saturation curve constrains the oxygen content of the blood exiting the device. Hence, the maximum oxygen transport is limited " to the product of the difference between 100% flow rate over the device, and the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. A gas exchanger such as the IVOX of the Mortensen patent which primarily processes inferior vena caval blood, or approximately half
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus adapted for percutaneous venous insertion into a living body comprising:
elongated multi lumen catheter means having a longitudinal axis; and
elongated gas exchange means tethered-at one end to said catheter means so as to be in communication with the lumina thereof and extending transversely of the longitudinal axis to a free sealed end distant from said catheter means;
said 
'
 catheter means including a first conduit for delivery of a first gas to said gas exchange means and a second conduit for removal of a second gas from said gas exchange means.
2. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 1
wherein said catheter means extends between a proximal end and a distal end being a leading end for insertion, by way of an incision, into and through the 


 25
7 inferior vena cava, then into and through
8 the right ventricle, then into and
9 through the pulmonary artery; and
10 wherein said distal end includes a
11 selectively inflatable balloon having an
12 enlarged size larger than a nominal
13 transverse dimension of said catheter
14 means and smaller than the inner nominal
15 dimensions of any of the body cavities
16 into which it extends.
1 3. Intravascular membrane lung
2 apparatus as set forth in Claim 1
3 wherein said catheter means includes:
4 an elongated flexible tubular member
5 having a plurality of first and second
6 apertures at spaced locations;
7 a plurality of manifold sleeves sealingly
8 fixed to said tubular member at spaced
9 apart locations, each of said manifold
10 sleeves overlying and containing a pair
11 of the first and second apertures of said
12 tubular member, each of the first 
3
 apertures being in communication with
14 said first conduit and each of the second 
i5
 apertures being in communication with l
β
 said second conduit; 


 each of said manifold sleeves having a plurality of spaced holes therein for . reception of said gas exchange means.
4. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 3
wherein said catheter means is composed of extruded polyvinyl chloride which is heparin-coated; and
wherein each of said manifold sleeves is composed of polycarbonate which is heparin-coated; and
wherein said elongated gas exchange means includes a plurality of tubular microporous polypropylene fibers, said fibers being sealingly fixed to said manifold sleeves at the holes therein.
5. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 4
wherein said tubular member is cylindrical and has an outer peripheral surface; and
wherein each of said manifold sleeves includes:
a cylindrical wall having an outer peripheral surface parallel to that of 


 27
said tubular member and defining an annular space between said outer ■ peripheral surface of said tubular member and said cylindrical wall, the holes therein being at a plurality of longitudinally and circumferentially spaced locations; and
a pair of perforated end caps lying in spaced parallel planes, said end caps sealingly attached to said tubular member at the _perforations therein and integrally extending to said__cy_-.__ndr_ ;
'
al
~
 wall.
6. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 5
wherein said tubular member has an outer diameter _.n the range of approximately 2.5 mm to 5.0 mm and has a wall thickness in the range of approximately 0.05 mm to 0.2 mm;
wherein each of said manifold sleeves is approximately 1.0 cm long and has an outer diameter in the range of approximately 4.6 mm to 5.0 mm and has a wall thickness in the range of approximately 0.6 mm to 0.8 mm; 


 28
14
 wherein said manifold sleeves are spaced
15 approximately 1.0 cm apart along the
16 length of said tubular member; and
17 wherein each of said microporous fibers
18 has an outer diameter in the range of
19 approximately 0.3 mm to 0.5 mm and has a
20 wall thickness in the range of
21 approximately 0.03 mm to 0.06 mm.
1 7. Intravascular membrane lung
2 apj?ara-t-us---__3 set forth in Claim 5
3 wherein said catheter means includes:
4 a first region for placement generally
5 within and substantially coterminous with
6 the pulmonary artery;
Z——— -
~~^
 a second region for placement generally within and substantially coterminous with the right ventricle; and
10
 a third region for placement generally
11 within and substantially coterminous with
12 the inferior vena cava; and
3 wherein a first plurality of said 4 manifold sleeves are mounted on said 5 tubular member at
"
said first region; 


 29
wherein a second plurality of said manifold sleeves are mounted on said tubular member at said second region; and
wherein a third plurality of said manifold sleeves are mounted on said tubular member at said third region; and
wherein said microporous fibers extend generally radially away from said manifold sleeves at said first region by a first substantially uniform distance;
wherein said microporous fibers extend generally radially away from said manifold sleeves at said second region by a second substantially uniform distance; and
wherein said microporous fibers extend generally radially away from said manifold sleeves at said third region by a third substantially uniform distance;
all in general conformity with the dimensions of the body cavities into which said catheter means is inserted.
8. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 1
wherein said catheter means is heparin coated for minimizing the risk of 


 30
hemorrhage at the location of insertion of insertion thereof into the living body.
9. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 1
wherein said catheter means extends between a proximal end and a distal end being a leading end for insertion, by way of an incision, into and through the inferior vena cava, then into and through the right ventricle, then into and through the pulmonary artery and includes:
a third conduit; and
fiberoptic means extending through said third conduit between said proximal and distal ends for monitoring oxygenation of the blood which had passed over said gas exchange means.
10. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 1
wherein said catheter means extends between a proximal end and a distal end and includes:
a fourth conduit; and 


 31
sensing means extending between said proximal and distal ends for sampling the blood at the distal end thereof.
11. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus adapted for percutaneous venous insertion into a living body comprising:
elongated multi lumen catheter means having a longitudinal axis and including first, second, and third gas exchange regions; and
hollow gas exchange means tethered at one end to said catheter means at each of said first, second, and third gas exchange regions so as to be in communication with the lumina thereof and extending multi directionally transversely of the longitudinal axis to a free sealed end distant from said catheter means;
said catheter means including a first conduit for delivery of a first gas to said gas exchange means and a second conduit for removal of a second gas from said gas exchange means;
such that, when placed in the living body, said first gas exchange region is positioned within and substantially coextensive with the pulmonary artery, 


 32
said second gas exchange region is positioned within and substantially • coextensive with the right ventricle, and said third gas exchange region is positioned within and substantially coextensive with the inferior vena cava.
12. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 11
wherein said gas exchange means includes a plurality of elongated microporous fibers sealingly fixed to said catheter means.
13. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 12
wherein said microporous fibers are composed of polypropylene.
14. Intravascular membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 11
wherein said catheter means is heparin coated for minimizing the risk of hemorrhage at the location of insertion thereof into the living body.
15. Intravascular 
'
membrane lung apparatus as set forth in Claim 11 


 3 wherein said catheter means includes a
4 cylindrical member and has an outer
5 peripheral surface; and
6 including a plurality of manifold 1 sleeves, wherein each of said manifold 8 sleeves includes:
9 a cylindrical wall having an outer 10 peripheral surface parallel to that of
11 said tubular member and defining an
12 annular space between said outer
1
 peripheral surface of said tubular member
1
4
 and said cylindrical wall, the holes
1
5
 therein being at a plurality of
16 longitudinally and circumferentially
17 spaced locations; and
18 a pair of perforated end caps lying in
19 spaced parallel planes, said end caps
20 sealingly attached to said cylindrical
21 member at the perforations therein and
22 integrally extending to said cylindrical
23 wall; and
24 wherein said hollow gas exchange means
25
 includes a plurality of tubular
26
 microporous polypropylene fibers, said
27
 fibers being sealingly fixed to said
28
 manifold sleeves at the holes therein for 29 communication with the annular space. 


 16. A method of implanting in a living body an intravascular membrane lung comprising the steps of:
(a) inserting percutaneously into the common femoral vein a distal end of an elongated multi lumen catheter means having a longitudinal axis and including first, second, and third gas exchange regions each with elongated gas exchange means tethered at one end thereof so as to be in communication with the lumina thereof and extending transversely of the longitudinal axis to a free sealed end distant from the catheter means; ;
(b) advancing the catheter means into the living body until the first gas exchange region is positioned within and substantially coextensive with the pulmonary artery, the second gas exchange region is positioned within and substantially coextensive with the right ventricle, and the third gas exchange region is positioned within and substantially coextensive with the inferior vena cava;
(c) delivering oxygen through one lumen of the catheter means to the gas exchange means and thence to the blood flowing across the gas exchange means; and 


 35
30 (
d
) through the catheter means, removing
31 carbon dioxide from the gas exchange
32 means and thereby from the blood flowing
33 across the gas exchange means.
1 17. A method as set forth in Claim 16
2 wherein the gas exchange means include a
3 plurality of elongated substantially
4 cylindrical hollow fiber means whose
5 walls are microporous membranes; and
6 wherein step (b) includes the step of:
7 (e) inflating a balloon having an
8 enlarged size larger than a nominal
9 transverse dimension of the catheter
10 means and smaller than the inner nominal
11 dimensions of any of the body cavities
12 into which it extends whereby blood
13 flowing back to the natural lungs of the
14 body will propel the catheter means with
15 its microporous fiber means into and
16 through the inferior vena cava, into and
17 through the right ventricle, and into and
18 through the pulmonary artery.
1 18. A method as set forth in Claim 16
2 wherein step (c) includes the steps of:
3 (f) delivering an amount of oxygen
4 through the catheter means to the gas 


 36
5 exchange means which is in excess of that
6 needed to fully oxygenate the blood
7 • passing across the gas exchange means;
8 and
9 wherein step (d) includes the steps of:
10 (g) allowing the CO in the blood to
11 leave the blood and cross the microporous
12 membranes of the fiber means by
13 diffusion, then diffuse along the length
14 of the fiber means to another lumen of
15 the catheter means; and
16 (h) withdrawing the CO and the excessive
17 oxygen for disposal and via the other
18 lumen of the catheter means.
1 19. A method as set forth in Claim 16
2 wherein the catheter means includes:
3 an elongated flexible tubular member
4 having first and second conduits therein;
5 and
6 a plurality of hollow microporous
7 polypropylene fibers mounted on the
8 tubular member so as to be in
9 communication with the first and second
10 conduits. 


 20. A method as set forth in Claim 16 including the step of:
(i) withdrawing blood samples from the distal end of the catheter means for electrometric and spectrophotometric measurement thereof.
21. A method as set forth in Claim 16 including the step of:
(j) fiberoptically monitoring oxygenation of the blood passing over the gas exchange means:
22. A method as set forth in Claim 16 including the step of:
(k) heparin coating the outer surfaces of the gas exchange means for minimizing the risk • of hemorrhage at the location of insertion of the catheter means into the living body.
23. A method as set forth in Claim 16
wherein step (c) includes the steps of:
(1) measuring the temperature of the blood in the living body; and
(m) heating the oxygen immediately prior to delivery thereof to the catheter means 


7 to a temperature in the range of
8 approximately 2 C to 5 C above the
9 temperture of the blood. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
