<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657020</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LASER GYRO HIGH VOLTAGE START MODULE AND HIGH VOLTAGE PULSE GENERATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C1966	H01S3097	H01S303	H01S303	H01S3083	H01S3081	G01C1964	H01S3097	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	G01C	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C19	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	G01C19	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high voltage start circuit includes a high voltage start module and high voltage pulse generator apparatus. The high voltage pulse generator amplifies a five volt pulse at 60KHz duty cycle to an output of 280 volts pulses at approximately 50 % duty cycle. A PN junction high voltage diode with a high forward voltage drop and a resistor divider drives and holds a first transistor out of saturation. A low voltage diode creates a dead band such that two high voltage start module transistors are never on at the same time. The high voltage module contains two high voltage blocking diodes which protect the laser gyro active current control circuitry during start up. Two small ballast resistors and a parallel 10 times voltage multiplier generate at least a 2500 VDC output. The high voltage start circuit is contained within a laser gyro housing and is configured to have a volume less than the volume of the ring laser gyro block.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNDT DALE F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILLPATRICK JOSEPH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNDT, DALE, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILLPATRICK, JOSEPH, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to laser gyros and, more particularly, to a method 
and apparatus for starting a laser gyro with high voltage generated within the housing 
containing the laser gyro from a low voltage supply. Ring laser angular rate sensors, often referred to as ring laser gyros, are well 
known. One example of a ring laser angular rate sensor is U.S. Patent No. 4,751,718 
issued to Hanse, et al., which is incorporated herein by reference. Present day ring laser 
angular rate sensors include a thermally and mechanically stable laser block having a 
plurality of interconnected formed cavities. Mirrors are placed at the extremities of the 
cavities for reflecting laser beams and providing an optical closed-looped path. Prior art high voltage power supplies for laser gyros used a 2,500VDC large 
external power supply placed outside of the laser gyro housing. The external supply 
required high voltage feed-throughs into the laser gyro housing through a high voltage 
feed-through connector. Such high voltage feed-throughs are expensive. Such high 
voltage feed-through connectors are also difficult to construct while still maintaining a 
hermetic seal for the laser gyro housing. Existing high voltage plastic seals can only 
maintain a vacuum to 10-6 Torr. In contrast, relatively inexpensive low voltage 
connector seals can handle a 10-9 Torr hermetic seal. The reader is informed of a system described in IEEE Plans 90 
Position Location and Navigation Syposium Record, Las Vegas, USA, 
20 - 23 March 1990, p. 528-536, JM Oelschlaeger et al: "GG1308 
Ring Laser Gyro Inertial Measurement Systems - Honeywell's Low 
Cost Solution for tactical applications", page 529-530, paragraph : 
"Unique product design for low cost". In this document a small 
dc signal is amplified to a 2000 V dc start voltage at 
the High Voltage Power Supply Module. This avoids the need to 
apply an external high voltage. It is, therefore, one motive of the invention to provide a laser gyro incorporating 
voltage supply lines that can utilize an inexpensive, hermetic connector. The invention provides a laser gyro high voltage start circuit including a high 
voltage pulse generator and high voltage module that allow the external gyro voltage 
supply to provide low voltages of +5VDC and +15VDC, with an inexpensive hermetic 
connector. The high voltage pulse generator amplifies a five volt pulse at 60KHz duty 
cycle to provide an output of 280 volt pulses at approximately a 50% duty cycle. The 
high voltage pulse generator
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A ring laser gyro (10) having a housing (17), wherein the ring laser gyro is being capable of 
being started with high voltage and comprises a low voltage power supply connection (334, 

335) to said housing which is hermetically sealed within said housing and further comprises 
a high voltage starting means (350) for starting the ring laser gyro (10) which is connected 

to said low voltage power supply connection (334, 335),
characterized in that
, said high voltage starting means (350) is contained 
within said housing (17) and comprises: 


a) a voltage pulse generator means (352) being fed by a low voltage DC signal and a pulse 
signal of predetermined frequency and duty cycle on said low voltage power supply 

connection (334, 335) in order to produce a low voltage AC output signal; and 
b) a voltage conversion means (354) connected to said low voltage AC signal (353) in 
order to provide an active current control output and a laser anode supply output. 
Ring laser gyro according to claim 1, 
characterized in that
 the voltage pulse 
generator means (352) further comprises: 


a) first resistor means (R1) with a first resistor means input connected to the alternating 
logic level input (335) wherein the first resistor means has a first resistor output; 
b) second resistor means (R2) with a second resistor input connected to the first resistor 
output wherein the second resistor means has a second resistor output; 
c) third resistor means (R3) with a third resistor input connected to the second resistor 
output wherein the third resistor means has a third resistor output connected to ground; 
d) first diode means (D1) with a first diode input connected to the first resistor output 
wherein the first diode means has a first diode output; 
e) first transistor means (T1) with a first base connected to the second resistor output, a 
first collector connected to the first diode output and a first emitter connected to 

ground; 
f) fourth resistor means (R4) with a fourth resistor input connected to the first diode 
output wherein the fourth resistor means has a fourth resistor output; 
g) second transistor means (T2) with a second base connected to the first diode output, a 
second collector connected to the fourth resistor output and a second emitter 

connected to the low voltage alternating current output;  
 
h) second diode means (D2) with a second diode input connected to a low voltage 
alternating current output wherein the second diode means has a second diode output 

connected to the first diode output; 
i) third diode means (D3) with a third diode input connected to the low voltage 
alternating current output wherein the third diode means has a third diode output 

connected to the low voltage alternating current output; 
j) fourth diode means (D4) with a fourth diode input connected to the fourth resistor 
output wherein the fourth diode means has a fourth diode output connected to the low 

voltage supply; and 
k) fifth resistor means (R5) with a fifth resistor input connected to the third resistor output 
wherein the fifth resistor means has a fifth resistor output connected to the low voltage 

alternating current output. 
Ring laser gyro according to claim 1, 
characterized in that
 the laser gyro 
has a first laser anode and a second laser anode, and wherein the voltage conversion means 

(354) further comprises: 

a) first active current controlled voltage supply (717); 
b) second active current controlled voltage supply (719); 
c) first diode means (CR1) with an input connected to the first active current controlled 
voltage supply wherein the first diode means has a first diode output; 
d) second diode means (CR2) with an input connected to the second active current 
controlled voltage supply wherein the second diode means has a second diode output; 
e) voltage multiplier means (715) connected to the low voltage alternating current supply 
and ground having a multiplied voltage output at a predetermined voltage 

multiplication ratio; 
f) first resistor means (210A) with a first resistor input connected to the first diode output 
wherein the first resistor means has a first resistor output connected to the multiplied 

voltage output; 
g) second resistor means (210B) with an second resistor input connected to the multiplied 
voltage output wherein the second resistor means has a second resistor output 

connected to the second diode output; 
h) third resistor means (210C) with a third resistor input connected to the first diode 
output wherein the third resistor means has a third resistor output connected to the first 

laser anode; and  
 
i) fourth resistor means (210D) with a fourth resistor input connected to the second diode 
output wherein the fourth resistor means has a fourth resistor output connected to the 

second laser anode. 
Ring laser gyro according to claim 3, 
characterized in that
 an active current 
control apparatus comprising: 


a) means for generating a digital control signal (120) representative of a current value; 
b) means (352) coupled to the digital control signal generating means for translating the 
digital control signal into an analog signal; and 
c) means (354) coupled to the analog signal for supplying driving current to the anode of 
the ring laser gyro in response to the analog signal and in
 proportion to the digital 
control signal. 
Ring laser gyro according to Claim 4, 
characterized in that
 the means for 
generating a digital control signal representative of a current value comprises a digital 

controller (100). 
Ring laser gyro according to Claim 5, 
characterized in that
 the digital 
controller comprises a microprocessor (120) including first and second analog-to-digital 

converter input ports (101, 103). 
Ring laser gyro according to claim 6, 
characterized in that
 the active current 
control apparatus further includes a means (100) for running a built-in-test of the active 

current control apparatus. 
Ring laser gyro according to claim 4, 
characterized in that
 the ring laser 
gyro includes a first anode (201A) and a second anode (201B) and the means coupled to the 

analog signal for supplying driving current to the anode of the ring laser gyro comprises a 
first current source leg (210C, 210A) and a second current source leg (210D, 210B), 

wherein the first current source leg is coupled to the first anode and the second current 
source leg is coupled to the second anode. 
Ring laser gyro according to claim 8, 
characterized in that
 each of the first 
and second current control legs comprise:  

 

a) an amplifying means (312A, 314A) coupled to the analog signal from the translating 
means, wherein the amplifying means includes an output and a feedback means (1338, 

1339); 
b) a field effect transistor means (320A, 321A) including a gate, drain and source wherein 
the gate is coupled to the output ofthe amplifying means; 
c) a transistor means (310A, 316A) having an emitter, base and collector wherein the base 
is connected to the drain of the field effect transistor means, and the emitter is 

connected to the feedback means; 
d) a first resistance means (390, 1322) connected at a first terminal to the collector; 
e) a second resistance means (1399, 1394A) connected at a first terminal to the base; 
f) a diode means (1313, 1315) having an anode and a cathode and connected at its anode 
to a second terminal of each of the first and second resistance means; and 
g) a third resistance means (1370, 1372) connected between the anode of the diode means 
and one of the first and second anodes of the ring laser gyro, wherein the transistor 

means has a worst case Beta operating parameter and the first, second and third 
resistance means are selected to insure operation of the transistor in a desired current 

range for the worst case Beta. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
