<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649271</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Metal halide electronic ballast.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F21V2302	F21V2302	H02M748	H05B4128	H05B41282	H05B41288	H05B4138	H05B4138	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F21V	F21V	H02M	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F21V23	F21V23	H02M7	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic ballast can be connected between 
either a DC power supply or an AC power supply and a 

gas discharge lamp, such as a metal halide lamp and 
control the electrical power supplied thereto. An 

inverter receives a DC power and generates a periodic 
waveform at a controlled frequency. A resonant 

circuit is connected to the inverter and tuned to 
resonate at a predetermined frequency and generate an 

output voltage. A coupling capacitor is connected 
between the resonant circuit and the discharge lamp and 

supplies the output voltage of the resonant circuit 
thereto. A controller sets the frequency of operation 

of the inverter near the resonant frequency of the 
resonant circuit. The controller is responsive to at 

least a predetermined set point control voltage and to 
the output voltage of the resonant circuit. The 

resonant circuit is tuned to increase the voltage from 
the inverter means to a level sufficient to cause the 

discharge lamp to enter a glow mode of operation. The 
coupling capacitor and resonant circuit have an 

appropriate impedance to maintain sufficient power flow 
to the discharge lamp to carry it through the glow mode 

of operation, into an arc mode of operation and to a 
steady-state mode of operation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NERONE LOUIS ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NERONE, LOUIS ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to ballasts which connect 
a discharge lamp to a power supply and, more 
particularly, to an electronic ballast for use with a 
metal halide lamp. High intensity discharge lamps operate by heating 
a contained gas to a sufficient level that it becomes 
excited and emits photons. In a typical DC lamp 
arrangement, a quartz arc tube contains a quantity of 
gas, such as mercury alone or combined with halides of 
a metal, such as sodium or scandium. A pair of main 
electrodes are positioned at opposite ends of the 
quartz arc tube and a starting electrode may be 
positioned adjacent one of the main electrodes. Unlike 
incandescent lamps, high intensity discharge lamps do 
not become immediately operational when connected to a 
power supply. These discharge lamps pass through 
several modes of operation before reaching a normal, 
steady-state mode of operation. When the power supply 
is initially connected to the discharge lamp, a high 
starting voltage is applied between the starting 
electrode and the adjacent main electrode, or between 
the main electrodes, and begins to charge the gas 
therein. This period of operation is generally 
referred to as a glow mode. Once the gas has been 
sufficiently charged throughout the tube, the gas will 
break over and a high current arc will form between the  
 
main electrodes. The arc quickly settles to a lower 
current, normal voltage level in which the arc 
discharge of the lamp generates a desired light output. It is common to use an electronic or other ballast 
to control the operation of a discharge lamp. In 
general, an acceptable ballast must at least limit the 
power supplied to the lamp, otherwise the lamp would be 
subject to an ever increasing current which would 
destroy the lamp. Electronic ballasts for metal halide 
lamps may include two converters which generate the 
required initial high voltage to break over the lamp 
and a compliance voltage to transition the lamp from 
the glow mode to the arc mode. See, for example, U.S. 
Patent No. 4,749,913. Although this arrangement has 
been shown to be successful, it lacks a systematic 
approach which can achieve a low cost, high performance 
design. The electronic ballast shown in U.S. Patent 
No. 4,904,907 applies a regulated square wave of 
current to a metal halide discharge lamp to control its 
operation. A power control circuit useable with a 
discharge lamp is shown in U.S. Patent No. 4,928,038. Most electronic ballasts also control the lamp 
current, but this is not considered a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic ballast which can be connected 
between a DC power supply and a gas discharge lamp and 

control the electrical power supplied to said gas 
discharge lamp, said electronic ballast comprising: 


a. an inverter circuit receptive of a DC 
signal from said power supply and effective so as to 

generate a periodic waveform at a controlled frequency; 
b. a resonant circuit connected to said 
inverter circuit and tuned to resonate at a 

predetermined frequency and generate an output voltage; 
c. a coupling capacitor connected between 
said resonant circuit and said discharge lamp and 

effective so as to supply said resonant circuit output 
voltage to said discharge lamp; and 
d. a control circuit arrangement connected to 
said inverter circuit and effective so as to control 

said inverter circuit to a frequency of operation near 
the resonant frequency of said resonant circuit, 

wherein said control circuit arrangement is responsive 
to at least a predetermined setpoint control voltage 

and to the output voltage of said resonant circuit, 
with the resonant circuit tuned to increase the voltage 

from the inverter circuit to a level sufficient to 
cause the discharge lamp to enter a glow mode of 

operation, and with the coupling capacitor and resonant 
circuit having an appropriate impedance to maintain 

sufficient power flow to the discharge lamp to carry it 
through the glow mode of operation, into an arc mode of 

operation and to a steady-state mode of operation. 
The electronic ballast of claim 1 further 
including a power factor corrector circuit means for 

 
controlling the power supplied to said inverter. 
The electronic ballast of claim 1 further 
including a current sensing circuit effective so as to 

detect the average current supplied to said inverter, 
and a power feedback circuit responsive to said current 

sensing circuit, said power feedback circuit being 
effective so as to adjust the frequency of operation of 

said control circuit arrangement so that the power 
supplied to said discharge lamp is maintained at a 

desired level during the steady-state mode of 
operation. 
The electronic ballast of claim 1 wherein said 
inverter is formed of a series network of a pair of 

power MOSFET switches. 
The electronic ballast of claim 4 wherein said 
control circuit arrangement includes a voltage 

controlled oscillator having its output coupled to 
gates of said power MOSFETS by a coupling transformer, 

with the signals supplied to the gate of each of said 
power MOSFETS separated in phase by about 180°. 
The electronic ballast of claim 5 wherein said 
resonant circuit is formed of a series 

inductor/capacitor circuit and the voltage across said 
resonant circuit capacitor is supplied to said 

discharge lamp through said coupling capacitor. 
The electronic ballast of claim 1 further 
including a rectifier in series with a low pass filter 

and connected between said coupling capacitor and the 
discharge lamp. 
The electronic ballast of claim 1 wherein said discharge lamp 
is a metal halide discharge lamp. 
The electronic ballast of any one of claims 1 to 8, comprising: 
   a rectifier circuit effective so as to convert said AC power supply 

to a DC power supply; and 
   said inverter circuit being receptive of a DC signal from said 

rectifier circuit. 
The electronic ballast of claim 9 wherein said rectifier circuit 
includes a first rectifier in series with a first low pass filter. 
The electronic ballast of claim 10 wherein said rectifier circuit 
further includes an electromagnetic interference filter. 
The electronic ballast of claim 10, further including a second 
rectifier in series with a second low pass filter and connected between said 

coupling capacitor and the discharge lamp. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
