<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633730</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED WAX-FREE CHEWING GUMS WITH CONTROLLED SWEETENER RELEASE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G406	A23G402	A23G410	A23G400	A23G406	A23G404	A23G408	A23G400	A23G402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wax-free chewing gum is provided which uses a gum base which is devoid or substantially free of wax. The gum base includes about 20 to about 60 weight percent synthetic elastomer, 0 to about 30 weight percent natural elastomer, about 5 to about 55 weight percent elastomer plasticizer, about 4 to about 40 weight percent filler, about 5 to about 40 weight percent softener, and optional minor amounts of miscellaneous ingredients such as colors, antioxidants, etc. Wax-free chewing gum compositions which contain the wax-free gum base are also provided, which chewing gums further comprise flavoring agents and water-soluble bulk portions. The bulk portions contain controlled release sweeteners at least one of which provides a similar release profile to the release profile of at least one flavoring agent present in the chewing gums.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WRIGLEY W M JUN CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WM. WRIGLEY JR. COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENBERG MICHAEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYNOSKY STEVEN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENBERG, MICHAEL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYNOSKY, STEVEN P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of 
copending International Application No. PCT/US92/11317, 
(Case No. 1391/1289), filed on December 30, 
1992, which in turn is a continuation-in-part of 
International Application No. PCT/US92/09615, filed on 
November 6, 1992, which in turn is a continuation-in-part 
of PCT/US92/01686, filed on March 3, 1992. The present invention relates to an improved 
wax-free chewing gum and particularly to wax-free 
chewing gum products containing controlled release 
sweeteners. U.S. Patent No. 3,984,574, issued to Comollo, 
discloses an abhesive chewing gum base in which the 
non-tack properties were achieved by eliminating 
conventional chewing gum base ingredients which were 
found to contribute to chewing gum tackiness, and by 
substituting non-tacky ingredients in place of the 
conventional ingredients. Specifically, it was 
discovered that three classes of materials account for 
conventional chewing gum tackiness. These materials 
are elastomers, resins, and waxes.  
 Comollo eliminated natural and some synthetic 
elastomers from chewing gum base, and substituted in 
their place one or more non-tacky synthetic elastomers 
such as polyisobutylene, polyisoprene, isobutylene-isoprene 
copolymer and butadiene-styrene copolymer. 
Comollo also eliminated the tack-producing natural 
resins and modified natural resins and used instead 
relatively high amounts of hydrogenated or partially 
hydrogenated vegetable oils or animal fats. Finally, 
Comollo completely excluded waxes from the gum base, 
but included polyvinyl acetate, fatty acids, and mono 
and diglycerides of fatty acids. Comollo did not teach 
controlled release of sweeteners with his abhesive 
chewing gums. In US-A-5023093, there is disclosed a 
chewing gum base with reduced calorie content. The 
central components of that gum base are 10-25% 
polyvinyl acetate having a medium molecular weight of 
about 35,000 to 55,000, 4.5% to about 10% acetylated 
monoglyceride. In WO88/08672 we describe a chewing gum 
composition containing sucralose having a controlled 
and extended release of sweetness. The present invention is directed to a wax-free 
chewing gum containing controlled release 
sweeteners. The chewing gum of the invention includes 
a wax-free chewing gum base comprising quantities of 
synthetic elastomer, elastomer plasticizer, filler and 
softener, and, like the gum base of Comollo, is 
substantially free of wax. However, the gum base of 
the invention is not limited to use in a non-tack 
chewing gum and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A chewing gum free of mineral hydrocarbon 
wax which also contains no more than 5% natural wax, 

having controlled sweetener release, comprising from 5 
to 35 wt% chewing gum base, which gum base is wax-free, 

comprising: 

from 20 to 60 wt% synthetic elastomer; 
from 0 to 30 wt% natural elastomer; 
from 5 to 55 wt % elastomer plasticizer; 
from 4 to 40 wt% filler; and 
from 5 to 40 wt% of at least one softener, at 
least one of which shall be hydrogenated or partially 

hydrogenated vegetable oils or a mixture of 
hydrogenated and partially hydrogenated vegetable 

oils; said chewing gum further comprising 

at least one flavouring agent and water-soluble 
bulking agent, and 
at least one 
controlled release sweetener ingredient. 
A chewing gum as claimed in claim 1 which 
does not include wax. 
A chewing gum as claimed in claim 1 or claim 
2 wherein at least one controlled release sweetener 

ingredient comprises fast release sweetener or slow 
release sweetener or a combination thereof.  

 
A chewing gum as claimed in claim 1 or claim 
2 wherein said controlled release sweetener 

ingredient comprises at least one fast release 
sweetener and at least one slow release sweetener. 
A chewing gum as claimed in claim 3 or claim 
4, wherein said fast release sweetener is selected 

from at least one of the group sucrose, dried invert 
sugar, fructose, xylitol, aspartame, acesulfame K, 

alitame, saccharin, cyclamate, encapsulated or 
dissolved sucralose or mixtures thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 3 to 5, wherein the slow release sweetener is 

provided by modification or alteration of the release 
characteristics of a high intensity fast release 

sweetener. 
A chewing gum as claimed in claim 6, 
wherein the high intensity fast release sweetener is 

modified by encapsulation, spray-drying, spray 
chilling, fluid-bed coating, coacervation, absorption, 

extrusion encapsulation, agglomerating, entrapping or 
any combination of these. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 7 including at least one low intensity 

fast release sweetener together with at least one slow 
release sweetener in the form of a modified or altered 

high intensity fast release sweetener. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 3 to 8, wherein said slow release sweetener is 

selected from at least one of the group consisting of 
sucralose, thaumatin and monellin.  

 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 9 wherein at least one sweetener has a 

release profile comparable to the release profile of 
at least one flavour agent. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 

claims 1 to 10 which includes combinations of sugar 
and sugarless sweeteners. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 11, wherein natural elastomer is 

selected from the group consisting of jelutong, lechi 
caspi, perillo, sorva, massaranduba balata, 

massaranduba chocolate, nispero, rosin dinha, chicle, 
gutta hang kang, smoked or liquid latex, guayule, 

chiguibul, crown gum, pendare, venezuelau chicle, 
leche de vaca, niger gutta, tunu, chilte, and 

combinations thereof. 
A wax-free chewing gum as claimed in any one 
of claims 1 to 12, wherein natural elastomer is 

selected from the group consisting of jelutong, sorva, 
chicle, massaranduba balata, and combinations thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 13, wherein synthetic elastomer is 

selected from the group consisting of polyisobutylene, 
butadiene-styrene copolymer, polyvinyl acetate, vinyl 

acetate-vinyl laurate copolymer, polyisoprene, 
isobutylene-isoprene copolymer, and combinations 

thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 13, wherein the synthetic elastomer is 

selected from the group consisting of  
 

styrene-butadiene elastomer, isoprene-isobutylene 
copolymer, polyisobutylene, polyvinyl acetate, and 

combinations thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 13, wherein the synthetic elastomer is 

selected from the group consisting of polyisobutylene, 
polyvinyl acetate, and combinations thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in anyone of claims 
1 to 16, wherein elastomer plasticizer is selected 

from the group consisting of glycerol esters of rosin, 
glycerol esters of partially hydrogenated rosin, 

glycerol esters of polymerized rosin, glycerol esters 
of partially dimerized rosin, partially hydrogenated 

methyl esters of rosin, glycerol esters of tal oil 
rosin, pentaerythritol esters of rosin, methyl esters 

of rosin, pentaerythritol esters of partially 
hydrogenated rosin, synthetic terpene resin, natural 

terpene resin, and combinations thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 16, wherein the elastomer plasticizer is 

selected from the group consisting of glycerol esters 
of partially hydrogenated rosin, methyl esters of 

rosin, glycerol esters of rosin, terpene resin, and 
combinations thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 16, wherein the elastomer plasticizer is 

selected from the group consisting of glycerol ester 
of partially hydrogenated wood rosin, glycerol ester 

of wood rosin, terpene resin, and combinations 
thereof.  

 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 19, wherein the filler is selected from 

the group consisting of calcium carbonate, magnesium 
carbonate, talc, ground limestone, magnesium silicate, 

aluminum silicate, clay, alumina, titanium dioxide, 
mono-, di and tri-calcium phosphates, cellulose, and 

combinations thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 19, wherein the filler is selected from 

the group consisting of calcium carbonate, talc, and 
combinations thereof. 
The chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 21, wherein the softener is selected from 

the group consisting of tallow, hydrogenated tallow, 
hydrogenated vegetable oils, partially hydrogenated 

vegetable oils, cocoa butter, glycerol monostearate, 
mono-, di- and triglycerides, acetylated 

monoglycerides, glyceryl triacetate, lecithin, fatty 
acids, diacetin, lanolin, and combinations thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 21, wherein the softener is selected from 

the group consisting of hydrogenated vegetable oils, 
glycerol monostearate, lecithin, and combinations 

thereof. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 21, wherein the softener is selected from 

the group consisting of glycerol monostearate, 
acetylated monoglyceride, glycerol triacetate, and 

combinations thereof.  
 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 24, wherein the gum base consists 

primarily of: 

from 25 to 45 wt% synthetic elastomer; 
from 10 to 40 wt% elastomer plasticizer; 
from 5 to 30 wt% filler; and 
from 15 to 35 wt % softener. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 24 wherein the gum base consists primarily 

of: 

from 12 to 30 wt% natural elastomer; 
from 20 to 40 wt% synthetic elastomer; 
from 5 to 25 wt% elastomer plasticizer; 
from 4 to 25 wt% filler; and 
from 15 to 30 wt% softener. 
The chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 24 wherein the gum base consists primarily 

of: 

from 30 to 50 wt% synthetic elastomer; 
from 5 to 55 wt% elastomer plasticizer; 
from 10 to 35 wt% filler; and 
from 5 to 25 wt % softener. 
A chewing base as described in any one of 
claims 1 to 12, 15 to 25 and 27 which includes 0% 

natural elastomer prepared by 

adding a first portion of synthetic elastomer 
and a first portion of filler to a mixer; 
adding softener to the mixer along with a second 
portion of synthetic elastomer and a second 

portion of filler; 
adding elastomer plasticizer to the mixer along  
 

with a third portion of synthetic elastomer and 
a third portion of filler; 
blending the ingredients together; and 
removing heat at from 30 minutes to 90 minutes 
into the mixing time of the base production 

process. 
A chewing gum comprising a chewing gum base 
as claimed in claim 28, said base being water 

insoluble. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 29, wherein the chewing gum base is water 

insoluble and further wherein the water soluble 
bulking agent comprises at least one sweetener having 

a release profile comparable to the release profile of 
at least one of the flavouring agents. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 27 and 29 and 30, wherein the gum has 

reduced tack to dental surfaces. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 27 and 29 to 31, wherein the gum is 

sugarless. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 27 and 29 to 32, wherein the gum is in the 

form of a coated pellet or ball. 
A chewing gum as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 27 and 29 to 32, wherein the gum is a 

bubble gum. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
