<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640960</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Interchangeable recording medium and method of controlling same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2012	G06F306	G11B7007	G06F1200	G06F1200	G11B2012	G11B7007	G11B2732	G11B1902	G11B1902	G11B1912	G06F306	G11B1912	G11B2732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G06F	G11B	G06F	G06F	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G06F	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B20	G06F3	G11B7	G06F12	G06F12	G11B20	G11B7	G11B27	G11B19	G11B19	G11B19	G06F3	G11B19	G11B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Common-use data (FATs, a directory, files, etc.) is 
recorded in a first area of an interchangeable recording 

medium, and logical format information (102,102₂,102
n
) 
of a plurality of 

types for managing the common-use data recorded in the 
first area (101) is recorded in the second area (102). When the 

interchangeable recording medium is loaded, a computer 
reads logical format information conforming to its own 

machine type from the second area and subsequently 
accesses the common-use data in the first area based 

upon the logical format information read. Further, a 
corresponding relationship between computers and storage 

locations of the logical format information is recorded 
in a third area of the interchangeable recording medium. 

Each computer recognizes the location, at which its own 
logical format information has been stored, by referring 

to the corresponding relationship and reads the logical 
format information from this location. The computer 

subsequently accesses the common-use data in the first 
area based upon the logical format information read. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKASHIMA KAZUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UTSUMI KENICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKASHIMA, KAZUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UTSUMI, KENICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a multiple format interchangeable
optical recording medium and a method of controlling
the same. More particularly the invention relates
to a multiple format interchangeable optical recording
medium that supports a plurality of locical formats, as
well as to a method of controlling the recording medium.In an optical disk, laser light is narrowed down to a
very small beam spot having a diameter of aobut 1 µm to
perform recording and playback of information signals. This
is advantageous in that recording density is high and
memory cost low on a per-bit basis. Moreover, high-speed
access is possible and recording/playback can be carried
out in a contactless manner. Such optical disks have been
put into practical use as high-density large-capacity
memories. Such optical disks can be classified broadly into
optical disks (ROM disks) on which information is stored in
advance and only reproduction is possible, optical disks
(RAM disks) that allow information to be both recorded and
reproduced, and partial-ROM disks in which a single optical
disk has both of the above-mentioned features.As shown in Fig. 17A, a ROM disk is such that
information is recorded as pits 2 in a transparent 
plastic layer 1, a metal film (e.g., aluminum) 3 is
formed on the pit surface as by vapor deposition, and a
protective layer 4 is provided on the metal film 3. In
a ROM disk of this kind, the signal layer (the pits and
metal film) is irradiated with a laser beam LB via an
objective lens OL, as illustrated in Fig. 17B. When
this is done, almost all of the light returns intact
from locations devoid of pits, whereas the light is
refracted by pits at locations where the pits are
present. Only some of the returned light actually
returns to the objective lens OL since part of the light
falls outside the visual field of the objective lens.
Accordingly, the information can be read by using a
photodiode to detect the returning light. Thus, with a
ROM disk, information is recorded in the form of pits.
This is advantageous in that the information is less
likely to be damaged in comparison with magnetic
recording, and a large quantity of information can
readily be produced on a large number of disks by
stamping. Such an optical disk is effective as a
storage medium for electronic publishing. A
shortcoming, however, is that it is not possible for the
user to write information such as text on the ROM disk
himself.A RAM disk (magneto-optical disk) comprises a
substrate and an amorphous, magnetic thin film such as
TbFeCo
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multiple format interchangeable optical
recording medium comprising:


a first storage area storing common-use data consisting of
a file area (101a) storing at least one common-use file capable of
being accessed by a plurality of types of

computers and
a file management area (101b) storing common-use file management
information for managing said file, the file management

information being utilizable by each of said
plurality of computers; and
a second storage area (102) storing a
plurality of types of computer logical format information

corresponding to said plurality of types of computers, each
computer logical format information being necessary for

each corresponding computer to use said file management information
to access said file.
The multiple format interchangeable optical
recording medium according to claim 1, wherein said

computer logical format information includes address
information necessary to access said file management

information in said file management area.
The multiple format interchangeable optical
recording medium according to claim 1, further comprising:

   a machine type-logical format correspondence area
(103) storing storage locations of said computer logical

format information for each of said plurality of types of
computers. 
The multiple format interchangeable optical
recording medium according to claim 3, further comprising

an area for storing a machine-type recognition information
for identifying machine type of a computer.
A method of accessing a file on a multiple format
interchangeable optical recording medium comprising a first storage area storing common-use data consisting of a file

area (101a) storing at least one common-use file capable of being
accessed by a plurality of types of computers and a

file management area (101b) storing common-use file management
information for managing said file, the file management

information being utilizable by each of said
plurality of computers; and a second storage area

(102) storing a plurality of types of computer logical
format information corresponding to said plurality of types

of computers, each computer logical format information
being necessary for each corresponding computer to use said file

management information so as to access said file,
comprising steps of:


reading computer logical format information
corresponding to a computer type into which the recording

medium has been loaded;
reading said file management information based upon
the computer logical format information that has been read;

and accessing said file using said file management
information.
A method according to claim 5, wherein computer
logical format information corresponding to each of said

plurality of types of computers is recorded at a location
that conforms to each of said plurality of types of

computers, and the computer in which the interchangeable
recording medium has been loaded reads logical format 

information from said location conforming to the computer into
which the recording medium has been loaded.
A method according to claim 6, wherein the
computer logical format information includes address

information necessary to read the file management
information, and the computer reads the file management

information in the interchangeable recording medium using
said address information.
A method according to claim 6, wherein a
corresponding relationship between each of said

plurality of types of computers and storage locations of
the computer logical format information is stored on the

recording medium and said first reading step further
comprises the steps of:


recognizing a location at which computer format information
corresponding to the computer into which the recording

medium has been loaded has been stored by referring
to said corresponding relationship; and
reading the computer logical format information from
said location.
A method according to claim 5, wherein a
corresponding relationship between each of said plurality

of types of computers and storage locations of the computer
logical format information and machine-type recognition

information for identifiying machine type of a computer
into which the recording medium is loaded are respectively

stored in the interchangeable recording medium, said first
reading step further comprising the steps of:


identifying a machine type of the computer into which
the recording medium has been loaded by reading said machine-type

recognition information; 
obtaining from said corresponding relationship a
location at which the computer logical format information

corresponding to the identified machine type has been recorded;
and
reading the computer logical format information from
said location.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
