<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0966720</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ADVANCED NOTIFICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS UTILIZING A COMPUTER NETWORK
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06Q1000	G06Q1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06Q	G06Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06Q10	G06Q10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An advance notification system (10) notifies users of the impending arrival of a vehicle, for example, an overnight package delivery vehicle, at a particular vehicle stop. The system generally includes an on-board vehicle control unit VCU (12) for each vehicle and a base state control unit BSCU (14) for sending messages to user computers (29) in order to inform the users when the vehicle resides at a certain predefined time period, distance, prior stop, location point from the vehicle stop. Moreover, the BSCU, a computer network, and software located on a user computer may be combined in a plurality of configurations for communicating a message of the impending arrival of a particular vehicle before it arrives. Each vehicle control unit VCU (12) includes a microprocessor controller (16). The VCU sends vehicle location and/or stop information to the BSCU. The BSCU compares the vehicle route stop list with route management software, then determines when to send an impending arrival message by the system operator.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLOBAL RESEARCH SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLOBAL RESEARCH SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES MARTIN KELLY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, MARTIN KELLY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ADVANCE NOTIFICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS UTILIZING A COMPUTER NETWORKFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention generally relates to data communications and information systems and, more particularly, to advance notification systems and methods for notifying users in advance of the impending arrival of a vehicle or user, for example but not limited to, a bus, train, delivery van, plane, fishing vessel, or other vessel, or user walking or riding, to or at a particular stop. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThere are many situations when it is desirable for people to know of the approximate arrival time of a particular vehicle, the distance of a particular vehicle approaching, when a vehicle crosses particular location points, and when a particular vehicle is leaving its last stop. With such information, passengers, users, and companies can adjust their schedules accordingly and avoid having to wait on a particular vehicle to reach a particular destination. For example, a user having to pick up a friend or relative at a commercial bus station either has to call the bus station to find out the approximate arrival time (information which is oftentimes unavailable) or plan on arriving at the bus station prior to the scheduled arrival time of the bus and hope the bus is not delayed.Another example includes a user walking and carrying a device such as a mobile phone or communication device with a location device, such as global positioning system (GPS) receiver, connected for sending location information to a control unit. It would be desirable for this control unit to broadcast a user's impending arrival time, distance to be traveled before arriving, specific location points and/or the time when leaving their last stop. This information may be broadcast to an employer, spouse, parent, or other user, when the vehicle/user reaches a predetermined location.Another example involves school children that ride school buses. School children who ride buses to school often have to wait at their bus stops for extended lengths of time because school buses arrive at particular bus stops at substantially different times from one day to the next. The reason is that school buses are not always the best-maintained vehicles on the roads, frequently operate during rush hour traffic, and must contend with congested 

urban/suburban conditions. As a result, school children are forced to wait at their bus stops for long periods of time, oftentimes in adverse weather conditions, on unlit street corners, or in hazardous conditions near
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
Therefore, the following is claimed:
1. A method for notifying a user in advance of an impending arrival of a vehicle at a vehicle stop, comprising the steps of: monitoring travel of said vehicle; forwarding travel data to a computer associated with said user; and producing a message at said computer for said user indicative of an impending arrival of said vehicle at said vehicle stop before said vehicle reaches said vehicle stop, based upon said travel data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: monitoring a location of said vehicle and comparing said location to mapping data; and initiating said message to said computer when said vehicle is at a predetermined location from said vehicle stop based upon said comparison.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of permitting said user to preset a parameter at said computer that determines when said message is produced, said parameter corresponding to arrival of said vehicle at said vehicle stop.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of forwarding another message to a telephone associated with said user in addition to said message to said computer, said another message indicating impending arrival of said vehicle. 

5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: monitoring content of said vehicle; and determining said vehicle stop based upon said content.
6. A system for notifying a user in advance of an impending arrival of a vehicle at a particular location, comprising: means for monitoring travel of said vehicle; means for forwarding travel data to a computer associated with said user; and means for producing a message at said computer for said user indicative of said impending arrival of said vehicle at said particular location before said vehicle reaches said particular location, based upon said travel data.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein said means for monitoring includes a means for receiving data transmitted from said vehicle.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein said forwarding means transmits said travel data from a central location to a remote location through a communications network. 

9. A system for an advance notification system that notifies a user of an impending arrival of a vehicle at a particular location, comprising:
(a) a computer associated with said user, said computer for producing a message at said computer for said user indicative of said impending arrival of said vehicle at said particular location before said vehicle reaches said particular location;
(b) a vehicle control unit disposed on said vehicle, said vehicle control unit having:
(1) a vehicle travel monitoring means; (2) a vehicle transmitter adapted to transmit travel data based upon said vehicle travel monitoring means;
(3) a vehicle processor controlling said vehicle travel monitoring means and said vehicle transmitter; and
(c) a base station control unit having: (1) a receiver adapted to receive said travel data from said vehicle control unit; and
(2) a base station computer controlling said receiver, said base station computer for establishing a connection between said base station computer and said user computer and communicating said travel data.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein said base station computer further comprises: means for monitoring a location of said vehicle and comparing said location to mapping data; and means for initiating said message to said user computer when said vehicle is at a predetermined location based upon said comparison.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein said user computer further comprises a means for permitting said user to preset a parameter at said user computer that determines when said message is produced, said parameter corresponding to arrival of said vehicle at said particular location. 

12. The system of claim 9, wherein said base station control unit further comprises: a base station telephone interface controlled by said base station computer; and a means for forwarding another message to a telephone associated with said user via said base station telephone interface, said another message indicating said impending arrival of said vehicle.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein said vehicle control unit further comprises: means for monitoring content of said vehicle; and means for determining said particular location based upon said content. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
