<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659290</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING TEMPERATURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04B100	E04B100	F24D312	F24D312	F24J240	F24J240	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04B	E04B	F24D	F24D	F24J	F24J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04B1	E04B1	F24D3	F24D3	F24J2	F24J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for controlling the temperature of (e.g. cooling and/or shading) an area is described. A hollow, translucent or transparent moulded acrylic material panel is mounted adjacent the area and fluid is passed through it a rate proportional to the degree of temperature control required. The rate of fluid flow is adjusted by controlling the volume and/or speed of fluid passage the panel in response to the temperature within the area. The fluid may be heated and/or cooled; it may be transparent, translucent or opaque; it may be coloured. The panel may be flat or curved and has in it a plurality of fluid tight passageways (generally linear or sinuous) coupled to fluid supply means energisable responsive to the temperature on one side of the panel. Control means are operative to determine to which passageways fluid is passed - the passageways being arranged in groups connected to said fluid supply means by respective flow control valves. The fluid supply comprises one or more pumps operable to draw fluid from one or a number of reservoirs and pass it to said passageways - the fluid thereafter returning to said reservoir(s). Flow control may be in response to the outputs of a number temperature sensors causing different ones of said valves to open at different temperatures. Enclosures are described formed of a number of similar panels mounted in a framework, which enclosures comprise permanently or temporarily erectable buildings or other structures, or temporarily erectable extensions for buildings or vehicles.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARR MICHAEL DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARR, MICHAEL DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARR MICHAEL DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARR, MICHAEL DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING TEMPERATUREDESCRIPTIONThe invention relates to methods and apparatus for controlling temperature, more particularly but not exclusively methods and apparatus for controlling the temperature, and shading and/or cooling, of specific areas.To increase light levels within buildings many are provided with transparent or translucent roofs and/or walls. Such arrangements are of considerable advantage in increasing the amount of light entering the building.At the domestic level many houses have been provided with conservatories or the like - extensions having generally transparent walls and/or roofs.Difficulties are encountered with such arrangements when they fall in direct sunlight. In such cases the temperature within the conservatory may become excessive leading to discomfort and distress of its occupants, or the destruction of plants within it. avs of overcoming this problem have in the past been proposed which included the provision of blinds or curtaining which may be stretched across a 

 transparent or translucent wall or roof to screen, and so prevent, direct sunlight entering the building.Such arrangements may be visually obtrusive and require action by one or more individuals to draw the curtaining.Another proposal was to include windows which may operate automatically - opening as the temperature within the enclosure increases. Such arrangements can lead to problems with security. A first object of the present invention is to provide methods and apparatus effective to control the temperature of an area.A second object of the invention is to provide methods and apparatus for enabling the automatic, or semi-automatic, operation of means effective to reduce the amount of light passing through a wall or roofing panel used in such a building so as to control the temperature, cool and/or shade, the interior of the building when necessary. A third object of the invention is to provide apparatus which provides for the ready cooling of an area bounded at least in part by a panel through which sunlight may pass.A fourth object of the invention is to provide an enclosure, which may be in the form of a temporary or permanent building, the temperature within which is controllable and/or the interior of which may be shaded from the effects of direct sunlight.In one aspect the present invention provides a method of controlling the temperature of an area which comprises the steps of mounting a structure comprising at least one translucent or transparent panel which is at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of controlling the temperature of an area which comprises the steps of mounting a structure comprising at least one translucent or transparent panel which is at least partially hollow, adjacent the area and arranging for a fluid to be passed through the said at least one panel at a rate proportional to the degree of temperature control required.
2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 , wherein the rate at which fluid is passed through the or each panel is adjusted by controlling the volume and/or speed of fluid passage therethrough.
3. A method as claimed in Claim 2, wherein adjustment of the rate of fluid passing through the at least one panel is effected in accordance with a temperature monitored within the area.
4. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the fluid passed through the or each panel is heated and/or cooled.
5. A method of cooling and/or shading an area from direct sunlight which comprises the steps of mounting a structure comprising at least one translucent or transparent panel which is at least partially hollow, adjacent the area to be shaded and/or cooled and arranging for a fluid to be passed through the or each said panel at a rate proportional to the degree of shading and/or cooling required.
6. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said fluid is opaque.
7. Apparatus for controlling the temperature of an area, which apparatus comprises a structure including one or more at least partially hollow translucent or transparent panels, means for coupling the hollow interior of the or each panel to fluid supply 


 eans and means responsive to the temperature on one side of the structure to energise said fluid supply means to pass fluid to said one panel, or to some or all of said panels.
8. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 7, wherein the interior of the or each panel is provided with a plurality of elongate fluidtight passageways to which fluid supply means is coupled.
9. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 7 or Claim 8, further including means for heating and/or cooling fluid passed by the fluid supply means to the or each said panel.
10. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 7, Claim 8 or Claim 9, wherein the or each said panel is of a plastics material.
11. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein said fluid is opaque.
12. Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 7 to Claim 11 , wherein said fluid is coloured.
13. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 and any one of Claims 9 to Claim 12, wherein said said fluid control means is operative to determine to which of said passageways fluid is passed.
14. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 13, wherein the passageways of the or each panel are arranged in groups, each group being connected to said fluid supply means.
15. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 14, wherein each group of passageways is connected to said fluid supply means by a respective flow control valve.
16. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 15 , wherein said fluid supply means comprises pump means operable to draw fluid from a reservoir and pass it to said passageways when at least one of said valves is open.
17. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 9 and any one of claims 14, 15 and 16, wherein said means coupling 


 the fluid supply means to said groups of passageways is provided with individually operable heating and/or cooling devices such that selected groups of passageways may selectively be heated and/or cooled.
18. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 15 and Claim
16, or Claim 15 and Claim 17, further including a plurality of temperature sensing devices each operable to control a different one of said valve and each of which is pre-set to open, in use, its associated valve at a selected one of a number of different temperatures.
19. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 16 and Claim
17, or claim 16 and Claim 18, wherein said pump means comprises a pump arranged to operate at constant speed and provide a variable flow rate dependent upon the number of groups of passageways coupled thereto by the opening of the respectively associated valves.
20. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 and any one of Claims 9 to 19, wherein inner surfaces of passageways are coated with a material which is normally translucent or transparent but which, when contacted by the fluid used in the arrangement, becomes coloured.
21. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 20, wherein the colours of said different groups of passageways when contacted by fluid therein is different.
22. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 and any one of claims 9 to 19, wherein each of said groups of passageways is coupled by a respective valve to an individually associated pump arranged to draw coloured fluid from an individually associated reservoir and pass that fluid to said passageways of that group.
23. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 and any one of claims 9 to 22, wherein the ends of said passageways remote from said valves are coupled to one or more fluid return lines operable to carry fluid passing from the passageways to the or each respective reservoir. 


 24. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 22, wherein said panel is generally planar.
25. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 and any one of claims 9 to 24, wherein said passageways in said panel are generally linear in form.
26. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 and any one of claims 9 to 24, wherein said passageways in said panel are generally sinuous or curvilinear in form.
27. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 26, wherein said panel is of a moulded acrylic material.
28. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 27, and comprising a plurality of similar panels mounted in a framework to form an enclosure.
29. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 28, wherein said plurality of said panels forms a permanently or temporarily erectable building.
30. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 28, wherein said plurality of said panels forms a temporarily erectable extension for a building or vehicle.
31. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 and any one of claims 28, 29 and 30, wherein the or each panel is mounted in said framework such that the elongate fluid tight passageways therein which extend in use at an angle to the horizontal are arranged supplied with fluid at their uppermost ends by said fluid supply means.
32. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 31 , wherein said fluid supply means comprises conduits in the said framework via which fluid may be passed to a manifold forming part of said framework and to which the said panels are coupled.
33. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 31 , wherein said fluid supply means comprises a manifold formed as part of said panel andto which fluid is passed via one or more of the passageways in the said panel. 


 34. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 32 or Claim 33, wherein fluid is passed from said manifolds to the passageways in the or each said panel via a spigot or jet which acts to direct fluid onto a wall of its associated passageway.
35. A method of controlling the temperature of an area as claimed in Claim 1 , and substantially hereinbefore described.
36. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, and substantially as herein described with reference to Figure 1 of the drawings.
37. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, and substantially as herein described with reference to Figure 2 or Figure 3 of the accompanying drawings.
38. An enclosure as claimed in Claim 28, and substantially as herein described with reference to Figure 4 of the accompanying drawings.
39. An enclosure as claimed in Claim 28, and substantially as herein described with reference to Figure 5 of the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
