<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615281</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Wafer release method and apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L21683	B23Q315	H01L2167	B23Q315	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	B23Q	H01L	B23Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	B23Q3	H01L21	B23Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wafer position and clamp sensor. A circuit (114) monitors capacitance between 
two electrodes (22,24) within a wafer support. With no wafer on the support, the 

capacitance falls in one range, with the waferin place but not clamped, the capacitance falls 
in a second range and with the wafer held in place by an electrostatic attraction the 

capacitance falls in a third range. The sensed capacitance is converted to a frequency and 
then a D.C. voltage level that can easily be sensed and used to confirm wafer placement and 

then wafer clamping. After the wafer has been treated, the wafer is removed and the next 
subsequent wafer treated. A clamping voltage applied to clamp the wafer to its support is 

reversed at a controlled frequency to release the wafer. The voltage reversal disrupts the 
electrostatic attraction between the wafer and its support. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXCELIS TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXCELIS TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAKE JULIAN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TU WEILIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLAKE, JULIAN G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TU, WEILIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns an electrostatic
clamp for holding a semiconductor wafer against a
wafer support and more particularly to a method and
apparatus for controlling operation of such a clamp.U.S. Patent No. 5,103,367, entitled Electrostatic
Chuck Using A.C. Field Excitation relates to a
mechanism for holding semiconductor wafers in contact
with a support during treatment of the wafers. The
electrostatic chuck has three electrodes where two
electrodes define a substantially planar surface and
are embedded within a thin dielectric film. These two
electrodes are excited by a low-frequency
(approximately 200 hertz) A.C. supply to produce sign
wave fields of controlled amplitude and phase. The
third electrode accesses a shield electrode that
serves as a reference point for the other two
electrodes. By controlled rates of voltage
application and removal, low-voltage gradients are
obtained on the wafer support. This results in no
retentive forces between the dielectric medium and the
wafer. A low alternating current amplitude excitation
of the chuck enables capacitative current sensing of
the relative positions of the wafers and the
dielectric film enabling simple control of voltage
application to the electrodes.EP-A-0 460 955 relates to an apparatus for
electrostatically clamping a semiconductor wafer.
Conductive wires are stretched across the surface of
a supporting platen and electrically insulated 
therefrom. In one embodiment, a bi-polar square wave
voltage is applied between the wires during clamping.FR-A-2 676 603 describes an electrostatic chuck
for a wafer. Wafers are gripped through application
of a high voltage. Release of the wafer is obtained
while modulating the drive waveform and reducing the
voltage level to cause the wafer to vibrate until the
wafer is released.A common problem associated with electrostatic
clamping is that the wafer may not release from the
clamp when the holding voltage that is applied to the
clamp is turned off. There are several factors which
can contribute to this residual clamping force.First, most dielectrics can exhibit a degree of
semipermanent polarization following exposure to an
intense electric field. This polarization has the
effect of maintaining the clamping force even after
the applied voltage is removed. Materials with a high
dielectric constant are particularly prone to this
effect, and it is exactly such materials which are
favored as the dielectric material for a wafer support
because their high dielectric constant provides an
enhancement of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Wafer treatment apparatus for ion
implantation of semiconductor wafers, the wafer

treatment apparatus comprising:

a) a wafer support (14,16,18,20) for supporting
a wafer (12) placed thereon and including a first

dielectric layer (20) that engages the wafer and two
electrodes (22,24);
b) a bi-polar output power supply (44) coupled
to the two electrodes for energizing the electrodes by

providing controlled first and second polarity bias
signals of opposite polarity across the electrodes; and
c) a control system (250,300) coupled to the
power supply including circuitry for securing the

wafer to the wafer support by applying a clamping
voltage across the electrodes,

wherein said circuitry is designed to apply one of
the first and second polarity bias signals as a DC

polarity signal across the electrodes thereby
electrostatically attracting the wafer to the wafer

support during ion implantation,

characterised in that said circuitry is designed
to activate polarity reversal and

to apply the first and second polarity bias signals to
the electrodes at a controlled frequency for a

predetermined time interval to reduce the
electrostatic attraction of the wafer to the wafer

support, after implantation of the wafer is complete.
The wafer treatment apparatus of claim 1
wherein the first dielectric layer is comprised of

alumina.
The wafer treatment apparatus of claim 1 or
2 further including capacitance sense circuitry means

(114) for detecting a presence or absence of the wafer
on the wafer support by sensing a capacitance between

the two electrodes. 
The wafer treatment apparatus of claim 3
wherein the capacitance sense circuitry means is

adapted to produce an output signal indicative of the
presence of the wafer on the wafer support, the output

signal being coupled to the control system such that
the electrodes are to be energized only when the

output signal indicates a wafer is present on the
wafer support.
The wafer treatment apparatus of claims 3 or

4 wherein the capacitance sense circuitry means (114)
is adapted to monitor an attraction produced by the

power supply (44) based upon sensed capacitance
between the electrodes once a power supply voltage has

been applied to the electrodes.
The wafer treatment apparatus of any of
claims 1-5 wherein the wafer support further includes

a backing plate (14) a base member (16) and a second
dielectric layer (18) disposed between said first

dielectric layer and said base member.
The wafer treatment apparatus of claim 6
wherein the two electrodes are interposed between the

first and second dielectric layers.
The wafer treatment apparatus of claim 6 or
7 including a heating element (26) interposed between

the second dielectric layer and the base member.
The wafer treatment apparatus of any of
claims 1-8 wherein the signal applied to the

electrodes to secure the wafer to the wafer support is
approximately three kilovolts DC.
The wafer treatment apparatus of any of
claims 1-9 wherein the base member defines a manifold

having a channel (30) through which cooling fluid is
circulated.
The wafer treatment apparatus of any of
claims 1-10 wherein the bi-polar power supply 

comprises two supply modules (44a,44b) and the control
system circuitry includes a logic driver circuit (310)

having first and second complementary outputs (OUT1,
OUT2), each output coupled to a different one of the

bi-polar output power supply modules such that when
one of the first and second driver outputs is logic

high the supply module coupled thereto applies a signal and
the other of the first and second driver outputs is

logic low and the supply module (44a,44b) coupled
thereto is disabled.
A wafer handling method for use in treatment
of a semiconductor wafer (12) comprising the steps of:


a) placing a semiconductor wafer to be treated
on a wafer support (14,16,18,20);
b) electrostatically attracting the wafer to
the support by electrically biasing the wafer support

with a voltage signal to create an electrostatic
attraction between the semiconductor wafer and the

wafer support; and
c) treating the wafer while maintaining an
electrical bias with a first polarity DC signal to

maintain an attraction between the wafer and the wafer
support, characterised by the steps of:
d) dissipating attraction between the wafer and
the wafer support after the treatment of the wafer is

complete by applying a second polarity signal to the
wafer support that is opposite in polarity to the

first polarity DC signal, and then applying
alternating signals having the first and second

polarities at a controlled frequency for a
predetermined time interval to reduce the

electrostatic attraction between the wafer and the
wafer support.
The wafer handling method set forth in claim
12 additionally comprising the step of detecting a 

presence of a wafer on the wafer support prior to
treatment of the wafer.
The wafer handling method set forth in claim
13 wherein the step of detecting a presence of a wafer

on the wafer support is performed by sensing a
capacitance between two spaced apart electrodes

(22,24) coupled to the wafer support.
The wafer handling method set forth in any
of claims 12-14 additionally comprising the step of

removing the treated wafer from the wafer support.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
