<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646490</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Child car seat with adjustable barrier shield.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60N226	B60N228	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60N	B60N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60N2	B60N2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A child car seat (10) is provided for restraining 
a child seated in the car seat (10). The child car seat 

(10) includes a seat shell (12) having a bottom seat 
portion (32) and a back seat portion (34), a barrier shield 

(40), and mechanism (48) for supporting the barrier shield 
(40) above the bottom seat portion (32) for pivoting 

movement between an initial position and a child-restraining 
position. The child car seat (10) further 

includes a spring (114) for yieldably biasing the pivotable 
barrier shield (40) to its initial position and a harness 

(62) for pivoting the spring-loaded barrier shield (40) to 
its child-restraining position in response to forward 

movement of a child seat in the seat shell (12) away from 
the back seat portion (34) and toward the barrier shield 

(40) during a sudden vehicle stop. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COSCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COSCO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONE RICHARD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERKEN DONALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONE, RICHARD E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERKEN, DONALD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to juvenile car 
seats, and particularly to juvenile car seats having 
restraint systems for minimizing injury to a seated child 
in case the vehicle in which the seat is being used stops 
suddenly or is involved in an accident. More particularly, 
the present invention relates to a child car seat with a 
barrier shield positioned in front of a child seated in the 
child car seat. Child car seats having movable safety shields are 
known. See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,500,135 to 
Kincheloe; 4,159,127 to Czernakowski et al.; and 4,190,288 
to Korger. It is also known to provide abdominal shields 
in child car seats. See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 
4,456,302 to Knoedler et al.; 4,662,683 to Knoedler et al., 
4,880,277 to Takahashi et al.; 4,687,255 to Klanner et al., 
and 4,342,483 to Takada. What is needed is an improved child car seat 
provided with an adjustable shield that moves automatically 
during a sudden vehicle stop to retain a child in the child 
car seat without loading the crotch area of the child by 
tightening a child-restraining harness. An improved child 
car seat having a child restraint shield that would move 
against the thigh region of a child seated in the child car 
seat to minimize the effect of "submarining" movement of a 
seated child during sudden vehicle stops would be welcomed 
by consumers. According to the present invention, a child car 
seat is provided for restraining a child seated in the car 
seat. The child car seat includes a seat shell having a 
bottom seat portion and a back seat portion, a barrier 
shield, and means for supporting the barrier shield above 
the bottom seat portion for pivoting movement between an  
 
initial position and a child-restraining position. The 
child car seat further includes spring means for yieldably 
biasing the pivotable barrier shield to its initial 
position and harness means for pivoting the spring-loaded 
barrier shield to its child-restraining position in 
response to forward movement of a child seat in the seat 
shell away from the back seat portion and toward the 
barrier shield during a sudden vehicle stop. In preferred embodiments, the barrier shield is a 
pivotable unit that is positioned to lie adjacent to the 
thighs and abdomen of a child car seat occupant. The 
shield is coupled by a crotch strap to a shoulder harness 
assembly that is arranged to embrace a child seated in the 
child car seat. During a sudden vehicle stop, the barrier 
shield pivots downwardly toward the bottom seat
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A child car seat for restraining a child 
seated in the car seat, the child car seat comprising 

   a seat shell including a bottom seat portion and 
a back support portion, 

   a barrier shield, 
   means for supporting the barrier shield above the 

bottom seat portion for pivoting movement about a pivot 
axis between an initial position a first distance away from 

the bottom seat portion and a child-restraining position a 
second distance away from the bottom seat portion, the 

second distance being less than the first distance, 
   spring means for yieldably biasing the barrier 

shield to its initial position, and 
   harness means for pivoting the barrier shield 

against the spring means to the child-restraining position 
in response to forward movement of a child seated in the 

seat shell away from the back support portion and toward 
the barrier shield. 
The child car seat of claim 1, wherein the 
supporting means includes a U-shaped arm unit connected to 

the back support portion and the barrier shield is 
pivotably connected to the U-shaped arm unit. 
The child car seat of claim 2, wherein the 
seat shell includes a left side wall and a right side wall 

arranged in spaced-apart relation to position the bottom 
seat portion therebetween and the U-shaped arm unit is 

positioned to engage the left and right side walls during 
pivoting movement of the barrier shield. 
The child car seat of claim 1, wherein the 
supporting means includes a U-shaped arm unit having a left 

swing arm pivotably connected to the back support portion, 
a right swing arm pivotably connected to the back support 

portion, and an axle arm arranged to interconnect the left 
 

and right swing arms, and the barrier shield is pivotably 
connected to the axle arm and arranged to lie between the 

left and right swing arms. 
The child car seat of claim 4, wherein the 
barrier shield includes a top shell coupled to a bottom 

shell to define an interior region therebetween and the 
axle arm extends through the interior region. 
The child car seat of claim 5, wherein the 
spring means includes a coiled spring lying in the interior 

region and interconnecting the barrier shield and the axle 
arm. 
The child car seat of claim 5, wherein the 
axle arm includes a left pivot axle connected to the left 

swing arm, a right pivot axle connected to the right swing 
arm, and an offset member arranged to interconnect the left 

and right pivot axles, and the spring means lies in the 
interior region and interconnects the offset member and the 

bottom shell. 
The child car seat of claim 5, wherein the 
top and bottom shells cooperate to define an opening into 

the interior region of the barrier shield and further 
comprising means for visually indicating the position of 

the barrier shield through said opening in the barrier 
shield so that an observer can visually monitor movement of 

the barrier shield between its initial position and its 
child-restraining position, the indicating means being 

mounted on the axle arm and arranged to confront said 
opening in the barrier shield during pivoting movement of 

the barrier shield about the axle arm. 
The child car seat of claim 2, wherein the 
axle arm includes a left pivot axle connected to the left 

swing arm, a right pivot axle connected to the right swing 
arm, and an offset member arranged to interconnect the left 

and right pivot axles, and the spring means interconnects 
the offset member and the bottom shell. 
The child car seat of claim 2, further 
comprising means for visually indicating the position of 

the barrier shield so that an observer can visually monitor 
movement of the barrier shield between its initial position 

and its child-restraining position, the indicating means 
being mounted on the axle arm. 
The child car seat of claim 2, wherein the 
harness means includes a pair of shoulder straps coupled to 

the back support portion, a releasable buckle coupled to 
the shoulder straps, and a crotch strap having a first end 

anchored to the releasable buckle and a second end anchored 
to the barrier shield. 
The child car seat of claim 1, wherein the 
seat shell further includes strap guide means for slidably 

receiving a harness strap and the harness means includes a 
harness strap assembly having a first portion coupled to 

the pivotable barrier shield, a second portion coupled to 
the back support portion, and a third portion between the 

first and second portions passing through the strap guide 
means. 
The child car seat of claim 12, wherein the 
bottom seat portion is formed to include the strap guide 

means. 
A child car seat for restraining a child 
seated in the car seat, the child car seat comprising 

   a seat shell including a bottom seat portion and 
a back support portion, 

   strap guide means coupled to the bottom seat 
portion for slidably receiving a harness strap, 

   a barrier shield, 
   means for supporting the barrier shield above the 

bottom seat portion for pivoting movement about a 
horizontal pivot axis between an initial position and a 

child-restraining position so that the pivotable barrier 

 
shield lies adjacent to a thigh region of child seated in 

the seat shell, and 
   a child-restraining harness assembly coupled to 

the seat shell, the child-restraining harness assembly 
including a crotch strap having a fixed end coupled to the 

pivotable barrier shield and a free end passing through the 
strap guide means coupled to the bottom seat portion and a 

shoulder strap coupled to the back support portion of the 
seat shell and the free end of the crotch strap. 
The child car seat of claim 14, wherein the 
strap guide means includes a buckle formed to include a 

strap guide slot receiving the crotch strap and a buckle 
case appended to the bottom seat portion and formed to 

include means for releasably retaining the buckle therein. 
The child car seat of claim 14, wherein the 
child-restraining harness assembly further includes strap 

adjustment means for moving the crotch strap in the strap 
guide means to pivot the barrier shield toward its child-restraining 

position so that the barrier shield is moved to 
contact the thigh region of an occupant seated in the seat 

shell to establish the initial position of the barrier 
shield. 
The child car seat of claim 16, wherein the 
bottom seat portion is formed to include a buckle-receiving 

slot, the strap guide means includes a buckle including 
means for engaging the buckle-receiving slot and a strap-receiving 

slot, and a portion of the crotch strap between 
the fixed end and the free end slidably passes through the 

strap-receiving slot formed in the buckle. 
The child car seat of claim 17, wherein the 
supporting means includes a U-shaped arm unit having a left 

swing arm pivotably connected to the back support portion, 
a right swing arm pivotably connected to the back support 

portion, and an axle arm arranged to interconnect the left 
and right swing arms and pivotably support the barrier 

 
shield, and the buckle-receiving slot is formed in the 

bottom seat portion to lie midway between the left and 
right swing arms. 
The child car seat of claim 14, wherein the 
axle arm includes a left pivot axle connected to the left 

swing arm, a right pivot axle connected to the right swing 
arm, and an offset member arranged to interconnect the left 

and right pivot axles, and the spring means interconnects 
the offset member and the bottom shell. 
The child car seat of claim 14, further 
comprising means for yieldably biasing the pivotable 

barrier shield to its initial position. 
The child car seat of claim 20, wherein the 
biasing means is a spring interconnecting the barrier 

shield and the supporting means. 
The child car seat of claim 20, wherein the 
supporting means includes an axle arm pivotably supporting 

the barrier shield and an offset portion appended to the 
axle arm and the biasing means is a spring interconnecting 

the barrier shield and the offset portion. 
The child car seat of claim 20, wherein the 
barrier shield is formed to include an interior region and 

the biasing means is situated in the interior region. 
The child car seat of claim 23, wherein the 
supporting means includes an axle arm extending through the 

interior region and pivotably supporting the barrier shield 
and an offset portion engaging the axle arm and lying in 

the interior region and the biasing means is a spring lying 
in the interior region and interconnecting the barrier 

shield and the offset portion. 
The child car seat of claim 23, wherein the 
barrier shield includes a top shell coupled to a bottom 

shell to define the interior region therebetween and the 
fixed end of the crotch strap extends into the interior 

region and contacts the bottom shell. 
The child car seat of claim 14, wherein the 
child-restraining harness assembly further includes means 

for tightening the shoulder strap against a child seated in 
the seat shell to cause the crotch strap to slide in the 

strap guide means and pivot the barrier shield downwardly 
toward the bottom seat portion from its initial position to 

its child-restraining position in response to movement of 
the seated child and shoulder strap away from the back 

support portion of the seat shell so that the barrier 
shield is moved closer to the bottom seat portion to 

minimize ejection of the child from the seat shell 
underneath the barrier shield. 
A child car seat comprising 
   a seat shell including a bottom seat portion, a 

back support portion, a left side wall adjacent to one side 
of the bottom seat portion, and a right side wall adjacent 

to an opposite side of the bottom seat portion, 
   a barrier shield, 

   means for supporting the barrier shield above the 
bottom seat portion for pivoting movement about a 

horizontal pivot axis between an initial position and a 
child-restraining position, the supporting means including 

means for engaging the left and right side walls of the 
seat shell during pivoting movement of the barrier shield, 

and 
   a child-restraining harness assembly coupled to 

the seat shell and the barrier shield. 
The child car seat of claim 27, wherein the 
bottom seat portion includes a buckle case and the child-restraining 

harness assembly includes a buckle including 
strap guide means for slidably receiving a harness strap 

and means for releasably engaging the buckle case and a 
strap appended to the barrier shield and engaging the strap 

guide means. 
The child car seat of claim 28, wherein the 
seat shell further includes means for releasably engaging a 

buckle including strap guide means for slidably receiving a 
harness strap and the child-restraining harness assembly 

includes the buckle, a crotch strap having a fixed end 
coupled to the pivotable barrier shield and a free end 

engaging the strap guide means on the buckle, and a 
shoulder strap coupled to the back support portion of the 

seat shell and the free end of the crotch strap. 
The child car seat of claim 29, wherein the 
supporting means includes an axle arm, the barrier shield 

is pivotably mounted on the axle arm, and further 
comprising means for visually indicating the position of 

the barrier shield so that an observer can visually monitor 
movement of the barrier shield between its initial position 

and its child-restraining position, the indicating means 
being mounted on the axle arm. 
A child car seat comprising 
   a seat shell including a bottom seat portion and 

a back support portion, 
   a barrier shield formed to include an interior 

region and window opening into the interior region, 
   means for supporting the barrier shield above the 

bottom seat portion for pivoting movement about a 
horizontal pivot axis through an angle of rotation between 

an initial position and a child-restraining position, 
   harness means for pivoting the barrier shield 

about the horizontal pivot axis in response to movement of 
a child in the seat shell, and 

   means for indicating the angle of rotation of the 
barrier shield about the horizontal pivot axis, the 

indicating means including a position display panel 
appended to the supporting means and positioned to lie in 

the interior region of the barrier shield in confronting 
 

relation to the window opening formed in the barrier 
shield. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
