<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625061</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLED IONTOPHORESIS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N130	A61N130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods for conducting controlled environment electrotransport are described. The methods generally concern control of the ionic environment of the active electrode reservoir, in an electrotransport system. This control may be utilized, for example, to maintain a constant extraneous ion presence, such as pH. It may also be applied in a preferred manner to maintain selected control over the delivery rate of a target species, in time, in the presence of extraneous ions. Apparatus usable to provide for controlled environment electrotransport are also described. In general the apparatus comprises an electrotransport system (5) including an active electrode reservoir (6) having therein both a primary electrode arrangement (30) and a secondary electrode arrangement (50), with a control arrangement (40) for selected operation of both. The secondary electrode arrangement (50), being operated different from the primary electrode arrangement (30), is selected for operation to selectively enhance or otherwise modify ion presence in the active electrode reservoir (6), to achieve application of the general methods described. The apparatus may include a sensor means (60) therein, for use as feedback to a control system (40) during operation. Methods and systems involving diffusion type delivery are also described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALZA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALZA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOODIE LYN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHIPPS JOSEPH B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOODIE, LYN, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHIPPS, JOSEPH, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally concerns 
apparatus for electrotransport. More 
specifically, the present invention concerns 
apparatus which may be used to carry out methods of 
conduction of electrotransport with selected control of 
active electrode reservoir environment, to advantage. 
The present invention also specifically concerns 
apparatus for providing controlled active electrode 
environment electrotransport. Two methods of 
electrotransport which may be carried out using the apparatus of the present invention 
are iontophoresis and electro-osmosis. 
Some of the principles described herein may be 
applied to passive delivery processes (not involving 
electrotransport) to advantage. The present invention concerns preferred 
methods and apparatus for transdermal delivery or 
transport of therapeutic agents, typically through 
electrotransport. Herein the term "electrotransport" is 
used to refer to methods and apparatus for transdermal 
delivery of therapeutic agents, whether charged or 
uncharged, by means of an applied electromotive force to 
electrolyte-containing reservoir. The particular 
therapeutic agent being delivered may be charged or 
uncharged, depending upon the particular method chosen. 
When the therapeutic species being delivered is charged, 
the process is referred to as iontophoresis. When the 
therapeutic species delivered is uncharged, it may be 
considered delivered by means of electro-osmosis 
techniques or other electrokinetic phenomenon such as 
electrohydrokinesis, electro-convection or electrically-induced 
osmosis. In general, these latter 
electrokinetic delivery processes of uncharged species 
into a tissue result from the migration of solvent, in  
 
which the uncharged species is dissolved, as a result of 
the application of electromotive force to the 
electrolyte reservoir. Of course during the process, 
some transport of charged species will take place as 
well. In general, iontophoresis is an introduction, 
by means of electric current, of ions of soluble salts 
into the tissues of the body. More specifically, 
iontophoresis is a process and technique which involves 
the transfer of ionic (charged) species into a tissue 
(for example through the skin of a patient) by the 
passage of a electric current through an electrolyte 
solution containing ionic molecules to be delivered (or 
precursors for those ions), upon application of an 
appropriate electrode polarity. That is, ions are 
transferred into the tissue, from an electrolyte 
reservoir, by application of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrotransport apparatus (5) including 
an active electrode reservoir (6) containing at least one 

target ion species (16) and at least one extraneous ion 
species (17), a primary electrode arrangement (30) 

associated with the reservoir (6) to provide electromotive force to transport a species (16, 
17) from the active electrode reservoir (6), the apparatus (5) 

being characterized by a secondary electrode arrangement 
(50) associated with the reservoir (6) being out of 

direct electrical contact with the primary electrode 
arrangement (30) and to operate independently from the 

primary electrode arrangement (30) to selectively 
affect relative concentrations of species (16, 17) in the 

active electrode reservoir (6). 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the primary 
electrode arrangement (30) comprises an anode and the 

secondary electrode arrangement (50) comprises an anode. 
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the active 
electrode reservoir (6) contains at least one cationic 

target species (16) and at least one cationic extraneous 
species (17) and the secondary electrode arrangement (50) 

is adapted to be operated in a manner to introduce at 
least one extraneous cation species (17) into the active 

electrode reservoir (16). 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the 
secondary electrode arrangement (50) is adapted to be 

operated in a manner to selectively maintain a 
concentration of a selected ion species (16, 17) in the 

active electrode reservoir (6) at a constant level.  

 
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the 
selective ion species (16, 17) in the active electrode 

reservoir (6) comprises hydronium or hydroxyl ions. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the 
primary electrode arrangement (30) is adapted to be 

operated in a manner to transport at least  
 

one target ion species (16) and at least one extraneous ion species (17) from 
the active electrode reservoir (6) and the secondary electrode arrange (50) is 

adapted to be operated in a manner to introduce at least one extraneous ion 
species (17) into the active electrode reservoir, the extraneous ion species (17) 

introduced into the active electrode reservoir (6) by the secondary electrode 
arrangement (50) including at least one of the same species as transported 

therefrom by the primary electrode arrangement (30). 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the primary electrode 
arrangement (30) is adapted to be operated in a manner to transport at least 

one target ion species (16) and at least one extraneous ion species (17) from 
the active electrode reservoir (6) and the secondary electrode arrangement (50) 

is adapted to be operated in a manner to remove at least one extraneous ion 
species (17) from the electrode reservoir (6) by means other than transport. 
The apparatus of claim 1, including means (40) for modifying 
relative current flow through the primary electrode arrangement (30) and the 

secondary electrode arrangement (50) during electrotransport delivery. 
The apparatus of claim 1, including means (40) for selectively 
adjusting relative current flow through the primary electrode arrangement (30) 

and the secondary electrode arrangement (50) to maintain a constant current 
flow from the electrotransport apparatus (5). 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the active electrode reservoir 
(6) contains a selected extraneous ion species (17) concentration at initiation of 

operation of the primary electrode arrangement (30), the secondary electrode 
arrangement (50) being adapted to be operated in a manner to maintain the 

concentration of extraneous ions species (17) within 30% of the initial 
extraneous ion species (17) concentration during operation of the primary 

electrode arrangement (30).  
 
The apparatus of claim 1, including means for simultaneously 
operating both of the primary electrode arrangement (30) and the secondary 

electrode arrangement (50), by passage of current therethrough, during at least 
a portion of said electrotransport delivery. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the secondary electrode 
arrangement (50) is adapted to be operated in a manner to generate a selected 

extraneous ion species (17) concentration, thereby maintaining a constant 
delivery rate of a target ion species (16). 
The apparatus of claim 12, whereby the apparatus (5) is operated 
in a manner to maintain a substantially constant current flow therefrom. 
The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the secondary electrode 
arrangement (50) is adapted to be operated to maintain a substantially constant 

molar fraction of target ion species (16) in the active electrode reservoir (6). 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the primary electrode 
arrangement (30) is positioned in said active electrode reservoir (16), the 

secondary electrode arrangement (50) is positioned in said active electrode 
reservoir (6) and said secondary electrode arrangement (50) is isolated from 

direct contact with said primary electrode arrangement (30). 
The apparatus of claim 1, including means (40) for selective 
operation of said secondary electrode arrangement (50) to affect the presence 

of extraneous ion species (17) in the active electrode reservoir (6). 
The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said means (40) for selective 
operation of the secondary electrode arrangement (50) includes means for 

generating extraneous ion species (17).  
 
The apparatus of claim 1, including: 

(a) an electrolyte-containing gel matrix (15) in said active 
electrode reservoir (16); and 
(b) at least one therapeutic ion species (16) in said electrolyte-containing 
gel matrix (15). 
The apparatus of claim 1, including control means (40) for 
selectively controlling relative current flow through said primary electrode 

arrangement (30) and said secondary electrode arrangement (50). 
The apparatus of claim 1, including: 

(a) an inactive electrode reservoir (7); 
(b) an inactive electrode (45) electrically connected to said 
inactive electrode reservoir (7); and 
(c) means (40) for selectively maintaining a current flow 
through a subject of electrotransport, during use. 
The apparatus of claim 1, including: 

(a) sensor means (60) for selectively detecting a selected 
characteristic of said active electrode reservoir (6); and 
(b) control means (40) for adjusting current flow through said 
secondary electrode arrangement (50) in response to a characteristic detection 

made by said sensor means (60). 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus (5) is operated in 
a manner to delivery target ion species (16) from the active electrode reservoir 

(6), at a substantially constant rate of delivery during operation of said 
apparatus. 
The apparatus of claim 22, including means (40) for maintaining a 
substantially constant current flow through a subject being treated by said  

 
apparatus, while simultaneously maintaining a constant rate of delivery of the 

target ion species (16) to the subject. 
The apparatus of claim 22, including means (60) for detecting ion 
content of said active electrode reservoir (16). 
The apparatus of claim 5, including means (40) for operating said 
secondary electrode system (50) to achieve maintenance of a constant 

hydronium ion concentration throughout operation of said apparatus. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said secondary electrode 
arrangement (50) includes an iridium oxide electrode adapted for 

oxidation/reduction reactions of Ir(III) and Ir(IV) upon passage of current 
therethrough. 
The apparatus of claim 5 or 25, wherein the species (16) has a 
polar form and a less polar form, including means (40) for selectively operating 

the secondary electrode (50) to control pH of the reservoir (6) in a manner to 
obtain selected relative concentrations of the polar and less polar forms of the 

species (16). 
The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the polar form of species (16) 
is charged and the less polar form of species (16) is uncharged. 
The apparatus of claim 1, including means (40) for selectively 
operating at least one of the primary electrode arrangement (30) and the 

secondary electrode arrangement (50), at termination of the delivery process, to 
render excess target species (16) in the reservoir (6) in an inactive form. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the species (16) has a predrug 
form and a drug form, and the reservoir (6) initially contains the predrug form of  

 
the species (16), the apparatus (5) including means (40) for selectively 

operating the electrode arrangements (30,50) to selectively convert the species 
(16) from the predrug form to the drug form. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
