<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612370</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A STEERABLE DRILLING ASSEMBLY FOR MOUNTING ON THE END OF A DRILL STRING TO DRILL A BOREHOLE IN AN UNDERGROUND FORMATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B400	E21B402	E21B418	E21B704	E21B706	E21B708	E21B1700	E21B1710	E21B2300	E21B2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B4	E21B4	E21B4	E21B7	E21B7	E21B7	E21B17	E21B17	E21B23	E21B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A steerable drilling assembly (1) for mounting on the end of a drill string (11) serves to drill a horizontal borehole (2) in an underground formation (3). The drilling assembly comprises a mud motor (12) and a drill bit (4) driven by said mud motor and having an axis of rotation which forms an angle with the axis of the drilling assembly, as well as a self-propelling drive assembly (8) for substantially translatorily advancing the drilling assembly in the formation and exerting on the drill bit the pressure necessary for the drilling, said drive assembly being provided with driven wheels (15) which are pressed against the wall of the borehole by the mud pressure and are pulled free from the wall when the pressure is relieved. A swivel (6) is inserted between the drive assembly (8) and the mud motor (5), said swivel consisting of successively - seen in the flow direction of the mud - arranged first and second mutually rotatable swivel parts (16, 17). The swivel moreover incorporates a brake (21) to impede the rotation of the two swivel parts with respect to each other. Furthermore, the swivel incorporates a coupling arrangement which is so adapted as to be capable of locking the two swivel parts (16, 17) together by varying the volume flow of the mud in a predetermined manner, determining whether the drilling assembly is to drill straight ahead or change direction.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HTC AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HTC A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALLUNDBAEK JORGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALLUNDBAEK, JORGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A steerable drilling assembly for mounting on the end of drill string to drill a borehole in an underground formationThe invention concerns a steerable drilling assembly for mounting on the end of a drill string to drill e.g. a horizontal borehole in an underground formation, said drilling assembly comprising a mud motor and a drill bit driven by said mud motor and having an axis of rotation which forms an angle with the axis of the drilling assembly, as well as a self-propelling drive assembly for substantially translatorily advancing the drilling assembly in the formation and exerting on the drill bit the pressure necessary for the drilling, said drive assembly being provided with wheels which are pressed against the wall of the borehole by the mud pressure and are pulled free from the wall when the pressure is relieved.When drilling boreholes in an underground formation it is often necessary to change and correct the direction of drilling. This applies e.g. when shallow oil-bearing strata of the type which are found in the underground below the North Sea are to be exploited. Drilling is then performed first vertically or obliquely downwardly toward the oil bearing stratum, following which drilling con¬ tinues in curve until the drilling assembly has reached a horizontal position in the oil-bearing stratum, and then the drilling direction is changed again so that drilling continues horizontally straight ahead in the oil-bearing stratum.The change of direction was originally established quite simply by pulling the entire drill string out of the borehole and inserting a bent section of pipe with an 

 angle of bend corresponding to the desired change of direction in the string above the drilling mud motor. When the drilling assembly had assurred the intended position and orientation, the drill string was again pulled out of borehole, and the bent section of pipe was replaced by a straight one, following which the drill string was again lowered down into the borehole and drilling continued straight ahead. Of course, the use of this older method is extremely labour-intensive and expensive and reduces the achievable productiog owing to the long downtimes which occur in connection with the change of direction. Another drawback of this method is that it can practically just control the inclination of the borehole.Another more efficient method comprises permanently providing the mud motor with one or more bent pipes in a manner such that the axis of rotation of the drill bit will form a small angle of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
P a t e n t C l a i m s:
1. A steerable drilling assembly (1) for mounting on the end of a drill string (11) to drill e.g. a horizontal borehole (2 ) in an underground formation (3) , said drilling assembly comprising a mud motor (12) and a drill bit (4) driven by the mud motor and having an axis of rotation which forms an angle with the axis of the drilling assembly, as well as a self-propelling drive assembly ( 8 ) for substantially translatorily advancing the drilling assembly ( 1 ) in the formation (3) and exerting on the drill bit (4) the pressure necessary for the drilling, said drive assembly (8) being provided with wheels (15) which are pressed against the wall of the borehole by the mud pressure and are pulled free from the wall when the pressure is relieved, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a swivel ( 6) is inserted between the drive assembly (8) and the mud motor (12), said swivel consisting of successively - seen in the flow direction of the mud - arranged first and second mutually rotatable swivel parts (16, 17), there being incorporated in the swivel (6) a brake (21) to impede the rotation of the two swivel parts (16, 17) with respect to each other, as well as a coupling arrangement so adapted as to be capable of locking the two swivel parts by varying the volume flow of the mud in a pre¬ determined manner.
2. A drilling assembly according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the coupling arrange¬ ment comprises a coupling (22, 23), e.g. a claw coupling, which has a flow opening (25) for the passage of the mud flow and consists of a first coupling part (22 ) which is fixed against rotation, but axially slidable and is spring loaded against the direction of the mud flow in the first swivel part (16), and a second coupling part (23) which is 


 firmly mounted in the second swivel part (17); and that the coupling arrangement moreover comprises a guide ring (32) arranged freely rotatably between the first coupling part (22) and the first swivel part (16), said guide ring being axially retained by the first swivel part (16) and being provided with a plurality of equidistantly spaced guideways along the periphery; as well as at least one outwardly extending guide pin (33) which is firmly arranged in the first coupling part (22) and engages the guide ways, said guide ways being so adapted that the guide ring (32), by varying the volume flow of the mud in a predetermined manner, can be turned by the guide pin (33) to positions in which the guideways in cooperation with a guide pin (33) allow and do not allow, respective- ly, the first coupling part (22) to engage the second one.
3. A drilling assembly according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the guide ring comprises an upper and a lower ring part (34, 35) - seen i a vertical position of the drilling assembly with the drill bit (4) lowermost - which are firmly connected with each other, and that the upper ring part (34) is provided with a plurality of equidistantly spaced, downwardly directed teeth (38) and the lower ring part with a corre- sponding number of upwardly directed teeth (39), each guideway comprising an upper inclined face (40) on one of the upper teeth (38) for turning the guide ring (32), upon engagement with the guide pin (33), when the first coupling part (22) is displaced oppositely to the engage- ment direction, an oppositely directed lower inclined face (41) on the opposed lower tooth (39) for turning the guide ring (32), upon engagement with the guide pin (33), in the same direction as the upper inclined face (40) when the first coupling part (22) is displaced in the engagement direction, a substantially horizontal stop face (42) extending from the lower boundary of the lower inclined 


 face (41) for preventing, upon engagement with the guide pin (33) the first coupling part (22) from engaging the second one (23) , and a slot (43) extending vertically downwardly from the side of the stop face (42) directed oppositely to the lower inclined face (41), said slot (43) having a width at least corresponding to the diameter of the pin (33) and such a great vertical extent as to allow the first coupling part (22 ) to engage the second one (23) when the guide pin (33) slides in the slot (43).
4. A drilling assembly according to claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that only every second stop face (42) is interrupted by a vertically extending slot.
5. A drilling assembly according to one or more of claims 1-4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the flow opening (25) in the first coupling part (22) has a constriction.
6 A drilling assembly according to claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the constriction in the flow opening (25) of the first coupling part (22) is formed by a flow body (27) coaxially arranged in the first swivel part (16) and comprising a front thinner part (28) and a rear thicker part ( 29 ) - seen in the flow direction of the mud - as well as by a constriction ring (26) arranged in the flow opening (25), said constriction ring having a smaller diameter than the rest of the flow open¬ ing and being axially positioned in it so that the constriction ring (26) is present around the thinner part (28) of the flow body (27) at a predetermined distance from its thicker part (29) when the coupling (22, 23) is disengaged, and close to or around the thicker part (29) of the flow body when the coupling part (22, 23) is engaged. 


 7. A drilling assembly according to one or more of claim 1-6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a measuring unit (7), in MWD, is inserted between the drive assembly (8) and the swivel (9), said measuring unit having instruments for measuring e.g. the inclination and azimuth of the drilling assembly (1) as well as the direction of the gravitation field with respect to the drilling assembly and the magnetic field in the drilling zone.
8. A drilling assembly according to one or more of claims 1-7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the coupling is adapted such that its two parts (22, 23) can engage with each other in one and just one relative angular position.
9. A drilling assembly according to claim 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the coupling is a claw coupling with just one claw on each coupling part.
10. A drilling assembly according to one or more of claims 1-9, c h a c t e r i z e d in that the brake (21) to inhibit the mutual rotation of the two swivel parts (22, 23) consists of at least one hydraulic pump and one hydraulic circuit having at least one throttle valve.
11. A drilling assembly according to one or more of claims 1-10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a second swivel (9) is inserted between the drill string (11) and the drive assembly (8), said swivel consisting of successively arranged first and second mutually rotatably swivel parts (48, 49) seen in the flow direction of the mud.
12. A drilling assembly according to claim 11, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the second swivel ( ) incorporates a coupling, e.g. a claw coupling, which has a flow opening (54) for the passage of the mud flow and 


consists of a first coupling part ( 51 ) firmly arranged in the first swivel part (48) and a second coupling part (52 which, spring loaded against the direction of the mud flow, is arranged axially slidably and fixed against rotation in the second swivel part (49).
13. A drilling assembly according to claim 11 or 12, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the flow opening ( 54) of the second coupling part accommodates a constriction ring (55) having a smaller inside diameter than the rest of the flow opening. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
