<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643630</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISPENSER PUMPS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B1100	B65D4734	B65D4734	B05B1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B65D	B65D	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B11	B65D47	B65D47	B05B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dispenser pump, for fitting to a container neck to dispense liquids in small doses, has a pump body (39) with a fixed discharge nozzle (25) and a reciprocable plunger to pump liquid through the valved inlet (41) of the pump chamber and out through the discharge nozzle. To enable the pump body (39) to be recessed into the container neck, the  discharge nozzle (25) near the top of the pump chamber and the outlet near the bottom of the pump chamber are connected by a discharge channel (48) extending up through the pump body alongside the pump chamber (38). Also described is a tamper-evident locking closure which holds the plunger (70) in a particular rotational orientation in which it is locked down. Breaking and removing the tamper-evident element simultaneously turns the plunger (70) to free it to rise.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENGLISH GLASS CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE ENGLISH GLASS COMPANY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WASS ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WASS, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to dispenser pumps of the
type in which dispensing is by a plunger action which
displaces a piston relative to a cylinder in the pump, to
expel material from a pump chamber through a discharge
outlet, material for subsequent dispensing strokes being
brought up into the pump chamber from a container through
an inlet valve. Such pumps are commonly used for
dispensing liquids and semi-liquids such as toiletries,
lotions, liquid soaps and pharmaceutical products.The conventional use is for dispensing in small
doses, e.g. a few ml. The containers and pumps are
usually of plastics material. The pump is a module with
a dip tube, and is screwed onto the container outlet
neck. The discharge nozzle is usually integral with the
top of the plunger, with the outlet passage and valve
provided through the plunger above an inlet valve, at the
bottom of the pump body.This construction has proved simple and reliable.
However, it does have some problems.Firstly, the movement of the nozzle during
dispensing can be a nuisance if accurate dispensing is
wanted. Secondly, there are problems in locking of the
plunger for transport. The plunger may be locked in the
"up" position, by a tall collar which fits around it to
prevent depression. See e.g. US-A-4479589. The
projecting plunger takes up a lot of space. If the
plunger is locked in the "down" position, e.g. by a screw
engagement of the plunger head with an opening in the
pump body, this is more compact. However, the locking
action requires the head to be depressed and turned at
the same time, causing an undesirable dribble from the
swinging nozzle.In a first aspect, we use a pump in which the
discharge nozzle is axially fast with the body of the
pump, usually at or towards a first axial end of the pump
body from which the plunger projects. The second axial
end of the pump body, with the inlet to the pump chamber,
projects axially into the container outlet.According to this first aspect
as set out in claim 1,
a discharge passage
communicating between the pump chamber outlet and the
discharge nozzle is defined within the pump body to
extend axially alongside the pump chamber. Thus, the
outlet from the pump chamber can be within the confines
of the container neck, to reduce the axial height of the
pump body above the container. In a piston and cylinder
pump, the pump chamber outlet will most conveniently also 
be situated at the second end of the pump chamber,
communicating to a discharge nozzle positioned outside
the container neck opening with a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dispenser pump having

a pump body (39) defining a pump chamber (38), said
body and chamber respectively having first and second

axial ends;
mounting means (10) on the pump body (39), adapted
to mount the dispenser pump in the neck opening of a

container of material to be dispensed, with the second
end of the pump body recessed within the neck opening

inside the container space and the first end of the pump
body outside the neck opening;
a reciprocable plunger (70) which extends axially
into the pump chamber (38) from the first end of the pump

body (39) and is axially reciprocable relative to the
pump body to alter the pump chamber volume in use;
the pump body (39) having a valved inlet (41)
through which in use material enters the pump chamber

(38) from the container, and an outlet opening (47)
through which in use material leaves the pump chamber

(38) by way of an outlet valve, the outlet opening (47)
being provided at or adjacent the second end of the pump

chamber (38) so as to lie to the inside of the container
neck when the dispenser pump is mounted thereon;
the pump body also having a discharge opening (49)
leading into a discharge nozzle (25), the discharge

opening (49) and discharge nozzle (25) being provided on
the pump body at or adjacent the first end thereof; 
the pump body (39) comprising an outer shell (40)
extending down into the container space and an inner

shell (60) nested into the outer shell (40) so that the
inner shell's outer surface fits against the outer

shell's inner surface along the pump body, and an
elongate channel recess extending axially in at least one

of the inner surface of the outer shell (40) and the
outer surface of the inner shell (60) to define between

the opposed surfaces of said nested inner and outer
shells a discharge passage (48) extending in the pump

body (39) alongside the pump chamber (38) to connect the
outlet opening (47) to the discharge opening (49).
A dispenser pump according to claim 1 in which the elongate
channel recess forming the discharge passage (48) is

provided in the wall of only one of said inner and outer
shells (60,40), opposing a plain surface on the other of

said shells (60,40).
A dispenser pump according to claim 1 or claim 2 in
which an elongate axially-extending vent channel (52) is

defined between the inner and outer shells (60,40),
extending from a vent slot (51) at the first end of the

pump body to a lower vent opening (53) which is through
the outer shell (40) and positioned towards the second

end of the pump body, inside the container in use. 
A dispenser pump according to any one of claims 1 to
3 in which that end of the plunger (70) which is in the

pump chamber (38) lies axially between the discharge
opening (49) and the second end of the pump body over at

least 40% of the plunger stroke length.
A dispenser pump according to any one of the
preceding claims in which the mounting means (10) for the

pump body (39) comprises an end stop (12,113) projecting
radially from the pump body to limit, by engagement with

the container neck, the extent to which the pump body is
inserted within the container neck, the end stop lying

axially between the pump chamber outlet opening (47) and
the discharge opening (49).
A dispenser pump according to any one of the
preceding claims in which the pump chamber is

cylindrical, and both the inner and outer shells (60,40)
are cylindrical.
A dispenser pump according to any one of the
preceding claims in which the inlet (41) and the outlet

opening (47) are adjacent one another at the second end
of the pump body, and the dispenser pump comprises a

single one-piece valve body comprising an inlet valve
portion (43) a
nd an outlet valve portion (96) for the
inlet (41) and outlet (47) respectively. 
A dispenser pump according to claim 7 in which the
inlet valve portion of the one-piece valve body is a

central plug (43) positioned over the inlet (41), and the
outlet valve portion is a radially outer flap (96).
A dispenser pump according to any one of the
preceding claims having


a locked condition, in which the reciprocable
plunger (70) is secured against reciprocation relative to

the pump body (30) with a head (71) of the plunger (70)
depressed against the pump body (39) and held there by

engagement of one or more detents (85) thereon behind one
or more corresponding detents (27) of the pump body, and
an unlocked condition in which the plunger (70) is
free to reciprocate; change from the locked condition to

the unlocked condition being effected by a relative
rotational movement, about the plunger's axis, between

the plunger (70) and the pump body (39);
the pump body comprising a tamper-evident element
(100) which engages between the plunger (70) and pump

body (39) to maintain the pump in the locked condition,
and which can be irreversibly broken and removed from the

pump in a release movement; which rotates the plunger
(70) and pump body (39) relative to one another to

disengage the one or more plunger detents (85) from
behind the one or more pump body detents (27).
A dispenser pump according to claim 9 in which less
than half a turn moves the plunger (70) from the locked

condition to the unlocked condition.
A dispenser pump according to claim 9 or claim 10 in
which the tamper-evident element (100) comprises a

breakable ring portion (101) extending around the
plunger (70) and a grip tag portion (102) attached to

the ring portion.
A dispenser pump according to claim 11 in which the
ring portion (101) has an inward projection (105)

trapped between a head (71) of the plunger (70) and the
pump body (39).
A dispenser pump according to claim 12 in which an
upward projection (107) on the inward projection

(105) of the ring portion provides a
circumferential engagement by engaging the plunger head

(71).
A container having a neck and a dispenser pump
according to any one of claims 1 to 13 mounted on the

neck.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
