<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656151</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANTIFUSE STRUCTURE AND METHOD FOR FORMING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L21768	H01L2182	H01L2352	H01L23525	H01L2710	H01L2710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An antifuse for programmable integrated circuit devices is formed above a refractory metal on a thin native oxide layer and comprises an amorphous compound resulting from a PECVD deposition using a combination of silane gas and nitrogen. After formation of the amorphous antifuse layer, the layer is implanted with an atomic species such as argon. The thin oxide layer is formed on the surface of a refractory metal, therefore the process of forming the oxide is slow, the oxide is of even thickness, and the thickness can be controlled precisely. In a preferred embodiment, a second thin oxide layer is formed above the doped amorphous layer. The oxide layers significantly reduce the leakage current of an unprogrammed antifuse. Because of these thin oxide layers and the implantation step, the amorphous layer may be as thin as 200A.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XILINX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XILINX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOOK KEVIN TAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLSHEIMER EVERT ANTONIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOOK, KEVIN, TAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLSHEIMER, EVERT, ANTONIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANTIFUSE STRUCTURE AND METHOD FOR FORMINGFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to antifuses used in programmable integrated circuit devices, a method for forming antifuses, and a method for programming the antifuses.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In programmable logic integrated circuit devices, antifuses may be used to programmably connect conductive lines to each other. An antifuse is a structure which is non-conductive when manufactured but which can be caused to become permanently conductive by application of sufficient voltage across its terminals. The art of forming antifuses which may be reliably used in integrated circuit devices has evolved over the last ten years, with a variety of antifuse structures becoming commercially available.Fig. 1 shows one prior art antifuse structure manufactured using a known process. A lower conductive terminal 11 is formed of polycrystalline silicon. As shown in the view of Fig. 1, poly layer 11 may be thought of as extending perpendicular to the plane of the drawing. Formed on the poly line is an insulation layer 13, which is patterned to form an opening 13a for antifuse contact. An amorphous silicon layer 14 about 1500 A thick is formed on this insulation layer, using silane gas (SiH4) in a low pressure chemical vapor deposition process at a temperature of about 560*C. This amorphous layer 14 is patterned to form antifuse 14a. Formed above antifuse 14a are layers of titanium metal 15, then titanium nitride 16, then aluminum or an aluminum-silicon alloy 17. These three layers 15, 16, 

and 17 are patterned simultaneously to form a conductive line which makes contact to the upper terminal of antifuse 14a.Fig. 2 shows another prior art antifuse structure. The lower conductive terminal is formed from aluminum or aluminum- silicon alloy 21 on which is formed titanium-tungsten layer 22. After a dielectric layer 23 (silicon dioxide for example) is formed and patterned to expose a titanium- tungsten contact area 23a, amorphous silicon antifuse 24a is formed by depositing amorphous silicon 24 using a PECVD process, and patterning the amorphous silicon 24 to leave the antifuse 24a extending into the contact 23a and contacting the lower conductive layer 22. PECVD amorphous silicon has relatively low conductivity. However, the conductivity is sufficient that either the antifuse will have an undesirably high leakage in its unprogrammed state or the antifuse must be thick enough to require high programming voltage. To reduce leakage to an acceptable level, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS We claim: 1. In an integrated circuit, an antifuse structure comprising: a lower contact comprising a refractory metal; a lower antifuse layer comprising an oxide formed from said refractory metal; an amorphous layer; an oxide layer formed above said amorphous layer; and an upper conductive layer.
2. In an integrated circuit, an antifuse structure comprising: a lower contact comprising a refractory metal; a lower antifuse layer comprising an oxide formed from said refractory metal; an amorphous layer comprising a mixture of amorphous silicon and nitrogen formed by placing said structure in a mixture of silane and nitrogen gases; and an upper conductive layer.
3. An antifuse structure as in Claim 2 in which said amorphous layer is implanted with atoms of a large size.
4 An antifuse structure as in Claim 3 in which said atoms of a large size are argon.
5. In an integrated circuit, an antifuse structure comprising: a lower contact comprising a refractory metal; a lower antifuse layer comprising an oxide formed from said refractory metal; an amorphous layer of a thickness between 200A and 800A; and an upper conductive layer. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 20 December 1993 (20.12.93); original claims 1-5 amended; new claims 6-34 added (4 pages)]
1. An antifuse structure comprising: a first conductive layer including a refractory metal; a first oxide layer comprising an oxide of said refractory metal; an amorphous layer formed on said first oxide layer; a second oxide layer comprising an oxide of said amorphous layer; and a second conductive layer formed on said second oxide layer.
2. The antifuse structure of Claim 1 wherein said amorphous layer includes amorphous silicon and nitrogen.
3. The antifuse structure of Claim 2 wherein said amorphous layer is implanted with atoms, wherein said atoms include: argon, silicon, arsenic, oxygen, or phosphorus atoms.
4. The antifuse structure of Claim 2 wherein said amorphous layer is implanted with atoms capable of breaking up small crystals.
5. The antifuse structure of Claim 1 wherein said amorphous layer has a thickness range between 20θA and 80θA.
6. The antifuse structure of Claim 1 wherein said refractory metal includes titanium, tungsten, or titanium- tungsten.
7. The antifuse structure of Claim 1 further comprising a field oxide region adjacent said first oxide layer.
8. The antifuse structure of Claim 1 further comprising a field oxide region adjacent said second oxide layer.
9. The antifuse structure of Claim 1 wherein said amorphous layer includes amorphous silicon. 


 10. The antifuse structure of Claim 2 wherein said amorphous material has approximately 25 atomic percent nitrogen.
11. The antifuse structure of Claim 1 wherein said first conductive layer includes a base layer, said refractory metal formed on said base layer.
12. The antifuse structure of Claim 11 wherein said base layer includes aluminum, an aluminum-silicon alloy, or an aluminum-silicon-copper alloy.
13. The antifuse structure of Claim 6 wherein said first layer of oxide includes titanium oxide, tungsten oxide, or a combination of titanium oxide and tungsten oxide.
14. The antifuse structure of Claim 1 further including a third conductive layer formed over said second conductive layer.
15. The antifuse structure of Claim 14 wherein said third conductive layer includes at least one refractory metal.
16. The antifuse structure of Claim 15 wherein said at least one refractory metal includes titanium.
17. The antifuse structure of Claim 15 wherein said at least one refractory metal includes tungsten.
18. The antifuse structure of Claim 15 wherein said third conductive layer further includes at least one non-refractory metal.
19. The antifuse structure of Claim 18 wherein said at least one non-refractory metal includes aluminum.
20. The antifuse structure of Claim 5 wherein said thickness is approximately 45θA. 


 21. A method for making an antifuse in an integrated circuit structure comprising the steps of: forming a refractory metal layer on a semiconductor substrate; forming a first oxide layer by oxidizing said refractory metal layer; forming an amorphous layer on said first oxide layer; forming a second oxide layer by oxidizing said amorphous layer; and forming a conductive layer on said second oxide layer.
22. The method of Claim 21 wherein said step of forming an amorphous layer includes placing said structure into a mixture of silane gas and nitrogen.
23. The method of Claim 21 wherein said step of forming an amorphous layer is performed at a temperature of approximately 300°C.
24. The method of Claim 22 wherein said mixture includes about 25 atomic percent nitrogen.
25. The method of Claim 21 further comprising the step of implanting said amorphous layer with atoms of a predetermined size.
26. The method of Claim 25 wherein said atoms of a predetermined size include: argon, silicon, arsenic, oxygen, or phosphorus atoms.
27. The method of Claim 25 wherein said step of implanting is performed at a dosage of 10
16
 atoms per cm
2
.
28. The method of Claim 25 wherein said step of implanting is performed at a voltage of approximately 35KeV.
29. The method of Claim 21 wherein said refractory metal layer includes titanium, tungsten, or titanium-tungsten. 


 30. The method of Claim 21 wherein said step of forming a second oxide layer is performed using an oxygen plasma process.
31. The method of Claim 30 wherein said step of forming a second oxide takes approximately one hour.
32. The method of Claim 21 further including the step of forming and patterning a field oxide region after said step of forming a lower contact and before said step of forming said first oxide layer.
33. The method of Claim further including the step of etching said amorphous layer subsequent to said step of forming said amorphous layer.
34. The method of Claim 33 further including the step of forming and patterning a field oxide region after said step of etching said amorphous layer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
