<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642331</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEANS FOR NON-INVASIVE IN-VIVO BONE-GROWTH STIMULATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61H100	A61H2302	A61B1758	A61H102	A61H102	A61H2302	A61B1758	A61H100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61H	A61H	A61B	A61H	A61H	A61H	A61B	A61H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61H1	A61H23	A61B17	A61H1	A61H1	A61H23	A61B17	A61H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for preventing osteopenia, promoting bone tissue growth, ingrowth, and healing of bone tissue includes at least one rigid plate (11, 12, 31, 40, 42, 47, 50, 53, 70, 71) to support the living body, a stiffly compliant structure (13, 14, 41, 48, 48', 51, 76) engaged to the at least one plate, a dynamic force transducer (15, 15', 38, 38', 44, 44', 54, 77) engaged to the plate to vertically drive the plate. The stiffly compliant structure having a spring constant such that, in the context of the total of the mass of the plate and the mass of the plated-supported body mass, the total mass and the compliant structure exhibit a naturally resonant frequency in the range of 10 Hz to 100 Hz.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to an apparatus for implementing a
method for inducing mechanical strain in bone tissue, and more specifically
relates to the application of an apparatus for preventing osteopenia, and
promoting growth, ingrowth and healing of bone tissue by mechanically
loading the bone tissue.Numerous publications and patents disclose various methods of
maintaining or promoting bone-tissue growth. For example, Ryaby, et al.
U.S. Patent Nos. 4,105,017; 4,266,532; 4,266,533 and 4,315,503 collectively
describe means and methods for inducing voltage and current signals in bone
tissue for the treatment or repair of bone fractures. Kraus, et al. U.S. Patent
No. 3,890,953 discloses stimulating the healing of fractures by the application
of magnetic fields, the effect of which is described as introducing mechanical
stress.U.S. Patent No. 4,530,360 which issued to Luis Duarte discloses a
method for healing bone fractures by the application of ultrasound. Also, the
piezoelectric response of mechanically stressed bone is disclosed in the
article, Generation of Electric Potentials by Bone in Response to Mechanical
Stress, published in Science Magazine 137, 1063-1064, September 28, 1962.Many conventional methods of promoting bone-tissue growth and
bone maintenance by the application of mechanical loads generally tend to
apply relatively low frequency or low repetition rate (e.g. less than 5 Hz),
relatively high magnitude loads sufficient to induce high magnitude strain
(e.g. greater than 1500 microstrain). Such loading not only may not be
necessary but also may be detrimental to bone maintenance and well being. The maintenance of bone mass is commonly believed to be regulated
by the peak strain experienced by the bone. Thus, prescribed techniques for
mineralization include aggressive exercise or even impact loading, for
example, heel drops. For the elderly, these treatment protocols can be
difficult to maintain or even dangerous. High loading activity could
precipitate the fracture that the exercise was supposed to prevent.US 5,103,806 describes a method for preventing osteopenia,
promoting bone tissue growth, ingrowth, and healing of bone tissue including
the step of applying a mechanical load to the bone tissue
at a level of about 50 to 500 microstrain and at a
frequency in the range of 10 to 50 Hertz.In accordance with the invention, there is provided an apparatus for
stimulating bone growth in a living body of given mass, said apparatus
comprising: a rigid plate area sufficient to support the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for stimulating bone growth in a living body of given mass,
said apparatus comprising:


a rigid plate area (11,12,31,40,42,47,50,53,70,71) sufficient to support
the living body when the plate is horizontal and the spine is upright,
stiffly compliant means (13,14,32,33,41,48,48',51,76) on the
underside of said plate for support of said plate upon a rigid horizontal

support surface,
dynamic-force transducer means (15,15',38,38',44,44',54) engaged to
the underside of said plate and oriented to vertically drive said plate with

referencing reaction to said support surface,
said compliant means (13,14,32,33,41,48,48',51,76) having a spring
constant such that, in the context of the total of the mass of said plate and the

mass of the plate-supported body mass, said total mass and said compliant
means exhibit a naturally resonant frequency in the range 10 Hz to 100 Hz,
means for driving said transducer means (60) at said resonant
frequency and within a range up to 2.0-mm displacement peak-to-peak and

with a force that is substantially less than the supported gravitational weight
of the living body,
said means for driving said transducer means being an
alternating-current signal generator with means (66) for varying the output

frequency within said range of naturally resonant frequencies; and
means (68) for monitoring an instantaneous motional value of said
plate at natural resonance and in the course of frequency variation, whereby to

establish the natural resonance for an applied individual's body mass.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which said stiffly compliant means
is peripherally engaged to said plate. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which said stiffly compliant means
is engaged to the underside of said plate.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 or 2 or 3, wherein said
essentially rigid plate area comprises:

   an essentially upper rigid plate and an essentially lower rigid plate of
area sufficient to support the living body when the spine is upright.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said stiffly compliant means
is disposed between said rigid plates for vertically compliant coupling of said

plates when oriented horizontally for gravitational loading of the upper plate
against the lower plate.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 or 5, further comprising means
retaining an assembled relation of said plates and said compliant means and

said transducer means, with freedom for relative displacement of said plates
while compliantly coupled,

   whereby when the lower one of said plates is set upon a horizontal
support surface such as a floor or bench seat, the upper one of said plates is

upwardly facing and positioned for support of a living body with upright
spine,

   the spring constant for said compliant means being such that, in the
context of the total mass of said upper plate and the plate-supported body

mass, said total mass and said compliant means exhibit said naturally resonant
frequency in said range 10 Hz to 100 Hz.
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said
signal-generator includes means responsive to an instantaneous

electric-current value of said output frequency, such as to enable the varied
frequency to be adjusted to a value at which the instantaneous current value is

at minimum. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which said stiffly compliant means
is the sole means of support of said plate area.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, adapted for use on a floor surface
constituting said support surface.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, adapted for use on a seat or chair
constituting said support surface.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which said stiffly compliant means
is an integrally formed peripheral component of said plate area.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein the periphery of said
peripheral component is the sole means of plate area support.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 or 2 or 3, wherein said rigid
plate area comprises a rigid upper plate of area sufficient to support the living

body when the spine is upright, and a rigid lower plate forming part of a rigid
frame structure which includes a peripheral rim above said upper plate with

said upper plate exposed within said rim for support of the living body.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein said stiffly compliant
means is in the form of peripherally distributed pairs of upper and lower

springs under tensed preload, the upper springs being connected to said upper
plate and to said rim, and the lower springs being connected to said upper

plate and to said lower plate whereby said upper plate is suspended with
respect to said frame structure by all said springs under tensed preload. 
The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said lower
plate is adapted for non-yielding gravitational seating reference to a rigid

floor.
The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said lower
plate is adapted for non-yielding gravitational seating reference to a chair

frame.
The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said stiffly
compliant means is an integrally formed peripheral component of said upper

plate.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said resonant
frequency is in the range 25 Hz to 35 Hz.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said
peak-to-peak displacement is in the range 0.01-mm to 2.0-mm, corresponding

to delivery of bone-tissue strain in the body at a relatively low level of about
50 to about 500 microstrain, peak-to-peak.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said
peak-to-peak displacement is in the range 0.08-mm to 0.5-mm, corresponding

to delivery of bone-tissue strain in the body at a relatively low level of about
100 to about 200 microstrain, peak-to-peak.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said
peak-to-peak displacement is at least no greater than substantially 0.05-mm.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said means for
driving said transducer means includes means for adjusting the driving

frequency to a resonance frequency within said range. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said transducer
means is a linear electromagnetic actuator.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said transducer
means is a piezoelectric actuator.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said means for
driving said transducer means includes means for automatically adjusting the

driving frequency to a single frequency which is substantially equal to the
square root of the quotient k/M where k is the spring constant of said stiffly

compliant means, and M is the mass (including the mass of the living body)
supported by said stiffly compliant means.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, wherein said means for
driving said transducer is activated by switch means responsive to

compressive displacement of said stiffly compliant means upon application of
living body weight to said apparatus.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, wherein said means for
driving said transducer is activated by switch means responsive to

compressive displacement of said stiffly compliant means upon application of
living body weight to said apparatus, and interval-timing means associated

with said transducer-driving means for disconnecting the drive of said
transducer means upon timing-out a predetermined interval of body-loaded

transducer operation.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said means for
driving said transducer means is an alternating current signal generator with

means for selectively varying the output frequency within said range of
naturally resonant frequencies, and means for monitoring an instantaneous 

motional value of said upper plate at natural resonance and in the course of
frequency variation, whereby to establish the natural resonance for an applied

individual's body mass.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said means for
driving said transducer means is an alternating current signal generator with

means for selectively varying the magnitude of output current to said
transducer means, and means carried by said upper plate for monitoring a

quantity reflecting an instantaneous motional value of said upper plate at
natural resonance, whereby to enable selective adjustment of the magnitude of

current supplied to said transducer means, to or within a predetermined
monitored limit.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said means for
driving said transducer means is an alternating current signal generator with

means for selectively varying the magnitude of output current to said
transducer means, and accelerometer means carried by said upper plate for

monitoring the instantaneous value of maximum dynamic acceleration of said
upper plate at said natural resonance so as to assure control of output current

to an upper limit corresponding to a maximum monitored dynamic
acceleration value of 0.3g.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which said means for
driving said transducer means is an alternating current signal generator with

means for selectively varying the magnitude of output current to said
transducer means, and displacement-responsive monitoring means carried by

said upper plate for monitoring the instantaneous value of peak-to-peak
displacement of said upper plate at said natural resonance so as to assure

control of output current to an upper limit corresponding to a maximum
monitored peak-to-peak displacement of 2.0 mm. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising:

presettable means for setting the frequency output of said generator to
a preascertained value of said naturally resonant frequency; and
feedback-control means responsive to said output and having an
amplitude-control connection to said signal generator.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 32, in which presettable means
associated with said amplitude-control connection is operative to selectively

limit the amplitude of excitation to said generator for selective limitation of
plate motion to a predetermined value less than said upper limit of

displacement peak-to-peak.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising:

automatic means for ascertaining said naturally resonant frequency,
comprising;
scanning means for varying said frequency output of said signal
generator within said range of frequencies, and
means responsive to instantaneous current supplied by said generator
to said transducer means in a course of frequency variation, for identifying a

frequency at which instantaneous current is at a minimum value within said
range of frequencies.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 34, wherein said automatic means
includes means setting the frequency of said signal generator to the

thus-identified frequency, a motion-indicating sensor carried by said plate for
providing an electrical-signal output that reflects instantaneous motion of said

plate, and amplitude-control means for said signal generator means and
responsive to said electrical-signal output for regulating instantaneous plate

motion to a predetermined level which is less than said upper limit of
displacement peak-to-peak. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 35, in which said predetermined level
of amplitude control is a variable level which decreases to a predetermined

minimum maintenance level in a course of treatment time.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising:

   control means for said signal generator including;

(a) said means for varying, within said frequency range, the
frequency of signal output of said generator;
(b) means responsive to the instantaneous electric-current value of
said signal output, such as to enable the varied frequency to be adjusted to a

value at which instantaneous current value is a minimum;
(c) amplitude-control means for adjusting the instantaneous
amplitude of said signal output; and
(d) feedback-control means including said motion-monitoring
means carried by said plate for producing an electrical signal indicative of

said instantaneous motion, and said sensor being connected to said
amplitude-control means for maintaining a predetermined level of sensor

output in the course of a given treatment.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 37, in which said control means is
programmable, with provision for presetting treatment time.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 37 or 38, in which said control means is
programmable, with provision for presetting a predetermined output level of

said sensor.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 37 or 38 or 39, in which said control
means is programmable, with provision for presetting signal generator output

frequency to a fixed value which has been predetermined to be the correct
resonance frequency for a patient using the apparatus. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 37 to 40, in which said control
means includes a microprocessor programmed to perform a frequency scan for

minimum current to said transducer and to identify the frequency at which
said minimum current is found to occur, and then to establish the identified

frequency as the fixed frequency of signal generator output to said transducer.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 41, in which the programming of said
microprocessor includes provision for presetting limits of said frequency scan

to values which are at relatively close proximity but are spaced on opposite

sides of a pre-established value of said fixed frequency, said pre-established
value being from a prior use of said apparatus for the same patient.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 41 or 42, in which the programming of
said microprocessor is pursuant to a machine-reading of a

prescription-encoded member that is unique to a particular patient's
requirements.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 41, or 42, or 43, in which said
microprocessor is connected for continuous response to said sensor and for

providing automatic-gain control to maintain such amplitude control of signal
generator output as to retain sensor output at substantially a predetermined

treatment level.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 41 to 44, in which said control
means includes means for displaying or recording preset data and measured

motional-output data, and in which the programming of said microprocessor
includes provision for automatic entry of said data into a display or a

recording.
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 41 to 45, in which said control
means is associated with digital-storage means, and in which said 

microprocessor includes provision for automatic entry of preset data and of
measured motional-output data into digital storage.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 34, in which said naturally resonant
frequency is in the range 10 Hz to 50 Hz.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
