<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642050</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spatial light modulator, method of production thereof and projection type display
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F1135	G02F113	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spatial light modulator including a pair of transparent 
insulating substrates (101, 111) each having a transparent 

conducting electrode (102, 109), the substrates forming a top 
layer and a bottom layer, a photoconductive layer (105), a liquid 

crystal layer (107) and a reflection layer (106) being present 
between the top and bottom layers, wherein the photoconductive 

layer comprises a first amorphous semiconductor layer (103), a 
second amorphous semiconductor layer (104) and preferably a third 

amorphous semiconductor layer (116) disposed in order on the 
bottom layer, and the first amorphous semiconductor layer and the 

second amorphous semiconductor layer have different refractive 
indices from each other. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKIYAMA KOJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGAWA HISAHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGIWARA AKIFUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKIYAMA, KOJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGAWA, HISAHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGIWARA, AKIFUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a spatial light modulator for use
in optical computers or projection-type displays, a method of
producing the modulator, and a projection-type display using the
modulator.Optically addressed spatial light modulators using liquid
crystal layers (hereinafter, referred to as spatial light
modulators) basically include a photoconductive layer, a liquid
crystal layer which changes light transmittance upon application
of an electric field and a pair of transparent conductive electrodes
which sandwich the photoconductive layer and the liquid crystal
layer between the electrodes.This modulator is driven by applying voltage to both
electrodes from outside. Light irradiated toward the
photoconductive layer leads to a change in electrical resistance
in the photoconductive layer and a change in the voltage applied
to the liquid crystal layer. Accordingly, read light passing
through the liquid crystal layer is modulated according to the
variation in voltage. Such operation enables many functions to be
performed including light threshold processing, wavelength conversion,
incoherent/coherent conversion, image memorizing and the like.
Therefore, spatial light modulators are considered important 
devices for optical processing. Further, these devices serve as
optical amplifiers when read light with a large optical
intensity is injected from the opposite direction of light for
writing, and the memory is read-out in reflection mode.
Accordingly, these devices are used as a general-purpose device
including a projection-type display.Projection processes of conventional projection-type
displays include the following three types: (1) one using the
above-mentioned optically addressed spatial light modulator, (2)
one using bright three-tube cathod ray tube (CRT), and (3) last
one which projects an active matrix liquid crystal light valve
with a bright light source.In the process using the CRT, images are displayed on three
bright CRTs of R, G and B with an opposite angle of 5 to 7
inches, the images are projected on a screen by three projection
lenses and synthesized to obtain a color image. This process has
problems that the projector is heavy, or a bright display
decreases resolution.In the process using an active matrix liquid crystal light
valve, images are displayed on a liquid crystal panel which is
formed of three liquid crystal panels or color filters of Red,
Green and Blue integrated in one body. The displayed images are
read-out by a bright back light source such as a metal halide
lamp or a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spatial light modulator comprising a pair of transparent
insulating substrates (101,111) each having a transparent conducting

electrode (102,109), said substrates forming a top layer (109) and a
bottom layer (102), a photoconductive layer (105), a liquid crystal

layer (107) and a reflection layer (106) being present between said top
and bottom layers.


wherein said photoconductive layer (105) comprises a first
amorphous semiconductor layer (103) and a second amorphous

semiconductor layer (104) deposited in order on said bottom layer, and
said first amorphous semiconductor has a refractive index between 3.2

and 4.5 and said second amorphous semiconductor has a refractive index
between 1.4 and 3.2, and
wherein the refractive index of said second amorphous semiconductor is
smaller than that of said first amorphous semiconductor.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein said
photoconductive layer (105) further comprises a third amorphous

semiconductor layer (116) between said transparent conducting electrode
of the bottom layer (102) and said first amorphous semiconductor layer

(103), and said third amorphous semiconductor layer (116) has a
refractive index smaller than that of the first amorphous semiconductor layer

(103).
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein said
photoconductive layer (105) has rectification properties.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein said
first amorphous semiconductor layer (103) comprises an alloy containing

silicon as a main ingredient. 
The spatial light modulator according to claim 4, wherein said
first amorphous semiconductor layer (103) comprises at least one

element selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, a halogen and
oxygen.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein said
first amorphous semiconductor layer (103) comprises at least one alloy

selected from the group cosisting of hydrogenated amorphous silicon,
hydrogenated amorphous germanium, hydrogenated amorphous silicon-germanium

and hydrogenated amorphous germanium carbide.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 2, wherein said
third amorphous semiconductor layer (116) comprises at least one p-type

dopant selected from the group consisting of B, Al and Ga.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein the
second amorphous semiconductor layer (104) comprises an alloy

containing germanium as a main ingredient.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein said
second amorphous semiconductor layer (104) comprises at least one alloy

selected from the group consisting of hydrogenated amorphous silicon,
hydrogenated amorphous germanium nitride, hydrogenated amorphous

silicon germanium nitride, hydrogenated amorphous silicon carbide,
hydrogenated amorphous silicon nitride, hydrogenated amorphous silicon

oxide and hydrogenated amorphous carbon.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 9, wherein said
second amorphous semiconductor layer (104) comprises at least one n-type

dopant selected from the group consisting of P, As, Sb and Se.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 9, wherein said
second amorphous semiconductor layer (104) comprising hydrogenated

amorphous silicon carbide has a carbon content of 10 to 40 atom %. 
The spatial light modulator according to claim 2, wherein the
third amorphous semiconductor layer (116) has a thickness of 1 to

300 nm. 
The spatial light modulator according to claim 2, wherein said
third amorphous semiconductor layer (116) comprises silicon carbide

containing 100 to 10000 ppm of at least one p-type dopant selected from
the group consisting of B, Al, Ga and In.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein said
photoconductive layer (105) has a thickness of 0.5 to 10 µm.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein said
reflection layer (106) comprises at least one metal selected from the

group consisting of Al, Ag, Mo, Ni, Cr, Mg and Ti.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein said
reflection layer (106)is formed in islands, and one of said island-shaped

reflection layers corresponds to one pixel.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 16, wherein at
least a part of the photoconductive layer (105) between two adjacent

island-shaped reflection layers is removed, and an optical absorption
layer is present in the space where the photoconductive layer (105) was

removed.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1 or 17, wherein
a part of the first amorphous semiconductor layer (103)

under the removed layer is also removed, and an optical absorption
layer (302) is present in the space where the first amorphous

semiconductor layer (103) was removed.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein the
remaining part of the first amorphous semiconductor layer (103) has a

thickness of 0.01 to 1 µm. 
The spatial light modulator according to claim 1, wherein the
reflection layer (106) is formed in islands (301), at least a groove is

formed in said photoconductive layer (105) between two adjacent island-shaped
reflection layers, the thickness of said photoconductive layer

at said groove is less than 1 µm, and an optical absorption layer is
present in said groove.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 18, wherein the
optical absorption layer (302) comprises at least one material selected

from the group consisting of an organic polymer dispersed with carbon
particles, an organic polymer containing black pigment, an organic

polymer containing black dye, amorphous carbon, amorphous germanium and
amorphous germanium nitride.
The spatial light modulator according to claim 17 or 20, wherein a
light-shielding layer (303) is present under said optical absorption

layer, and said light-shielding layer (303) comprises at least one
metal selected from the group consisting of Al, Ag, Mo, Ni, Cr and Mg.
The spatial light modulator according to claim claim 17 or 20,
wherein said optical absorption layer (302) is coated with an

electrically insulating layer (304) selected from the group consisting

of an inorganic insulating layer and an organic insulating layer.
A method of producing a spatial light modulator of claim 1,
comprising the steps of


introducing a gas to a pressure-reducible vacuum chamber (202) and
adjusting the pressure in the chamber,
producing discharge in the chamber to form a plasma,
forming said photoconductive layer (105) by depositing a first
amorphous semiconductor layer (103) and a second amorphous

semiconductor layer (104), on said transparent insulating substrate
(101) having a transparent conducting electrode (102),
wherein the refractive index of the first layer is between 3.2 and 4.5 and
the refractive index of the second layer is between 1.4 and 3.2

the refractive index of the second layer being smaller than that of the first layer, 
forming said reflector (106), and
forming said liquid crystal layer (107) over the reflector (106),
wherein said transparent insulating substrate (101) is kept at a

temperature of 10 to 180 °C while said step of forming said
photoconductive layer (105).
The method of producing a spatial light modulator according to
claim 24, further comprising the steps of


applying an organic thin film to said island-shaped reflectors
(301), and
exposing said reflectors to a heat treatment at a temperature of more
than 180 °C after said step of forming said island-shaped reflectors

(301).
The method of producing a spatial light modulator according to
claim 24 or 25, wherein said reflector (106,301) is a dielectric

reflector formed at a temperature more than 180 °C.
The method of producing a spatial light modulator according to
claim 24 or 25, wherein said substrate (101) is kept at 10 to 180 °C

while said photoconductive layer (105) is being formed.
The method of producing a spatial light modulator according to
claim 24 or 25, wherein said insulating substrate kept at a temperature

of 180 °C or more is gradually cooled while said photoconductive layer
(105) is being formed on said insulating substrate (101), and said

insulating substrate (101) is kept at a temperature of 180 °C or less
when said step of forming said photoconductive layer (105) is

completed.
The method of producing a spatial light modulator according to
claim 24, wherein a part of said photoconductive layer (105) comprises

a hydrogen containing silicon carbide.
The method of producing a spatial light modulator according to
claim 29, wherein said hydrogen containing silicon carbide has a carbon

content of 10 to 40 atom %. 
A projecton-type display a spatial light modulator according to claim 2, comprising an AC
power souce (711) for driving said spatial light modulator (704), said

power source being connected with said conducting electrodes (102,109),
an image input means for outputting an image by light in a wavelength

range from 400 to 600 nm, an image forming means for forming an image
from the image being output from said image input means on said

photoconductive layer (105), and a light source (702) and a projection
lens (705) for reading said image being output from said spatial light

modulator (704).
The projection-type display according to claim 31, wherein said
third amorphous semiconductor layer (116) has a thickness smaller than that of

first second amorphous semiconductor layer (103).
The projection-type display according to claim 31, wherein said
third amorphous semiconductor layer (116) has a thickness of 5 to 18

nm.
The projection-type display according to claim 33, wherein said
third amorphous semiconductor layer (116) comprises silicon carbide

(a-Si
1-x
C
x
, wherein x is 0.1 - 0.4).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
