<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635790</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Client/server based secure timekeeping system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L932	G06F1214	G06F100	G06F2120	H04L932	G06F2100	G06F2122	G06F114	G06F1214	G06F2122	G06F114	G06F100	G06F2120	G06F2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	G06F	G06F	G06F	H04L	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L9	G06F12	G06F1	G06F21	H04L9	G06F21	G06F21	G06F1	G06F12	G06F21	G06F1	G06F1	G06F21	G06F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A client/server-based secure timekeeping computer system is 
provided. A secure-time server which is located in a physically trusted 

environment, includes a highly accurate time-of-day (TOD) clock, along 
with a key storage area containing a table of public/private key pairs 

corresponding to clients in the client/server network. The server 
encrypts a current time value from its TOD clock using a private key 

corresponding to a selected client. The encrypted time value is then 
sent to the client over an open communications channel. Each client in 

the network is equipped with its own secure timekeeping facility housed 
within the secure boundaries of a single, tamper-proof VLSI chip. Upon 

receipt of a secure-time transmission, a client uses its own copy of its 
private key to decrypt the time value, then loads the decrypted time 

value into its TOD clock. The tamper-proof VLSI chip in each client also 
includes an authenticated-time indicator, which is set to TRUE to 

indicate that the TOD clock contains a trusted time. Programs that 
require secure time may check the authenticated time indicator before 

executing and may cancel execution if a secure time is not available. 
Programs that do not require secure time are able to execute regardless. 

To maintain the ongoing accuracy of the client TOD clock once it is set 
with a trusted time value, the secure timekeeping facility in a client 

may further include calibration and clock stability adjustment mechanisms 
which receive client clock calibration adjustment values and accuracy 

duration values, and which apply these values at intervals to maintain 
the accuracy of the client TOD clock within acceptable limits and mark 

the clock as untrusted when it can no longer be maintained within 
acceptable limits. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTMAN ROBERT CHARLES JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTMAN, ROBERT CHARLES, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to computer data security,
and in particular to a secure timekeeping facility for use in a client-server
computer network.Media (i.e. data) security in computer systems is traditionally
implemented at multiple levels. One level of security involves the
complete denial of access to data. Many schemes exist for the
implementation of access-level security, including password protection,
logical partitioning, and data encryption. Among tie encryption schemes,
numerous lock-and-key architectures have been developed. One such
architecture is described in European patent application number
EP-A-0583140.
Hartman's access-level security
architecture is directed to limiting the usage of digital media to client
users having proper licensing authority granted by a Media Clearinghouse
(server). The original digital media, which can be program object code,
program source code, image, audio, video, text, or any other form of
information contained in a file or data object, is encrypted with a Media
Master Key by a Media Clearinghouse on behalf of the content creator or
owner. The Media Master Key is then further encrypted with a unique
private key for each authorized client system. The encrypted media and
the encrypted Media Master Keys may then be widely distributed over open,
non-secure channels.Another level of media security, applicable once access is granted,
involves restricting access based on time. In a client/server network,
time based restrictions themselves involve comparing a time interval for
which the server has granted access with a current time, typically the
time stored in the client computer system's time-of-day (TOD) clock.
However, this comparison and the underlying time-based restriction can
easily be rendered meaningless by an intruder, unethical administrator,
or knowledgeable user who simply sets the system clock backward or
forward to mislead the access mechanism into believing the access
interval is still active. Moreover, even if the client TOD clock is not
subjected to tampering, it will always be subject to inherent
inaccuracies such as drift and instability which over time will cause its
value to diverge from the actual current time. Clock drift is the 
predictable, stable inaccuracy of a clock that causes it to lose or gain
time at a constant rate. Clock instability is the unpredictable
inaccuracy that causes the clock drift component to change. Factors
which cause instability may include environmental temperature, humidity,
supply voltage, etc.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Secure timekeeping apparatus for use in a computer system that
includes a central processing unit and electronic storage located in a

physically secure package, comprising:

a public key register (112) for holding a public key for use in
identifying a private key for encrypting and decrypting time and date

transmissions;
a private key register (110) for holding the private key;
an input (114) for receiving time and date information encrypted
using the private key;
data decryption means (106) for decrypting the received time and
date information using the private key; and
a time-of-day (TOD) clock (108) including a time clock and a date
calendar, having an input for receiving the decrypted time and date

information and an output for providing unencrypted time and date
information; characterized in that:
said input is further adapted for receiving clock accuracy-maintaining
data also encrypted using the private key; and
said data decryption means is further adapted for decrypting the
clock accuracy-maintaining data also using the private key; and
said output time and date information is subject to modification in
accordance with the clock accuracy-maintaining data.
Secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the TOD
clock (108) is located in the same physically secure package as the

central processing unit.
Secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2,
wherein the public key is unique to the computer system and is accessible

outside the physically secure package.
Secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein the private key is unique to the computer system and is

inaccessible outside the physically secure package.
Secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim,
further comprising secure-time request means for requesting from a time 

server current time and date information encrypted using the private key.
Secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein said clock accuracy-maintaining data comprises a value indicating

a time duration for which the TOD clock is considered accurate, said
timekeeping apparatus further comprising:


an authenticated-time indicator (218) for storing a value
indicating whether the TOD clock contains an authenticated time and date;
an accuracy-duration register (220) for storing the clock accuracy-maintaining
data;
an input for receiving any of time, date, and accuracy duration
values; and
an output for providing a value from the authenticated-time
indicator.
Secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the
accuracy duration register (220) contains a time value, and the

authenticated-time indicator is set to TRUE in response to the
combination of


setting the TOD clock using encrypted values,
setting the accuracy duration register (220) using an encrypted
value, and
the accuracy duration register (220) containing a value which is
chronologically greater than the value of the TOD clock.
Secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7,
wherein the authenticated time indicator is set to FALSE for any of

system initialization, low operating voltage condition, setting of the
TOD clock using unencrypted values, and the accuracy duration register

(220) containing a value which is chronologically less than the value of
the TOD clock.
Secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in any of claims 6 to 8,
further comprising:


a time facility setting means for setting the values of the TOD
clock and the accuracy-duration register (220) based on the received

time, date, and accuracy duration values, and for setting the
authenticated time indicator to 


FALSE if the received time, date, and accuracy duration
values are unencrypted,
TRUE if the received time, date, and accuracy duration values
are encrypted and the value set in the accuracy duration

register (220) is chronologically greater than the value set
in the TOD clock.
Secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said
clock accuracy-maintaining data further comprises a calibration

adjustment value, and wherein the secure timekeeping facility further
comprises a calibration adjustment register (222) for storing a value

indicating a time interval at which the TOD clock is to receive a
calibration adjustment, wherein the input further comprises means for

receiving additional clock accuracy-maintaining data, and wherein the
time facility setting means further comprises means for setting the

calibration adjustment register (222) based on the received calibration
adjustment value.
A secure time server for use in a computer network, comprising:

a server time-of-day (TOD) clock (126) including a time clock and a
date calendar;
an input (128) for receiving a secure time request including a
public key;
processor means (122) for identifying a private key corresponding
to the public key;
data encryption means (124) for encrypting time and date
information from the TOD clock (126) using the private key;
an output for sending the encrypted time and date information to
the secure time requestor; characterized in that said 

data encryption means (124) also functions to encrypt
clock accuracy-maintaining data to be sent to said

secure time requestor for use by said secure time
requestor for modifying said encrypted time and

date information sent to said secure time requestor;
and in that said 

secure time server
further comprises:
means for passing said encrypted clock accuracy-maintaining data between said
secure time server and said secure time requestor.
A secure time server as claimed in claim 11, wherein said clock
accuracy-maintaining data further comprises a calibration adjustment

value, and wherein said means for passing includes:

calibration adjustment means for computing a client clock
calibration value based on any of the value of the server TOD clock, 

time, date, and calibration history information received from the client,
and a calibration history accumulated from prior client clock calibration

computations.
A secure time server as claimed in claim 12, wherein the client
clock calibration value is further computed from the amount of drift

accumulated in the client TOD clock since the last setting of the client
TOD clock.
A secure time server for use in a computer network, comprising:

a server time-of-day (TOD) clock (126) including a time clock and a date
calendar;
processor means (122) for identifying a public key and a private key for

which to generate a secure time transmission;
data encryption means (124) for encrypting time and date information from
said server time-of-day

(TOD) clock (126) using the private key; and
an output for broadcasting the public key and the encrypted time and
date information characterized in that said 

data encryption means (124) also functions to encrypt
clock accuracy-maintaining data to be broadcast

over said computer network for use by a receiving
unit for modifying said broadcast encrypted time

and date information; and in that said 
output is also for

broadcasting said encrypted clock accuracy-maintaining data.
A client/server computing system comprising at least one client
computer comprising a secure timekeeping apparatus as claimed in any of

claims 1 to 10 and a server as claimed in any of claims 11 to 14.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
