<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625820</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DC converter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M324	H02M3337	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M3	H02M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The DC converter comprises a transformer with primary and 
secondary windings and two pairs of controllable semiconductor 

switching elements connected in a bridge configuration. Each 
pair comprises two series-connected controllable semiconductor 

switching elements. The pairs are connected in parallel to an 
input DC voltage source. The primary winding is connected 

between the nodal points of the series-connected controllable 
semiconductor switching elements, and the secondary winding, 

which is coupled inductively with the primary winding, in 
operation delivers a controllable voltage to a load. The DC 

converter further comprises a control circuit driving the 
controllable semiconductor switching elements in such a manner 

that the two controllable semiconductor switching elements of 
the first pair are turned on in alternation and in non-overlapping 

manner and that the second pair of controllable 
semiconductor switching elements are turned on and off in 

corresponding manner but at points of time which are time-delayed 
relative to the switching instants of the first pair 

by a controllable delay time which is between zero and half 
the periodic duration of the control frequency and with which 

the voltage across the load can be regulated. The control 
circuit generates a feedback signal proportional to the 

difference between a desired and an actual value of the 
controllable voltage. According to the invention, the control 

circuit determines the delay time on the basis of the time-integrated 
difference between the feedback signal and a signal 

proportional to the current in the primary winding. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDAP NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. NEDERLANDSCHE APPARATENFABRIEK NEDAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN EERDEN GERRIT HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN EERDEN, GERRIT HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to A DC converter comprising a 
transformer having primary and secondary windings; two pairs 
of controllable semiconductor switching elements connected in 
a bridge configuration, each pair comprising two series-connected 
controllable semiconductor switching elements, said 
pairs being connected in parallel to an input DC voltage 
source, the primary winding being connected between the nodal 
points of the series-connected controllable semiconductor 
switching elements, and the secondary winding, being coupled 
inductively with the primary winding, in operation delivering 
a controllable voltage to a load; a control circuit driving 
the controllable semiconductor switching elements in such a 
manner that the two controllable semiconductor switching 
elements of the first pair are turned on in alternation and in 
non-overlapping manner and that the second pair of 
controllable semiconductor switching elements are turned on 
and off in corresponding manner but at points of time which 
are time-delayed relative to the switching instants of the 
first pair by a controllable delay time which is between zero 
and half the periodic duration of the control frequency and 
with which the voltage across the load can be regulated, the 
control circuit generating a feedback signal which is 
proportional to the difference between a desired and an actual 
value of the controllable voltage. A full-bridge circuit, also referred to as H-bridge, with 
phase-shifted drive of the bridge legs is described, for 
example, in "High voltage, high frequency switching using a 
cascode connection of bipolar transistor and power MOSFET", S. 
Clemente, B. Pelly, R. Ruttinsha, B. Taylor, IEEE Proceedings 
of the Industry Applications Society Conference, 1982, pp. 
1395-1405. A complete DC converter is described, for example, in 
"Pseudoresonant full bridge dc/dc converter", O.D. Patterson, 
D.M. Divan, Power Electronics Specialists Conference Records, 
June 1987, pp. 424-430 and in U.S. Patent No. 4864479, R.L. 
Steigerwald et al, Sep 5, 1989.  The trend in switching power supplies is to reduce the 
size. This can be achieved by increasing the switching 
frequency. Also of importance is a highest possible efficiency 
in order to enable keeping the volume and/or the surface 
needed for cooling as small as possible. When the switching 
frequency of standard pulse-width modulated converters is 
increased, the switching losses soon predominate because the 
switching times cannot be easily reduced. Per switching
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A DC converter comprising a transformer having primary 
and secondary windings; two pairs of controllable 

semiconductor switching elements connected in a bridge 
configuration, each pair comprising two series-connected 

controllable semiconductor switching elements, said pairs 
being connected in parallel to an input DC voltage source, the 

primary winding being connected between the nodal points of 
the series-connected controllable semiconductor switching 

elements, and the secondary winding, being coupled inductively 
with the primary winding, in operation delivering a 

controllable voltage to a load; a control circuit driving the 
controllable semiconductor switching elements in such a manner 

that the two controllable semiconductor switching elements of 
the first pair are turned on in alternation and in non-overlapping 

manner and that the second pair of controllable 
semiconductor switching elements are turned on and off in 

corresponding manner but at points of time which are time-delayed 
relative to the switching instants of the first pair 

by a controllable delay time which is between zero and half 
the periodic duration of the control frequency and with which 

the voltage across the load can be regulated, the control 
circuit generating a feedback signal which is proportional to 

the difference between a desired and an actual value of the 
controllable voltage, characterized in that the control 

circuit determines the delay time on the basis of the time-integrated 
difference between the feedback signal and a signal 

which is proportional to the current in the primary winding. 
A DC converter according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the control circuit determines the delay time on the 

basis of the point of time at which said integrated difference 
exceeds a predetermined value. 
A DC converter according to claim 1 or 2, characterized 
in that the delay time is determined by the time needed for 

 
charging a capacitor to a predetermined value with a current 

dependent on the current through the primary coil or a signal 
derived therefrom and on the feedback signal; and, as soon as 

the voltage across the capacitor exceeds the predetermined 
value, a second D flip-flop, which drives said second pair of 

controllable semiconductor switching elements via driver 
stages, is triggered and thereby takes over the state of a 

first D flip-flop, while said first D flip-flop, being 
connected as a divider and provided with clock signals with a 

fixed frequency, drives said first pair of controllable 
semiconductor switching elements through driver stages. 
A converter according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that zero-voltage turn-on of the 

semiconductor switching elements is effected by energy 
exchange between capacitors connected in parallel with the 

controllable semiconductor switching elements and a coil being 
in series with the primary winding and by delaying the instant 

of turn-on of each of the controllable semiconductor switching 
elements to the proper extent relative to the instant of turn-off 

of the other controllable semiconductor switching element 
in the same pair. 
A converter according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that a diode is connected in antiparallel 

with at least one of the semiconductor switching elements. 
A converter according to claim 5, characterized in that 
the antiparallel-connected diodes are parasitically present in 

said controllable semiconductor switching elements. 
A converter according to any one of claims 4-6, 
characterized in that said capacitors connected in parallel 

with the controllable semiconductor switching elements are 
parasitically present in said controllable semiconductor 

switching elements. 
A converter according to any one of claims 4-7, 
characterized in that said coil being in series with the 

primary winding is parasitically present in the transformer, 
 

as a leakage self-induction between the primary and secondary 
windings. 
A converter according to claim 8, characterized in that 
said leakage self-induction has been deliberately enlarged to 

achieve zero-voltage turn-on over a greater load range, as 
well as a lower interference level due to the reduced coupling 

capacitance between the primary and secondary windings. 
A converter according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the control circuit for the pairs of 

controllable semiconductor switching elements comprises a 
driver stage for each pair, the driver stages each consist of 

two MOSFETs and a driver transformer, the gates of the MOSFETs 

are connected with the output and the inverted output of flip-flops, 
the sources are connected with the first terminal of an 

auxiliary voltage source and the drains are connected with the 
primary winding of the driver transformer having a central leg 

connected with the second terminal of the auxiliary voltage 
source by way of an undervoltage protection, while the 

secondary windings of the driver transformer are connected 
with the controllable semiconductor switching elements in such 

a manner that these are turned on in alternation and in the 
proper phase. 
A converter according to claim 10, characterized in that 
the controllable semiconductor switching elements comprise 

MOSFETs and the turn-on delay for enabling zero-voltage turn-on 
is effected by the voltage drop across a series resistor 

connected between the secondary windings of the driver 
transformer and the gate of the MOSFET, said voltage drop 

being the result of the current through the parasitic drain 
gate capacitance of the MOSFET during the time when the 

voltage across the MOSFET decreases, there being provided a 
diode connected in parallel with said resistor or a bipolar 

transistor or MOSFET connected between the gate and source of 
said MOSFET, the control input thereof being connected, 

whether or not through series or parallel elements, with the 
 

secondary windings of the driver transformers for fast turn-off 
of the MOSFET. 
A converter according to any one of the preceding claims 
3-11, characterized in that for comparing the voltage on said 

capacitor, standard logic gates are provided with schmitt 
trigger inputs, the reference voltage being formed by the 

threshold voltages of the relevant inputs. 
A converter according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized by at least one operational transconductance 

amplifier which combines the functions of sum or difference 
amplifier and voltage-controlled power source. 
A converter according to claim 13, characterized in that 
the amplification of the operational transconductance 

amplifier is controllable. 
A converter according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the charging current for the capacitor 

is provided by a voltage-controlled power source. 
A converter according to claim 15, characterized in that 
the voltage on the capacitor is limited by a voltage limiter 

connected with the capacitor and set at a level which is above 
the threshold voltage of a comparator connected with the 

capacitor but is so low as to prevent saturation of the 
voltage-controlled power source and a too long discharge time 

of said capacitor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
