<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655900</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FOAM LAMINATE TRANSDERMAL PATCH
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K970	A61K970	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Devices for the controlled release of an active agent to the skin or mucosa of a host are disclosed, which devices are laminates of a cellular foam layer (12) having a first surface (15) and a second surface (14), which foam layer has an active agent incorporated therein; a backing layer (16) having an inner surface (18) and an outer surface (17), wherein the inner surface is affixed to the second surface of the foam layer so that the active agent cannot permeate from the second surface of the foam layer through the outer surface of the backing layer; and means for affixing the laminate to the skin or mucosa of the host so that the active agent is capable of being continuously released from the first surface of the foam layer thereto.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MYLAN TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MYLAN TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOVIL SHARAD K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWIATEK ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLLOCK WAYNE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEIMANN LUDWIG J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOVIL, SHARAD, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWIATEK, ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLLOCK, WAYNE, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEIMANN, LUDWIG, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to transdermal
devices for the topical application of active agents
such as nicotine.Transdermal administration systems are well-known
in the art. Occlusive transdermal patches for
the administration of an active agent to the skin or
mucosa are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,573,996,
4,597,961 and 4,839,174.One type of transdermal patch for the
administration of an active agent is disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 5,016,652. In this case, an absorbant pad
is covered on its upper surface by an occlusive layer,
with the lower surface coated with an adhesive to
affix the pad to the skin. The pad is disclosed as
being a somewhat absorbant material capable of
functioning as a reservoir, and is formed of a cotton,
non-woven or similar cloth-like material capable of
retaining, but yet dispensing, a liquid carrier. The
pad may also be formed of a silicone polymer matrix of
a cross-linked silicon rubber and having micro-sealed
compartments which are effectively formed by the in
situ cross-linking of the silicon rubber. The
efficient production of patches having uniform
transdermal release rates and other desirable
properties is problematic with patches of this type,
particularly when the pad is formed of cotton,
non-woven or a cloth-like material.Another type of transdermal patch for the
administration of an active agent is disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 4,597,961. In this case, a patch is
disclosed in which an occlusive backing is formed
having a cavity, located within which is a suitable
absorbant material, such as a sponge, non-woven or
cotton. The occlusive layer extends peripherally 
beyond the cavity and the peripheral area is coated with
an adhesive for affixing the patch to the skin. Cotton
and sponge reservoirs are undesirable because they
possess non-uniform rate of release. Again, the
efficient production of patches of this type having a
uniform and consistent release rate is problematic.EP-A-0272918 discloses a diffusion matrix for use
as a reservoir of an active agent, which is a laminate
of:
(a) a cellular foam layer having a first surface
and a second surface, said foam layer comprising an
active agent incorporated therein;(b) a backing layer having an inner surface and an
outer surface, the inner surface of which is affixed to
the second surface of the foam layer so that the active
agent cannot permeate from the second surface of the foam
layer to the outer surface of the backing layer; and(c) means for affixing the laminate to the skin or
mucosa of the host so that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laminate for the controlled release of an
active agent to the skin or mucosa of a host, said

laminate comprising:

(a) an internally blown fully reticulated
microcellular polyester or a polyether urethane foam

layer (12) having a first surface (15) and a second surface (14), said
foam layer (12) comprising an active agent incorporated

therein before said foam layer is blown;
(b) a backing layer (16) having an inner surface (18) and an
outer surface (17), said inner surface (18) being affixed to said

second surface (14) of said foam layer (12) so that said active
agent cannot permeate from said second surface (14) of said

foam layer through said outer surface of said backing
layer (16); and
(c) means (18) for affixing said laminate to said skin
or mucosa of said host so that said active agent is

capable of being continuously released from said first
surface of said foam layer thereto.
The laminate of claim 1, wherein said backing
layer comprises an occlusive active agent impermeable

material.
The laminate of claim 1 or 2, wherein said 
backing layer extends peripherally beyond said foam layer

about the entire periphery thereof, thereby defining an
extended peripheral area of said backing layer, and said

means for affixing said laminate to said skin or mucosa
of said host comprises an adhesive layer adapted to

adhere said extended peripheral area of said backing
layer to said skin or mucosa.
The laminate of any preceding claim, wherein
said means for affixing said laminate to said skin or

mucosa of said host further comprises an active agent
permeable adhesive layer affixed to said first surface

of said foam layer.
The laminate of any preceding claim, further
comprising means for controlling the rate at which said

active agent is released from said first surface of said
foam layer to said skin or mucosa of said host. 
The laminate of any preceding claim, wherein said
rate-controlling means comprises an active agent

permeable adhesive layer affixed to said first surface
of said foam layer and adapted to adhere said first

surface of said foam layer to said skin or mucosa of
said host, wherein said active agent permeable

adhesive layer is capable of controlling the rate at
which said active agent is released from said first

surface of said foam layer to said skin or mucosa.
The laminate of claim 5, wherein said
rate-controlling means comprises a rate-controlling

polymer layer affixed to said first surface of said
foam layer and adhered to said skin or mucosa of said

host by an active agent permeable adhesive layer
affixed to said rate-controlling polymer layer on the

surface opposite said foam layer.
The laminate of claim 7, wherein said
foam layer is directly affixed to either said rate-controlling

polymer layer or said backing layer
without an adhesive.
The laminate of any preceding claim, wherein said
backing layer comprises one or more layers of an

occlusive material, wherein each layer of material is
independently selected from the group consisting of

cellophane, cellulose acetate, ethyl cellulose,
plasticized vinyl acetate-vinyl chloride copolymers,

ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer, polyurethanes,
copolyesters, polyether block amides, polyacrylates,

ethylene acrylate copolymers, polyesters, ionomers,
nylon, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinylidene

chloride, paper, cloth and aluminum foil.
The laminate of claim 9, wherein said
inner surface of said backing layer comprises a layer

of material selected from the group consisting of
polyurethanes, copolyesters, polyether block amides,

polyacrylates, ethylene vinyl acetates, ethylene
acrylate copolymers, ionomer resins, polyvinyl

chloride, polyvinylidene chloride and polyesters. 
The laminate of claim 4, wherein said
adhesive layer comprises a pressure-sensitive adhesive

material selected from the group consisting of
polyisobutylene adhesives, silicon adhesives, acrylic

adhesives and synthetic rubber adhesives.
The laminate of claim 11, wherein said
acrylic pressure-sensitive adhesive comprises a

polymer of alcohol esters of acrylic or methacrylic
acid.
The laminate of any preceding claim, wherein
said urethane foam has a void volume greater than 75%.
The laminate of any preceding claim, wherein said
urethane foam has a pore size of 20 - 40 pores per linear millimetre (50 to 100 pores per linear inch).
The laminate of any preceding claim, wherein said
urethane foam has a density of between 24 to 96 kg/m
3
 (1.5 and 6.0 lbs./ft
3
.
The laminate of any preceding claim, wherein said
foam layer has a thickness of between 2 and 6mm (90 and 250 mils).
The laminate of any preceding claim, wherein said
urethane foam comprises a hydrophilic foam. 
A process for assembling a laminate for the
controlled release of an active agent to the skin or

mucosa of a host, said process comprising the steps of:

(a) providing a solution comprising a
polyisocyanate;
(b) preblending said active agent with said
polyisocyanate solution and an aqueous solution

comprising a urethane catalyst before said foam is blown
in order to obtain a uniform dispersion of said active

agent throughout the foam layer and to provide an
internally fully blown reticulated microcellular

polyester or polyurethane foam layer having a first
surface and a second surface and having said 

active agent uniformally dispersed therethrough;
(c) providing a backing layer having
an inner surface and an outer surface and laminating

the second surface of said foam layer to said inner
surface of said backing layer so that a laminate of

said foam layer and said backing layer is formed

wherein said active agent cannot permeate from said
second surface of said foam layer to said outer

surface of said backing layer; and
(d) providing said laminate with means
for securing said laminate to said skin or mucosa of

said host so that said active agent can be
controllably released from said first surface of said

foam layer thereto.
The process of claim 18, wherein said
step of providing a backing layer comprises the steps

of providing a backing layer having a greater surface
area than said foam layer and laminating said second

surface of said foam layer to said inner surface of
said backing layer so that said greater surface area

of said backing layer extends peripherally beyond said
foam layer about the entire periphery thereof so as to

create an extended peripheral area of said backing
layer, and said step of providing said laminate with

means for securing said first surface of said foam
layer to said skin or mucosa of said host comprises

the step of adapting said inner surface of said
extended peripheral area of said backing layer to

adhere to said skin or mucosa of said host so that
said laminate firmly adheres thereto.
The process of claim 19, wherein said
adapting step comprises coating said inner surface of

said extended peripheral area of said backing layer
with an adhesive layer adapted to adhere said backing

layer to said skin or mucosa of said host.
The process of claim 18 or 20, wherein
said step of providing said laminate with means for

securing said laminate to said skin or mucosa of said
host further comprises the step of coating said first 

surface of said foam layer with an active agent
permeable adhesive layer.
The process of any of claims 18 to 21, further
comprising the step of affixing to said first surface

of said foam layer means for controlling the rate at
which said active agent is released from said first

surface of said foam layer to said skin or mucosa of
said host.
The process of claim 22, wherein said
affixing step comprises coating said first surface of

said foam layer with an active agent permeable
adhesive layer capable of controlling said rate at

which said active agent is released from said first
surface of said foam layer to said skin or mucosa of

said host.
The process of claim 22 , wherein said
affixing step comprises laminating a rate-controlling

polymer layer to said first surface of said foam
layer.
The process of claim 24, wherein said
step of providing said laminate with means for

securing said laminate to said skin or mucosa of said
host comprises coating said rate-controlling polymer

layer on the surface opposite said foam layer with an
active agent permeable adhesive layer.
The process of any of claims 18 to 25, wherein said
backing layer comprises an active agent impermeable

material.
The process of any of claims 18 to 26, wherein said
backing layer comprises one or more layers of an

occlusive material, wherein each layer of material is
independently selected from the group consisting of

cellophane, cellulose acetate, ethyl cellulose,
plasticized vinyl acetate-vinyl chloride copolymers,

ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers, polyurethanes,
copolyesters, polyesters, polyether block amides,

polyacrylates, ethylene acrylate copolymers, ionomers, 
nylon, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinylidene

chloride, paper, cloth and aluminum foil.
The process of claim 27 wherein said
inner surface of said backing layer comprises a layer

of materials selected from the group consisting of
polyurethanes, copolyesters, polyether block amides,

polyacrylates, ethylene vinyl acetates, ethylene
acrylate copolymers, ionomer resins, polyvinyl

chloride, polyvinylidene chloride and polyesters.
The process of any of claims 18 to 28, wherein said
adhesive layer adapted to adhere said laminate to said

skin or mucosa of said host comprises a pressure-sensitive
adhesive material selected from the group

consisting of polyisobutylene adhesives, silicone
adhesives, acrylic adhesives and synthetic rubber

adhesives.
The process of any of claims 18 to 29, wherein said
urethane foam comprises a fully reticulated

microcellular urethane foam having a void volume
greater than 75%.
The process of any of claims 18 to 30, wherein said
foam layer has a pore size of 2 to 4 pores per linear millimetre (50

to 100 pores per linear inch).
The process of any of claims 18 to 31, wherein said
urethane foam has a density of between 24 and 96 kg/m
3
 (1.5 and 6.0 lbs./ft
3
).
The process of any of claims 18 to 32, wherein said
foam layer has a thickness of between 2 and 6mm (90 and 250 mils).
The process of any of claims 18 to 33, wherein said
urethane foam comprises a hydrophilic foam.
The process of any of claims 18 to 34, wherein said
active agent is selected from the group consisting of

psychoactive agents selected from the group consisting
of nicotine, buprenorphine, ketovolac, selegiline, 

setralin, lovastatin, sumatryptin, lorazepam,
estradiol, progesterone, alprazolam, morphine and

analogues thereof, benzodiazepines and tricyclic
antidepressants.
The process of claim 35, wherein said
active agent comprises nicotine.
The process of any of claims 18 to 36, wherein said
active agent comprises one or more additives selected

from the group consisting of active agent flux
enhancers, active agent carriers and active agent

binders.
The process of claim 37. wherein said
active agent enhancer is selected from the group

consisting of monovalent, saturated and unsaturated
aliphatic and cycloaliphatic alcohols having from 6 to

12 carbon atoms, aliphatic and cycloaliphatic
hydrocarbons, cycloaliphatic and aromatic aldehydes

and ketones, N,N-di(lower alkyl)acetamides, aliphatic
and cycloaliphatic esters, N,N-di(lower

alkyl)sulfoxides, essential oils, nitrated aliphatic
and cycloaliphatic hydrocarbons, salicylates,

polyalkylene glycol silicates, aliphatic acids,
terpenes, surfactants and siloxanes.
The process of claim 37, wherein said
active agent carrier is selected from the group

consisting of polyethylene glycols, polypropylene
glycols, polyester and polyether polyols, epoxidized

linseed oils, triethyl citrate, dicyclohexyl
phthalate, diisodecyladipate, fatty acids, salts of

fatty acids, fatty alcohols and terpenes.
The process of claim 37, wherein said
active agent binder is selected from the group

consisting of hydrogels formed using water-soluble and
water-insoluble gums and resins.
The process of claim 37 , wherein the
combination of said active agent with said one or more

additives is solid at room temperature and liquid at
skin temperature. 
The process of claim 24, wherein said
rate-controlling polymer layer comprises at least one

ingredient selected from the group consisting of said
active agent, active agent flux enhancers, active

agent carriers and active agent binders.
The process of claim 24, wherein said
rate-controlling polymer layer comprises a mater
ial
selected from the group consisting of polypropylene,

polyethylene, ethylene vinyl acetate, polyether
polyurethanes, polyether block amides, ethylene

methacrylic acid copolymers, ethylene acrylic acid
copolymers and copolymers of polyether prepolymers and

polybutylene terephthalate and polyisobutylene
terephthalate.
The process of any of claims 18 to 43 wherein said
step of incorporating said liquid active agent into

said foam layer comprises the step of coating said
foam layer with a solution of said active agent so

that said active agent is absorbed into said foam
layer.
The process of any of claims 18 to 44, wherein said
inner surface of said backing layer comprises a

material capable of adhering to urethane foam formed
thereon and said laminating step comprises the steps

of;

providing a solution comprising a
polyisocyanate;
contacting said polyisocyanate solution
with an aqueous solution comprising a urethane

catalyst, so that a prepolymer solution is formed; and
coating said prepolymer solution
between said inner surface of said backing layer and a

retaining layer so that said prepolymer solution forms
a microcellular urethane foam layer on said inner

surface of said backing layer without an adhesive.
The process of any of claims 18 to 45,
wherein, said polyisocyanate is selected from the group

consisting of toluene diisocyanate,
4,4'-diphenylmethane diisocyanate and polyphenylene

polymethylene polyisocyanate.
The process of any of claims 18 to 45, wherein
said polyisocyanate comprises a copolymer of a

polyisocyanate with a polyester or polyether polyol.
The process of any of claims 18 to 45,
wherein said aqueous solution comprises a polyester or

polyether polyol.
The process of any of claims 18 to 45,
wherein said polyol comprises a polyester polyol

selected from the group consisting of adipic acid
based polyester polyols.
The process of any of claims 18 to 45,
wherein said polyol comprises a polyether polyol

selected from the group consisting of polyalkylene
oxides and addition products of alkylene oxides with a

polyhydric compound selected from the group consisting
of trimethylol-propane, glycerine, pentaerythritol,

sucrose, sorbitol, propylene glycol and
2,2'-(4,4'-hydroxyphenyl)propane.
The process of any of claims 18 to 45, wherein
said liquid active agent comprises nicotine.
The process of any of claims 18 to 51, further
comprising the step of forming a layer of said

cellular urethane foam by casting said prepolymer 
solution between a first layer and a restraining layer

so that a urethane foam of consistent thickness is
obtained.
The process of claim 52, wherein said
first layer comprises a backing layer selected from

the group consisting of polyurethanes, copolyesters,
polyether block amides, polyacrylates, ethylene vinyl

acetates, ethylene acrylate copolymers, ionomer
resins, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinylidene chloride

and polyesters, so that said foam layer adheres to
said backing later as said foam polymerizes.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
