<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657840</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of, and apparatus for, character recognition through related spelling heuristics.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K972	G06K972	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K9	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for improving an OCR process 
for recognizing unidentified characters through the creation 

of sets of like unidentified characters in a 
scanned image, deducing what the unidentified characters 

are with a spell checking procedure and replacing only 
those unidentified characters which are unambiguously 

determined. The order for identifying characters is 
strategically performed so the unidentified characters 

which are easier to recognize are processed before those 
that are more difficult to recognize. As characters become 

identified, relationships defined by corresponding 
sets allow replacing the same character in related but 

different textual components. As characters become recognized, 
other characters become more recognizable by 

virtue of belonging to the same textual component, such 
as a word, or to a related textual component such as an-other 

word containing the same character. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON WILLIAM J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, WILLIAM J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optical character recognition, 
and more particularly, to improving character 
recognition through association of character candidates 
to related sets of spelling heuristics. The accuracy of an Optical Character Recognition 
(OCR) process' ability to recognize characters continues 
to improve. However, even the best OCR processes are incapable 
of providing one hundred per-cent accuracy. Accuracy 
is dependent on many factors including what fonts 
are being scanned and the ability to recognize the 
scanned fonts. One process, utilized for improving the 
accuracy of hand written or unfamiliar fonts, uses a 
training method consisting of one sample or an average 
of a multiplicity of character samples to create a character 
master for comparing scanned characters images. A 
probability of closeness and/or the process of elimination 
of other character candidates is used to select a 
best fit. One disadvantage of such a process is the need 
for retraining for a user other than the trained user. 
A second disadvantage revolves around the need to maintain 
permanent additional storage to maintain the training 
material. Other processes have employed probabilistic color 
distribution in characters to improve the accuracy of 
character recognition. The use of probabilistic color 
distribution recognizes that certain colors are undetectable 
to the human eye. One problem arises when a 
color is misinterpreted or the OCR process is not sure 
of a color associated with specific characters. Other 
problems can result from color output variations due to 
a printing process such as ink changes, weather changes  
 
(temperature, humidity), print head positioning adjustment 
failures, etc. Consequently, a technique is needed that provides a 
procedure for improving the accuracy of an OCR process 
by providing for the recognition of characters that would 
otherwise not be recognized. This invention improves the accuracy of an OCR 
process and more importantly allows recognizing characters 
that would otherwise not be recognized. One embodiment 
of this invention discloses the use of a scanner 
to scan an image into a computer system where an OCR 
process is then applied to the scanned image for converting 
characters within the image into character codes 
represented within the computer system. Another embodiment 
utilizes a facsimile card installed in a computer 
system wherein received images are converted with an OCR 
process to character code representations within the 
computer system.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of recognizing a plurality of unidentified 
characters appearing in an output text stream of an optical 

character recognition system, comprising: 
   grouping said plurality of unidentified characters 

into sets of like characters, 
   ordering said sets into a priority process order, 

   associating each of said unidentified character to 
a candidate list, 

   determining a most likely textual component containing 
a selected one of said plurality of unidentified 

characters through consultation to a textual component 
dictionary, and 

   replacing said selected one of said unidentified 
characters with a character which causes a status according 

to said dictionary. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the grouping of said 
plurality of unidentified characters into sets of like 

characters further comprises the step of selecting characters 
associated to the same candidate list. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the grouping of said 
plurality of unidentified characters into sets of like 

characters further comprises the step of comparing each 
of said unidentified characters for determination whether 

they are likely the same character, and then populating 
the characters and associated candidate lists into the 

same set. 
The method of any of the claims 1 to 3 wherein the 
ordering of said sets into a priority process order further 

comprises ordering said sets in an order for processing 
 

unidentified characters easier to be recognized 
before unidentified characters more difficult to be recognized. 
The method of any of the claims 1 to 4 wherein the 
step of determining the most likely textual component is 

by identifying similar characteristics of characters in 
a first and second word, solving said first word through 

spell checking and solving said second word through 
look-alike occurrences of characters in said first word. 
A method for improving the accuracy of an optical 
character recognition system to recognize unidentified 

characters, said method comprising the step of recognizing 
a second unidentified character by first recognizing 

a first unidentified character which is more easily 
identifiable and is in relation to said second unidentified 

character. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said relation is defined 
as said first unidentified character and said second 

unidentified character are substantially the same but 
are each not yet recognized. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said relation is defined 
as said first unidentified character and said second 

unidentified character belong to the same textual 
component such as a word. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said relation is defined 
as said first unidentified character and said second 

unidentified character belong to different textual 
components, and that recognizing a first component facilitates 

recognizing a second component. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said relation is said 
first unidentified character belongs to a textual component 

that contains another unidentified character which 
is recognized upon recognition of said textual component, 

 
and said another unidentified character, upon associated 

set replacement in a different textual component is 
identified in a different textual component. 
The method of any of the claims 6 to 10 where multiple 
passes are performed over unknown characters in a 

predefined order, and the pass for recognizing said second 
unidentified character is different than the pass for 

recognizing said first unidentified character. 
An apparatus for recognizing a plurality of unidentified 
characters in an optical character recognition 

system appearing in an output text stream, comprising: 
   means for grouping said plurality of unidentified 

characters into sets of like characters, 
   means for ordering said sets into a priority process 

order, 
   means for associating each of said unidentified 

character to a candidate list, 
   means for determining a most likely textual component 

containing a selected one of said plurality of unidentified 
characters through consultation to a textual 

component dictionary, and 
   means for replacing said selected one of said unidentified 

characters with a character which causes a 
status according to said dictionary. 
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the means for 
grouping said plurality of unidentified characters into 

sets of like characters further comprises means for selecting 
characters associated to the same candidate list. 
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the means for 
grouping said plurality of unidentified characters into 

 
sets of like characters further comprises means for comparing 

each of said unidentified characters for determination 
whether they are likely the same character, and 

then populating the characters and an associated candidate 
lists into the same set. 
The apparatus of any of the cliams 12 to 14 wherein 
the means for ordering said sets into a priority process 

order further comprises means for ordering said sets in 
an order for processing unidentified characters easier 

to be recognized before unidentified characters more 
difficult to be recognized. 
The apparatus of any of the claims 12 to 15 wherein 
the means for determining the most likely textual component 

include means for identifying similar characteristics 
of characters in a first and second word, solving 

said first word through spell checking and solving said 
second word through look-alike occurrences of characters 

in said first word. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
