<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642060</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for steganographic embedding of information into colour images
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N132	H04N132	G06T100	H04N146	H04N146	G06T100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	G06T	H04N	H04N	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	G06T1	H04N1	H04N1	G06T1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the apparatus for processing a color image, a 
data signal representing another information differs 

from the color image is generated by a generating means 
(103). The another information is embedded into the 

color image by varying one of a color difference and a 
chroma of the color image in accordance with the data 

signal by an image processing means (104, 105). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an image processing
apparatus for embedding another information into image
information without causing an unnatural visual impression
by use of a redundancy included in the image
information, and/or an image processing apparatus for
extracting another information from the image information
into which the another information is embedded.The technique for superposing text data on an color
image and recording the same is disclosed in the article
by Nakamura, Matsui et al. "A Unified Coding Method of dithered
Image and Text Data Using Color Micro Patterns" Image
Electronics Institution Papers (Japan), Vol. 17, No. 4 (1988),
pp. 194-198. According to this technique, an attention
is directed to the point that image data has a higher
redundancy. Another data, for example, text data is
superposed on the redundancy portion of the image data
by use of a color density pattern method. However, in
general, the resolution is lowered when the color density
pattern method is used and it becomes impossible to
display a high-definition image. Further, the image
quality is degraded by irregular color or the like due
to a variation in the pixel arrangement caused by super-position
of information.As an example of application of dither image
recording capable of permitting higher definition
display compared with that of the color density pattern 
method, the technique is disclosed in the article by
Tanaka, Nakamura, Matsui "Embedding of Character
Information into an ordered Dither Image by 2k Vector Expression" Image Electronics
Institution
Papers (Japan), Vol. 19, No. 5 (1990), pp 337-343. The technique
has a defect that the image quality is degraded
when character information is embedded. Further, the
technique has another defect that it cannot be applied
to the high-definition recording technique such as the
error diffusion recording method.In addition, according to the above techniques,
even if it is possible in principle to extract character
information or the like from an actually printed image,
dither pattern information cannot be precisely printed
on paper or the like in the actual general recording
process and it is difficult to read such information.
Therefore, it becomes extremely difficult to read the
embedded information. It is only possible to extract
from the image data (such as transmission data and data
in the floppy disk) used as a basis for printing. In
order to read out coded specified information such as
character information from the actual recording image
based on the above
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for processing a color image, comprising:

means (103; 2202) for generating a pattern image based on information to be
embedded in the color image; and
image processing means (104, 105; 2203, 2204, 2205) for varying one or more
color difference signals, or a chroma signal amplitude, of the color image in accordance with the

pattern image so that the color image includes the embedded information.
The apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said

image processing means varies said one or more
color difference signals, or said chroma signal amplitude, of the color image in accordance with a

data signal corresponding to said information while keeping the sum of three color component signals of the processed color image
unchanged compared to the sum thereof prior to processing.
The apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that said three color
component signals are primaries (Y,C,M) for subtractive mixture.
The apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that said three color
component signals are primaries (R,G,B) for additive mixture.
The apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said image processing
means includes:


means (102) for converting three color component signals of said color image into a luminance
signal, and first and second color difference signals, and
means (105) for embedding the information into the second color difference
signal.
The apparatus according to claim 5, characterized in that said first color
difference signal is a red-green color difference signal and said second color difference

signal is a yellow-blue color difference signal. 
The apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said image processing
means includes:


means (602) for converting three color component signals of said color image into a luminance
signal, and first and second color difference signals, and
means (603, 604) for embedding the information into the first and second color
difference signals.
The apparatus according to claim 7, characterized in that said first color
difference signal is a red-green color difference signal and said second color difference

signal is a yellow-blue color difference signal.
The apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said image processing
means includes:


means (2203, 2204, 2205) for generating said information and for embedding the information into the color image
by varying three color component signals of the color image equivalently to the

varying specified in claim 1.
The apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said image processing
means includes:


means for converting the information so as to obtain a variation signal of one of a said
color difference signal and said chroma signal amplitude of the color image; and
means for adding the variation signal to the color image signal.
The apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by further comprising:

means (108; 2206) for recording the color image into which the information is
repeatedly embedded by said image processing means, on a recording medium, said

information being repeatedly embedded such as to be recordable on each area of the recording medium.
An apparatus according to claim 11, characterized by further comprising:

means (162) for extracting the information from the color image which is recorded on
the recording medium by said recording means.
The apparatus according to claim 12, characterized in that said extracting means
includes:


means for detecting the color image in which the information is repeatedly
recorded on the recording medium, and
means for averaging the color image which is detected by said detecting means.
The apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by further comprising:

means (108; 2206) for recording the color image into which the information is
embedded by said image processing means, on a recording medium.
An apparatus according to claim 14, characterized by further comprising:

means (162) for extracting the information from the color image which is recorded on
the recording medium by said recording means.
The apparatus according to claim 5, characterized by further comprising:

means (106) for converting the color image into which the information is
embedded by said image processing means, into three color component signals;
means (108) for recording the color image on a recording medium in
accordance with the three color component signals;
means (162) for reading out the color image which is recorded on the recording
medium by said recording means;
means for converting the color image which is read out by said recording means
into the luminance signal, and the first and second color difference signals; and
means for extracting the information from the first color difference signal which
is obtained by said converting means.
The apparatus according to claim 7, characterized by further comprising:

means (607) for converting the color image into which the information is
embedded by said image pro
cessing means, into three color component signals; 
means (609) for recording the color image on a recording medium in accordance
with the three color component signals;
means (162) for reading out the color image which is recorded on the recording
medium by said recording means;
means for converting the color image which is read out by said recording means
into the luminance signal, and the first and second color difference signals; and
means for extracting the information from the first and second color difference
signals which are obtained by said converting means.
The apparatus according to claim 15, characterized in that said extracting means
includes:


means for executing band pass processing of predetermined frequency band for
the color image which is recorded on the recording medium.
The apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said processing means
includes:


means (807) for detecting higher level components of luminance of the color
image, and
means (803, 804, 808a, 808b) for varying an amount of information to be
embedded in accordance with the detected higher level components.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
