<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633001</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An improved laser targeting device for use with image intensifiers in surgery.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B608	A61B608	A61B1716	A61B1716	A61B1717	A61B1758	A61B1758	A61B1820	A61B1820	A61B1900	A61B1900	A61B1908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B6	A61B6	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B19	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laser targeting device for use during surgical procedures provides 
means for the precise 

co-axial alignment of a narrow laser beam (23) with an x-ray beam (7). 
The device has a case (13) 

which contains a reflecting mirror (92) mounted at 45° on a low mass 
assembly. The mirror 

lies directly in front of a radio-opaque cruciform target (88). The case 
is adjustably mounted so 

that the image of the crosshair target may be accurately centred on the target head. A 
calibration aid (117) is used to pinpoint the emanation point of the 

x-ray beam from the source 
cone of the image intensifier (5). 
The angle at which the laser beam strikes the mirror may be varied in two planes. When 
the crosshair image is centred and the laser beam is directed onto the emanation point the 

two beams are rendered precisely co-axial. Accurate drilling along the laser beam path 
without further recourse to x-ray screening is more accurate and eliminates direct 

exposure of the surgeon to irradiation during orthopaedic procedures. A series of special 
drapes (129,147) is provided for the device. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOVATIVE CARE LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOVATIVE CARE LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODALL JOHN DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG DAVID ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODALL, JOHN DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG, DAVID ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a device for achieving precise co-axial alignment of a narrow laser 
light beam to a beam of x-rays generated within an image intensifier system. This is 
achieved without significant degradation of a useful image captured by the system. X-ray 
image intensifier systems are used by surgeons to locate the positions of radio-opaque 
artefacts in relation to nearby anatomical or implanted structures in order that they may 
check, place, augment, fix or remove them. Conventional image intensifiers in clinical use typically comprise the major elements of an 
x-ray source and a target both supported on a rigid and relatively massive structure that 
maintains them substantially at 180 degrees to one another. The x-ray source and target 
are spaced apart by sufficient distance to allow part or all of the patient to be interposed 
between them. The support is generally referred to as a 'C' arm. The system also includes 
a monitor screen that displays the image of the body part lying in the x-ray beam. X-rays and the machines that generate them are hazardous, not only to patients but also to 
those working with or near them and it is well established that cumulative doses can cause 
cancer, cataracts and gonadal damage. Operating theatre and radiographic department 
staff at risk wear lead aprons to protect them from exposure but in some procedures, 
especially in the field of orthopaedics, the surgeon in particular may have to take a 
calculated risk and knowingly expose himself to x-radiation. This practice has increased in recent years with the introduction of reliable intramedullary 
devices for the fixation of fractures of long bones. Although these devices have led to 
substantial improvements in fracture management, the techniques for their satisfactory 
implantation are somewhat demanding. For example, one device that is increasingly widely used in femoral and tibial fractures is 
the Grosse-Kempf intramedullary nail. This is a metal tubular structure, with a single slit 
down its long axis. The diameter of the nail is such that it may be accommodated within 
the intramedullary canal of the bone. Under general anaesthesia the nail is introduced into 
the surgically exposed upper end of the proximal bone fragment. The nail is then driven 
carefully down its length. The fracture is reduced by manipulation of the distal fragment 
using an image intensifier to ensure that the fragments are correctly aligned. The nail is 
then driven down into the distal fracture fragment. In order to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laser targeting device for use during surgical procedures and adapted for attachment 
to an x-ray image intensifier comprising:- 


a. a laser light source and laser beam directing means for a laser beam emanating 
therefrom adapted to permit continuously variable reciprocating motion in the x-y plane 

about the z axis and in the x-z plane about the y axis but substantially excluding motion in 
the y-z plane about the x axis, said directing means being additionally adapted to provide 

mounting means for said laser light source. 
b. a housing for said laser light source and said directing means adapted by the 
provision of mounting means such that said housing is always outside that part of the path 

of an x-ray beam produced by and which impinges upon the working area of the target 
head or receiver of said image intensifier. 
c. a case characterised by upper and lower bounding surfaces disposed in a 
substantially flat and parallel manner and spaced apart by a wall suitably adapted by the 

provision of a hole constituting aperture means and receival means suitably disposed about 
said aperture means for the attachment of said mounting means of said housing, said 

aperture means being so sized as to permit the entry of said laser beam to the interior of 
said case which is adapted by the provision of adjustable mounting means which cooperate 

with clamping means for attachment of said laser targeting device to said target 
head such that said flat upper bounding surface is permitted to lie substantially
 flush 
against said target head of said image intensifier, said case being further adapted by the 

provision of a further hole located substantially centrally in said lower bounding surface 
and which is adapted to receive 
d. a plain substantially parallel sided transparent window adapted to fit accurately 
within said hole in said lower bounding surface said window constituting part of an 

assembly providing mounting means for a reflecting mirror disposed at an angle of 45 
degrees to the plane in which said lower bounding surface of said case lies and also at 45 

degrees to said x axis of said directing means such that when said laser beam is directed 
along said x-axis, through said aperture means into said case said mirror redirects said 

laser beam through said window along a path normal to it, said assembly being 
constructed from a small mass of thin walled substantially radiolucent materials and 

adapted to receive within that part of it which lies directly behind said mirror, a target; said 
adjustable mounting means of said case permitting limited variation in the disposition of 

the axis normal to the centre of said window about an axis normal to the geometric centre 
of said target head of said image intensifier, that part of said upper and said lower 

bounding members of said case which overlie the working area of said target head being 
substantially radiolucent 
e. substantially radio-opaque target means so positioned behind said mirror within 
said assembly that a ray path normal to the window, if extended backwards through said 

mirror would pass centrally through said target means and 
f. separate calibrating means in the form of a radio-opaque marker within a suitable 
housing and marking guide such that when said calibration means is applied to the source 

cone of said image intensifier the point of emanation of an x-ray beam therefrom may be 
determined and marked. 
Said means being adapted to co-operate together such that said laser beam may be 
rendered substantially co-axial with said x-ray beam, generated within said image 

intensifier and directed towards said target head to which said laser targeting device is 
attached such that the path of said x-ray beam may be illuminated at its point of 

impingement upon an object interposed between said source and said target of said x-ray 
beam and further providing a visible reference point corresponding to the effective centre 

of said x ray beam on a monitor screen used with said x ray image intensifier. 
A laser targeting device according to Claim 1, wherein laser beam directing means are 
in the form of 


a. a turntable adapted by the provision of a slot radial to its centre of rotation, the 
axis of which is about the z axis and located at a suitable distance from said centre of 

rotation, said slot being further adapted to be engaged slidingly and intimately by a circular 
cam mounted eccentrically upon a shaft which is at right angles to the base of said 

turntable said shaft extending through to the outside of and secured to a first side of said 
housing which is adapted to receive it, said shaft terminating in a drive wheel by means of 

which said shaft may be rotated causing said turntable make angular excursions in the x-y 
plane about a central position, such excursions being defined by the relative dimensions of 

said slot, said eccentric cam and said shaft and the mounting position of said eccentric cam 
upon said shaft, said turntable being further adapted to receive, by the provision of 

mounting means in the form of bearings to permit motion at right angles to the plane of 
motion of said turntable of 
b. a laser mount adapted by the provision of journals and including an extended 
portion wherein is provided a slot radial to its centre of rotation, which is about the y axis 

and located at a suitable distance from said centre of rotation, said slot being further 
adapted to be engaged slidingly and intimately by a circular cam mounted eccentrically 

upon a shaft which is at right angles to the base of said laser mount said shaft extending 
through to the outside of and secured to a second side of said housing which is adapted to 

receive it, said shaft terminating in a drive wheel by means of which said shaft may be 
rotated causing said laser mount to make angular excursions in the x-z plane about a 

central position, such excursions being defined by the relative dimensions of said slot, said 
eccentric cam and said shaft and the mounting position of said eccentric cam upon said 

shaft. 
A laser targeting device according to Claim 1, wherein substantially radio-opaque target 
means comprise an arrangement of first and second arms which are substantially co-linear 

and of equal length and are disposed substantially at right angles to third and fourth arms 
which are also substantially co-linear and of equal length, the combined lengths of said 

first and second arms is less than the combined length of said third and fourth arms, said 
arrangement being disposed behind said mirror in a substantially co-planar and contiguous 

manner with said mirror such that said third and fourth arms lie in the x-z plane such that 
the image produced on said image intensifier monitor screen represents all four arms as 

apparently having equal length. 
A laser targeting device according to Claim 1, wherein separate calibrating means 
comprises a flanged discoid moulding divided into four symmetrical recessed areas by 

incomplete radial slots so sized as to accommodate the nib of a typical permanent marking 
pen and provided with a small radio opaque spheroid at its centre. 
A laser targeting device according to Claim 1, wherein is provided a transparent semi-rigid 
drape, adapted so that its lower portion fits over and flush against said lower 

bounding surface of said case extending to the rim of said upper bounding surface, said 
drape is further adapted by the provision of a hinge zone which defines an overfolded 

upper portion substantially in the form of a flanged ring which is rendered non-entire by 
an interruption at the opposite side from of said hinging zone by means of which said 

flanged ring may be fitted around said clamping means and closely around the lower part 
of said target head, such that said flanged ring may overlap and be secured to said lower 

portion of said drape over said laser targeting device and said lower part of said target 
head. 
A laser targeting device according to Claims 1 and 5, wherein is provided a substantially 
cylindrical drape generally adapted to fit in a semi-tailored fashion over said target head 

and specifically to close intimately over and around the upper portion of said flanged ring 
of said transparent semi-rigid drape which extends over the lower part of said target head 

by the provision near the lower border of spring means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
