<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0082841</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A TOOL FOR MAKING RIVET NAILS OR EXPANSION NAILS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21G328	B21G316	B21G300	B21K100	B21K154	B21G308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21G	B21G	B21G	B21K	B21K	B21G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21G3	B21G3	B21G3	B21K1	B21K1	B21G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tool for making a so-called rivet nail or expansion nail, i.e. a nail that has at least at one end a laterally expandible portion (52) and is made by cutting off and stamping a nail wire by a single working stroke. The tool comprises a guide (14) for the nail wire (5) for guiding the wire in a plane perpendicular to the wire, a cutting-off means having cutting edges (50) disposed in V-fashion, a stamping means (30) arranged in the symmetry plane (10) of said V-shaped cutting edge (50) arrangement on the 'open' side of the edges facing away from the point, and resilient applicators (15) for the wire adapted to be pressed by the nail wire (5) during the working direction of the tool against the action of a spring (20) and to lift the nail from the cutting-off means (50) and stamping means (30) during the return stroke of the tool. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BILLING, LARS JOHAN TEODOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BILLING, LARS JOHAN TEODOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A TOOL FOR MAKING RIVET NAILS OR EXPANSION NAILSThe present invention relates to a tool for making so called rivet nails or expansion nails, i.e. a nail that ha at least at one end a laterally expandible portion. The nail is made by cutting off and stamping a nail wire. Various tools have been designed for the manufacture rivet nails but they have not proved able to attain the hi speeds required for a rational production, i.e. at least about 200 nails per minute. This depends int. al. on the fact that the nails get stuck in the tool or are difficult to remove rapidly from the tool since that part of the too which makes the expandible portion of the nail by stamping tends to retain the nail in the tool.Complicated and expensive tools, including a pluralit of mobile components, have been built in order to solve thi problem. However, these tools have not been able to attain the high production rate necessary for an econimical manu¬ facture of rivet or expansion nails.The object of the present invention is to overcome the above-mentioned disadvantages and to produce a tool which can be run at a high production rate without functional disorder due to the fact that it will be very simple al¬ though it produces one completely finished expansion nail per working stroke. The manufacture also takes place withou wastage of material, thus eliminating the problems of col- lecting and removing wastage as well as the costs entailed therewith. Thanks to the simplicity of the tool it will also become amazingly cheap.This object is realised by the tool according to the invention which effects cutting off the point of the nail and stamping the expandible portion of the nail during a single working stroke because the tool comprises a guide fo the nail wire for guiding the wire in a plane perpendicular to the wire, a cutting-off means having cutting edges dis¬ posed in V-fashion, a stamping means arranged in the sym- metry plane of said V-shaped cutting edge arrangement onLJ R 

the "open" side of the edges facing away from the point, and resilient applicators for the wire adapted to be pressed by the nail wire during the working stroke of the tool in a direction opposite to the working direction of the tool against the action of a spring and to lift the nail wire from the cutting-off means and stamping means during the return stroke of the tool.In a second embodiment of the invention the tool com¬ prises two identical tool sections including each a nail wire guide, a cutting-off edge, a wire applicator and a stamping
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A tool for making a so-called rivet nail or expan¬ sion nail, i.e. a nail that has at least at one end a la¬ terally expandible portion, by cutting off and stamping a nail wire, w h e r e i n the tool is adapted to effect cutting off the point of the nail and stamping the expan¬ dible portion of the nail during a single working stroke because the tool comprises
- a guide (14) for the nail wire (5) for guiding the wire in a plane perpendicular to the wire, - a cutting-off means having cutting edges (50) disposed i V-fashion,
- a stamping means (30) arranged in the symmetry plane (10) of said V-shaped cutting edge (50) arrangement on the "open" side of the edges facing away from the point; and - resilient applicators (15) for the wire adapted to be
- pressed by the nail wire (5) during the working stroke o the tool in a direction opposite to the workin -directio of the tool against the action of a spring (20) and to lift the nail wire from the cutting-off means (50) and stamping means (30) during the return stroke of the tool
2. A tool as claimed in claim 1, comprising two ident cal tool sections (3, 4) including each a nail wire guide (14), a cutting-off edge (50), a wire applicator (15) and stamping means (30) which are arranged straight opposite each other on those ends or surfaces (25) of the tool sec¬ tions (3, 4) which face each other and are perpendicular t the direction of motion of the working stroke of the tool, said applicators (15) being adapted during the working stroke to be brought to bear against each other around the nail wire (5) and to be pressed downwards, against the ac¬ tion of a spring means (20) , in the tool frame slidably supporting the applicator (15) , and at the end of the work ing stroke the cutting-off edges (50) and the stamping mea (30) are carried close to each other in order to effect cu 


 ting-off the nail wire (5) and stamping the expandible portion of the nail.
3. A tool as claimed in claim 1 or 2, w h e r e i n the stamping means consists of a mandrel (30) comprising - a stamping edge (31) situated in the symmetry plane (10) and generally parallel to the nail wire, - top surfaces or top facets (32) inclined ( , Fig. 4) obliquely downwardly-outwardly from the edge (31) on either side of the symmetry plane, and - side facets (40, 41) adjoining the top facets (32) and arranged further away from the symmetry plane (10) , said side facets having a smaller angle of inclination (8 , Fig. 4) relative to the symmetry plane (10) than have th top facets (32, Fig. 4) and extending down to the end surface (25) of the tool body (17) .
4. A tool as claimed in claim 3, w h e r e i n eac top facet (32) consists of a generally plane
'
 and triangular surface defined by lines between the end points (33, 34) o the stamping edge (31) and 
'
a point (35) situated on or i - mediately above the plane of the end surface (25) and bet¬ ween the end points (33, 34) of the stamping edge (31) .
5. A tool as claimed in claim 4, w h e r e i n the point (35) is situated half-way between the end points (33, 34) of the stamping edge (31) and on the end surface (25) . 6. A tool as claimed in claim 3, w h e r e i n the top facet (32) , at that portion of it which is remotest fro the stamping edge (31) , is defined by a line situated in th end surface (25) of the body (17) .
7. A tool as claimed in any of claims 3 - 6, w h e r e i n the side facets (40, 41) at the outer por¬ tions of the stamping mandrel (31) are defined by front (36 and back (37) edges which extend between the front end poin (33) of the stamping edge (31) and a front point (38) si¬ tuated on the end surface (25) in the symmetry plane and respectively between the back end point (34) of the stampin edge and a back point (39) situated on the end surface (25) in the symmetry plane.
y
Λ
. 


 8. A tool as claimed in claim 7, w h e r e i n th front (38) and back (39) points are situated outside the respective end points (33, 34) of the stamping edge (31).
9. A tool as claimed in any of the preceeding claims, w h e r e i n the -cop facet (32) has, at that edge of it which
'
 is remotest from the stamping edge (31) , a smaller angle of inclination ( α ) relative to the symmetry plane than the angle of inclination ( α →) of the facet (32) re¬ lative to the symmetry plane at the stamping edge (31) . 10. A tool as claimed in any of the preceding claims, w h e r e i n the top facet (32) has a cam (42) which rises above the top facet (32) and extends generally per¬ pendicular to the stamping edge (31) .
11. A tool as claimed in claim 1 or 2, w h e r e i n the cutting-off edge (50) has a generally triangular cross section (Fig. 7) in order to give the nail a pyramid-shape point (51) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
