<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635391</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Touch point identification algorithm for automatic clutch controller
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16D4800	F16H5942	F16H6104	F16H5942	F16H6100	F16H6104	F16D4802	F16H6100	F16D4806	F16H6346	F16H6300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16D	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16D	F16H	F16D	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16D48	F16H59	F16H61	F16H59	F16H61	F16H61	F16D48	F16H61	F16D48	F16H63	F16H63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides automatic and reliable 
determination of the touch point of a clutch controlled by 

an automatic clutch actuation controller. This invention 
determines the touch point upon power-up while idling the 

engine, with the transmission in neutral and an input shaft 
brake applied. The clutch actuation controller gradually 

engages the clutch so that the measured transmission input 
speed matches a reference speed signal preferably between 

40% and 60% of the idle speed. If the actuation is slow 
enough, this reliably provides the degree of clutch 

engagement at a small torque matching the braking torque 
which is the touch point. If there is no previous 

knowledge of the touch point, the clutch is applied at a 
fast rate and an approximate touch point is determined, 

then the clutch is positioned below the approximate touch 
point and is again applied at a slow rate to more 

accurately ascertain the touch point. If there is previous 
knowledge of the touch point, the clutch is positioned just 

below the old touch point and is applied at a slow rate to 
determine a new touch point. The new and old touch points 

may be combined to determine the updated touch point. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMEDLEY DANIEL GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMEDLEY, DANIEL GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The technical field of this invention is that of 
automatic clutch controls, and more particularly the 
determination of the clutch position for initial torque 
transmission in an automatic clutch controller. In recent years there has been a growing interest 
in increased automation in the control of the drive train 
of motor vehicles, and most especially in control of the 
drive train of large trucks. The use of automatic 
transmissions in passenger automobiles and light trucks is 
well known. The typical automatic transmission in such a 
vehicle employs a fluid torque converter and hydraulically 
actuated gears for selecting the final drive ratio between 
the engine shaft and the drive wheels. This gear selection 
is based upon engine speed, vehicle speed and the like. It 
is well known that such automatic transmissions reduce the 
effectiveness of the transmission of power from the engine 
to the drive shaft, with the consummate reduction in fuel 
economy and power as compared with the skilled operation of 
a manual transmission. Such hydraulic automatic 
transmissions have not achieved wide spread use in large 
motor trucks because of the reduction in efficiency of the 
operation of the vehicle. One of the reasons for the loss of efficiency 
when employing a hydraulic automatic transmission is loss  
 
occurring in the fluid torque converter. A typical fluid 
torque converter exhibits slippage and consequent loss of 
torque and power in all modes. It is known in the art to 
provide lockup torque converters that provide a direct link 
between the input shaft and the output shaft of the 
transmission above certain engine speeds. This technique 
provides adequate torque transfer efficiency when engaged, 
however, this technique provides no gain in efficiency at 
lower speeds. It has been proposed to eliminate the 
inefficiencies inherent in a hydraulic torque converter by 
substitution of an automatically actuated friction clutch. 
This substitution introduces another problem not exhibited 
in the use of the hydraulic torque converters. Friction 
clutches used exhibit considerable motion prior to initial 
clutch engagement. This point of initial clutch engagement 
is called the touch point. No substantial torque can be 
transferred through the clutch for clutch engagement before 
the touch point. The clutch controller preferably uses the 
touch point as the zero position for its control algorithm. 
Since no substantial controlled torque transfer can take 
place prior to the touch point, the clutch
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a combination including a source of motive 
power (10) having a predetermined idle speed, a friction clutch 

(20) for controllably transferring torque from the source of 
motive power to a clutch output shaft, a multi-speed 

transmission (30) having an input shaft (25) connected to the clutch 
output shaft and including a neutral position, at least one 

traction wheel (51-54) connected to the output shaft (35) of the 
transmission, and an automatic clutch controller (60) for 

control of the degree of clutch engagement, a method of 
determining the touch point of the friction clutch (20) 

comprising the steps of: 

operating the source of motive power (10) at the idle 
speed; 
selecting the neutral position of the 
transmission (30); 
applying a predetermined braking torque to the 
output shaft of the friction clutch (20); 
selecting a reference speed less than the idle 
speed; 
sensing the rotational speed of the output shaft 
of the friction clutch to determine the transmission input 

speed; 
applying the friction clutch (20) at a first rate of 
application; 
sensing a first degree of clutch engagement when 
the transmission input speed attains the reference speed;  

 
releasing the clutch (20) by changing the degree of 
clutch engagement by a first offset amount from the first 

degree of clutch engagement; 
applying the friction clutch at a second rate of 
application which is less than the first rate; and 
sensing the clutch touch point when the 
transmission input speed attains the reference speed during 

application at the second rate. 
The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein 
the step of sensing the clutch touch point comprises 

sensing the degree of clutch engagement when the 
transmission input speed attains the reference speed. 
The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein 
the st
eps of sensing the degree of clutch engagement 
comprise measuring the pressure of the friction clutch; and
 
   the touch point is the clutch pressure sensed 

when the transmission speed attains the reference speed. 
The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein 
the steps of sensing the degree of clutch engagement 

comprise measuring the position of the friction clutch; and
 
   the touch point is the clutch position sensed 

when the transmission speed attains the reference speed. 
The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein 
the second rate of application is on the order of one  

 
fourth of the first rate of application, whereby the touch 

point is accurately ascertained. 
The invention as defined in claim 1 including 
the steps of: 


storing the clutch touch point; and 
updating the touch point during subsequent 
operation by the steps of: 


applying the friction 
clutch (20) to a degree of clutch engagement at a 

second offset amount less than the stored touch 
point, the second offset amount being less than 

the first offset amount; 
applying the friction 
clutch (20) at a third rate less than the first rate; 
sensing a new clutch 
touch point when the transmission input speed 

attains the reference speed during application at 
the third rate; and 
determining an updated 
clutch touch point based on the sensed new touch 

point. 
The invention as defined in claim 6 wherein 
the third rate of clutch application is equal to the second 

rate. 
The invention as defined in claim 6 wherein 
the step of determining an updated clutch touch point  

 
comprises setting the updated touch point equal to the new 

touch point. 
The invention as defined in claim 6 wherein 
the step of determining an updated clutch touch point 

comprises calculating an updated clutch touch point as a 
blend of the stored clutch touch point and the new clutch 

touch point. 
In a combination including a source of 
motive power (10) having a predetermined idle speed, a friction 

clutch (20) for controllably transferring torque from the source 
of motive power to a clutch output shaft, a multi-speed 

transmission (30) having an input shaft (25) connected to the clutch 
output shaft and including a neutral position, at least one 

traction wheel (51-54) connected to the output shaft (35) of the 
transmission, and an automatic clutch controller (60) for 

control of the degree of clutch engagement, a memory for 
storing a determined clutch touch point, a method of 

updating the touch point of the friction clutch comprising 
the steps of: 


operating the source of motive power (10) at the idle 
speed; 
selecting the neutral position of the 
transmission; 
applying a predetermined braking torque to the 
output shaft of the friction clutch; 
selecting a reference speed less than the idle 
speed;  

 
sensing the rotational speed of the output shaft 
of the friction clutch to determine the transmission input 

speed; 
engaging the clutch (20) to the degree of engagement 
of the stored touch point less a small offset so that the 

degree of clutch engagement is just below the stored touch 
point; 
applying the clutch (20) at a low application rate; 
sensing a new clutch touch point when the 
transmission input speed attains the reference speed; and 
determining an updated clutch touch point based 
on the sensed new touch point. 
The invention as defined in claim 10 wherein 
the step of determining an updated clutch touch point 

comprises setting the updated touch point equal to the new 
touch point. 
The invention as defined in claim 10 wherein 
the step of determining an updated clutch touch point 

comprises calculating an updated clutch touch point as a 
blend of the stored clutch touch point and the new clutch 

touch point. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
