<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0099910</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY UTILIZING REDUNDANT CIRCUITRY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C2900	G11C2904	G11C2900	G11C2904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C29	G11C29	G11C29	G11C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG, ELVAN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SEMICONDϋCTOR MEMORY UTILIZING REDUNDANT CIRCU ITRYBACKGROUND OF THE- INVENTION Field of Invention This invention relates to integrated circuit semiconductor memories , and particularly to a redundancy circuit scheme to compensate for any faulty column of bi t cells in a byte-wide semiconductor memory array .Process control problems associated with tight geometries in semiconductor memory arrays occasional ly result in failures in bit cel ls of the array. The failure etiology is frequently* column-related ( as opposed to row- related ) resulting in defective columns of bit cel ls .In byte-wide semiconductor memory arrays , that is, memory arrays wherein paral lel lines of output data and input data are provided in response to a sing le memory column address, bit cel ls are arranged in paral lel columns forming bit segments wherein only one column of any one bit segment is addressable at any one time . If a cell is found to be defective during manufacture, the entire semiconductor chip must either be - discarded or a mechanism must be provided for substitut ing good bit cells for defective bit cel ls . Substitutable bit cells and associated circuitry are known as redundant circuit memory.Descrip — tion of the Prior ArtRedundancy schemes have been developed for various applications . An article entitled "A Fault-Tolerant 30ns/375mW 16K x 1 NMOS Static RAM" static random access by R. Sud and K . C. Hardee, Electronics (Vol . 53 ) , Sept. 11 , 1980 , pp. 117-123 describes one approach for bit-wide memories . This article discloses a scheme wherein a single column associated with a bit segment is provided which may . be used to replace any column within a bit segment .
 One semiconductor memory having byte-wide output which utilizes redundant circuitry is described in a paper entitled "A 5V 64K EPROM Utilizing. Redundant Circuitry" by Vernon G. McKenney, 1980, IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference Proceeding (Feb. 14, 1980). The redundant circuit scheme disclosed therein provides for the addition of an entire extra bit segment consisting of a group of columns in order to replace at least one column in only one regular bit segment. The prior art schemes for redundant circuitry waste valuable substrate area by providing substantially more redundancy for errors than is likely to be found in a partially defective memory. What is needed is a memory with redundant circuitry of a size and layout sufficient to replace defective memory cells but not so large as to substantially increase the size of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. In a byte-wide semiconductor memory device having a plurality of bit segments comprising first columns of memory cells for storing digital data, an improvement fo providing memory cell redundancy for a limited number of bi cells in selected ones of said bit segments, said improve¬ ment comprising: at least one second column of memory cells, said second column for use in replacement of any one of said first columns; a redundant decoder circuit means for each one of said second columns; means for each said second column for activating a selected second column in response to a signal from said redundant decoder circuit means; and means for multiplexing any selected one of said first columns with one of said second columns in response t signals from said redundant decoder means, said redundant decoder means being responsive to a column address signal such that said second column activating means is activated when said selected one of said first columns is addressed.
. 2. The improvement according to claim 1 wherein said redundant decoder circuit means comprises a plurality of pairs of fusible switches, each pair of fusible switches being addressed by complementary inputs, and wherein one of each fuse of said pair is interrupted in a pattern corresponding to an address corresponding to said selected first column.
3. The improvement according to claim 1 or 2 
•
 wherein said multiplexer means includes a plurality of multiplexing switches including a main switch, at least one second column switch and a bit segment decoder for controlling each said second column switch, and wherein eac 


 υ
said second column switch is coupled to one of said second column of memory cells through one said second column activation means corresponding to said second column, said second column activation means being responsive to activation signals from said redundant decoder circuit means.
4. In a byte-wide semiconductor memory device having a plurality of bit segments comprising first columns of memory cells for storing binary data, an improvement for providing memory cell redundancy to substitute for a column of bit cells in selected ones of said bit segments, said improvement comprising: a plurality of second columns of memory cells, said second columns of memory cells being separate from said first columns of memory cells, said second columns of memory cells each being selectively activated in response to an address signal designating any one of said first columns of memory cells of any one said bit segments; fusible means for selecting the address of one of said first columns; fusible means for selecting one of said second columns for activation in response to the address signals designating said selected first column; and ι multiplexing means for multiplexing said second columns with said first columns when said select first column is addressed in a bit segment.
5. In a byte-wide semiconductor memory device having a plurality of bit segments comprising first columns of memory cells for storing binary data, a method for substituting a limited number of second columns of bits - cells for defective first columns of bit cells, said method comprising the steps of: providing a limited number of second columns of bit cells separately addressable from said first columns of bit cells; 


 identifying defective first columns of bits cells activating one of said second columns of bit cell at an address position of said defective first columns of bit cells in response to said address signal; and bypassing said first columns of bit cells in response to address signals intended to activate said defective first columns of bit cells.
6. The method according to claim 5 wherein said activating comprises selectively interrupting fusible links in a redundant decoder means for said one of said second columns.
7. The method according to claim 6 wherein said bypassing includes interrupting fusible lines in a bit segment decoder means for a signal path through a multiplexer means corresponding to said bit segment.
8. The method according to claim 6 or 7 wherein said fusible links interrupting comprises opening laser fusible links in said redundant decoder means and in said it segment decoder means.
CM?I_ 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
