<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0681940</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Modular automotive seat frame.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47C702	A47C702	A47C740	A47C740	B60N244	B60N244	B60N268	B60N268	B60R2226	B60R2226	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47C	A47C	A47C	A47C	B60N	B60N	B60N	B60N	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47C7	A47C7	A47C7	A47C7	B60N2	B60N2	B60N2	B60N2	B60R22	B60R22	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modular automotive seat frame (10) enabling a 
variety of seat frames to be fabricated of modular 

components. The seat back frame includes a pair of side 
supports (20,22) each including a cross member (20b,22b) 

which nestingly interfit with one another. The amount of 
nesting is varied to vary the width of the seat back. An 

upper member (16b) is secured between the side supports 
and is adapted to support a headrest (18). In an 

enhanced embodiment, the seat is an all-belts-to-seat 
design. A belt retractor (42) is mounted to the nested 

cross members of the side supports and a shoulder belt 
terminal (34) is mounted on the upper member of the seat 

back frame. The terminal permits the height of the 
shoulder belt loop to be adjusted for comfort and safety. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITCHELL CORP OF OWOSSO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITCHELL CORPORATION OF OWOSSO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREDRICK MARK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREDRICK, MARK D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to seat frames for 
automobiles, and more particularly but not exclusively to 
such a frame having an optional "all-belts-to-seat" 
design and also relates to components for seats. The physical characteristics of automobile seating 
and safety belt assemblies are in large part regulated by 
a set of national safety standards designed to protect a 
passenger from injury during collision. When designing 
seating and restraint systems, reducing cost and weight 
also are desirable. In addition, each line of seats must 
be designed to conform to the size and shape requirements 
of the particular vehicle. These variations in size and 
shape typically require a separate frame design for each 
seat, which is expensive and time-consuming. There is a growing trend to provide automotive 
seating with integral safety belts. This type of design, 
commonly referred to as all-belts-to-seat, eliminates the 
need for separate passenger restraint systems. Instead, 
a complete seat and safety belt assembly meeting national 
safety standards can be installed together. One all-belts-to-seat design is disclosed in 
US-A-5 253 924. This seat incorporates a reinforcing 
beam added to the seat back frame to support the safety 
belt shoulder harness above the passenger's shoulder and 
to transfer crash forces to the frame of the seat. 
Reinforcing beams add undesired weight to the seat 
assembly and also create an unattractive asymmetric seat 
profile. In another all-belts-to-seat design disclosed in 
US-A-5 123 673, the belt retractors are mounted to an 
upper portion of the seat back frame. Such a 
construction requires an extremely strong seat back frame 
that can bear the crash forces imparted by a loaded  
 
passenger restraint system. In addition, current all-belts-to-seat designs 
include a single-height safety belt terminal, which 
cannot be adjusted to match the height of the occupant. 
This reduces the effectiveness of the safety belt and may 
even pose a safety hazard. For example, a terminal 
location that is too low may result in potentially 
injurious downward force being applied to a passenger's 
shoulder during collision while a terminal location that 
is too high may be uncomfortable or result in unwanted 
play in the belt. Some at least of the aforementioned problems are 
overcome by at least one or more of the various aspects 
of the present invention which are set out in the 
independent claims. An important feature of at least one 
of these aspects is that a relatively small
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A modular automotive seat back frame (10), 
comprising: a first side support (20) ; a second side 

support (22); adjustable mounting means (20b,22b) for 
securing said first side support to said second side 

support at a desired spaced apart distance; a cross 
support (24) extending between said side supports; and an 

upper member (16b) mounted to said side supports. 
A seat back frame according to claim 1, wherein each 
of said side supports (20,22) includes an upright member 

and a cross member (20b,22b), said cross members being 
dimensioned to slidably nest with each other; and wherein 

said adjustable mounting means includes said cross 
members. 
A seat back frame according to claim 2, wherein said 
upright member of each side support includes a portion 

contoured to provide controlled collapse of the seat back 
during collision. 
A seat back frame according to any of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein said upper member (16b) includes a headrest tube 

(26) mounted to said side supports and a headrest bracket 
(28) mounted to said headrest tube. 
A seat back frame according to any of claims 1 to 4 
which includes at least one high load member mounted to 

at least one of said side supports. 
A seat back frame according to any of claims 1 to 5 
which includes an adjustable height shoulder belt 

terminal assembly. 
A seat back frame according to claim 6 wherein said 
adjustable-height shoulder belt terminal assembly 

includes a housing (46) having a vertical slot (60), a 
jack screw (64) extending through said housing, and a 

terminal block (70) threadedly engaged with said jack 
screw and extending through said slot. 
A modular automotive seat, comprising a seat back 
frame according to any of claims 1 to 7, a lower seat 

assembly (12), and an attachment means (14) for attaching 
said seat back frame to said lower seat assembly. 
A modular seat according to claim 8 wherein said 
lower seat assembly includes a modular seat pan (100). 
A modular seat according to claim 9 wherein said 
seat pan (100) includes two substantially "C" shaped 

members (102,104) mounted together at a desired spaced 
apart distance, said "C" shaped members being capable of 

nesting with one another at one of a range of spaced 
apart distances whereby seat pans of a variety of widths 

may be manufactured from a pair of "C" shaped members 
having a single set of dimensions. 
A modular seat according to claim 9 wherein said 
seat pan (100) includes a set of four substantially "L" 

shaped members (106,108,110,122) mounted together at a 
desired spaced apart distance, said "L" shaped members 

being capable of nesting with one another at one of a 
range of spaced apart distances whereby seat pans of a 

variety of widths and depths may be manufactured from a 
set of four "L" shaped members having a single set of 

dimensions. 
An automotive seat frame (10) comprising: a pair of 
lower frame members (20,22) each having an upper portion 

(20a,22a) and a lower portion (20b,22b), said lower 
portions telescopically interfitted with one another, 

whereby the relative position of said lower frame members 
can be altered by altering the degree of telescoping; 

means for fixedly intersecuring said lower portions; an 
upper frame member (24) extending between said upper 

portions; means for fixedly intersecuring said upper 
frame member with both of said upper portions; a seat 

belt retractor (42) secured to at least one of said lower 
portions; a seat belt terminal (34) above said seat belt 

retractor; and a seat belt (80) extending up from said 
retractor and partially supported by said terminal. 
A seat frame according to claim 12 wherein both of 
said lower frame members (20,22) are metal stampings. 
A seat belt terminal (34) for an automotive all-belts-to-seat 
frame comprising: a housing (46) including 

at least one wall (52) defining a slot (60); a block (70) 
mounted within said slot for movement therealong, said 

block defining a block slot interfitting with said wall, 
said block including means for supporting a seat belt; 

and mechanical adjustment means (64) supported by said 
housing and engaging said block for adjusting the 

location of said block within said slot. 
A seat belt terminal according to claim 14 wherein 
said housing includes two of said walls opposite one 

another, and said block defines two of said block slots 
each interfitting with one of said walls. 
An adjustable-height shoulder belt terminal assembly 
(34), comprising: a housing (46) having a vertical slot 

(60); a shaft (64) extending parallel to said slot; and 

a terminal (70) mounted for vertical movement along said 
shaft, said terminal extending through said slot. 
A shoulder belt terminal assembly according to claim 
16 wherein said terminal includes a substantially "H" 

shaped block (72) having a pair of outer members 
connected to one another by a cross member (72c), said 

cross member extending through said slot. 
A shoulder belt terminal assembly according to claim 
16 or claim 17 wherein said shaft (64) is threaded and 

said terminal includes a threaded bore (72d) extending 
vertically therethrough, whereby rotational movement of 

said shaft causes said terminal to move vertically along 
said shaft. 
A shoulder belt terminal assembly according to any 
of claims 16 to 18 wherein said terminal includes a 

safety belt loop (78) and a roller assembly (74,76). 
An automobile seat frame having an all-belts-to-seat 
design, comprising: a seat back frame (10) having a pair 

of upright side supports interconnected by a cross member 
extending between the lower extreme of said upright side 

supports; a shoulder belt terminal mounted to an upper 
portion of said seat back frame; a single safety belt 

retractor mounted to said cross member; a single safety 
belt extending from said retractor through said terminal 

whereby crash forces resulting from a collision are 
distributed in a compression pattern through the seat 

back frame. 
An automobile seat according to claim 20 wherein 
said upright side supports each have a lower portion that 

extends normal to said cross member and an upper portion 
that bends inwardly at an angle acute to said cross 

member. 
A seat frame kit for assembling an automobile seat 
having a desired profile, comprising: first and second 

pairs of side supports, each of said pairs having unique 
dimensions and including first and second side supports 

capable of being interconnected at one of a range of 
spaced apart distances; and a first upper member capable 

of being mounted to at least one of said first and said 
second pairs of side supports. 
A seat frame kit according to claim 27 which 
includes a second upper member, each of said first and 

said second upper members having unique dimensions and 
capable of mounting to at least one of said first and 

said second pairs of side supports. 
A seat frame kit according to claim 22 or claim 23 
which includes first and second lumbar support cross 

members, each of said lumbar support cross members having 
unique dimensions and capable of mounting to at least one 

of said first and said second pairs of side supports. 
A seat frame kit according to any of claims 22 to 24 
which includes first and second lower seat assemblies, 

each of said lower seat assemblies being capable of 
mounting to at least one of said pairs of side supports, 

each of said lower seat assemblies having unique 
dimensions and including first and second seat pan 

members capable of being interconnected at one of a range 
 

of spaced apart distances. 
A seat frame kit according to any of claims 22 to 25 
which includes an adjustable-height shoulder belt 

terminal assembly capable of mounting to at least one of 
said first and second upper members and said first and 

second pairs of side supports. 
A seat frame kit according to any of claims 22 to 26 
which includes first and second high load members, each 

of said high load members being uniquely dimensioned and 
capable of mounting to at least one of said first and 

second pairs of side supports. 
An automotive seat back frame comprising: a pair of 
L-shaped lower members, each including a generally 

vertical side arm and a generally horizontal connecting 
arm, said connecting arms telescopically receiving one 

another, whereby the distance between said side arms can 
be varied by varying the degree of telescoping between 

said connecting arms; securing means for fixedly 
intersecuring said connecting arms; an upper member 

extending between said side arms; and second securing 
means for fixedly securing said upper member to both of 

said side arms. 
A seat back frame according to claim 28 which 
includes a belt retractor; third securing means for 

securing said belt retractor to said intersecured 
connecting arms; and a belt terminal secured to said 

upper member. 
A seat back frame according to claim 28 which 
includes a pair of reinforcing members, each located 

within one of said side arms, said upper member also 
being secured to at least one of said reinforcing 

members. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
