<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649211</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Induction machine and method for manufacturing a rotor of the induction machine.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K132	H02K132	H02K304	H02K322	H02K324	H02K902	H02K902	H02K904	H02K904	H02K906	H02K1500	H02K1500	H02K1716	H02K1716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K1	H02K1	H02K3	H02K3	H02K3	H02K9	H02K9	H02K9	H02K9	H02K9	H02K15	H02K15	H02K17	H02K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
For controlling an induction machine accurately by 
an inverter controller or a vector controller, electric 

resistance of secondary-conductors (14) of a rotor (10) of 
the induction motor is kept in a predetermined range by 

cooling the secondary-conductors (14) directly by air flow. 
For generating the air flow, vanes (21) are provided on both 

ends of the rotor (10) against the rotation axis (11) of the 
rotor (10). A ventilation path (15) is formed in and along each 

secondary-conductor (14) in which the air flows. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IGARASHI YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INOUE ISAMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUURA SADAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARAZAKI KAZUSHIGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATOU SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IGARASHI, YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INOUE, ISAMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUURA, SADAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARAZAKI, KAZUSHIGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATOU, SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates an induction machine 
such as an induction motor having cooling mechanism of 
secondary-conductors of a rotor thereof. In recent years, an induction machine such as an 
induction motor has been used with variable speed control by 
an inverter controller according to the state of the art of 
power electronics. Furthermore, the induction motor has 
been used in an art where the conventional synchronous 
servomotor having permanent magnets was used according to 
the development of vector control technology. An induction machine such as an induction motor does 
not use any permanent magnet, so that the configuration of 
the induction machine is simple and mechanically strong. 
Furthermore, induction machines are inexpensive. The 
induction machine or the induction motor, however, has a 
disadvantage in that it is generally larger than the 
synchronous motor having the same capacity. For down-sizing 
an induction machine, it is an important matter how the heat 
owing to conductor loss in the secondary-conductors of a 
rotor of the induction machine can be cooled effectively. On the other hand, for controlling the induction  
 
machine successfully by vector control, it is necessary to 
assume accurately the resistance of the secondary-conductors 
of the rotor of the induction machine. Thus, the secondary-conductors 
of the rotor of the induction machine should be 
cooled in a manner so that the temperature of the secondary-conductors 
is maintained in a predetermined range. Thus, 
the variation in resistance of the secondary-conductors 
owing to the temperature change can be minimized. Similarly, heat is generated in the primary windings 
of a stator of the induction machine owing to conductor 
loss. Since the stator on which the primary windings are 
wound is fixed and stuck, it is easy to cool the primary 
windings by a water cooler and the like. On the contrary, 
the rotor in which the secondary-conductors are provided is 
rotative, so that cooling the secondary-conductor is more 
difficult. An example of a conventional cooling mechanism for 
cooling the rotor of an induction machine or induction motor 
is disclosed in Publication Gazette of Japanese Unexamined 
Patent Application Hei 2-299436. In the conventional 
cooling mechanism of the rotor of the induction machine, 
first ventilation paths are provided for penetrating the 
core of the rotor in a direction parallel to the rotation 
axis of the rotor. Second ventilation paths are provided  
 
for connecting the first
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An induction machine comprising: 
   a plurality of slots (13) formed on an outer surface 

of a core (12) of a rotor(10), said rotor having an axis 
(11) of rotation; 

   a plurality of secondary-conductors (14) formed in 
said slots (13); 

   a plurality of ventilation paths (15) formed in and 
along said secondary-conductors (14), said ventilation paths 

each having a pair of openings; 
   a pair of first and second vanes (20, 21) 

respectively provided on outer peripheries (18a, 19a) of 
both ends of said rotor (10) perpendicular to the rotation 

axis (11) of said rotor and adjacent to both ends of each of 
said ventilation paths (15) for generating an air flow in 

each of said ventilation paths in a predetermined direction 
when said rotor rotates. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1, 
wherein 

   said first vanes (20) are formed for absorbing air, 
present in the vicinity of said first vanes, into said 

ventilation paths (15) when said rotor (10) rotates in a 
predetermined direction; and 

   said second vanes (21) are formed for exhausting 
 

air, present in said ventilation paths, out to the outside 
of said ventilation paths when said rotor rotates in said 

predetermined direction. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1 or 
2, wherein 

   said rotor (10) has a drum shape having an outer 
cylindrical surface and said slots (13) are formed on the 

outer cylindrical surface parallel to the rotation axis (11) 
of said rotor. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1 or 
2, wherein 

   said rotor (30) has a drum shape having an outer 
cylindrical surface and said slots (33) are formed on the 

outer cylindrical surface slanted against the rotation axis 
(11) of said rotor in a manner so that air flows into each 

of said ventilation paths (35) from an opening (35a) 
positioned forward in the rotation direction of said rotor 

and the air is exhausted from the other opening (35b) of 
said ventilation paths. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1 or 
   2, wherein 

   said rotor (120) has a disc shape and said slots 
(123) are provided on a plane surface perpendicular to the 

rotation axis (121) of said rotor in a radial direction to 
 

said rotation axis. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1 or 
2, wherein 

   each of said ventilation paths is alternatively 
selected from a channels (15, 35) or a tube (24). 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1, 
wherein 

   a mortise (12a) having a groove shape along said 
slot or a hollow is formed on each side face of said slot 

(13) where a width (b2) on the bottom of said mortise is 
wider than a width (b1) of an opening of said mortise; each 

of said secondary-conductor (14) is formed by casting in 
each of said slots; and a part (14a) of said secondary-conductor 

is filled into said mortise and serves as a tenon. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1, 
wherein 

   a tenon (12b) having a rail shape along said slot or 
a protrusion is formed on each side face of said slot (13), 

where a width (b4) of a top end of said tenon is wider than 
a width (b3) of a neck of said tenon; each of said 

secondary-conductors (14) is formed by casting in each of 
said slots; and a part of said secondary-conductor is 

engaged with said tenon (12b) and serves as a mortise. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1, 
 

wherein 
   an overhang (12c) having a rail shape along said 

slot or protrusion is formed on each side face of said slot 
(13), where a width (b6) of a top end of said overhang is 

wider than a width (b5) of a neck of said overhang; each of 
said secondary-conductors (14) is formed by casting in each 

of said slots; and a part of said secondary-conductor is 
engaged with said overhang (12c) and serves as a mortise. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 7, 8 
or 9, wherein 

   a narrowest part (W) of said slots is positioned in 
the vicinity of an open end of said slots. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1 or 
2, wherein 

   square pipes (24) serve as said secondary-conductors 
and said ventila
tion paths are inserted into each of said 
slots. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 1, 
wherein 

   surfaces of said ventilation paths are made uneven 
by forming protrusions or roughing in order to make 

turbulent air flow in said ventilation paths. 
An induction machine comprising: 
   a plurality of herringbone-shaped slanted slots (43) 

 
having turning points (45a) caused by the herringbone shape, 

said slanted slots being formed on an outer cylindrical 
surface of a core (12) of a rotor (38), said rotor (38) 

having an axis (11) of rotation; 
   a plurality of secondary-conductors (14) formed in 

said slanted slots (43); 
   a plurality of herringbone-shaped slanted 

ventilation paths (45) each having a pair of openings (45b), 
said slanted ventilation path (45) being formed in and along 

said secondary-conductors (14) in a manner so that both 
openings (45b)of each herringbone-shaped slanted ventilation 

path (45) are positioned forward with respect to the 
rotation axis (11) of said rotor when said rotor (38) 

rotates in a predetermined direction; 
   a plurality of air paths (54) formed at positions on 

a stator facing the turning points (45a) of said 
herringbone-shaped slanted ventilation paths (45) and 

connecting a gap between said rotor (38) and said stator 
(50) and the outside of the induction motor; 

   a pair of vanes (40) respectively provided on outer 
peripheries of both ends of said rotor (38) perpendicular to 

the rotation axis (11) of said rotor and adjacent to said 
both ends of each of said herringbone-shaped slanted 

ventilation paths (45) for absorbing air in the vicinity of 
 

said vanes (40) into said herringbone-shaped slanted 
ventilation paths (45) and passing the air through said 

slanted ventilation paths to the outside when said rotor 
rotates in said predetermined direction, and for absorbing 

air from outside of said induction motor into said 
herringbone-shaped slanted ventilation paths (45) through 

said air paths (54) when said rotor rotates (38) in a 
direction opposite to said predetermined direction. 
The induction motor in accordance with claim 13, 
wherein 

   a buffer space (55), which is connected to said 
ventilation paths, is formed in said stator for preventing a 

pulsating air flow. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 13, 
wherein 

   a mortise having a groove shape along said slot or a 
hollow is formed on each side face of said slot where a 

width on the bottom of said mortise is wider than a width of 
opening of said mortise; each of said secondary-conductors 

is formed by casting in each of said slots; and a part of 
said secondary-conductor is filled into said mortise and 

serves as a tenon. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 13, 
wherein

 
   a tenon having a rail shape along said slot or a 

protrusion is formed on each side face of said slot, where a 
width of a top end of said tenon is wider than a width of a 

neck of said tenon; each of said secondary-conductors is 
formed by casting in each of said slots; and a part of said 

secondary-conductor is engaged with said tenon and serves as 
a mortise. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 13, 
wherein 

   an overhang having a rail shape along said slot or a 
protrusion is formed on each side face of said slot, where a 

width of a top end of said overhang is wider than a width of 
a neck of said overhang; each of said secondary-conductors 

is formed by casting in each of said slots; and a part of 
said secondary-conductor is engaged with said overhang and 

serves as a mortise. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 15, 
16 or 17, wherein 

   a narrowest part of said slot is positioned in the 
vicinity of an open end of said slot. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 13 or 
14, wherein 

   surfaces of said slanted ventilation paths are made 
uneven by forming protrusions or roughing in order to make 

 
turbulent air flow in said slanted ventilation paths. 
An induction machine comprising: 
   an impeller (80) rotatively borne by a bearing (83) 

which is disposed co-axially with a rotation axis (61) of a 
rotor (700) of said induction machine, said impeller having 

a rotation direction; and 
   means (87) for driving said impeller independently 

from the rotation of said rotor for generating air flow for 
cooling said rotor. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 20, 
wherein 

   the rotation direction of said impeller is 
alternatively changed in opposite directions at a 

predetermined interval for changing the direction of air 
flow in a gap between said rotor and a stator of said 

induction motor. 
The induction motor in accordance with claim 20 or 
21, further comprising: 

   a plurality of slots (63) formed on an outer surface 
of a core (62) of said rotor (60); 

   a plurality of secondary-conductors (64) formed in 
said slots (63); and 

   a plurality of ventilation paths formed in and along 
said secondary-conductors. 
An induction machine comprising: 
   a plurality of slots (93) formed on an outer surface 

of a core (92) of a rotor (90), said rotor having an axis of 
rotation; 

   a plurality of secondary-conductors (94) formed in 
said slots (93); 

   a plurality of ventilation paths (95) formed in and 
along said secondary-conductors (94); 

   at least one air path ( 91a, 91, 92a, 134) for 
supplying or exhausting air to or from substantially the 

center of said ventilation paths; and 
   pressure difference generating means (110) disposed 

outside of said induction machine for generating a pressure 
difference between said ventilation paths and said air path, 

thereby generating air flow in said ventilation paths for 
cooling said rotor. 
The induction machine in accordance with claim 23, 
wherein 

   said air path (134) penetrates a stator (100) of 
said induction machine. 
The induction motor in accordance with claim 23, 
wherein 

   said air path comprises an axial part (91a) provided 
in a shaft (91) of said rotor co-axially with the rotation 

 
axis thereof and at least one radial part (91b) provided in 

said shaft (91) perpendicular to the rotation axis. 
A method for manufacturing a rotor of an induction 
machine comprising the steps of: 

   putting a core (12) of a rotor having a plurality of 
slots (13) formed on outer surface of said core into a 

casting mold (16); 
   inserting an insert die (17) into each slot (13) 

through said casting mold (16); 
   filling molten metal into a space formed by said 

slots (13), said insert die (17) and said casting mold (16); 
pulling said insert die (17) out of said slots (13) after 

solidification of the metal; and 
   taking off said core from said casting die. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
