<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0690110</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polyester resin powder coating compositions
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G6300	C08G6391	C08K300	C08K328	C09D503	C09D503	C09D546	C09D546	C09D16700	C09D16700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	C08K	C08K	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G63	C08G63	C08K3	C08K3	C09D5	C09D5	C09D5	C09D5	C09D167	C09D167	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of curing a powder coating composition comprises 
reacting a polyester resin with an alkanolamine derivative of titanium or 

zirconium. This derivative is the reaction product of an orthoester or a 
condensed orthoester of titanium or zirconium with a trialkanolamine and with 

a dialkanolamine or a monoalkanolamine. In the reaction product the ratio of 
trialkanolamino radicals to Ti or Zr atoms is from 0.5:1 to 1.5:1 and the ratio 

of monoalkanolamino radicals or dialkanolamino radicals to Ti or Zr atoms is 
from 0.2:1 to 2.0:1. The reaction products are preferably derivatives of 

ethanolamines or isopropanolamines and can be used to cure carboxyl-rich 
resins or hydroxyl-rich resins. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TIOXIDE SPECIALTIES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TIOXIDE SPECIALTIES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIDLAND JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIDLAND, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to powder coating compositions based on 
polyester resins and in particular to the use of certain organotitanium or 
organozirconium compounds to cure polyester resin powder coating 
compositions. Coating compositions comprising powdered thermo-setting 
compositions are increasingly used for the formation of highly durable and 
decorative finishes. Such compositions, usually known as powder coating 
compositions are frequently based on polyester resins which can be prepared 
by the reaction of polyhydric alcohols and polybasic acids and in which the 
molar ratio of alcohol to acid can be adjusted to produce resins which contain 
an excess of hydroxyl groups over acid groups (hydroxyl-rich resins) or resins 
which contain an excess of acid groups over hydroxyl groups (carboxyl-rich 
resins). The carboxyl-rich resins are frequently cured by cross-linking with an 
isocyanurate such as triglycidyl isocyanurate (TGIC) to produce durable 
coatings ideally suitable for exterior use. However, there is now a desire to 
reduce the use of triglycidyl isocyanurate. Cross-linking of carboxyl-rich resins with epoxy resins such as resins 
based on bisphenol A is known to produce resins which are frequently called 
hybrid resins. However these resins do not possess the same properties or 
exterior durability as those produced by cross-linking with triglycidyl 
isocyanurate. Coatings having good exterior durability can also be produced by cross-linking 
hydroxyl-rich resins with isocyanates. These isocyanates may be 
blocked, for example with caprolactam, to prevent premature reaction with the  
 
polyester. However, there is now a general trend within the coating industry 
to avoid the use of caprolactam-blocked isocyanates when possible. Our co-pending application GB 9408430.8 discloses a method of curing 
polyester powder coatings using specified organotitanium or organozirconium 
compounds which are derivatives of a trialkanolamine. It has now been found, surprisingly, that certain organotitanium or 
organozirconium compounds derived from monoalkanolamines or 
dialkanolamines in addition to trialkanolamines are useful as curing agents for 
polyester powder coating compositions. Accordingly, a method of curing a powder coating composition 
comprises reacting a polyester resin with an organotitanium compound or an 
organozirconium compound which is the reaction product of an orthoester or 
a condensed orthoester of titanium or zirconium with a trialkanolamine and 
with a monoalkanolamine or a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of curing a powder coating composition characterised 
in that a polyester resin is reacted with an organotitanium compound or an 

organozirconium compound which is the reaction product of an orthoester or 
a condensed orthoester of titanium or zirconium with a trialkanolamine and 

with a monoalkanolamine or a dialkanolamine, said reaction product having a 
ratio of trialkanolamino radicals to titanium or zirconium atoms of from 0.5:1 

to 1.5:1 and a ratio of monoalkanolamino radicals or dialkanolamino radicals 
to titanium or zirconium atoms of from 0.2:1 to 2.0:1. 
A method according to claim 1 characterised in that the 
trialkanolamine is triethanolamine or triisopropanolamine the dialkanolamine 

is diethanolamine or diisopropanolamine and the monoalkanolamine is 
monoethanolamine or monoisopropanolamine. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2 characterised in that the 
trialkanolamine has the formula N(ROH)₃, the dialkanolamine has the formula 

HN(ROH)₂ and the monoalkanolamine has the formula H₂NROH wherein, in 
each formula, R represents a divalent radical, said divalent radical being the 

same in each of the alkanolamines used in the method. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the ratio of trialkanolamino radicals to titanium or 

zirconium atoms is from 1.0:1 to 1.5:1. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the ratio of monoalkanolamino or dialkanolamino radicals 

to titanium or zirconium atoms is from 0.3:1 to 1.0:1. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the orthoester ester of titanium or zirconium is represented 

by the formula M(OR')₄ and the condensed orthoester is represented by the 
formula R'-[OM(OR')₂]
x-OR' wherein, in each formula, M represents titanium 
or zirconium, R' is an alkyl radical or a radical containing one or more ether 

linkages and containing up to eight carbon atoms and x is an integer. 
A method according to claim 6 characterised in that x is an integer 
from 2 to 4. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the polyester resin is an ester of an acid selected from 

terephthalic acid, isophthalic acid, phthalic acid, trimellitic acid, pyromellitic 
acid, hexahydrophthalic acid, adipic acid and sebacic acid and a polyol selected 

from 1,2-ethanediol, 1,2-propanediol, trimethylolpropane, neopentyl glycol, 
1,3-butanediol, 1,4-butanediol, pentaerythritol, glycerol, tris(hydroxyethyl) 

isocyanurate and ethoxylated bisphenol A. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the polyester resin is a hydroxyl-rich resin having a 

hydroxyl number in the range 20 to 150 mg KOH per gram. 
A method according to claim 9 characterised in that the polyester 
resin has an acid number in the range 0 to 15 mg KOH per gram. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 8 characterised in 
that the polyester resin is a carboxyl-rich resin having an acid number in the 

range 15 to 100 mg KOH per gram. 
A method according to claim 11 characterised in that the polyester 
resin has a hydroxyl number of less than 30 mg KOH per gram. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the polyester resin is a copolymer of an acrylic polymer 

containing carboxyl groups. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the organotitanium compound or organozirconium 

compound is present in an amount in the range 2 to 20 per cent by weight 
based on weight of resin. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the powder coating composition is cured by reacting the 

polyester resin with the organotitanium or organozirconium compound at a 
temperature in the range 140°C to 220°C. 
A method according to claim 15 characterised in that the powder 
coating composition is cured for a period in the range 5 to 30 minutes. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the polyester resin is mixed with the organotitanium 

compound or organozirconium compound and the mixture so formed is 
extruded at a temperature of 90°C to 120°C and subsequently pulverised. 
A composition suitable for use as a powder coating comprising a 
mixture of a polyester resin and an organotitanium compound or 

organozirconium compound characterised in that the organotitanium 
compound or organozirconium compound is the reaction product of an 

orthoester or a condensed orthoester of titanium or zirconium with a 
trialkanolamine and with a monoalkanolamine or a dialkanolamine, said 

reaction product having a ratio of trialkanolamino radicals to titanium or 
zirconium atoms of from 0.5:1 to 1.5:1 and a ratio of monoalkanolamino 

radicals or dialkanolamino radicals to titanium or zirconium atoms of from 
0.2:1 to 2.0:1. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
