<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637441</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Splint assembled from a flat stackable kit.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F502	A61F502	A61F504	A61F5058	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A splint (10) and a kit from which the splint is assembled include a 
plurality of components having a planar configuration for compact 

storage when in the kit, but having a three-dimensional configuration 
conforming to the desired body contours when the splint is 

assembled. The individual planar kit components include a rigid 
support member (14), a pad (16) for cushioning the support member against 

the body, a plurality of straps (24) for securing the support 
member to the 

body, and a pair of flexion members (46a,46b) for fixedly retaining 
the flexion 

angle of the support member. The support member is an elongated 
surface having two longitudinal grooves formed therein that act as 

contour joints (40a,40b), and two slits (38a,38b) formed therethrough 
perpendicular to the 

grooves that act as flexion joints (36a,36b). The joints remain 
fully extended 

and flat in the kit, but when the splint is assembled from the kit, the 
contour joints are flexed to impart a u-shape to the support member 

conforming to the desired contour of the body. The flexion joints are 
likewise flexed to a selected flexion angle for the body joint and the 

flexion members are fastened to the support member surface across 
the slits to fix the flexion angle. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW DONJOY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW DONJOY INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASSFORD KEITH L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASSFORD, KEITH L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a splint for 
immobilizing a body part, particularly to a splint assembled from a kit, 
and more particularly to a splint assembled from a flat stackable kit. A splint is used primarily as a short-term means for 
immobilizing a body part following an injury thereto. Where the injury 
is minor, such as a slight joint sprain, requiring a relatively short 
treatment period, the splint can serve as the primary treatment 
means for the duration of the treatment period. Where the injury is 
more severe, however, such as a broken bone or a torn ligament, the 
splint usually serves as an immediate, but only temporary, treatment 
means until more long-term treatment of the injured body part can be 
administered, often in the form of a brace or cast. Temporary splints 
are commonly employed under emergency post-trauma conditions in 
locales remote from treatment facilities. Whether the splint provides primary or temporary treatment, 
effective immobilization of the affected body part requires a close fit 
between the splint and the body part. Splints, however, are usually 
produced in only one or a few generalised sizes because of the 
disposable nature of splints and the difficulty in stocking a large 
range of splint sizes and individually sizing each user during 
emergency applications. Accordingly, splints are preferably designed 
to be at least somewhat adjustable to the specific size requirements 
of the user with the object of enhancing the fit of the splint. Unfortunately, splints, which are rigid by necessity, do not 
readily adapt to the contours of the body, and particularly to the 
contours of limbs encompassing flexible joints that frequently require 
splinting. Therefore, prior art designs for splints and other joint 
immobilizing devices have balanced a trade-off between closeness 
of fit and degree of rigidity. U.S. Patent 3,853,123 teaches a knee brace formed from a 
resilient shell that wraps around the leg and knee joint to restrain 
flexion of the knee joint. The shell is maintained in place by a 
plurality of pliable straps drawn tight to encircle the leg and shell. 
Although the brace provides a snug fit with the leg, its resilient 
components do not always provide sufficient rigidity and  
 
corresponding immobility for post-trauma applications. In addition, 
the brace does not permit setting the knee joint at a flexion angle 
other than the angle defined by the relatively straight axis of the leg. U.S. Patent 4,041,940 teaches a knee immobilizer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A flat stackable kit for a splint in a disassembled state 
comprising: 

   a support member for a body part of a user being splinted, 
wherein said support member is formed from a substantially rigid 

material and has an elongated substantially planar surface with a first 
longitudinal edge bordering said support member surface and a 

second longitudinal edge bordering said support member surface 
opposite said first longitudinal edge; 

   a contour joint formed substantially longitudinally in said 
support member surface and flattened in a fully extended position; 

   a flexion joint formed substantially perpendicular to said 
contour joint in said support member surface and flattened in a fully 

extended position; 
   a substantially rigid flexion member having a substantially 

planar surface and detached from said support member surface 
when said kit is in the disassembled state, while sized to be 

extendable across at least a portion of said flexion joint when said kit 
is assembled as the splint; and 

   means for fastening said flexion member surface to said 
support member surface across said flexion joint when said kit is 

assembled as the splint. 
A flat stackable kit for a splint as recited in claim 1 
wherein said contour joint is a groove formed in said support member 

surface. 
A flat stackable kit for a splint as recited in claim 1 
wherein said contour joint is a first contour joint and further 

comprising a second contour joint, said second contour joint being a 
groove formed substantially longitudinally in said support member 

surface a distance apart from said first contour joint. 
A flat stackable kit for a splint as recited in claim 1 
wherein said flexion joint is a slit through said support member 

surface extending from a first end of said flexion joint at said first 
longitudinal edge of said support member surface across a portion of 

said support member surface to a second end of said flexion joint. 
A flat stackable kit for a splint as recited in claim 4 
further comprising an expansion aperture at said second end of said 

flexion joint. 
A flat stackable kit for a splint as recited in claim 1 
wherein said flexion joint is a first flexion joint and further comprising 

a second flexion joint, said second flexion joint including a slit formed 
substantially perpendicular to said contour joint and extending from a 

first end of said second flexion joint at said second longitudinal edge 
of said support member surface through a portion of said support 

member surface to a second end of said second flexion joint. 
A flat stackable kit for a splint as recited in claim 1 
further comprising a substantially planar flexible pad positionable on 

said support member surface. 
A flat stackable kit for a splint as recited in claim 1 
further comprising means for securing said support member to the 

body part being splinted. 
A flat stackable fit for a splint as recited in claim 1 
wherein said fastening means is an adhesive positioned on said 

support member surface or on said flexion member surface. 
A splint comprising: 
   a support member for a body part wherein said support 

member is formed from a substantially rigid material and has an 
elongated surface with a first longitudinal edge bordering said 

support member surface and a second longitudinal edge bordering 
said support member surface opposite said first longitudinal edge; 

   a contour joint formed substantially longitudinally in said 
support member surface, said support member surface pivoted about 

said contour joint at a contour angle; 
   a flexion joint formed substantially perpendicular to said 

contour joint in said support member surface, said support member 
surface pivoted about said flexion joint at a flexion angle; 

   a substantially rigid flexion member having a flexion member 
surface positioned across at least a portion of said flexion joint; and 

   means for fastening said flexion member surface to said 
support member surface, thereby maintaining said flexion angle 

substantially fixed. 
A splint as recited in claim 10 wherein said contour joint 
is a groove formed in said support member surface. 
A splint as recited in claim 10 wherein said flexion joint 
is a slit through said support member surface extending from a first 

end of said flexion joint at said first edge of said support member 
surface across a portion of said support member surface to a second 

end of said flexion joint. 
A splint as recited in claim 12 further comprising an 
expansion aperture at said second end of said flexion joint. 
A splint as recited in claim 10 further comprising a 
flexible pad positioned on said support member surface. 
A splint as recited in claim 10 wherein said fastening 
means is an adhesive positioned between said support member 

surface and said flexion member surface. 
A splint comprising; 
   a support member for a body part wherein said support 

member is formed from a substantially rigid material and has an 
elongated surface with a first side, a second side opposite said first 

side, a first longitudinal edge bordering said support member surface, 
and a second longitudinal edge bordering said support member 

surface opposite said first edge; 
   a first contour joint being a groove formed substantially 

longitudinally in said support member surface, said support member 
surface pivoted about said first contour joint at a first contour angle; 

   a second contour joint being a second groove formed 
substantially longitudinally in said support member surface a 

distance apart from said first contour joint, said support member 
surface pivoted about said second contour joint at a second contour 

angle; 
   a first flexion joint being a first slit formed substantially 

perpendicular to said first contour joint through said support member 
and extending from a first end of said first flexion joint at said first 

longitudinal edge of said support member surface to a second end of 
said fir
st flexion joint adjacent to said first contour joint, said support 
member surface pivoted about said first flexion joint at a first flexion 

angle;
 

   a second flexion joint being a second slit formed substantially 
perpendicular to said second contour joint through said support 

member and extending from a first end of said second flexion joint at 
said second longitudinal edge of said support member surface to a 

second end of said second flexion joint adjacent to said second 
contour joint, said support member surface pivoted about said 

second flexion joint at a second flexion angle; 
   a substantially rigid flexion member having a flexion member 

surface positioned across at least a portion of said first flexion joint; 
and 

   means for fastening said flexion member surface to said 
support member surface, thereby maintaining said first flexion angle 

substantially fixed. 
A splint as recited in claim 16 further comprising an 
expansion aperture at said second end of said first or second flexion 

joint. 
A splint as recited in claim 16 wherein said flexion 
member is a first flexion member and further comprising a second 

substantially rigid flexion member having a flexion member surface 
positioned across at least a portion of said second flexion joint from 

said first flexion face to said second flexion face. 
A splint as recited in claim 16 wherein said first and 
second flexion angles are substantially equal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
