<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656770</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR EXPOSING A HUMAN EYE TO A CONTROLLED PATTERN OF RADIATION SPOTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1820	A61B1820	A61F9007	A61F9007	A61F901	B23K2602	B23K2603	B23K2606	B23K2606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B18	A61B18	A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Primarily adapted for use in photo-thermal-keratoplasty procedures wherein a human eye is corrected for near-sightedness, farsightedness, astigmatism, and the like, by shrinking collagen within the cornea through controlled heating with infra-red radiation, an optical system is provided to controllably generate an infra-red radiation pattern. A moveable muti-faceted prism (87) is a primary optical element. Both the infra-red heating radiation and visible aiming radiation are delivered to the prism (87) by a multi-mode optical fiber (25). The optical elements are arranged to provide an attending physician with a clear view through the system of the eye being treated. Adjustment of the infra-red pattern is electrically controlled.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUNRISE TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUNRISE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENNINGS DAVID R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLENICK RALPH W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENNINGS, DAVID, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLENICK, RALPH, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR EXPOSING A HUMAN EYE TO A CONTROLLED PATTERN OF RADIATION SPOTSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to various methods of treating a human eye with focused electromagnetic radiation, and, more specifically, to an improved apparatus for controllably focusing one or more spots of electromagnetic radiation on a cornea. Although there are many specific treatment procedures involving the necessity for directing a highly controlled beam of electromagnetic radiation to an eye, keratoplasty procedures are currently receiving a great deal of attention because of their ability to correct an eye for nearsightednesε, farsightedness and/or astigmatism. In one surgical procedure, a radiation beam is used to cut controlled portions of the cornea by ablation of tissue in its path. A specific application of this is in the performance of radial keratotomy procedures without the necessity of using the knife to perform radial cuts in the cornea.An alternative procedure, which avoids cutting the cornea, directs one or more focused beams of electromagnetic radiation within the infrared portion of the spectrum into the eye to thermally shrink collagen tissue within the cornea in order to cause permanent corrective changes in the cornea curvature. This later technique often termed photo-thermal-keratoplasty, is the subject of U.S. Patent No. 4,976,709, issued December 11, 1990 to Dr. Bruce J. Sand. The collagen 

shrinkage technique promises to provide permanent changes to the optical characteristics of the human cornea with a higher degree of safety and patient comfort than is the case with techniques that involve physically cutting and removing portions of the cornea. In order for an ophthalmologist or other attending physician to be able to efficiently perform corrective photo-thermal-keratoplasty procedures on a large number of patients with a high degree of accuracy and effectiveness, it is desired to provide an instrument that accurately directs the correct amount of infrared radiation into the patient's cornea with a pattern that is controllable by the physician with a high degree of accuracy. A basis for such an instrument is described in published European Patent Application No. 402,250, dated December 12, 1990, of Parel et al. The instrument there disclosed provides a controllable arc, circle, radial lines, or array of spots of infrared radiation across the cornea of a patient's eye. The Parel et al. system configuration is described as useful for any of several
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IT IS CLAIMED:
1. A radiation exposure system adapted for use with the human eye, comprising: a source of infra-red electromagnetic radiation, a source of visible electromagnetic radiation, a length of a multi-mode optical fiber having first and second ends, means receiving radiation from each of the infra-red and visible sources for coupling that radiation into said first optical fiber end, thereby to provide superimposed infra-red and visible radiation exiting said second optical fiber end, a first optical means receiving superimposed radiation from the second fiber end for generating a plurality of spatially separate beams that each include substantially coaxially aligned infra-red and visible components, a second optical means receiving said beams for collimating said beams, and a third optical means receiving said collimated beams for focusing each of them to a substantial point at a focal surface, whereby a human eye may be positioned coincident with said surface to be exposed to said radiation points.
2. The system according to claim 1 which additionally comprises: a fourth optical means positioned between said second and third optical means in a path of said collimated beams for reflecting said beams from one side thereof toward said third optical means while allowing visible radiation to pass therethrough, and 


 an optical viewer positioned to provide a vision path through said third and fourth optical means, thereby to allow viewing of the focal surface.
3. The system according to claim 2 which additionally comprises means positioned between the third optical means and said focal surface for illuminating said focal surface with a slit of light, whereby an interior structure of a human eye positioned at said focal surface may be viewed through said optical viewer.
4. The system according to claim 2 wherein the first, second, third and fourth optical means are arranged so that the vision path from the optical viewer through the third and fourth optical means to the focal surface is substantially horizontal.
5. The system according to claim 2 which additionally comprises means responsive to control electrical signals for adjusting a position of said fourth optical means with respect to said second and third optical means, thereby to provide for controlling positioning of the focused radiation points on the focal surface.
6. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 which additionally comprises means positioned between the optical fiber second end and the first optical means for providing separate attenuation control of portions across the radiation exiting the second fiber end that correspond to the separate beams formed by the first optical means, whereby the intensity of the separate beams is individually controllable. 


 7. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 which additionally comprises: means positioned between the optical fiber second end and the first optical means for providing separate attenuation control of portions across the radiation exiting the second fiber end that correspond to the separate beams formed by the first optical means, and means connected to the attenuation control means and responsive to control electrical signals for individually controlling the intensity of the separate beams, whereby the intensities of the beams and their resulting radiation points focused on the focal surface are individually controllable by the control electrical signals.
8. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 which additionally comprises a mask positioned in a path of the radiation exiting said second optical fiber end, said mask including a plurality of shutters positioned in a manner that one shutter is associated with each of said plurality of spatially separate beams, each of said shutters being slidable in a radial path across a cross-section of the radiation between an outward open position and an inward closed position, and means provided with each of said shutters for adjustably defining an extent of attenuation provided thereby when said shutter is in its said open position.
9. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 wherein the radiation exiting the second optical fiber end is diverging when received by said first optical means. 


 10. The system according to either of claims
1 or 2 wherein said first optical means includes a multi-faceted prism.
11. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 wherein said first optical means includes a convex multi-faceted prism.
12. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 wherein said first optical means includes a multi-faceted prism, and which additionally comprises means responsive to control electrical signals for independently rotating said prism and moving said prism in a direction between the second fiber end and the first optical means, thereby to be able to control the spacing and rotatable position of the focused points on the focal surface in response to the control electrical signals.
13. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 wherein said third optical means contains substantially no chromatic correction, and further wherein said second optical means includes an excessive visible wavelength chromatic correction so that said infra-red and visible radiation within the beams focused by the third optical means onto the focal surface are coaxially aligned, whereby their focal points are superimposed.
14. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 wherein the infra-red electromagnetic radiation of the infra-red radiation source has a wavelength that lies substantially within a range of from 1.8 microns to 2.55 microns. 


 15. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 wherein each of the infra-red and visible radiation sources includes a laser.
16. The system according to either of claims 1 or 2 wherein each of the infra-red and visible radiation sources are independently controllable between on and off conditions.
17. A radiation exposure system adapted for use with the human eye, comprising: a source of infra-red electromagnetic radiation, a source of visible electromagnetic radiation, a first optical means receiving superimposed radiation from each of said infra-red and visible radiation sources for generating a plurality of spatially separate beams of said radiation, a second optical means receiving said beams for collimating said beams, a third optical means receiving said collimated beams for focusing each of said beams to a spot at a focal surface, whereby a human eye may be positioned coincident with said surface to be exposed to said radiation spots, a fourth optical means positioned between said second and third optical means in a path of said collimated beams for reflecting said beams from one side thereof toward said third optical means while allowing visible radiation to pass therethrough, and an optical viewer positioned to provide a vision path through said third and fourth optical means, thereby to allow viewing of the focal surface.
18. The system according to claim 17 which additionally comprises means positioned between the 


third optical means and said focal surface for illuminating said focal surface with a slit of light, whereby an interior structure of a human eye positioned at said focal surface may be viewed through said optical viewer.
19. The system according to claim 17 wherein said first optical means includes a convex multi-faceted prism.
20. The system according to claim 17 which additionally comprises a mask positioned in a radiation path prior to said second optical means, said mask including a plurality of shutters positioned in a manner that one shutter is associated with each of said plurality of spatially separate beams, each of said shutters being slidable in a radial path across a cross- section of the radiation between an outward open position and an inward closed position, and means provided with each of said shutters for adjustably defining an extent of attenuation provided thereby when said shutter is in its said open position.
21. The system according to claim 19 which additionally comprises a mask positioned in a radiation path prior to said prism, said mask including a plurality of shutters positioned in a manner that one shutter is associated with each of said plurality of spatially separate beams, each of said shutters being slidable in a radial path across a cross-section of the radiation between an outward open position and an inward closed position, and means provided with each of said shutters for adjustably defining an extent of attenuation provided thereby when said shutter is in its said open position. 


 22. The system according to either of claims 20 or 21 which additionally comprises a plurality of individually controllable motor sources, separate of said motor sources being operably connected to operate each of said plurality of mask shutters and position each of said first and fourth optical means.
23. An optical mask, comprising: an opaque structure having at least one aperture through which a beam of radiation having an optical center may pass, a plurality shutters formed into a wedge shape at one end thereof, means associated with each of said plurality of shutters for guiding movement of their wedge shaped end along a unique radial path with respect to said optical center, said guiding means including a resilient element normally biasing said shutter outward away from said optical center against a stop, and means for individually moving said shutters against their said resilient elements across said aperture substantially to said optical center.
24. The optical mask of claim 23 wherein said optical stops are individually adjustable, whereby the biased positions of said shutters are individually controllable.
25. The optical mask of claim 23 wherein said shutters moving means includes associated with each of said shutters an eccentric pin attached to a rotating member having first and second stable rotatable positions and oriented to cause the pin to urge its associated shutter guiding means inward to said optical center when in said first stable position and to 


disengage from said shutter guiding means when in said second stable position.
26. The optical mask of claim 25 wherein said shutters moving means additionally includes an individually controllable motor means associated with each of the rotating members and responsive to an electric signal for causing said rotating member to rotate between said first and second stable positions. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
