<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647211</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR RAPIDLY DRYING A WET, POROUS GEL MONOLITH
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F26B700	C01B3300	F26B304	C03B1912	C01B33158	C03B1912	C03B802	C03B802	F26B500	C04B3500	F26B700	C04B3500	F26B500	F26B302	F26B2114	F26B2114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F26B	C01B	F26B	C03B	C01B	C03B	C03B	C03B	F26B	C04B	F26B	C04B	F26B	F26B	F26B	F26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F26B7	C01B33	F26B3	C03B19	C01B33	C03B19	C03B8	C03B8	F26B5	C04B35	F26B7	C04B35	F26B5	F26B3	F26B21	F26B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process and apparatus are described for rapidly drying a wet, porous gel monolith of glass or ceramic, at subcritical temperatures without inducing any cracking of the gel. The wet gel is immersed in a liquid solvent in a chamber, and the liquid solvent is then heated and expelled from the chamber. Further heating, with or without the presence of a flowing inert gas, fully dries the wet gel. When an inert gas is used, the gas is delivered to the chamber with a controlled solvent partial vapor pressure, to correspondingly control the driving force for drying the gel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAZAKI CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAZAKI CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRKBIR FIKRET
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAYCHAUDHURI SATYABRATA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SARKAR ARNAB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG SHIHO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRKBIR, FIKRET
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAYCHAUDHURI, SATYABRATA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SARKAR, ARNAB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, SHIHO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to sol-gel 
processes for producing dry gel monoliths and, more 
particularly, to drying processes and apparatus for rapidly 
drying wet gel monoliths without inducing cracking. High-purity glass and ceramic components typically 
are fabricated either by a melting of solid raw materials or 
by vapor deposition. Melting of solid raw materials is a 
generally effective technique, but difficulty is encountered 
in maintaining purity, due to the inherent presence of 
impurities in the raw materials and due to recontamination 
from processing containers at the high melting temperatures. 
In addition, energy costs due to high temperature processing 
can sometimes be excessive, and finishing costs to produce 
components of the desired final shapes also can be excessive. 
Vapor deposition likewise is generally effective, but very 
expensive due to a relatively low (e.g., 50%) material 
collection efficiency, a high investment cost in processing 
and pollution control equipment, and slow processing rates. High-purity ceramic components are typically 
fabricated by processes such as solid extrusion and colloidal 
casting. Like high-purity glass fabrication processes, these 
processes also require high temperature processing and the 
articles fabricated are limited in composition, homogeneity 
and purity. Research has recently been conducted into the use 
of sol-gel processes for fabricating high-purity monolithic 
articles of glass and ceramic. In such processes, a desired 
solution, i.e., sol, of glass- or ceramic-forming compounds, 
solvents, and catalysts is poured into a mold and allowed to 
react. Following hydrolysis and condensation reactions, the 
sol forms a porous matrix of solids, i.e., a gel. With  
 
additional time, the gel shrinks in size by expelling fluids 
from the pores. The wet gel is then dried in a controlled 
environment, to remove fluid from its pores, and it is then 
densified into a solid monolith. Advantages of the sol-gel process include chemical 
purity and homogeneity, flexibility in the selection of 
compositions, processing at relatively low temperatures, and 
producing monolithic articles close to their final desired 
shapes, thereby minimizing finishing costs. Nevertheless, the 
sol-gel process has generally proven to be extremely difficult 
to use in producing monoliths that are large and free of 
cracks. These cracks arise during the final drying step of 
the process, and are believed to result from stresses due to 
capillary forces in the gel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for drying a wet, porous gel 
monolith (55), comprising the steps of:
 
   immersing the gel monolith in a solvent (54) located 

in a drying chamber having an exit port (39);
 
   raising the temperature of the drying chamber 

to substantially the boiling point of the solvent, to produce 
a solvent vapor in any empty space of the drying chamber;
 
   removing the liquid solvent from the drying 

chamber such that the wet gel monolith remains in the drying 
chamber under a predetermined positive pressure of the solvent 

vapor; and
 
   drying the gel by maintaining the drying 

chamber at a temperature of at least substantially the solvent 
boiling temperature, to evaporate the solvent located in the 

pores of the gel monolith, the evaporated solvent exiting the 
drying chamber through the exit port. 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein:
 
   the drying chamber further includes an inlet 

port (25); and
 
   the step of drying includes a step of 

introducing into the drying chamber via the inlet port, an 
inert gas having a controlled solvent partial pressure. 
A process as defined in claim 2, wherein:
 
   the step of introducing includes a step of 

maintaining the inert gas being introduced at a solvent 
partial pressure corresponding substantially to the solvent 

boiling temperature, at atmospheric pressure; and
 
   the step of drying includes a step of 

controllably increasing the temperature of the drying chamber 
from a temperature substantially equal to the solvent boiling 

temperature, until the gel monolith is substantially dry. 
A process as defined in claim 3, wherein the  
 

step of controllably increasing includes a step of 
controllably increasing the temperature at a rate of at least 

0.1°C per 24 hours. 
A process as defined in claim 2, wherein the 
step of drying includes steps of:
 
   maintaining the drying chamber at a temperature 

substantially equal to the solvent boiling temperature; and
 
   controllably reducing the partial pressure of 

the solvent in the inert gas being introduced into the drying 
chamber by reducing the temperature of the solvent from a 

temperature substantially equal to the solvent boiling 
temperature. 
A process as defined in claim 5, wherein the 
step of controllably reducing includes a step of controllably 

reducing the temperature at rate of at least 0.1°C per 
24 hours. 
A process as defined in claim 2, wherein the 
step of drying further includes a step of passing a dry inert 

gas through a solvent bath (71) having a selected temperature, to 
produce the inert gas with a predetermined partial pressure 

of the solvent. 
A process as defined in claim 2, wherein the 
step of introducing includes a step of introducing the inert 

gas at a flow rate of at least 1 sccm. 
A process defined in claim 2, wherein:
 
   the solvent used in the step of immersing is 

ethanol;
 
   the inert gas used in the step of introducing 

is nitrogen; and
 
   the step of drying maintains the drying chamber 

at a temperature of at least 75°C.  
 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein:
 
   the drying chamber further includes an inlet 

port (25);
 
   the process includes a further step of 

directing an inert gas through the drying chamber, from the 
inlet port (25) to the exit port (39), while increasing the temperature 

of the drying chamber at a controlled rate. 
A process as defined in claim 10, and further 
including the steps of:
 
   removing any residual water in the dry gel 

monolith by directing an inert gas through the drying chamber, 
from the inlet port (25) to the exit port (39), while increasing the 

temperature of the drying chamber at a controlled rate to a 
predetermined temperature above 100°C; and
 
   burning away any residual, chemically-bonded 

organic groups in the dry gel monolith by directing air 
through the drying chamber, from the inlet port to the exit 

port, while increasing the temperature of the drying chamber 
at a controlled rate to a substantially higher temperature. 
A process defined in claim 11, wherein:
 
   in the step of removing, the temperature is 

raised to about 120°C, at a rate of at least 0.1°C per 
hour; and
 
   in the step of burning, the temperature is 

raised to about 400°C, at a rate of at least 0.1°C per hour. 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
step of drying occurs in the absence of a flow of gas through 

the drying chamber. 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
step of drying is terminated when the gel appearance has 

transformed from transparent to opaque to transparent. 
A process for drying a wet, porous gel monolith (55)  
 

having a liquid solvent in its pores, comprising the steps of:
 
   placing the wet gel monolith in a chamber 

having an inlet port (25) and an outlet port (39);
 
   heating the chamber to a temperature at or near 

the solvent's boiling point, such that the free space of the 
chamber is filled substantially only with solvent vapor;
 
   passing through the chamber, from the inlet 

port to the outlet port, an inert gas having a predetermined 
solvent partial pressure and having a predetermined 

temperature; and
 
   regulating the temperature of the chamber and 

the partial pressure of the solvent vapor in the inert gas so 
as to controllably increase the driving force for drying the 

liquid solvent from the pores of the wet gel. 
A process as defined in claim 15, wherein the 
step of regulating includes the step of controllably 

increasing the temperature of the chamber while maintaining 
substantially constant the solvent partial pressure of the 

inert gas. 
A process as defined in claim 15, wherein the 
step of regulating includes the step of controllably 

decreasing the solvent partial pressure in the inert gas while 
maintaining substantially constant the temperature of the 

chamber. 
A process as defined in claim 15, wherein:
 
   the step of placing includes a step of 

submerging the wet gel monolith in liquid solvent; and
 
   the step of heating includes a step of removing 

from the chamber substantially all of the liquid solvent. 
A drying chamber assembly (11) for drying a wet, 
porous gel monolith (55), comprising:
 
   an outer container (15) having a closed side wall (31) 

and a bottom wall (33);
  
 

   an inner container (13) having a closed side wall (17) 
and a top wall (19), the outer container being disposed with its 

side wall radially outwardly of the side wall of the inner 
container, to define a thin annular space (35) between the two side walls 

space, and to define a drying chamber between the bottom wall (33) 
of the outer container (15) and the side wall (17) and top wall (19) of the 

inner container (13);
 
   an inlet port (25) extending through the top wall (19) 

of the inner container (13);
 
   an outlet port (39) extending through the side wall (31) 

of the outer container (15); and
 
   means for expelling liquids from the drying 

chamber (11) via the outlet port.(39) 
A drying chamber assembly (11) as defined in claim 
19, wherein the means for expelling liquids includes
 
   a tube (41) extending from the outlet port (39) 

downwardly through the thin annular space (35) to a position 
adjacent to the bottom wall (33)
 
   a pump (51) connected to the outlet port (39); and
 
   a condenser (45) connected to the outlet port (39), for 

condensing solvent vapor expelled from the drying chamber (11). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
