<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625961</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EFFLUENT TREATMENT PROCESS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F1100	C05F1700	C05F1700	C05F700	C05F300	C05F700	C02F700	C05F300	C02F1112	C02F1112	C02F328	C02F700	C02F1100	C02F328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C05F	C05F	C05F	C05F	C05F	C02F	C05F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F11	C05F17	C05F17	C05F7	C05F3	C05F7	C02F7	C05F3	C02F11	C02F11	C02F3	C02F7	C02F11	C02F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for treating effluent such as untreated biological effluent includes a primary clarifier (1) where sludge solids are settled out from a liquid sludge fraction. The sludge solids pass to a digester (2) where the sludge solids undergo anaerobic digestion to produce digested sludge and bio-gas. The digested sludge is dewatered and the liquid sludge fraction and the liquid component of the dewatered digested sludge is passed to an activated sludge tank (6). The resulting activated sludge solids are then concentrated by settlement, dewatered, and flocculated under alkaline and acidic conditions. The resultant acidic activated sludge solids are neutralized before and passed to a mixing and drying apparatus (5) where the solids are mixed with the digested sludge and dried using the bio-gas as a fuel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRANT ROY ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRANT, ROY ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the treatment of
effluent waste matter of biological origin: for
example sewage, effluent from the dairy industry
or forms of previously treated biomass.Such biomass effluents are conventionally
treated by settlement followed by anaerobic
digestion of the settled solids fraction to
produce a stabilized sludge which is disposed of
either by spraying on agricultural land or by
dumping at sea. The liquid fraction is then often
discharged without further treatment to coastal or
estuary waters or, alternatively, receives further
aerobic treatment before being discharged to
rivers. Such processes result in the production
of effluents contaminated both with pathogenic
organisms and heavy metals which are undesirable
from an environmental point of view. Moreover,
legislation is becoming increasingly more
restrictive on the dumping of waste material
either on land or in the sea. Also, rises in fuel
costs and hence transportation costs have led to
large increases in disposal costs.There have been various prior proposals for
the treatment of liquid sludges. For example, in
European Patent No. 0048723, there is disclosed a
method of producing solid material for use as an
animal feed, a fish feed or a fertilizer from
activated or humus sludge which comprises treating 
a thickened liquid sludge having a solids content
of at least 2% by weight with a base to raise the
pH of the sludge to more than 8, acidifying the
treated sludge to produce an activated flocculated
sludge havipg a pH of 1 to 4, dewatering the
acidified flocculated sludge and recovering the
resulting solid material. However, such proposals
do not result in a product from the original
biomass effluent which would be sufficiently rich
in nitrogen or low in metals content for some
agricultural applications.So far as industrial effluents are concerned,
a high proportion of these, particularly those
produced by the food and drinks industries, are
characterized by containing large amounts of bio-degradable
organic matter. Typical examples of
such effluents are those from breweries, farm
effluents, slaughterhouses and meat packing
wastes, meat and vegetable cannery effluents, palm
oil mill wastes and confectionery and sweet
manufacturing wastes. Chemical oxygen demand
(COD) values in excess of 10,000 are commonly
found in such effluents.Generally, this type of effluent is suitable
for treatment by biological systems such as
anaerobic digestion and the activated sludge
process. Both these processes generate liquid
sludges having low
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for the treatment of effluent
such as untreated biological and industrial

effluents and sewage comprising the steps of:

primary treatment of the effluent to produce
a solid fraction;
dewatering the solid fraction to produce a
liquid fraction; and
secondary treatment of the liquid fraction
extracted by dewatering to produce a treated

solids fraction;

   characterized by thereafter treating the
treated solids fraction separately from the solid

fraction from primary treatment by the further
steps of:


flocculating and further dewatering the
treated solids fraction; and,
drying the dewatered treated solids fraction,
together with, or separately from, the solid

fraction from the primary treatment to produce
solid by-products.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
the primary treatment comprises initial settlement

to settle out a solids fraction which is then
treated in an anaerobic digester prior to

dewatering.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
the primary treatment comprises initial settlement

to settle out a solids fraction followed by 
mechanically dewatering.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
the primary treatment comprises anaerobic

digestion prior to dewatering.
A process according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein secondary treatment of

the liquid fraction comprises a process selected
from an activated sludge process or a humus sludge

process.
A process according to claim 2 or 4,
wherein heat required for drying the product is

derived from bio-gas produced in the anaerobic
digestion stage.
A process according to claim 3, wherein
the mechanically dewatered solids fraction is

incinerated to provide heat for the drying step.
A process according to any of the
preceding claims, comprising flocculating the

treated solids fraction under acidic conditions
where heavy metals are present.
A process according to any of the
preceding claims comprising flocculating and

dewatering the treated solids fraction first under
alkaline and subsequently under acidic conditions.
A process according to claim 9, wherein
the acid treatment is carried out at a temperature

in the range of 20°C to 90°C.
A process according to claim 9, wherein
the alkali treatment is carried out at ambient 

temperature.
A process according to any one of claims
9 to 11, wherein alkali is added to biomass at

ambient temperature to a pH of 10.7 ± .2 followed
by acid addition at about 80°C to a pH of 1.8 ±

.1.
A process according to claim 8,
comprising treating the filtrate or concentrate

from the dewatered treated solids fraction with
alkali to precipitate heavy metals as hydroxides

and neutralizing the acidic dewatered treated
solids fraction before drying.
A process according to claim 1 for
treating effluent comprising non-toxic effluents

containing soluble or insoluble bio-degradable
organic matter, wherein the primary treatment is

applied to the whole effluent where the major part
of the organic material is in a soluble form, or

to a settled solids fraction where the major part
of the organic matter is insoluble in water.
A process according to claim 14, wherein
the steps of flocculating and further dewatering

comprises the addition of a polyelectrolyte
followed by belt filtration.
A process according to claim 1, wherein
the effluent comprises sewage wherein:


the primary treatment comprises primary
settlement of the sewage solids to produce the

solid fraction in the form of settled sludge and a 
liquid sludge fraction;
the separate secondary treatment of the
liquid fraction comprises treating the liquid

sludge fraction and the liquid sludge fraction
extracted by dewatering the settled sludge by a

process selected from an activated sludge process,
a humus sludge process to produce the treated

solids fraction;
the flocculating and further dewatering of
the treated solids fraction is conducted under

alkaline and acidic conditions thereby removing
a substantial proportion of heavy metals present

from the flocculated sludge; and,
the drying step produces a material suitable
for use as an organic fertilizer.
A process according to claim 16, wherein
the settled sludge is treated in a digester prior

to dewatering, the separated digested solids are

dried or treated with acid, neutralized and dried
either separately or with the dewatered

flocculated solids.
A process according to claims 16 or 17,
wherein the alkali is added to the treated solids

fraction at ambient temperature to a pH of 10.7 ±
.2 followed by acid addition at about 80°C to a pH

of 1.8 ± .1.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
