<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650700</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Adapter and mating trocar element for use in trocar assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1734	A61B1734	A61M2700	A61M2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61M27	A61M27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An adapter 10 and a mating trocar element 20 for use in a 
trocar assembly 30. The adapter 10 is cylindrical in 

shape with a continuous bore 12 running therethrough. A 
first end 14 of the adapter 10 has a reduction in 

diameter and a second end 16 of the adapter 10 is 
internally threaded 18 along the bore 12. The first end 

14 is sized so as to allow frictional engagement with the 
end of a mating flexible tube 32. The reduction in 

diameter of the first end 14 preferably corresponds to 
the wall thickness of the mating flexible tube 32, so as 

to maintain a continuous outer surface between the 
adapter 10 and the mating tube of constant outer 

diameter. The second end 16 is internally threaded 18 
along the bore 12 so as to allow fastenable engagement 

with a threaded end 24 of the mating trocar element 20. 
The mating trocar element 20 has the shape of a rod with 

a first end 22 being formed with or machined to a sharp 
point and a second end 24 having a reduction in diameter 

which is threaded 26 so as to mate with the threaded bore 
18 of the adapter 10. The reduction in diameter of the 

second end 24 preferably corresponds to the wall 
thickness of the threaded bore portion 18 of the adapter 

10, so as to maintain a continuous outer surface between 
the trocar element 20 and the adapter 10 of constant 

outer diameter. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIPORE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIPORE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH DURMUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH, DURMUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to trocar assemblies and, 
more particularly, to an adapter for use in trocar 
assemblies and a trocar element that mates therewith. Following certain surgical procedures, such as hip and/or 
knee surgery, blood and other bodily fluids often 
accumulate in body cavities at the site of the surgery 
and are retained in body tissues, or adjacent thereto, 
until they are drained. Such fluids are typically 
drained with drainage tubes that are implanted during the 
surgical procedure for use in a post-operative setting. 
Conventionally, such drainage tubes are comprised of a 
piece of flexible poly vinyl chloride (PVC) tubing having 
a series of regularly spaced pores or perforations formed 
therein. In practice, the tubing is threaded through the 
site of the surgery by an attached needle-like device 
called a trocar and is thereafter configured in such a 
fashion as to permit fluids, such as blood, to either be 
drained or positively drawn therefrom. A problem that occurs in the use of such a conventional 
trocar assembly is that the trocar, which is typically 
fabricated of a cylindrical piece of metal having a sharp 
point at one end and barbs at the other end, and the 
tubing are force/friction fit together at the barbed end 
of the trocar in such a manner that prevents their direct 
separation. Consequently, the tubing and the trocar must 
be separated by cutting the tubing thereby leaving a 
portion of the tubing still attached to the trocar. This  
 
manner of separation prompts physicians to discard the 
trocar when the surgical procedure is completed. This is 
both wasteful and uneconomical as the materials from 
which a trocar is conventionally manufactured are 
valuable and the cost of replacing a trocar, when 
considered on a volume basis, can be very high. A more 
economical approach would allow a trocar to be reused 
following sterilization. Although not specifically directed toward the use of 
trocars, there are several patents that are directed 
toward attaching the end of a flexible tube or a catheter 
with other medical related devices. For example, in U.S. 
Patent Nos. 4,432,764 by Lopez, 5,092,849 by Sampson, 
5,205,821 by Kruger et al., 5,147,336 by Wendell et al., 
5,215,538 by Larkin, and 5,074,846 by Clegg et al., 
devices are disclosed for adapting to or mating with the 
ends of tubes and/or catheters. A brief description of 
these devices will now be given. In U.S. Patent No. 4,432,764, an antiseptic end cap for a 
catheter is disclosed having an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An adapter for use in a trocar assembly, said 
adapter comprising: 

   a tubular adapter having an outer cylindrical shape 
with a continuous bore running therethrough, said adapter 

having a first end that is reduced in outer diameter, 
said adapter having a second end, disposed opposite from 

said first end, that is internally threaded along said 
bore. 
The adapter as defined in claim 1, wherein said 
first end of said adapter is sized so as to allow 

frictional engagement with an end of a mating flexible 
tube, said frictional engagement comprising said first 

end of said adapter being friction fit inside said end of 
said mating flexible tube. 
The adapter as defined in claim 2, wherein said 
first end of said adapter is reduced in outer diameter by 

a wall thickness of said mating flexible tube so as to 
maintain a continuous outer surface between said adapter 

and said flexible mating tube of constant outer diameter 
when frictionally engaged. 
The adapter as defined in claim 1, wherein said 
second end of said adapter is internally threaded along 

said bore so as to allow fastenable engagement with a 
threaded end of a mating trocar element. 
The adapter as defined in claim 1, wherein said 
adapter is fabricated of a rigid material. 
The adapter as defined in claim 5, wherein said 
adapter is fabricated of hard plastic. 
The adapter as defined in claim 5, wherein said 
adapter is fabricated of metal. 
A trocar element for use in a trocar assembly, said 
trocar element comprising: 

   a rod-like trocar element having an outer 
cylindrical shape, said trocar element having a first end 

being formed with or machined to a sharp point, said 
trocar element having a second end, disposed opposite 

from said first end, that is reduced in outer diameter 
and is threaded. 
The trocar element as defined in claim 8, wherein 
said second end of said trocar element is sized so as to 

allow fastenable engagement with a threaded bore of a 
mating tubular adapter. 
The trocar element as defined in claim 9, wherein 
said second end of said trocar element is reduced in 

outer diameter by a wall thickness of said mating tubular 
adapter so as to maintain a continuous outer surface 

between said trocar element and said mating tubular 
adapter of constant outer diameter when fastenably 

engaged. 
The trocar element as defined in claim 10, wherein 
said trocar element is fabricated of metal. 
A trocar assembly comprising: 
   a rod-like trocar element having an outer 

cylindrical shape, said trocar element having a first end 
being formed with or machined to a sharp point, said 

trocar element having a second end, disposed opposite 
from said first end, that is reduced in outer diameter 

and is threaded; 
   a tubular adapter having an outer cylindrical shape 

with a continuous bore running therethrough, said adapter 
 

having a first end that is reduced in outer diameter, 
said adapter having a second end, disposed opposite from 

said first end, that is internally threaded along said 
bore, said second end of said adapter being internally 

threaded along said bore so as to allow fastenable 
engagement with said threaded end of said trocar element. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 12, wherein 
said second end of said trocar element is reduced in 

outer diameter by a wall thickness of said threaded end 
of said adapter so as to maintain a continuous outer 

surface between said trocar element and said adapter of 
constant outer diameter when fastenably engaged. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 13, further 
comprising a flexible tube, said flexible tube having a 

plurality of regularly spaced pores or perforations 
formed therein so as to provide for the drainage of 

fluids situated thereabout, said flexible tube having 
plurality of ends which may be frictionally engaged with 

said first end of said adapter. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 14, wherein 
said first end of said adapter is sized so as to allow 

frictional engagement with said plurality of ends of said 
flexible tube, said frictional engagement comprising said 

first end of said adapter being friction fit inside one 
of said plurality of ends of said flexible tube. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 14, wherein 
said frictional engagement further comprises applying an 

adhesive between said first end of said adapter and said 
inside of one of said plurality of ends of said flexible 

tube. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 15, wherein 
said first end of said adapter is reduced in outer 

 
diameter by a wall thickness of said flexible tube so as 

to maintain a continuous outer surface between said 
adapter and said flexible mating tube of constant outer 

diameter when frictionally engaged. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 13, wherein 
said trocar element is fabricated of metal. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 17, wherein 
said adapter is fabricated of a rigid material. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 19, wherein 
said adapter is fabricated of hard plastic. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 19, wherein 
said adapter is fabricated of metal. 
The trocar assembly as defined in claim 14, wherein 
said flexible tube is fabrica
ted of PVC. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
