<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630331</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOTORCYCLE TOWING DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60P306	B60P306	B60P307	B60P312	B60P312	B60R900	B60R906	B60R910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60P	B60P	B60P	B60P	B60P	B60R	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60P3	B60P3	B60P3	B60P3	B60P3	B60R9	B60R9	B60R9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a trailer (10) for towing vehicles having a single front wheel, such as a motorcycle, behind another vehicle. The trailer (10) includes a heavy duty frame (12) having concave shaped wheel carriages which engage the front wheel tire (26) of the vehicle to be towed. The configuration of the trailer (10) permits loading of the vehicle's front tire (26) by rotating the trailer (10) about the trailer wheels axis and rolling the vehicle's front tire into the concave wheel carriage (20). The tire (26) is then secured to the carriage (20) and the trail (10) is rotated to engage the towing vehicle (32). This rotation lifts thevehicle front tire over and in front of the trailer wheels axle axis thereby suspensing the front wheel of the vehicle or vehicles being towed off the ground, while the towed vehicle(s) rear tire remains on the ground.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARTHOLOMEW DONALD D JEFFERSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARTHOLOMEW, DONALD, D. 35442 JEFFERSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MOTORCYCLE TOWING DEVICEBACKGROUND OF INFORMATIONThis invention relates to a device for transporting vehicles having a single front wheel, such as a motorcycle, to the desired destination by towing them behind a motor vehicle, such as a car, pick-up truck or recreational vehicle. While many different motorcycle towing devices are known, most of them are inconvenient to use or are incapable of towing more than one motorcycle at a time. The present invention allows a single motorcycle or a pair of motorcycles to be easily loaded and unloaded onto the trailer by rolling the motorcycle or motorcycles into the wheel carriages extending from the frame of the trailer. The carriage(s) leading edge is positioned on the ground by rotating the trailer about the axis of the trailer wheels. Once the carriage(s) have been positioned, the front motorcycle tire is rolled into the carriage(s) and secured to the carriage. The high side walls of the carriages further secure the motorcycle(s) in an upright position. The trailer is then rotated, carrying the front tire of the motorcycle over and ahead of the trailer axis, as the trailer is attached to the towing vehicle. When more than one vehicle is being simultaneously towed, a stabilizing member is attached between the rear sections of the vehicles to preclude the vehicles from coming into direct contact with each other. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONSeveral types of trailers are used for towing motorcycles and other sport vehicles behind another vehicle, such as a car, truck or recreational vehicle. Most of these devices are the type which attach at the rear bumper of the towing vehicle and includes the more traditional trailer upon which the entire motorcycle is positioned during transport. Another type of motorcycle towing device is provided with manually operated lever means which lift and hold the front wheel of the motorcycle off the ground while the rear wheel remains in contact with the ground.Often, however, disadvantages arise in using these various forms of motorcycle towing devices. One such disadvantage involves stabilizing the motorcycle in an upright position. Another disadvantage is the extended period of time it takes to prepare the motorcycle to be towed and removed from the motorcycle towing device. Another disadvantage is that most motorcycles are too heavy for many bumper hitch type towing devices. Yet another disadvantage is that it often takes two people to load a heavy motorcycle into and out of the carrier portion of the trailer. Lastly, many of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is Claimed is:
1. A trailer for towing at least one vehicle having a single front wheel with a towing vehicle, comprising: a rotatable frame; at least two wheels which support said frame; means on said frame for retaining the front wheel of said vehicle, said means consisting of one or more arcuate shaped carriage members wherein said carriage members are rotatable to receive a front tire of said vehicle, said carriage members serving to secure said at least one vehicle in an upright position; means lor attaching said trailer to the towing device; and means for securing said at least one vehicle to said trailer.
2. The trailer according to Claim 1, wherein said frame is rotatable about a rear axle to position said carriage members to receive said at least one vehicle.
3. The trailer according to Claim 1 wherein said carriage members are provided with side walls thereby forming a trough portion, said trough portion secures a portion of said front wheel such that said vehicle is maintained in an upright position.
4. The trailer according to Claim 3, wherein said trough portions secure at least twenty percent of the circumference of said vehicle tire.
5. The trailer according to Claim 3, wherein various sized liners are insertable into said trough portions, said various sized liners being operable to secure vehicle front tires having corresponding widths.
6. The trailer according to Claim 3, wherein said carriage members are spaced apart on said frame such that two vehicle may be towed simultaneously.
7. The trailer according to Claim 3, wherein said frame is rotated about said rear axle such that a leading portion of said carriage member partially engages the surface 


upon which said vehicle to be towed is positioned, said front wheel of said at least one vehicle to be towed Tollable into said trough.
8. The trailer according to Claim 7, wherein the front wheel of said at least one vehicle engaged within said trough is elevated off the surface upon which said vehicle is positioned as said frame is rotated to a relatively horizontal position.
9. The trailer according to Claim 8, wherein said trough includes means for retaining the front wheel of said vehicle to be towed within said trough.
10. The trailer according to Claim 1, wherein said means of attaching said trailer to said towing vehicle comprises a towbar pivotally engaged by the leading end of said frame.
11. The trailer according to Claim 10 wherein the pivotal engagement of said trailer to said towing vehicle comprises a ball and socket.
12. The trailer according to Claim 1, wherein said means for securing said at least one vehicle to be towed comprises a device which is inserted between two spokes on said front wheel of said at least one vehicle to be towed.
13. The trailer according to Claim 7, wherein said trough is provided with a liner which conforms to the width of said at least one motorcycle's front wheel, said liner being operable to maintain said at least one motorcycle in an upright position.
14. The trailer according to Claim 13, wherein said liner is demountably coupled within said trough. 


 15. A motorcycle towing device capable of transporting at least one motorcycle behind a lead vehicle, comprising: a frame member having a leading end and a trailing end, said frame being at least one rotatable about an axle, said frame member being operable to partially support said at least one motorcycle; two arcuate shaped carriage members extending up from said frame for retaining said at least one motorcycle's front wheel, said carriage members acting to maintain said motorcycles in an upright position; means for stabilizing said carriage members; at least two wheels which support said frame; means for securing said front wheel within said carriage; and means for attaching said trailer to said lead vehicle.
16. The motorcycle towing device of Claim 15, wherein said carriage members partially engage the ground as said leading end of said frame is sufficiently vertically rotated about said axle such that said at least one motorcycle's front wheel can be rolled into said carriage.
17. The motorcycle towing device according to Claim 16 wherein said means of attaching said motorcycle towing device to said lead vehicle comprises a towbar having a ball-like projection extending upwardly therefrom and at mating contained on said leading end of said frame, said socket being positioned over said ball-like projection to operable connect said trailer to said lead vehicle.
18. The motorcycle towing device of Claim 15, wherein said carriage members are provided with a liner which conforms to the width of said at least one motorcycle's front wheel, said liners being operable to maintain said at least one motorcycle in an upright position.
19. The trailer according to Claim 18, wherein said liner is demountably coupled within said trough. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
