<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614001</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Engines featuring modified dwell.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B100	F02B104	F02B3302	F02B3318	F02B3322	F02B4100	F02B4104	F02B7500	F02B7502	F02B7502	F02B7512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B1	F02B1	F02B33	F02B33	F02B33	F02B41	F02B41	F02B75	F02B75	F02B75	F02B75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Reciprocating engines which feature conversion units are 
each formed of an expansion cylinder (4), a compression cylinder (2) and 

a passageway (6) connecting the two. Pistons (3,1) in the cylinders (4,3) 
are preferably connected via a four-bar or other linkage (12,13,14) to the 

crank or other rotatable means (11) so that the compression piston (1) 
remains at substantially its top-most position for a substantial portion of 

the stroke of the expansion piston (3), and vice versa. Communication 
between the cylinders (4,2) via the passageway (6) may thus be 

continuously open with no substantial pressure drop between cylinders. 
Fuel may be injected into the air or other gas moving between cylinders 

(4,2) giving an internal combustion engine, or the gas may be heated by 
external means. Devices according to this concept limit peak pressure and 

temperatures, resulting in the formation of fewer nitrous oxides. The 
expansion displacement volume may be larger than the compression 

displacement volume, and the strokes of the compression and expansion 
pistons (1,3) may differ, in order to provide fuller expansion of the 

combustion gases and increase efficiency. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILLIAMS THOMAS HOLTZMAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILLIAMS, THOMAS HOLTZMAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS THOMAS HOLTZMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS, THOMAS HOLTZMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to engines which feature 
separate compression and expansion cylinders acting in 
combination with modified dwell in order to increase 
thermodynamic efficiencies. Internal combustion engines of the present invention 
exhibit improved fuel economy, lower pollution and superior 
operating characteristics relative to engines in use or currently 
proposed as of the date of this document. Currently in common 
use are four cycle-spark ignition (SI) and four-cycle compression 
ignition (CI) engines. In both cases, four phases of the cycle 
correspond to strokes of the piston: intake, compression, 
expansion, and exhaust. Fig. 2 is an ideal gas diagram which is useful when 
considering theory of operation of four-cycle engines and engines 
of the present invention. Fig. 2 plots pressure as a function of 
volume for a charge of gas in an engine during the four phases. 
The area inside the enclosed curves is proportional to the work 
done per cycle by the gas. During the intake and compression 
phases, the gas is drawn into a chamber, and then compressed, 
respectively. The compression phase is shown by a movement from 
point A to B in Fig. 2. Point A is the point of maximum cylinder 
volume, and point B is the point of minimum cylinder volume. The 
path traced by the line A-B is considered to be adiabatic, that 
is, without loss or gain of heat. In the CI engine, only air is 
compressed. In the SI case, the air is premixed in a precisely  
 
controlled fashion with fuel vapor at point A using a ratio of 
about 14.3 to 1 by weight, and then compressed. In the SI case, 
the combustion process is started by a spark which occurs near 
point B in the cycle. In the CI case, the combustion process is 
started when the fuel is either directly injected into the 
cylinder, or indirectly injected into a prechamber connected to 
the main cylinder. The superheated air initiates the combustion. 
In both cases, as the fuel burns, the pressure rises and work is 
done to push the piston downward. This is the expansion cycle, 
and it is represented on Fig. 2 as B-G-D-E. At the point E, the 
end of the expansion cycle, the exhaust valve opens and the 
remaining compressed exhaust gases are released with a resultant 
loss of energy during the exhaust stroke or phase. This process 
is sometimes termed "exhaust blow down." This lost energy is 
represented by the area E-F-A. Point A represents the 
termination of expulsion of exhaust gases from the engine, and 
the cycle is repeated. Three models are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An internal combustion engine comprising at least one conversion 
unit which includes : 


(a) a compression cylinder; 
(b) an expansion cylinder separate from the compression 
cylinder; 
(c) a passageway connecting the compression cylinder with the 
expansion cylinder: 
(d) a compression piston disposed in the compression cylinder 
in a sliding relationship; 
(e) an expansion piston disposed in the expansion cylinder in a 
sliding relationship; 
(f) a rotatable means; and 
(h) means for coupling the compression and expansion pistons to 
the rotatable means such that the compression piston remains substantially 

stationary at substantially its top-most position during a substantial portion 
of the stroke of the expansion piston, and the expansion piston remains 

substantially stationary at substantially its top-most position during a 
substantial portion of the stroke of the compression piston. 
An engine according to claim 1 comprising a plurality of conversion 
units. 
An engine according to claim 1 or 2, in which the distance travelled 
by the or each compression piston in the compression cylinder is 

substantially equal to the distance travelled by the or each expansion piston 
in the expansion cylinder. 
An engine according to claim 1 or 2, in which the distance travelled 
 

by the or each compression piston in the compression cylinder is not equal 
to the distance travelled by the or each expansion piston in the expansion 

cylinder. 
An engine according to any of the preceding claims, in which the 
or each compression cylinder cross sectional area is substantially equal to 

the associated expansion cylinder cross sectional area. 
An engine according to any of claims 1 to 4, in which the 
compression cylinder cross sectional area is not equal to the expansion 

cylinder cross sectional area. 
An engine according to any of the preceding claims and further 
comprising, for each conversion unit, at least one intake valve 

communicating with the compression cylinder and at least one exhaust 
valve communicating with the expansion cylinder. 
An engine according to any of the preceding claims and further 

comprising, for each conversion unit, a fuel injector disposed partially in 
the passageway. 
An engine according to any of claims 1 to 7 and further 
comprising, for each conversion unit, a fuel injector disposed partially in 

the expansion cylinder. 
An engine according to claim 8 or 9 and further comprising, for 
each conversion unit, a spark plug or glow plug disposed downstream of 

the fuel injector. 
An engine according to any of claims 8 to 10 and further 
 

comprising, for each conversion unit, catalytic material downstream of the 
fuel injector. 
An engine according to any of the preceding claims in which the 
coupling means comprises : 


(a) a compression four-bar linkage comprising : 

(1) a piston rod pivotally connected to the compression 
piston and rocker rod; 
(2) the rocker rod being pivotally connected to the piston 
and connector rods and to a point fixed with respect 

to the engine; and 
(3) the connector rod being pivotally connected to the 
rocker rod and a portion of the rotatable means; and 
(b) an expansion four-bar linkage comprising : 

(1) a piston rod pivotally connected to the expansion 
piston and rocker rod; 
(2) the rocker rod of the expansion linkage being 
pivotally connected to the piston and connector rods of the 

expansion linkage and to a point fixed with respect to the 
engine; and 
(3) the connector rod being pivotally connected to the 
rocker rod and a portion of the rotatable means. 
An engine according to claim 12, in which the portion of the 
rotatable means for the compression linkage and the portion of the 

rotatable means for the expansion linkage are formed on a common 
rotatable member. 
An engine according to claim 13, in which the point at which the 
 

compression linkage connector is connected to the rotatable member is 
located on the rotatable member at 180 degrees from the point at which 

the expansion linkage connector is connected to the rotatable member. 
An engine according to claim 13, in which the point at which the 
compression linkage connector is connected to the rotatable member is 

located on the rotatable member at an angle different from 180 degrees 
from the point at which the expansion linkage connector is connected to 

the rotatable member. 
An engine according to claim 12, wherein the portion of the 
rotatable means is common to the expansion and compression connector 

rods. 
An engine according to claim 12 or 16, wherein the compression 
piston rod and the compression connector rod are pivotally connected to 

the compression rocker rod at spaced-apart points, and the expansion 
piston rod and the expansion connector rod are pivotably connected to the 

expansion rocker rod at spaced-apart points. 
An engine according to claim 16, or claim 17 when appended to 
claim 16, wherein the rotatable means is provided with a counterweight 

disposed 180 degrees from the common portion of the rotatable means. 
An engine according to any of claims 16 to 18, and further 
comprising a second pair of compression and expansion cylinders with 

which is associated a second portion of the rotatable means common to 
both the expansion and compression connector rods. 
An engine according to any of claims 12 to 19, wherein the 
 

compression and expansion piston rods are also pivotally attached to the 
respective connector rods at respective common points. 
An engine according to any of claims 1 to 11, and comprising at 
least one pair of conversion units, and wherein the coupling means 

comprises : 

(a) for each pair of conversion units, a compression rocker rod 
pivotally connected to the compression piston rods and pivotally connected 

to a point fixed with respect to the engine; 
(b) for each pair of conversion units, an expansion rocker rod 
pivotally connected to the expansion piston rods and pivotally connected 

to a point fixed with respect to the engine; 
(c) for each pair of conversion units, a compression connector 
rod pivotally connected to the compression rocker rod and to a rotatable 

member; and 
(d) for each pair of conversion units, an expansion connector rod 
pivotally connected to the expansion rocker rod and to the rotatable 

member. 
An engine according to claim 21 in which the point at which the 
compression linkage connector, for each conversion unit pair, is connected 

to the rotatable member is located on the rotatable member at 
approximately 180 degrees from the point at which the expansion linkage 

connector is connected to the rotatable member for that conversion unit 
pair. 
An engine according to any of claims 1 to 11, in which the 
coupling means comprises : 


(a) a compression power transfer unit comprising : 

(1) a piston rod pivotally connected to the compression 
 

piston; 
(2) a planetary gear connected eccentrically and pivotally 
to the piston rod; 
(3) a rotatable member connected pivotally to 
substantially the center of the planetary gear; 
(4) a gear ring fixed with respect to the engine, which 
meshes with the planetary gear in order to control rotation 

of the planetary gear as the rotatable member rotates, and 
thus to control the motion of the piston rod connected 

eccentrically to the planetary gear; and 
(b) an expansion power transfer unit comprising : 

(1) a piston rod pivotally connected to the expansion 
piston; 
(2) a planetary gear connected eccentrically and pivotally 
to the piston rod of the expansion piston and whose center 

is connected pivotally to a rotatable member; and 
(3) a gear ring fixed with respect to the engine, which 
meshes with the planetary gear of the expansion power unit 

in order to control rotation of the planetary gear of the 
expansion power unit as the rotatable member of the 

expansion power unit rotates, and thus to control the motion 
of the piston rod of the expansion power unit connected 

eccentrically to the planetary gear of the expansion power 
unit. 
An engine according to any of claims 1 to 20, wherein the rotatable 
means is in the form of at least one crank. 
An engine according to any of claims 20 to 22, wherein the 
rotatable member is a crank. 
An engine according to any of claims 1 to 11, in which the 
coupling means comprises : 


(a) a compression power transfer unit comprising : 

(1) a piston rod rigidly connected to the compression 
piston; 
(2) a three dimensional generally concavo-convex 
cammed member connected to a location on the piston rod 

in a sliding relationship; 
(3) a rotating cylinder attached to the cammed member; 
and 
(b) an expansion power transfer unit comprising : 

(1) a piston rod rigidly connected to the expansion piston 
and having a location connected to the cammed member in 

a sliding relationship such that as the expansion piston 
moves in the expansion cylinder, the piston rod of the 

expansion piston bears on the cammed member to cause the 
cylinder to rotate. 
An engine according to claim 23, in which the point at which the 
compression planetary gear is connected to the rotatable means is located 

on the crank at approximately 180 degrees from the point at which the 
expansion planetary gear is connected to the rotatable means. 
An internal combustion engine comprising at least one conversion 
unit which includes: 


(a) a compression cylinder; 
(b) an expansion cylinder separate from the compression 
cylinder; 
(c) a passageway connecting the compression cylinder with the 
expansion cylinder; 
(d) a compression piston disposed in the compression cylinder 
in a sliding relationship; 
(e) a compression piston rod pivotally connected to the 
compression piston; 
(f) a power crank pivotally connected to the compression piston 
rod; 
(g) a compression helper piston disposed in the compression 
cylinder; 
(h) a compression helper piston rod pivotally connected to the 
helper piston; 
(i) a helper crank pivotally connected to the compression helper 
piston rod; 
(j) means connecting the power crank to the helper crank so that 
the helper crank features twice the angular velocity as the power crank; 
(k) an expansion piston disposed in the expansion cylinder in a 
sliding relationship; 
(l) an expansion piston rod pivotally connected to the expansion 
piston and to the power crank; 
(m) an expansion helper piston disposed in the expansion 
cylinder; and 
(n) an expansion helper piston rod pivotally connected to the 
expansion piston and to the helper crank. 
An engine according to claim 28, in which the total distance 
travelled by the pistons in compression cylinder is not equal to the total 

distance travelled by the pistons in the expansion cylinder. 
An engine according to claim 28 or 29, in which the compression 
cylinder cross sectional area is not equal to the expansion cylinder cross 

sectional area. 
An engine according to any of the preceding claims, in which the 
working gas is heated by convection from passageway as the gas passes 

through the passageway. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
