<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615790</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM FOR SUPPLYING ULTRAPURE WATER AND METHOD OF WASHING SUBSTRATE, AND SYSTEM FOR PRODUCING ULTRAPURE WATER AND METHOD OF PRODUCING ULTRAPURE WATER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B302	B08B302	C02F104	C02F104	H01L2100	H01L2100	H01L2102	H01L21304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	C02F	C02F	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B3	B08B3	C02F1	C02F1	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An object of the present invention is to provide a method of washing a substrate, wherein even traces of impurities in minute 
and high-aspect-ratio trenches or holes can be washed and removed free from contamination by washing solution and a system 

and a method for producing ultrapure water, capable of producing ultrasuper pure water for use in the washing. The present 
invention is characterized in that, at the intermediate portions of a piping (7) for supplying a predetermined ultrapure water to a 

use point, there are provided: a first steam generating means (1) for heating a first ultrapure water for conversion into a first 
steam; a steam heating means (3) for further heating the first steam for conversion into a second steam higher in temperature 

than the first steam; and a cooling means (5) for cooling the second steam for conversion into a second ultrapure water. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OHMI TADAHIRO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OHMI, TADAHIRO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHMI TADAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHMI, TADAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a system for 
supplying ultrapure water and a method of washing a 
substrate, as well as to a system for producing ultrapure 
water and a method for producing ultrapure water. 
The present invention relates, for example, to a system for 
supplying ultrapure water which supplies ultrapure water 
which is used in the washing of substrates which are to be 
washed, and to a substrate washing method, as well as to a 
system for producing ultrapure water and a method for 
producing ultrapure water, in washing processes for 
substrates which are to be washed and require highly clean 
washing, such as semiconductor silicon wafers, fabricated 
parts for precision instruments, or the like. Conventionally, the following types of solutions are 
known as washing solutions which are used in highly clean 
washing. By means of appropriately altering the type of 
surfactant, it is possible to remove a wide range of  
 
substances, and at the same time, the surface tension of 
the solution is reduced, and thereby, it is possible to 
wash the interior of trenches and holes which are minute 
and have high aspect ratios on the surface which is to be 
washed. Organic solvents such as isopropyl alcohol, acetone, 
ethanol, and various types of freon are particularly 
preferable in the removal of substances which are difficult 
to dissolve in water, such as skin lipids and oils, and 
furthermore, the surface tension of these organic solvents 
is low, so that it is possible to wash the interior of 
trenches or holes which are minute and have high aspect 
ratios on the surface which is to be washed. Refined municipal water, well water, water for 
industrial use, or the like, in which the impurities 
present in the water have been removed to the lowest limit 
possible. Such water is preferable for use as a solvent, 
so that it is applied to the removal of various types of 
water-soluble substances. However, the following problems were present in the 
conventional technology which employed the washing 
solutions listed above. 
(a) When using the solution of (1) above, surfactant 
molecules are adsorbed to and retained on the surface which 
is washed, after washing. (b) The solution of (2) above is incapable of 
efficiently removing water-soluble substances, and organic  
 
solvent molecules are adsorbed to and retained on the 
surface which is washed, after washing. Appropriate 
drainage and exhaust processing is necessary after such 
solvents are used, so that this presents problems in terms 
of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for supplying ultrapure water, characterized 
in that, at intermediate portions of a piping for supplying 

a predetermined ultrapure water to a use point, there are 
provided a steam generating means for heating a first 

ultrapure water for conversion into a first steam; a steam 
heating means for further heating said first steam for 

conversion into a second steam having a temperature higher 
than that of said first steam; and a cooling means for 

cooling said second steam for conversion into a second 
ultrapure water. 
A system for supplying ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 1, characterized in that at least portions in 

contact with said first ultrapure water, said second 
ultrapure water, said first steam and said second steam 

comprise stainless steel covered by a passivated film. 
A system for supplying ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 2, wherein said passivated film has a surface 

roughness of Rmax 0.1 micrometer or less. 
A system for supplying ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 3, wherein said passivated film is reduced in an 

atmosphere of hydrogen gas after oxidation processing. 
A system for supplying ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 2, wherein an extreme outer surface of said 

 
passivated film comprises an oxide having Cr₂O₃ as a main 

component thereof. 
A system for supplying ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 1, characterized in that said steam heating 

means comprises an electric heater. 
A system for supplying ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 1, wherein said steam heating means comprises a 

high frequency heater. 
A system for supplying ultrapure water in accordance 
with one of claims 1 through 5, wherein said first 

ultrapure water has a resistivity of 18 MΩ·cm or more, a 
total evaporation residue of 10 ppb or less, and a total 

organic carbon of 10 ppb or less. 
A method for producing ultrapure water, characterized 
in that a first ultrapure water is converted to a first 

steam, said first steam is further heated and converted to 
a high temperature second steam, and said second steam is 

then cooled. 
A method for producing ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 9, characterized in that said first steam is 

heated to a temperature of at least 150°C or more. 
A method for producing ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 10, characterized in that said first steam is 

heated to a temperature of at least 170°C or more. 
A method for producing ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 9, characterized in that a heating means for 

conversion into said second steam comprises an electric 
heater. 
A method for producing ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 9, characterized in that a heating means for 

conversion into said second steam comprises a high 
frequency heater. 
A method for washing substrates, characterized in that 
a first ultrapure water in converted into a first steam, 

said first steam is further heated and converted to a 
second steam, said second steam is cooled, and then cooled 

ultrapure water is supplied to a use point, and thereby a 
substrate is washed. 
A method for washing substrates in accordance with 
claim 14, characterized in that said first ultrapure water 

has a resistivity of 18 MΩ·cm or more, a total evaporation 
residue of 10 ppb or less, and a total organic carbon of 10 

ppb or less. 
A method for washing substrates in accordance with 
claim 14, characterized in that a washing atmosphere 

 
comprises an atmosphere filled with a gas which is inert at 

least with respect to said substrate. 
A method for washing substrates in accordance with 
claim 14, characterized in that said substrate comprises a 

silicon wafer, at least a portion of which has a silicon 
metallic surface exposed. 
A method for washing substrates in accordance with 
claim 14, characterized in that said substrate possesses 

trenches or holes having a width of less than 0.5 
micrometers and having an aspect ratio of 1 or more. 
A system for producing ultrapure water, characterized 
in being provided with; a steam generating means for 

heating a first ultrapure water for conversion into a first 
steam; a steam heating means for further heating said first 

steam for conversion into a second steam having a 
temperature higher than that of said first steam; and a 

cooling means for cooling said second steam for conversion 
into a second ultrapure water. 
A system for producing ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 19, characterized in that at least those parts 

which are in contact with said first ultrapure water, said 
second ultrapure water, said first steam, and said second 

steam comprise stainless steel covered by a passivated 
film. 
A system for producing ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 19, wherein said passivated film has a surface 

roughness of Rmax 0.1 micrometers or less. 
A system for producing ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 19, wherein said passivated film is formed so as 

to be reduced in a hydrogen gas atmosphere after oxidation 
processing. 
A system for producing ultrapure water in accordance 
with claim 19, characterized in that an extreme outer 

surface of said passivated film comprises an oxide having 
Cr₂O₃ as a main component thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
