<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1200990</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTEGRATED CIRCUIT INTERCONNECT SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2160	H01L2170	H01L21822	H01L2352	H01L23522	H01L2358	H01L2360	H01L2362	H01L2702	H01L2702	H01L2704	H01L2704	H01P100	H01P100	H03H738	H03H738	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01P	H01P	H03H	H03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01P1	H01P1	H03H7	H03H7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In an interconnect system for providing access to a common I/O terminal for multiple circuit devices such as drivers, receivers and electrostatic discharge (ESD) protection devices implemented on an IC, each such device is provided with a separate contact pad within the IC. The contact pads are linked to one another and to the IC I/O terminal though inductive conductors such as bond wires, metalization layer traces in the IC, or legs of a forked, lithographically-defined spring contact formed on the IC. The conductor inductance isolates the capacitance of the circuit devices from one another, thereby improving characteristics of the frequency response of the interconnect system. Also the ESD protection function is distributed among multiple ESD devices interconnected by series inductors to provide a multi-pole filter at each IC terminal. The inductances of the conductors and various capacitances of the interconnect system are also appropriately adjusted to optimize desired interconnect system frequency response characteristics.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORMFACTOR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORMFACTOR, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER CHARLES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, CHARLES, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTEGRATED CIRCUIT INTERCONNECT SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates in general to a system for interconnecting multiple devices implemented in an integrated circuit (IC) to a circuit node external to the IC, and in particular to a system employing and distributing appropriately-sized inductors and capacitors to isolate and impedance match the IC devices to enhance interconnect system frequency response.Description of Related ArtIn an INTEGRATED circuit (IC) , each signal transmitter or receiver device that COMMUNICATES with a circuit node external to the IC is typically linked to a bond pad on the surface of the IC ' s substrate. In a typical packaged IC a bond wire connects the bond pad to a conductive leg or pin extending from the package surrounding the IC . When the IC package is mounted on a printed circuit board (PCB) , the package leg is soldered to a microstrip trace on the surface of the PCB or to a conductive via passing through the PCB to a stripline conductor on another layer of the PCB. When bond pads of one or more other ICs mounted on the PCB are linked to the PCB trace in a similar manner, the bond pads, bond wires, package legs, and the PCB trace form an interconnect system for conveying signals between devices implemented in two or more ICs . Many ICs also include electrostatic discharge protection devices (ESDs) also connected to each bond pad to protect the IC from high voltage static discharges which can damage the device. In high frequency applications a combination of series inductances and shunt capacitances in the signal path provided by the interconnect system attenuate and distort signals. The bond wire and package leg typically contribute most of the series inductance. The capacitance of any IC driver, receiver and/or ESD device connected to the bond pad and the capacitance of any device connected to the PCB 

 trace (such as for example, a via) provide most of the interconnect system capacitance. The conventional approach to reducing the amount of signal distortion and attenuation caused by the interconnect system has been to minimize the series inductance and shunt capacitance of the interconnect system. The inductance of bond wires and package legs can be minimized by keeping them as small as possible. Driver, receiver and ESD capacitances can be controlled to some extent by controlling shapes and dimensions of structures within the IC . The PCB trace impedance can be controlled by appropriately choosing physical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. An interconnect system for conveying signals between first and second nodes within an electronic device and a third node external to said electronic device, the interconnect system comprising: a first conductive path linking said first node to said third node; and a second conductive path linking said second node to said third node, wherein said first and second conductive path are substantially inductive.
2. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 1 wherein said electronic device is an integrated circuit, wherein said first and second nodes are bond pads implemented on said integrated circuit, wherein said first conductive path comprises a first bond wire, wherein said second conductive path comprises a second bond wire .
3. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 2 wherein inductances of said first and second bond wires are sized to substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
4. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 2 further comprising a capacitive element connected to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element and inductances of said first and second bond wires are sized to substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
5. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 2 further comprising a capacitive element connected to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element 


and inductance of said first and second bond wires are sized so that the interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of a Butterworth filter.
6. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 2 further comprising a capacitive element connected to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element and inductance of said first and second bond wires are sized so that the interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of a Chebyshev filter.
7. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 1 wherein inductances of said first and second conductive paths are sized to substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
8. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a capacitive element connected to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element and inductances of said first and second conductive paths are sized to substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
9. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a capacitive element connected to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element and inductances of said first and second conductive paths are sized so that the interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of a Butterworth filter. 


10. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a capacitive element connected to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element and inductances of said first and second conductive paths are sized so that the interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of a Chebyshev filter.
11. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 10 wherein said third node comprises a trace on a printed circuit board, and wherein said capacitive element comprises a via in said printed circuit board, said via being connected to said trace.
12. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 1 wherein said electronic device is an integrated circuit, and wherein said first and second conductive paths are implemented by a spring contact comprising: a tip for contacting said third node, a first conductive leg connected between said first node and said tip, and a second conductive leg connected between said second node and said tip.
13. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 12 wherein inductances of each of said first and second conductive legs are sized to substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
14. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 12 further comprising a capacitive element linked to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element and inductances of said first and second conductive legs 


are sized to substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
15. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 14 wherein said third node comprises a contact point on a printed circuit board trace for receiving said tip and wherein said capacitive element comprises a printed circuit board via connected to said printed circuit board trace.
16. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 12 wherein said conductive legs comprise resilient material.
17. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 12 further comprising a capacitive element connected to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element and inductance of said first and second conductive legs are sized so that the interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of a Butterworth filter.
18. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 12 further comprising a capacitive element connected to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element and inductance of said first and second conductive legs are sized so that the interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of a Chebyshev filter.
19. An interconnect system for conveying signals between first and second nodes internal to an integrated circuit and a third node external to the integrated circuit, the interconnect system comprising: an inductor connected between said first node and said second node, and a conductor connected between said second node and said third node. 

20. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 19 wherein said first node comprises a first bond pad implemented on said integrated circuit, wherein said second node comprises a second bond pad implemented on said integrated circuit, and wherein said inductor consists of a bond wire connected between said first and second bond pads.
21. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 19 wherein said inductor is implemented within said integrated circuit .
22. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 21 wherein said inductor comprises a lithographically defined conductive trace.
23. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 19 further comprising a capacitive element connected to said third node, wherein capacitance of said capacitive element is sized to substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
24. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 23, wherein said third node comprises a printed circuit board trace, and wherein said capacitive element comprises a printed circuit board via connected to said printed circuit board trace.
25. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 19 wherein the interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to that of a Butterworth filter. 

26. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 19 wherein the interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to that of a Chebyshev filter.
27. An interconnect system for conveying signals between a first circuit device implemented within an integrated circuit and a second circuit device external to said integrated circuit, the interconnect system comprising: a first node within said integrated circuit, said first circuit device being connected to said first node; a first electrostatic discharge protection device coupled to said first node, a second node implemented within said integrated circuit, a second electrostatic discharge protection device coupled to said second node, an inductor connected between said first node and said second node, and conductive means linking said second node to said second circuit device.
28. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 27 wherein said first and second nodes are bond pads implemented on said integrated circuit, and wherein said inductor comprises a bond wire.
29. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 27 wherein said inductor comprises a spiral inductor implemented within said integrated circuit.
30. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 27 wherein said conductive means is inductive, wherein said first and second electrostatic discharge protective devices are capacitive, and wherein inductances of said inductor and said conductive means, and capacitances of said first and second electrostatic discharge protection devices are sized to 


 substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
31. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 30 wherein inductances of said inductor and said conductive means, and capacitances of said first and second electrostatic discharge protection devices are sized such that said interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of one of a Butterworth filter and a Chebyshev filter.
32. An interconnect system for conveying signals between a first circuit device implemented within an integrated circuit and a second circuit device external to said integrated circuit, the interconnect system comprising: a first node within said integrated circuit, said first circuit device being connected to said first node; a second node within said integrated circuit; a third node within said integrated circuit; a first electrostatic discharge protection device coupled to said second node; a second electrostatic discharge protection device coupled to said third node; a first inductor connected between said first node and said second node; a third inductor connected between said first node and said second node; and conductive means linking said second node to said third circuit device.
33. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 32 wherein said first, second and third nodes are bond pads implemented on said integrated circuit, and wherein said first and second inductors comprise bond wires . 


34. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 32 wherein at least one of said first and second inductors comprises a spiral inductor implemented within said integrated circuit.
35. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 32 wherein said conductive means is inductive, wherein said first and second electrostatic discharge protective devices are capacitive, and wherein inductances of said first and second inductors and said conductive means, and capacitances of said first and second electrostatic discharge protection devices are sized to substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
36. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 35 wherein inductances of said first and second inductors and said conductive means, and capacitances of said first and second electrostatic discharge protection devices are sized such that said interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of one of a Butterworth filter and a Chebyshev filter.
37. An interconnect system for conveying signals between a driver and a receiver implemented within an integrated circuit and a circuit device external to said integrated circuit, the interconnect system comprising: a node within said integrated circuit, a first electrostatic discharge protection device; a second electrostatic discharge protection device; a first inductor connected between said node and said first electrostatic discharge protection device; a second inductor connected between said node and said second electrostatic discharge protection device, a third inductor connected between said first electrostatic discharge protection device and said driver; a fourth inductor connected between said second electrostatic discharge protection device and said 


 receiver; and conductive means linking said node to said third circuit device.
38. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 37 wherein said conductive means is inductive, wherein said first and second electrostatic discharge protective devices are capacitive, and wherein inductances of said first, second, third and fourth inductors and said conductive means, and capacitances of said first and second electrostatic discharge protection devices are sized to substantially optimize a frequency response characteristic of said interconnect system.
39. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 38 wherein said interconnect system has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of one of a Butterworth filter and a Chebyshev filter.
40. An interconnect system for conveying signals between a first circuit device implemented within an integrated circuit and a second circuit device external to said integrated circuit, the interconnect system comprising: a circuit node implemented within said integrated circuit; means for conductively linking said circuit node to said second circuit device; and a multi-pole filter linking said first circuit device to said circuit node, said multiple-pole filter comprising a plurality of capacitive electrostatic discharge protection devices implemented within said integrated circuit and a plurality of inductors interconnecting said plurality of capacitive electrostatic discharge protection devices . 

41. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 40 wherein said multi-pole filter has a frequency response substantially similar to a frequency response of one of a Butterworth filter and a Chebyshev filter.
42. The interconnect system in accordance with claim 40 wherein said plurality of inductors are connected in series between said circuit node and said first circuit device and wherein said plurality of electrostatic discharge protection devices provide shunt capacitance relative to signals passing through said inductors. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
