<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1090290</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANALYSIS OF LIQUID SAMPLES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L300	B01L300	G01N110	G01N110	G01N118	G01N118	G01N3302	G01N3314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	B01L	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L3	B01L3	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to the determination of species of interest in a liquid sample and employs apparatus including a vessel having a main chamber and a sample analysis region, for preparation of the sample. Measurements of the sample are taken in the sample analysis region using an electrochemical sensor mounted on a sensor mounting component. A sensor support component may be interposed between the vessel and the sensor mounting component, so that the sensor enters the sample analysis region to a predetermined depth. A measuring instrument is electrically connectable to the sensor to provide an output representative of the concentration of the species of interest.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSALYSE LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSALYSE LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTIE IAN MCINTYRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STAMMERS BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHRISTIE, IAN MCINTYRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STAMMERS, BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANALYSIS OF LIQUID SAMPLESThe present invention relates to the analysis of liquid media to determine the presence, absence or concentration of a species of interest. The species of interest may be an element or molecule or other chemical species and may include species of biological or industrial origin. The invention relates in particular to methods and apparatus for carrying out such analyses and is especially applicable to point-of-sampling testing.In many situations where analysis of a liquid (or solid) medium has been required it has been necessary to take a sample of the medium and to forward the sample to a specialised laboratory for analysis. This is disadvantageous in terms of cost (for example because highly trained technicians and expensive instrumentation are required to perform the analysis) and because of the time delay before the results of the analysis are obtained. Thus, for example, in many manufacturing processes results from the analysis of a sample are required immediately in order to check, and if necessary adjust, the process parameters.Ideally, in order for analysis at the point-of-sampling to be successful, accurate results must be obtainable with equipment which is as simple and robust as possible, capable of carrying out repeated analyses and which requires the minimum level of skill and input from the operator. The present invention seeks to obviate or reduce the above mentioned disadvantages. 

The analysis procedures and apparatus of the invention are applicable to a wide variety of species, but one particular use relates to the determination of the alcohol content of an alcoholic beverage - either as a finished product or during the production process - using an electrochemical sensor device.It is known that the alcohol content of alcoholic beverages (e.g. beer and wine) may be determined by electrochemical sensor devices, e.g. enzyme based amperometric sensors, which are immersed in the beverage for the purpose of effecting the measurement. There are however problems associated with such measurements. For example, the sensor may require a dissolved oxygen content (in the liquid sample being analysed) greater than that normally present in an alcoholic beverage. In this respect, it is relevant to note that beer and wine have a dissolved oxygen content of only about 10% of potential saturated content. Furthermore, alcoholic beverages such as beer and sparkling wine (e.g. champagne) contain dissolved carbon dioxide which can cause problems when it forms bubbles on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of analysing a liquid sample to determine a species of interest present or potentially present therein, the method including the steps of:
providing a sampling vessel having a main sample chamber containing the liquid to be analysed, a sample analysis region having an openable and closable aperture, and having a sample flow path between the main chamber and the sample analysis region;
transferring at least a portion of the liquid to be analysed from the main chamber to the sample analysis region via the flow path;
providing a sensor device including a sensor and, before or after said transfer of liquid to the sample analysis region, inserting the sensor device into the sample analysis region through the said openable and closable aperture; and
using the sensor device to make a measurement -to determine the species of interest.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the main chamber has an openable and closable aperture through which the liquid may be introduced into the main chamber.
3. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the vessel is in the form of a bottle in which internal walls define a minor chamber which forms the sample 


 analysis region as an upper region of the bottle and further define a passageway for providing the flow path to provide the communication between a lower region of the main chamber and an upper region of the minor chamber, the apertures of the main and minor chambers each being located at the top of the bottle .
4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the bottle is "squeezable" to provide for transfer of liquid sample from the main chamber to the minor chamber.
5. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the sampling vessel comprises a main chamber provided with a V-shaped tubular arm defining the sample analysis region.
6. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein a precursor of the liquid sample is first introduced into the main chamber and subjected to a sample preparation step to provide the liquid sample to be analysed.
7. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the sample preparation step is a physical step.
8. A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the sample preparation step comprises shaking the vessel to provide for an exchange of gas between the liquid and its surroundings.
9. A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the sample preparation step results in generation of a froth and, on transfer of the liquid sample analysis 


 region, a major proportion of the froth remains in the main chamber.
10. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the sample preparation step is a chemical step.
11. A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein solid or liquid reagents are added to the precursor liquid in the main chamber to generate the liquid sample to be provided in the sample analysis region.
12. A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein the reagent is a biological reagent.
13. A method as claimed in claim 12 wherein the reagent is an enzyme.
14. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the sample preparation step involves an extraction of the precursor of the liquid sample.
15. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14 utilising a sensor device on which the sensor is mounted and which is such that the sensor device may be supported relative to the sample analysis region so that the sensor extends by a predetermined distance into that region to provide for a known depth of immersion of the sensor in the liquid sample to be analysed.
16. A method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the sensor device is such that the sensor is removably mounted thereon. 

17. A method as claimed in claim 15 or 16 wherein the sensor device comprises an enlarged head portion connected to an elongate finger along which the sensor extends .
18. A method as claimed in any one claims 15 to 17 wherein the sensor device incorporates a temperature sensor.
19. A method as claimed in any one of claims 15 to 18 wherein a support component is removably mounted in the sample analysis region and the sensor device is supported by the support component .
20. A method as claimed in claim 19 wherein the support component comprises a tubular body having an open end into which the sensor device may be inserted and is enclosed at its other end save for at least one small orifice to permit ingress of liquid but not foam.
21. A method as claimed in claim 20 wherein the support component has, opposite to its open end, a planar end closure part generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the tubular body portion, and an inlet tube mounted on said closure part, which inlet tube is in communication with the tubular body by means of said small orifice formed in said closure part, and said inlet tube having an internal diameter substantially equal to the diameter of said small orifice.
22. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 21 wherein the sensor is an electrochemical sensor. 

23. A method as claimed in claim 22 wherein the electrochemical sensor incorporates an enzyme electrode .
24. A method as claimed in claim 23 wherein the electrochemical sensor is an enzyme based amperometric sensor.
25. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 21 wherein the sensor device is a non-enzymic sensor.
26. A method as claimed in claim 24 wherein the sensor is a colourimetric sensor.
27. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 26 for measurement of alcohol content .
28. Apparatus for analysis of liquid samples comprising:
a sampling vessel having a main chamber forming a sample preparation region and having an openable and closable aperture through which liquid may be introduced into the main chamber, and a sample analysis region separate from and in fluid communication with the main chamber and having an openable and closable aperture through which a sensor device may be inserted for immersion in liquid in the sample analysis region, and
a support component for supporting the sensor device to a predetermined depth in the sample analysis region.
29. Apparatus for analysing liquid samples comprising: 


 a sampling vessel having a sample analysis region, said region having an openable and closable aperture
a sensor device for immersion into the liquid sample, through the aperture and
a support component mountable over the said aperture for supporting the sensor device to a predetermined depth in the sample analysis region.
30. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein the sensor device comprises an electrochemical sensor comprising a substrate having one or more electrodes formed thereon, and a sensor mounting component operatively retaining the sensor and including one or more contacts for electrical connection with the respective one or more electrodes, said sensor mounting component being operatively supported by the said support component
31. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 or 30 further comprising a measuring instrument operatively electrically connected to the sensor device and operative to analyse electrical signals from the sensor device and to provide an output representative of the concentration of a desired species in the liquid samples.
32. Apparatus as claimed in claim 30 wherein the sensor mounting component comprises an enlarged head portion connected to an elongate finger along which the sensor extends . 

33. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 29 to 32 wherein the sensor device incorporates a temperature sensor.
34. Apparatus for determining the concentration of a species of interest in a liquid sample, the apparatus comprising:
an electrochemical sensor comprising a substrate having one or more electrodes formed thereon;
a sensor mounting component operatively retaining the sensor and including one or more contacts for electrical connection with the respective one or more electrodes;
a measuring instrument operatively electrically connected to the sensor via the sensor mounting component and operative to analyse electrical signals produced by the sensor and to provide an output representative of the concentration of the species being determined; and
a sampling vessel for containing the liquid sample, having a sample analysis region, said region having an openable and closable aperture for insertion of the sensor into the said region.
35. Apparatus as claimed in claim 34 further comprising a support component mountable over the said openable and closable aperture for supporting the sensor mounting component whereby the sensor is disposed in the sample analysis area to a predetermined depth. 

6. Apparatus for point-of-sampling analysis of liquid samples, the apparatus comprising the following components parts:
a vessel for containing the liquid sample, having a sample analysis region, said region having an openable and closable aperture;
a plurality of electrochemical sensors, each comprising a substrate having one or more electrodes formed thereon;
a sensor mounting component operative to retain a sensor and including one or more contacts for electrical connection with the respective one or more electrodes;
a measuring instrument operatively electrically connectable to a sensor when said sensor is retained in said sensor mounting component and operative to analyse electrical signals produced by the sensor and to provide an output representative of the concentration of a desired species in the liquid samples; and
a case for storing and/or transporting the above mentioned component parts.
37. Apparatus as claimed in claim 36 further comprising a support component operatively mountable over the openable and closable aperture for supporting the sensor mounting component whereby the sensor is disposed in the sample analysis region to a predetermined depth. 

38. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 34 to 37 wherein the sensor mounting component comprises an enlarged head portion connected to an elongated finger along which the sensor extends.
39. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 34 to 38 wherein the sensor device incorporates a temperature sensor.
40. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 28 to 39 wherein the vessel is in the form of a squeezable bottle in which the internal walls define a major chamber and a minor chamber which minor chamber forms the sample analysis region as an upper region of the bottle and which walls further define a flow path for providing communication between a lower region of the main chamber and an upper region of the minor chamber, the apertures of the main and minor chambers each being located at the top of the bottle .
41. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 28 to 39 wherein the vessel comprises a main chamber provided with a V-shaped tubular arm defining the sample analysis region.
42. A support component for supporting a sensor device incorporating a sensor such that the sensor is operatively maintained in a predetermined relation to a vessel for containing a liquid sample, the support component comprising a generally tubular body portion, at least one orifice, formed in the body portion, for the ingress of liquid, first 


 mounting means operative to co-operate with the vessel so that the body portion operatively lies in a predetermined position at least partially within the vessel and second mounting means operative to co-operate with the sensor device so that the sensor lies in a predetermined position within the body portion.
43. A support component as claimed in claim 42 wherein the first mounting means comprises a laterally extending flange operative to rest on a neck of the container.
44. A support component as claimed in claim 42 or 43 wherein the body portion is of generally circular cross-section with a conical tip, in which tip an orifice is formed.
45. Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 28, 29 to 33, 35 or 37 or any of claims 38 to 40 when dependant on the above claims wherein the support component is as defined in any of the claims 41 to 43.
46. Apparatus for use in analysing a liquid sample .to determine a species present or potentially present therein, the apparatus comprising
a sampling vessel including a top wall, a baffle dividing the vessel into a main region and a sample analysis region, and, an openable and closeable aperture formed in the top wall in the sample analysis region, said baffle extending in a first direction away from the top wall for a distance less than the internal dimension of the vessel such that 


 the baffle has a free end distant from the openable and closeable aperture and extending in a second direction, generally perpendicular to the first direction, across the entire width of the vessel, whereby a flow path between the main region and the sample analysis region exists only around the free end of the baffle.
47. Apparatus as claimed in claim 46 further comprising a second openable and closeable aperture formed in the top wall in the main region
48. A method of analysing a liquid sample to determine a species present or potentially present therein, the method comprising:
providing apparatus as claimed in claim 46 or 47;
filling the vessel with a liquid sample through an openable and closeable aperture to a level whereby, when the vessel is oriented in a first orientation such that the top wall is substantially vertical and the baffle is in a lower part of the vessel, the liquid sample level is higher than the baffle, and closing the vessel;
rotating the vessel from said first orientation though approximately 90° so that the top wall is approximately horizontal;
opening the aperture in the sample analysis region;
providing a sensor device including a sensor and inserting the sensor device into the sample analysis 


 region through the openable and closeable aperture; and
using the sensor device to make a measurement to determine the species of interest .
49. A method as claimed in claim 48 further including a sample preparation step after filling of the vessel.
50. A method as claimed in claim 49 wherein the sample preparation step includes the step of shaking the vessel when in its first orientation. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
