<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1081660</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Integrating light mixer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2709	G02B2710	G07D700	G07D712	G02B2710	G02B2709	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G07D	G07D	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B27	G02B27	G07D7	G07D7	G02B27	G02B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A document validation subassembly is described. The subassembly
includes a light mixer for generating at least one substantially homogenous light spot.

The light mixer includes a light mixing chamber, at least one input port for
accommodating at least one light source, at least one output, and at least one

collimator connected to the output. In an implementation, the light mixing chamber is
substantially spherical, but other shapes, such as cylindrical chambers, are also

contemplated. Also described are solid core light mixer implementations.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEI INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEI, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WETHERELL WILLIAM B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WETHERELL WILLIAM B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to light mixer arrangements for providing substantially homogenous light spots. In particular, implementations of document validation subsystems utilizing a light mixer for generating substantially homogenous light spots, and methods of construction are described.In the field of bill validation, validators used in vending machines and the like typically utilize optical, magnetic and other sensors to obtain data from an inserted bill. In some units, a plurality of light-emitting diode (LED) light sources and phototransistor receivers are positioned on opposite sides of a bill passageway, and generate a plurality of signals corresponding to the light transmitted through the bill as a bill moves past. The signals are processed to determine certain information, such as the position of the bill in the passageway and the authenticity of the bill. The signals are typically compared to predetermined measurements stored in memory that correspond to genuine bills.Prior art systems utilizing LED light sources also used lenses to focus the light in order to meet system performance requirements. However, some configurations did not provide sufficient light signal levels to accurately validate documents. Further, designs using high power light sources and focusing elements are costly to manufacture.US 5,491,336 relates to an arrangement for illuminating documents in a document processing system having an imaging station including a cylindrical integrating Lambertian reflecting/diffusing cavity, each cavity having a light source, so that the cavity generates and projects a highly intense, uniform and diffuse beam of illumination.A document validation subsystem as set out in claim 1 having a light mixer for generating at least one substantially homogenous light spot is presented. The light mixer includes a light mixing chamber, at least one input port associated with the mixing chamber to accommodate at least one light source, at least one output associated with the mixing chamber. The document validation system furthermore comprises a document passageway, at least one collimator connected to the at least one output, and at least one light receiver.Implementations of the invention may include one or more of the following features. The light mixing chamber may include a diffuse reflective liner applied to an interior surface of the chamber. The collimator may include a mirror, and the input port may house a plurality of LED light sources. At least two light sources connected to the input port may
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A document validation subsystem, comprising:

(i) a light mixer (30) for generating at least one substantially homogenous light spot, the light mixer comprising a light mixing chamber (34), at least one input port (31) associated with the mixing chamber (34) to accommodate at least one light source (32), and at least one output aperture (36) associated with the mixing chamber;
(ii) at least one light receiver (20), and
(iii) a document passageway;
characterised by
:
(iv) at least one collimator (38) including at least one reflecting surface (44), the collimator being connected to the at least one output aperture (36), wherein the collimator is arranged to reflect light exiting the at least one output aperture (36) of the light mixer toward the document passageway.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light mixing chamber includes a diffuse reflective liner (35) applied to an interior surface.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the collimator (38) includes a mirror(29).
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the input port houses a plurality of LED light sources (32).
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein at least two light sources (32) are of different wavelengths.
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the light sources (32) are of the same wavelength.
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the LED light sources (32) are operable to turn ON sequentially.
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the LED light sources (32) are operable to turn ON simultaneously.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a plurality of output apertures (36) are associated with the mixing chamber (34), and a plurality of collimators (38), are connected to the output apertures to generate a plurality of substantially homogenous light spots.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one collimator includes at least one lens (39).
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one lens component (58) attached to an upper platen (59) of a document passageway.
The apparatus of claim 1 including a light mixer assembly comprising:

a plurality of light mixers (30), each having at least one input port (31), at least one output aperture (36) and at least one collimator (38) connected to an aperture, the light mixers arranged to provide light spot output coverage across the width of a document passageway; and
a plurality of light sources (32), wherein at least one light source is connected to each input port (31).
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the light mixer assembly is modular.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the light mixer comprises:

a cylinder (130) having a cavity and at least one input port (132) and a slit output (134), wherein a reflective and diffusive coating is applied to the cavity; and at least one collimator (138) is aligned with the slit output; and
at least one light source is connected to the input port.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the light mixer comprises:
a cylinder (150) having a cavity and at least one input port (154) and a plurality of output apertures (156) for generating a plurality of substantially homogenous light spots, wherein a reflective and diffusive coating is applied to the cavity, and a plurality of collimators (152) is attached to the output apertures; and
at least one light source is connected to the input port.
The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising at least one light pipe (172) connected at a first end to an output aperture and at a second end to a collimator (173).
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the light mixer comprises:

a block (180) of optical material having a cavity that includes an internally reflecting and diffuse surface, at least one input port (181) and at least one output aperture (182);
at least one collimator (184) is attached to the output aperture for generating at least one substantially homogenous output spot; and
at least one light source is connected to the input port.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the light mixer includes a solid core light mixing chamber (202) having an outside coating (203) with diffuse and reflective characteristics, wherein the coating includes at least one input area (205) for accommodating at least one light source (201), and the coating includes at least one output area (206), and at least one light directing means (207) connected to the output area.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the light directing means (207) includes an output area (208) for directing light and includes a reflective surface (209) for feeding light energy back into the mixing chamber.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the light directing means (207) is substantially hemispherically shaped.
The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising at least one light source means (201) connected to the input area (205).
The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a flat mirror (212) for redirecting light from the light direction means (207).
The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a collimating lens (214) connected to a platen of a document passageway.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the light mixing chamber (202) is spherical.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the light mixing chamber (202) is cylindrical.
The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising a linear array light source connected to the mixing chamber.
A method for constructing a document validation subsystem, comprising:

assembling the components of claim 1 and thereby including
constructing the light mixer (30) for generating the at least one substantially homogenous light spot;
connecting the light source (32) to the light mixer (30);
connecting the light mixer (30) and source (32) to a wall of the document passageway; and
connecting a light receiver (20) to the wall of the document passageway to receive a light signal resulting from the substantially homogenous spot.
The method of claim 27, wherein the light mixer is constructed by:

molding the chamber (34) having the at least one input port (31) and the at least one
 output aperture;
applying a diffuse reflecting coating (35) to an interior surface of the chamber, and
connecting the at least one collimator (38) to the at least one output aperture (36).
The method of claim 28, wherein the chamber is cast in two hemispheres.
The method of claim 28, further comprising attaching a mirror (29) to the at least one collimator (38) for directing light.
The method of claim 28, further comprising attaching a lens (39) to the at least one collimator.
The method of claim 27, wherein the light mixer is constructed by:

molding the light mixing chamber (34) using an optical plastics material, wherein the chamber includes the at least one input port (31) and the at least one output aperture (36); and
connecting at least one collimator (38) to the at least one output aperture (36).
The method of claim 32, further comprising attaching a lens (39) to the collimator (38).
The method of claim 27, comprising:

connecting the light mixer to a wall of the document passageway, the light mixer capable of generating the at least one substantially homogenous light spot, the light mixer formed by:

cutting a cavity into a block (180) of optical material, the cavity having reflective and diffuse characteristics; and
forming the at least one input port (181) and the at least one output aperture (182) that connect to the cavity; connecting the at least one light source to each input port (181); and connecting the at least one collimator (184) to the output aperture.
The method of claim 27, comprising:

forming a solid core light mixer (202) by forming the light mixing chamber of optical material, coating the chamber with a material (203) having reflective and diffuse characteristics, forming the at least one input area (205) and the at least one output area, and connecting a light directing means to each output area; and
connecting the solid core light mixer to a wall of a document passageway.
The method of claim 35, further comprising applying an external protective layer to the coating material.
The method of claim 35, further comprising connecting at least one light source (201) to each input area (205).
The method of claim 35, wherein the light directing means (207) directs light within a collecting angle to the document passageway, and reflects light energy outside the collecting angle back into the mixing chamber.
The method of claim 35, wherein the light mixing chamber (202) is formed in a spherical shape.
The method of claim 35, wherein the light mixing chamber (202) is formed in a cylindrical shape.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
