<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1100390</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TOOL AND METHOD FOR SHEARING BOLTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1758	F16B3504	A61B1758	A61B1768	A61B1788	B26D316	F16B3100	A61B1788	F16B3102	F16B3504	A61B1786	B26D316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	F16B	A61B	A61B	A61B	B26D	F16B	A61B	F16B	F16B	A61B	B26D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	F16B35	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	B26D3	F16B31	A61B17	F16B31	F16B35	A61B17	B26D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tool for breaking a shaft comprises two aligned tubular elements (20, 22), each having an end portion for receiving a contiguous length of the same shaft (2). Means are provided for locking each end portion against rotation relative to the shaft length received therein, and the elements are adapted for rotation relative to one another with the end portions so locked, to relatively twist the shaft lengths and shear the lengths at the interface between them. The element end portions will normally have juxtaposed faces, and it is preferred that the faces are moved towards each other during the relative rotation and as the shaft lengths are twisted relative to each other. This assists in achieving a substantially planar face at the fracture plane. A compressible washer may be disposed between the juxtaposed faces. This can stabilise the moving parts as the shaft is broken, although normally screw threads on the tubular elements will effect the movement of the element towards each other, and this in itself may provide sufficient stability.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
V O DESIGN AND INNOVATION LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
V O DESIGN AND INNOVATION LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALL VAGN-ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWES PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REED DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALL, VAGN-ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWES, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REED, DAVID, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TOOL FOR SHEARING BOLTSThis invention relates to the breaking of shafts, normally metallic shafts, in which contiguous shaft lengths are twisted relative to one another to break the shaft along a fracture plain. The invention has particular application to lockable screw assemblies in which a shaft is broken at a fracture plane substantially aligned to the exposed surface of a nut located and typically locked thereon. This Application is of especial value in surgical applications where such a screw assembly is used as a cortical bone screw, whose length is immediately adaptable to an individual situation.In a number of fields there is a need for screws and bolts which can be used to a given, undefined length, but which cannot tolerate a length of screw projecting from an exposed surface. Particularly in surgical situations it has been necessary to carefully select a cortical bone screw of the right length in order to ensure that a plate may be attached to a bone with a substantially smooth surface at the exposed face of the plate. According to the present invention, a tool for breaking a shaft comprises two aligned tubular elements, each having an end portion for receiving a contiguous length of the same shaft. Means are provided for locking each end portion against rotation relative to the shaft length received therein, and the elements are adapted for rotation relative to one another with the end portions so locked, to relatively twist the shaft lengths and shear the lengths at the interface between them. The element end portions will normally have juxtaposed faces, and it is preferred that the faces are moved towards each other during the relative rotation and as the shaft lengths are twisted relative to each other. This assists in achieving a substantially planar face at the fracture plane. A compressible washer may be disposed between the juxtaposed faces. This can stabilise the moving parts as the shaft is broken, although normally screw threads on the tubular elements will effect the movement of the element towards each other, and this in itself may provide sufficient stability. 

be co-axially aligned. However, there can be some benefit in having the shaft to be broken installed in the tool along an axis offset from the common axis of the operative elements. This generates some additional shear forces in the shaft contributing to the creation of a flat surface along the fracture plane, although it will be appreciated that the increase of shear forces at one point in the cross section of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A tool for breaking a shaft, comprising two aligned tubular elements having end portions for receiving continuous lengths of a said shaft; means for locking each end portion against rotation relative to a shaft length received therein; and means for rotating the elements relative to one another with the end
portions so locked to relatively twist the shaft lengths and shear the lengths at the interface between them.
2. A tool according to Claim 1 wherein the element end portions have juxtaposed
faces.
3. A tool according to Claim 2 including means urging the faces towards each other during said relative rotation.
4. A tool according to Claim 3 wherein the urging means comprises complementary screw threads on the tubular elements.
5. A tool according to any of Claims 2 to 4 including a compressible washer disposed between the juxtaposed faces.
6. A tool according to any preceding Claim wherein the tubular elements are co- axially aligned. 


 adapted to receive a said shaft along an axis eccentric relative to the
common axis of the elements.
8. A tool according to Claim 6 or Claim 7 where the tube elements are engaged
one within the other.
9. A tool according to any preceding Claim wherein locking means comprise a gripping component at the end of each tubular element; a sleeve disposed therebetween, the sleeve having convergent frustoconical surfaces aligned with the gripping components; and means for urging the gripping elements towards one another over the frustoconical surfaces and thereby radially inwards to
engage and grip a said shaft.
10. A tool according to Claim 2 and Claim 9 wherein the gripping components are disposed between the juxtaposed faces of the tubular elements.
11. A tool according to any of Claims 1 to 8 where the end portion of each tubular element has a non-circular opening for receiving a said shaft length, for restricting rotation therein of a shaft with a correspondingly non-circular cross section.
12. A tool according to Claim 11 for breaking a threaded shaft bearing a nut, the shaft having an external screw thread formed thereon in at least two axially 


 the non-circular cross-section of the shaft, forming therewith in one orientation an extended non-circular cross-section matching that of the opening in the end portion of one tubular element, the cross-section of the shaft itself matching the opening in the end portion of the other tubular element.
13. A screw assembly comprising a shaft with an external screw thread formed thereon in at least two axially extending arc sections; and a nut having a complementary internal screw thread formed therein, and an extended portion of cross-section which combines with that of the shaft when the nut is at its
full extent of angular rotation to be held in that orientation by a locking device, the length of the shaft projecting from the extended portion of the nut being rotatable relative to the locking device to break the shaft at the end face of the extended portion of the nut.
14. A screw assembly according to Claim 13 wherein the screw thread in the nut
is formed with at least two arc sections, the respective thread sections of the shaft and nut threads being capable of misalignment such that the nut can
move translationally along the shaft without rotation, and of alignment over an extent of angular rotation to permit final tightening of the nut against a surface.
15. A screw assembly according to Claim 13 wherein the screw thread in the shaft has two axially extending diametrically opposed arc sections with substantially parallel flanks therebetween, and the extended portions of the nut comprise 


 extent of angular orientation on the shaft.
16. A tool according to any of Claims 1 to 12 for breaking a shaft adjacent the nut on a threaded shaft in an assembly according to Claim 13 or Claim 14, wherein the locking means in the end portion of one element is adapted to act on the shaft, and the locking means in the end portion of the other element is adapted to act on the combination of the shaft and the extended nut portion.
17. A tool for breaking a shaft adjacent a nut on a threaded such shaft in an assembly according to any of Claims 13 to 15 which tool comprises two coaxial tubular elements relatively rotatable about their common axis, the outer element having an end with a first cross-section and the inner element having an end with a second cross-section axially spaced from the outer element end,
the first cross-section being adapted to fit the combined cross-section of the shaft and extended portion of the nut in said assembly and the second cross- section being adapted to fit around the shaft, means being provided for rotating the inner and outer elements relative to one another with their ends fitted
respectively to the shaft and nut, and to the shaft, to twist the shaft projecting from the nut relative to the shaft within the nut to break the shaft in the plane at the face of the extended portion of the nut.
18. A method of fitting and locking a nut on a threaded shaft of an assembly according to any of Claims 13 to 15 which method comprises: 


 along the shaft until the nut engages the surface in which the shaft is received. b. rotating the nut to its full extent of angular rotation; c. holding the nut and shaft within the nut in said orientation; and d. rotating the length of shaft projecting form the extended portion of the
nut to twist the shaft within the nut and lock the threads relative to one another, and break the shaft at the end face of the extended portion of
the nut. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
