<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1190681</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dispenser for heating and extruding dental material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C900	A61C900	A61C1300	A61C1315	A61C506	A61C500	A61C1300	A61C504	A61C504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C9	A61C9	A61C13	A61C13	A61C5	A61C5	A61C13	A61C5	A61C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dispenser for controllably heating a compule of dental material removably
inserted in the dispenser and for extruding dental material from the compule. The

dispenser includes an elongated tubular barrel having a substantially semi-cylindrical
front end to accommodate the body of the compule, a cavity at the front end of the

dispenser open to the atmosphere and a slot disposed transverse to the longitudinal
axis of the cavity for accommodating an end flange of the compule when the compule is

inserted into the dispenser. The dispenser further includes a plunger reciprocally
mounted in the tubular barrel in alignment with the longitudinal axis of the cavity for

engaging the compule to express dental material from said compule by means of a
motorized assembly or manual control under the control of the operator and a heating

unit disposed in the cavity at the front end of the dispenser for heating the compule.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADDENT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADDENT INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDMAN JOSHUA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDMAN, JOSHUA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a dispenser for heating dental material in a compule and for controllably extruding the heated dental material from the dispenser prior to clinical application.In applicants co-pending patent application serial No 09/020,107, a method is disclosed for preheating dental composite material within a container before extruding the material from the container into an oral cavity for clinical application. The dental composite material is preheated to an elevated temperature above that of ambient temperature just prior to placement into a prepared tooth in the oral cavity. The prepared tooth is then clinically treated by exposure to light radiation while the dental restorative composite material is at the elevated temperature. Conversely, at present, photocurable dental materials are extruded into the patients mouth at ambient temperature from a standard dispensing device and cured by exposure to light radiation at ambient temperature.In accordance with the findings of the applicant and as taught in the aforementioned patent the physical properties of photocurable dental material(s) are enhanced when preheated just prior to clinical usage. Examples of dental materials which can be enhanced by preheating prior to use include restorative materials (commonly referred to as filling materials), etching agents, bleaching compositions, dental cements, impression materials and more particularly photocurable dental restorative materials.Applicants co-pending application also teaches preheating one or more standard pre-filled compules of dental material using a small heating device capable of housing a plurality of pre-filled compules in a removable section of the device. The removable section acts as a heat sink for all of the compules permitting the removable section to be removed after being heated to an elevated temperature and placed close to the patient, preferably upon a standard bracket tray which most dentists presently use to hold instruments and medicaments, during a given operative procedure. Prior to use a heated compule is placed in a conventional dispenser by the dentist and dental material is then extruded directly into the prepared dental cavity.Conventional dispensers are mechanical extruding devices such as is taught in Patent No. 4,383,853 by Welsh, Patent No. 5,489,207 by Dragon or Patent No 4,684,344 by Brockway and have no other purpose. The dispenser of the present invention is a hand held portable device designed to heat a compule of dental material which is removably
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dispenser for heating and extruding dental material from a compule (12) of dental material removably inserted within said dispenser comprising:

an elongated section (18) having a front end (19) and a rear end with said front end (19) having a cavity (21) adapted for the removable placement of said compule (12),
a plunger (24) mounted for reciprocal movement within the elongated section of said dispenser in alignment with the cavity (21),
means (25,26;64,80) in response to the control of an operator for advancing the plunger (24) into engagement with said compule (12) to express dental material (14) from said compule,
a heating unit (40) having a heating element (42) located in the front end of said dispenser for heating substantially the entire compule (12) in said cavity (21) such that all or substantially all of the material in the compule is heated at one time;
a supply of electrical energy (36) and
means (35) for controlling the supply of electrical energy (36) to said heating element in the heating unit (40) and for controlling the temperature of said heating unit (40).
A dispenser as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for advancing the plunger (24) into engagement with said compule (12) is a motorized assembly.
A dispenser as defined in claim 2 wherein said motorized assembly comprises a motor (64) having a drive shaft(62) and a lead screw (61) coupled to the drive shaft through a gearbox (63).
A dispenser as defined in claim 3 wherein said gear box (63) has a gear reduction assembly with a gear ratio for causing said drive shaft (62) to rotate at a speed of between 30 - 300 RPM.
A dispenser as defined in claim 3 further comprising a control circuit (35), motor drive unit (80) and a manual control (67,68) under the operation of the operator for generating a command signal to instruct the motor drive unit to operate the motor in one of two directions for controlling forward or backward motion of the lead screw.
A dispenser as defined in claim 5 wherein said manual control includes a push button (48).
A dispenser as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for advancing the plunger (24) into engagement with said compule (12) is a manually movable lever arm(26) having one end connected to said plunger for controllably advancing the piston into engagement with said compule to dispense dental material from the dispenser.
A dispenser as defined in claim 7 further comprising a housing (30) connected to the rear end of said elongated section (18) with a handle (34) in the form of a pistol grip extending from said housing with said movable lever arm (26) being spaced apart from said handle so that said lever and handle may be held in one hand by the operator of the dispenser and squeezed for controllably advancing the plunger (24) as the lever moves relative to said handle (34).
A dispenser as defined in claim 8 further comprising a gear coupling (25) for interconnecting said plunger (24) to said manually movable lever arm (26).
A dispenser as defined in claim 9 wherein said gear coupling (25) comprises a rack (27) and pinion (28).
A dispenser as defined in any of the preceding claims wherein said heating unit (40) is in the form of a flexible sheet liner covering an internal surface of the cavity (21) in contact with the compule (12).
A dispenser as defined any of the preceding claims wherein said electrical power supply means is a battery pack (36) removably located in said housing (30).
A dispenser as defined in claim 11 wherein said heating unit (40) further includes a temperature sensing element (43).
A dispenser as defined in any of the preceding claims further comprising a manually movable compule ejector arm (52) having a head (54) extending through an opening (55) in the dispenser below said cavity (21) for manually ejecting said compule(12) upon manually depressing the ejector arm to lift the head thereby raising the compule upwardly out from the cavity.
A dispenser as defined in any of claims 8 to 14 further comprising a coiled spring (37) connecting said movable lever arm (26) to said housing (30) to position the movable lever arm toward a normally retracted position spaced apart from said handle (34) such that when the movable lever arm is squeezed relative to the handle and released by the operator it will return to said normally retracted position.
A dispenser as defined in any of claims 11 to 15 wherein said heating element is a resistive wire.
A dispenser as defined in any of claims 1 to 16 wherein

said front end (19) is substantially semi-cylindrical and said cavity (21) is open to the atmosphere having dimensions to accommodate a generally cylindrical body of said compule, and wherein

a slot (22) is disposed transverse to the longitudinal axis of said cavity (21) between the cavity and a tubular barrel part of said elongated section (18) for accommodating a circumferential flange (9) of said compule.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
