<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1190671</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for characterizing cardiac tissue from local electrograms
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B50488	A61B506	A61B50452	A61B504	A61B50478	A61B506	A61B50476	A61B504	A61B50452	A61B50408	A61B5042	A61B50492	A61B50408	A61B502	A61B502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The property of cardiac tissue at a local site, a plurality of sites or in a region
of a heart may be characterized based on local electrograms measured at the local

site, at a plurality of sites or in the region, respectively. The property may be
characterized by normalizing the local electrogram, extracting a feature vector from

the normalized electrogram, and classifying the tissue property based on the feature
vector. The method of the invention may further comprise computing a map of the

tissue property and treating the tissue based on the resultant map. Apparatus to
characterize the property includes a catheter and a processor to normalize the local

electrogram, extract the feature vector from the electrogram and classify the tissue
based on the feature vector.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOSENSE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOSENSE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REISFELD DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWARTZMAN ARMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REISFELD, DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWARTZMAN, ARMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
60/234,494 filed September 22, 2000.The present invention is directed to a method and an apparatus for
characterizing a property of cardiac tissue, particularly, the ischemic state of cardiac
tissue, from local electrograms.Patients with ischemia frequently are asymptomatic at rest but experience
symptoms under stress. A number of techniques currently exist for diagnosing
ischemia in cardiac tissue. One such technique is stress electrocardiography (stress
EKG), in which the electrocardiogram is measured while the patient is exercising.
Other techniques for detecting ischemia include echocardiography and nuclear
imaging. Both of these techniques may also be conducted while the patient is under
stress, which may be either induced physically or pharmacologically with agents
such as dubotamine. A technique for diagnosing chronic ischemia in patients purely
from local electrograms taken when the patient is at rest has not heretofore existed.
Furthermore, while some of the above-mentioned techniques can be used to
diagnose ischemia at the regional level, they do not reveal ischemia with pinpoint
accuracy.U.S. Patent 5,967,995 discloses a method for predicting life-threatening
cardiac arrhythmias by gathering electrocardiographic data, mathematically
decomposing the signal into several elements or components that contain the most
significant information and tracking the changes in the several elements. The
method of the '995 patent does not permit evaluation and diagnosis of a patient
without time-dependent historical data. Furthermore the '995 patent does not teach
or suggest the possibility of diagnosing the local ischemic state of tissue from local
electrograms. One aspect of the invention is directed to a method of characterizing a
property of cardiac tissue at a local site of a heart based on a local electrogram
measured at that local site. The method first involves normalizing the local
electrogram. A feature vector is then extracted from the normalized electrogram.
The property of the cardiac tissue at the local site is classified based on the resultant
feature vector.Another embodiment of the method of the invention is directed to
characterizing a property of cardiac tissue at a plurality of local sites of a heart based
on a plurality of local electrograms. This embodiment of the invention first involves
normalizing the local electrograms. Feature vectors are then extracted from the
normalized local electrograms. The property of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of characterizing a property of cardiac tissue at a local site of a heart
based on a local electrogram measured at said local site, said method comprising the

steps of:

(a) normalizing said local electrogram;
(b) extracting a feature vector from said normalized local electrogram; and
(c) classifying said property of said cardiac tissue at said local site based on
said feature vector.
A method according to claim 1 wherein said normalizing step (a) comprises:

(i) annotating said electrogram;
(ii) selecting a single cardiac cycle from said electrogram; and
(iii) representing said cardiac cycle of said electrogram as a vector
such that said annotation is at a fixed position within said

vector.
A method according to claim 2 wherein said normalizing step further comprises
the step of scaling said electrogram.
A method according to claim 3 wherein said electrogram is scaled so as to have a
fixed value at a feature of said electrogram.
A method according to claim 4 wherein said feature corresponds to said
annotation.
A method according to claim 2 wherein said normalizing step further comprises
the step of centering said electrogram.
A method according to claim 1 wherein said feature vector is a projection of said
normalized electrogram onto a pre-computed subspace.
A method according to claim 7 wherein said subspace is computed by principal
component analysis of a training set of electrograms.
A method according to claim 7 wherein said classifying step is based on the
location of said feature vector in said subspace.
A method according to claim 1 wherein said property is indicative of the
anatomy of said site.
A method according to claim 1 wherein said property is indicative of a
pathological state of said cardiac tissue at said local site.
A method according to claim 1 wherein said property comprises the degree of
ischemia of said tissue at said local site.
A method according to claim 1 which further comprises delivering treatment to
said tissue at said local site.
A method according to claim 13 which comprises follow-up characterization of
the property of said cardiac tissue at said local site to determine the effectiveness of

said treatment.
A method according to claim 1 wherein said local electrogram is measured with
an electrode on a catheter, said catheter further comprising a position sensor, said

position sensor measuring the three-dimensional position of said electrode during
measurement of said electrogram.
A method according to claim 15 wherein said three-dimensional sensor is an
electromagnetic sensor.
A method of characterizing a property of cardiac tissue at a plurality of local
sites of a heart based on a plurality of local electrograms, said method comprising

the steps of:
(a) normalizing said local electrograms;
(b) extracting feature vectors from said normalized local electrograms;
(c) classifying said property of said cardiac tissue at said plurality of local
sites based on said feature vectors.
A method according to claim 17 wherein said normalizing step (a) comprises:


(i) annotating said electrograms;
(ii) selecting a single cardiac cycle from each of said
electrograms;
(iii) representing said single cardiac cycle of each of said
electrograms as a vector such that said annotation is at a fixed

position within said vectors.
A method according to claim 18 wherein said normalizing step further comprises
the step of scaling said electrograms.
A method according to claim 19 wherein said electrograms are scaled so as to
have a fixed value at a feature of said electrograms.
A method according to claim 20 wherein said feature corresponds to said
annotation.
A method according to claim 18 wherein said normalizing step further comprises
the step of centering said electrograms.
A method according to claim 17 wherein said feature vectors are projections of
said normalized electrograms onto a pre-computed subspace.
A method according to claim 23 wherein said subspace is computed by principal
component analysis of a training set of electrograms.
A method according to claim 23 wherein said classifying step is based on the
location of said feature vectors in said subspace.
A method according to claim 18 wherein said normalization step further
comprises rejecting outlying electrograms.
A method according to claim 17 wherein said property is indicative of the
anatomy of said sites.
A method according to claim 17 wherein said property is indicative of a
pathological state of said cardiac tissue at said local sites.
A method according to claim 17 wherein said property comprises the degree of
ischemia of said tissue at said local sites.
A method according to claim 17 wherein a plurality of said sites are in a
chamber of said heart and wherein said method further comprises constructing a

map of said property of said chamber of said heart.
A method according to claim 27 which further comprises delivering treatment to
said tissue.
A method according to claim 31 which comprises follow-up characterization of
the property of said cardiac tissue to determine the effectiveness of said treatment.
A method according to claim 17 wherein said local electrograms are measured
with an electrode on a catheter, said catheter further comprising a position sensor,

said position sensor measuring the three-dimensional position of said electrode
during measurement of said electrograms.
A method according to claim 33 wherein said three-dimensional sensor is an
electromagnetic sensor.
A method of characterizing a property of a region of cardiac tissue of a heart
based on a plurality of local electrograms measured in said region, said method

comprising the steps of:
(a) normalizing said local electrograms;
(b) computing a representative electrogram of said region from said
normalized electrograms;
(c) extracting a representative feature vector from said representative
electrogram;
(d) classifying said property of said cardiac tissue at said region based on
said representative feature vector.
A method according to claim 35 wherein said normalizing step (a) comprises:

(i) annotating said electrograms;
(ii) selecting a single cardiac cycle from each of said
electrograms; and
(iii) representing said cardiac cycle of each of said electrograms as
a vector such that said annotation is at a fixed position within

said vector.
A method according to claim 36 wherein said normalizing step further comprises
the step of scaling said electrograms.
A method according to claim 37 wherein said electrograms are scaled so as to
have a fixed value at a feature of said electrograms.
A method according to claim 38 wherein said feature corresponds to said
annotation.
A method according to claim 36 wherein said normalizing step further comprises
the step of centering said electrograms.
A method according to claim 35 wherein said representative feature vector is a
projection of said representative electrogram onto a pre-computed subspace.
A method according to claim 41 wherein said subspace is computed by principal
component analysis of a training set of electrograms.
A method according to claim 41 wherein said classifying step is based on the
location of said representative feature vector in said subspace.
A method according to claim 35 wherein said property is indicative of the
anatomy of said region.
A method according to claim 35 wherein said property is indicative of a
pathological state of said cardiac tissue at said region.
A method according to claim 35 wherein said property comprises the degree of
ischemia of said tissue at said region.
A method according to claim 35 wherein said method is repeated for a plurality
of regions of said heart.
A method according to claim 47 wherein the plurality regions are in a chamber
of said heart and wherein said method further comprises constructing a map of said

property of said chamber of said heart.
A method according to claim 48 which further comprises delivering treatment to
said tissue based on said map of said property of said chamber of said heart.
A method according to claim 49 which comprises follow-up characterization of
the property of said cardiac tissue to determine the effectiveness of said treatment.
A method according to claim 35 wherein said local electrograms are measured
with an electrode on a catheter, said catheter further comprising a position sensor,

said position sensor measuring the three-dimensional position of said electrode
during measurement of said electrograms.
A method according to claim 51 wherein said three-dimensional sensor is an
electromagnetic sensor.
Apparatus for characterizing a property of cardiac tissue at a local site of a heart
based on a local electrogram measured at said site, said apparatus comprising:


(a) a catheter; and
(b) a processor which performs the functions of:

(i) normalizing said electrogram;
(ii) extracting a feature vector from said normalized electrogram;
and
(iii) classifying said property of said cardiac tissue at said local
site based on said feature vector.
Apparatus according to claim 53 wherein the processor further performs the

function of computing a map of said property of said tissue of said heart.
Apparatus according to claim 53 wherein the catheter comprises an electrode for
measuring said local electrogram, said catheter further comprising a position sensor

for measuring the three-dimensional position of said electrode during measurement
of said electrogram.
Apparatus according to claim 55 wherein said three-dimensional sensor is an
electromagnetic sensor.
Apparatus according to claim 53 which further comprises means for delivering
treatment to said tissue.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
