<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1189660</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR MICROPORATION OF BIOLOGICAL MEMBRANES USING THIN FILM TISSUE INTERFACE DEVICES, AND METHOD THEREFOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4100	A61N130	A61M520	A61N132	A61B1000	A61M3700	A61N132	A61M3700	A61B1000	A61M520	A61B1700	A61B1720	A61K4100	A61N130	A61B1700	A61B1720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61N	A61M	A61N	A61B	A61M	A61N	A61M	A61B	A61M	A61B	A61B	A61K	A61N	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K41	A61N1	A61M5	A61N1	A61B10	A61M37	A61N1	A61M37	A61B10	A61M5	A61B17	A61B17	A61K41	A61N1	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides for improved devices and methods for forming openings in a biological membrane for delivering substances into an animal through the biological membrane for treatment applications, or extracting substances from the animal through the biological membrane for monitoring or other diagnosis applications and for increased transmembrane flux.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALTEA THERAPEUTICS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALTEA THERAPEUTICS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EPPSTEIN JONATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATCH MICHAEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAPP JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EPPSTEIN, JONATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATCH, MICHAEL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAPP, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to devices and method for the creation of small holes or perforations or micropores in biological membranes, such as the outer layers of the skin or the mucosal linings, the delivery of drugs or other permeants through the micropores, the extraction of biological fluids through the micropores, the integration within the device and method of an assay for selected of analytes in the extracted biological fluids, and the increase of flux through these micropores by one or more of pressure modulation, the mechanical manipulation or distortion of the microporated tissue and adjacent tissue, electro-transport, electro-osmosis, iontophoresis and sonic energy.The stratum corneum is chiefly responsible for the barrier properties of skin. Thus, it is this layer that presents the greatest barrier to transdermal flux of drugs or other molecules into the body and of analytes out of the body. The stratum comeum, the outer horny layer of the skin, is a complex structure of compact keratinized cell remnants separated by lipid domains. Compared to the oral or gastric mucosa, the stratum corneum is much less permeable to molecules either external or internal to the body. The stratum corneum is formed from keratinocytes, which comprise the majority of epidermal cells that lose their nuclei and become comeocytes. These dead cells comprise the stratum comeum, which has a thickness of only about 10-30 microns and, as noted above, is a very resistant waterproof membrane that protects the body from invasion by exterior substances and the outward migration of fluids and dissolved molecules. The stratum corneum is continuously renewed by shedding of corneum cells during desquamination and the formation of new corneum cells by the keratinization process.Historically, drugs have been delivered across the skin by injection. However, this method of administration is inconvenient and uncomfortable, and is not suited for self-administration by members of the general public. Additionally, used needles continue to pose a hazard after their use. Therefore, transdermal drug delivery to the body is particularly desired.There are many techniques known in the art for transdermal drug delivery and monitoring applications. One well-known example of the need in the art for less painful puncturing of a biological membrane is in the field of diabetes monitoring. The current standard of care for a patient with diabetes includes a recommendation of 3 to 5 painful finger-stick blood draws per day to allow them to monitor their
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A microporation device (1), comprising:

at least one reservoir and
a tissue interface comprising at least one microporator (2) and a substrate (6),

wherein the microporator comprises a thin-film tissue interface, and whereby the microporator, during direct contact to a biological membrane, is capable of causing removal of a portion of said membrane deep enough to form a micropore;

whereby said microporator is a probe element capable of conductively delivering thermal energy to cause ablation of some portion of said membrane deep enough to form a micropore.
The device of claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises perforations.
The device of claim 1, wherein said probe element is an electrically heated resistive element capable of ablating a biological membrane.
The device of claim 3, wherein the probe element is selected from the group consisting of a preformed wire conductor, a deposited conductive material, a machined conductive material, a laser cut conductive material, an adhesive foil, an electroplated material, a screen-printed material, an etched conductive material, and a thin-film bimetallic laminate wherein one layer is used to form the resistive element and one other layer is used to form the conductive network supplying current to the resistive elements.
The device of claim 3, wherein the probe element is destroyed while ablating the biological membrane.
The device of claim 4, wherein the thin-film bimetallic laminate is formed by photolithography and etching.
The device of claim 1, wherein two or more of the probe elements are connected in a parallel circuit configuration or a series circuit configuration or a combination thereof.
The device of claim 1, further comprising a material near the microporator,

wherein the material is capable of producing an exothermic or endothermic reaction.
The device of claim 1, further comprising a microactuator.
The device of claim 9, wherein the microacuator is selected from the group consisting of electro-static microactuators, thermal bimorph microactuators, piezoelectric microactuators, electromagnetic microactuators, magneto-restrictive microactuators and shape memory alloy microactuators.
The device of claim 1, further comprising an electronic circuitry and a power source.
The device of claim 2, further comprising a plug material on the perforations.
The device of claim 12, wherein the plug material comprises a volatile material.
The device of claim 1, wherein the substrate is embossed.
The device of claim 1, further comprising an enhancer material for enhancing transmembrane transport of a fluid across the biological membrane.
The device of claim 1, wherein said at least one reservoir comprises multiple chambers.
The device of claim 16, wherein the multiple chambers comprise at least first and second chambers, said first chamber comprises a first substance and said second chamber comprises a second substance.
The device of claim 17, wherein said first and second substances are first and second biologically active agents.
The device of claim 16, wherein said device is capable of transdermal delivery of a substance in the first chamber or withdrawal of an analyte transdermally into the second chamber.
The device of claim 18, wherein said device is capable of simultaneous transdermal delivery of a substance in the first chamber and withdrawal of an analyte transdermally into the second chamber.
The device of claim 20, further comprising an analyzer for detecting or quantitating said analyte.
The device of claim 21, further comprising a control module for controlling the delivery of the substance based on a quantitative value of the analyte detected by the analyzer.
The device of claim 21, wherein said substance is insulin and said analyte is glucose.
The device of claim 17, further comprising a divider or valve disposed between said first and second chambers that prevents mixture of said first and second substances until said divider is removed or said valve is opened.
The device of claim 24, wherein said divider is a membrane.
The device of claim 25, wherein said first substance is a pharmaceutically active agent, and said second substance is a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
The device of claim 16, wherein said multiple chambers comprise different substances.
The device of claim 27, wherein one or more of the substances are selected from the group consisting of bioactive peptides or proteins, therapeutic drugs, vaccines, pain medications, permeation enhancers and pH stabilizers.
The device of claim 27, wherein the different substances are delivered by the device in modulated amounts.
The device of claim 29, wherein at least one of the different substances passively diffuses into the biological membrane.
The device of claim 29, wherein the substances are delivered simultaneously, sequentially, alternately, or any combination thereof.
The device of claim 1, further comprising a flux enhancement device, wherein the flux enhancement device enhances a flux rate of a substance into the biological membrane.
The device of claim 3, wherein the flux enhancement device enhances a flux rate of a substance into the biological membrane by a technique selected from the group consisting of iontophoresis, electroporation, electro-osmosis, sonophoresis, and pressurization.
The device of claim 16, wherein at least one of the multiple chambers is disposed after a single use of the device.
The device of claim 1, wherein the device is for a single use after which the device is discarded.
The device of claim 1, further comprising a disposable component.
The device of claim 36, wherein the disposable component is treated with reagents which react with a biological fluid withdrawn from the biological membrane to produce a signal or measurable change in properties which is predictably related to the quantity of an analyte within the biological fluid.
The device of claim 36, wherein the disposable component is treated with one or any combination thereof of surfactants, hydrophilic or hydrophobic compounds.
The device of claim 36, wherein the disposable component is treated with antimicrobial or anticoagulent or protease inhibitor compounds.
The device of claim 36, wherein the disposable component comprises stimuli-responsive polymer gel sections comprising a material that is released by a thermal, chemical or electrical stimulus.
The device of claim 36, wherein the disposable component comprises a material that releases a compound when heated.
The device of claim 1, further comprising a mixer located on or within the substrate, the mixer being capable of mixing a substance prior to transdermal delivery of a substance into the biological membrane.
The device of claim 26. wherein said first substance is a dry formulation pharmaceutically active agent, and said second substance is a diluent for reconstituting said dry formulation into a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid or gel formulation.
The device of claim 27, wherein the different substances are delivered by the device into the organism in adjacent locations in the biological membrane such that said different substances could combine and mix once they are within the tissue matrix of the organism.
A method of manufacturing a microporation device (1) according to claim 1, comprising the following steps:

forming at least one microporator (2) on or within a substrate (6);
forming a tissue interface comprising the at least one microporator and the substrate; and
providing a reservoir in fluid communication with said tissue interface.
The method of claim 45, wherein the substrate is selected from the group consisting of a woven material, a film, a supporting layer and a sheet.
The method of claim 46, wherein the substrate comprises perforations.
The method of claim 45, wherein the probe element is selected from the group consisting of a performed wire conductor, a deposited conductive material, a machined conductive material, a laser cut conductive material, an adhesive foil, an electroplated material, a screen-printed material, an etched conductive material, and a thin-film bimetallic laminate wherein one layer is used to form the resistive element and one other layer is used to form the conductive network supplying current to the resistive elements.
The method of claim 45, wherein said probe is an electrically heated resistive element capable of ablating a biological membrane.
The method of claim 45, further comprising bonding an adhesive layer over the tissue interface.
The method of claim 46, further comprising forming a non-conductive plug on the performations.
The method of claim 45, further comprising bonding the tissue interface to a reservoir.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
