<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1055250</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PLASMA PROCESSING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J1908	B01J1908	C23C1650	C23C16505	H01J3732	H01J3732	H01L2102	H01L21302	H01L213065	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	C23C	C23C	H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J19	B01J19	C23C16	C23C16	H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A chamber (2) has a side wall (8), the upper region of which is formed as a dielectric window (9). An antenna (10) is located outside of the dielectric window (9) and is used to couple RF power inductively into the plasma of an etchant or deposition gas which is formed inside the apparatus. A series of parallel tubes (11) are mounted in a plane parallel to the surface of a platen (6) carrying a wafer (7). Each tube contains a small permanent magnet or series of magnets. Electrons from the plasma created near the antenna (10) move into the region of influence of the magnetic field, are guided by the magnetic field and then lost, for example to the wall (8). The net result is a reduction in plasma density, on transmitting the magnetic field, from the region in which the plasma is produced to the region in which the wafer is placed. The magnetic field has no effect on the radicals, and the magnet carrying tubes have only a marginal effect on the radical numbers. Use of this magnetic attenuator allows high RF powers to be applied to the plasma source, producing the high numbers of radicals needed for a high etch rate, but limits the number of ions which can reach the wafer so that the physical component is homogeneous and well controlled.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SURFACE TECH SYS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SURFACE TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHARDWAJ JYOTI KIRON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEA LESLIE MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHARDWAJ, JYOTI, KIRON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEA, LESLIE MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Plasma Processing ApparatusThis invention relates to a plasma processing apparatus, in particular, although not exclusively, one for reducing and/or homogenising the ion flux of a plasma without affecting the radical number density of the plasma. The invention also relates to means for reducing and/or homogenising the ion flux and means for guiding neutral radicals .When etching thin films or bulk material on a silicon wafer or work pieces of other material, it is important to be able to achieve simultaneously a high etch rate, an accurate trench profile, and good uniformity of the etch between different areas of the wafer.A particular method to achieve highly anisotropic etches for high aspect ratio trenches is to use a switched process in which an etch step is alternated with a deposition step. Such a method is disclosed in WO-A-94/14187, EP-A-0822582 and EP-A-0822584.In the case of deep trench silicon etching, a passivating layer may be deposited on all surfaces of the trench, during the deposition step. During the initial part of the etch step, the passivating layer will be removed preferentially from the bottom of the trench by ion bombardment. This then allows the silicon to be removed by an essentially chemical process, from the bottom of the trench, during the remainder of the etch step. Alternating deposition and etch steps, allows a high aspect ratio trench 

to be etched, contrasting with the use of the etch step alone which would result in a predominantly isotropic etch. There are a number of factors which will influence each step of the deep etch process. In particular, during the etch step, the density of radicals will affect the rate of etch of exposed silicon, and the density, energy and direction of positive ions will affect where and how fast the passivating layer is removed.For deep trench etching it is desirable to utilise a plasma processing apparatus which produces large numbers of radicals to achieve a high silicon etch rate. Indeed, conditions ideal for the etching step may not be ideal for the passivation step. At the same time, sufficient numbers of very directional, relatively low energy ions should be produced to remove the passivating layer from the bottom of the trench without at the same time removing a significant thickness of the photoresist mask. Clearly, once the mask has been etched away it is not possible to continue with the same degree of pattern transfer from the mask. A plasma processing apparatus will produce both ions and radicals and the number of each will,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A plasma processing apparatus comprising means for striking a plasma in a chamber having a gas inlet and a support for a substrate, wherein the apparatus further comprises attenuation means for reducing and/or homogenising the ion flux from the plasma substantially without affecting the radical number density.
2. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising means for providing alternating etch and deposition steps.
3. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising a further means for striking a plasma which is positioned below the level of the attenuation means . 4. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein at least a portion of the chamber is formed of a dielectric material .
5. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the attenuation means is positioned at about the mid-point of the portion formed of a dielectric material.
6. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 4 or claim 5, wherein an antenna is positioned externally adjacent the dielectric portion to create a plasma production region in the chamber. 7. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the attenuation means comprises a magnetic portion. 

8. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the attenuation means comprises one or more permanent magnets.
9. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the attenuation means comprises means for creating an electromagnetic field.
10. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said means for creating an electromagnetic field comprises an array of electromagnetic coil groups separately orientated to create respective magnetic fields which are angularly offset with respect to one another.
11. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 10 wherein three sets of coil groups are provided which are designed to create magnetic fields which are offset from one another by 60 degrees or 180 degrees.
12. A plasma processing apparatus according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the means for creating an electromagnetic field is capable of creating a variable field. 13. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the attenuation means comprises one or more tubular members carrying magnets and/or conductors to form an electromagnet .
14. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the attenuation means is temperature controlled.
15. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 14, including a distribution member to distribute a cooling 


medium to the attenuation means.
16. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the attenuation means comprises one or more strong magnets preferably positioned outside the plasma chamber.
17. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the attenuation means comprises a sheet member having a plurality of apertures therein.
18. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the sheet member is heated.
19. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein a means for striking the plasma is positioned above the level of the attenuation means and a means for striking the plasma is positioned below the level of the attenuation means.
20. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim, further comprising two dielectric portions of the chamber, wherein the attenuation means is positioned therebetwee . 21. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the attenuation means is designed to produce a high field capable of significantly reducing the ion flux during the etch step.
22. A plasma processing apparatus according to any preceding claim, further comprising means for guiding neutral radicals .
23. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 22, wherein the guiding means is positioned between the 


attenuation means and the substrate.
24. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 22 or 23, wherein at least a part of the guiding means is positioned close to the substrate. 25. A plasma processing apparatus substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to, and as illustrated in, the accompanying drawings.
26. An attenuation means for use in a plasma processing apparatus having means for striking a plasma in a chamber, wherein the attenuation means is capable of reducing and/or homogenising the ion flux from the plasma substantially without affecting the radical number density.
27. An attenuation means according to claim 25, comprising a magnetic portion. 28. An attenuation means according to claim 27, comprising one or more permanent magnets and/or means for creating an electromagnetic field.
29. A guiding means for use in a plasma processing apparatus having means for striking a plasma in a chamber, wherein the guiding means is capable of guiding neutral radicals of an etch gas introduced into the chamber.
30. A guiding means according to claim 29, formed with one or more apertures therein.
31. A guiding means according to claim 30, wherein the apertures are shaped in relation to a pattern exposed on a substrate .
32. A guiding means according to any one of claims 29 to 31 which comprises a disc. 

33. A guiding means according to any one of claims 29 to 32, wherein, in use, at least part thereof is parallel to a substrate positioned in the chamber.
34. A plasma processing apparatus comprising means for striking a plasma in a chamber having a gas inlet and a support for a substrate, wherein the apparatus further comprises a guiding means according to any one of claims 29 to 33.
35. A method of etching a feature in a substrate in a chamber, the method comprising striking a plasma in the chamber and reducing and/or homogenising the ion flux from the plasma substantially without affecting the radical number density.
36. A method according to claim 35, further comprising the step of alternately etching the substrate and depositing a passivation layer on the substrate.
37. A method according to claim 36, wherein the power supplied to the plasma during etching is greater than that during deposition. 38. A method according to claim 36 or 37, wherein the strength of the attenuation means may be varied for each of the deposition and/or etch steps.
39. A method according to any one of claims 36 to 38, wherein the attenuation means comprises means for creating an electromagnetic field which is reduced or switched off during the deposition step.
40. A method of etching a feature in a substrate in a chamber, the method comprising alternately etching the 


substrate and depositing a passivation layer on the substrate, wherein neutral radicals during the etch step are guided by a guiding means to improve the uniformity of etching across the substrate. 41. A method according to claim 40, further comprising the step of reducing and/or homogenising the ion flux from the plasma, prior to the guiding of neutral radicals, substantially without affecting the radical number density.
42. A method according to claim 41, wherein the ion flux is reduced or homogenized during the etch step only.
43. A method of etching a feature in a substrate, the method comprising applying a pulsed high power to an etch source gas, and alternately etching the substrate and depositing a passivation layer on the substrate in a chamber.
44. A method according to claim 43, wherein the power density of the pulsed high power is between 10 and 300 W/cm
3
.
45. A method according to claim 43 or 44, further comprising the step of reducing and/or homogenising the ion flux from the plasma substantially without affecting the radical number density.
46. A method according to any one of claims 43 to 45, further comprising the step of guiding neutral radicals of the etch source gas to improve the uniformity of etching across the substrate.
47. A plasma processing apparatus for performing the method of any one of claims 43 to 46, the apparatus comprising a first chamber having an inlet for an etch source gas and a 


second chamber having a support for a substrate, wherein the first and second chambers are connected via an aperture, and wherein the apparatus further comprises a means for providing pulsed high power to the first chamber. 47. A plasma processing apparatus according to claim 46, further comprising attenuation means in the region of the aperture .
48. A method of etching a feature in a substrate, the method comprising applying a high density radical source to an etch source gas, and alternately etching the substrate and depositing a passivation layer on the substrate in a chamber .
50. Any novel combination of the features of plasma processing apparatus or parts thereof or methods of substrate etching substantially as herein described and/or with reference to the accompanying drawings . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
