<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1016550</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for moistening envelope flaps
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B43M504	B43M500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B43M	B43M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B43M5	B43M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art by providing an
accurate moistening system which provides for less fluid waste and better wetting.

This in turn causes better sealing of the envelope flap. The present invention is
directed to, in a general aspect, a non-contact envelope flap moistening system

which can be installed in a mailing machine apparatus. The flap moistening system
comprises an array of inkjet print heads (60) and a document scanner (80) for sensing the

envelope flap. Envelope flaps can be moistened by the flap moistening system by
performing a method comprising the following steps: sensing the envelope flap;

profile and/or the glue area of an envelope flap; building a firing sequence for the
print head nozzles; and actuating the nozzles to precisely fire discreet fluid droplets

onto the glue area of the envelope flap. The system provides precise fluid amounts
for envelope sealing. This invention overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art by

providing an accurate moistening system which provides for less fluid waste and
better wetting.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOLAN DONALD T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOLAN, DONALD T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention disclosed herein relates generally to a method and apparatus
for moistening gummed envelope flaps and, more particularly to a method and
apparatus for precision application of moisture to gummed envelope flaps using
inkjet print heads.Envelope flap moistening systems generally fall into two categories, contact
and non-contact moistening systems. Contact systems generally deposit moisture
onto an envelope flap by contact with a wetted substrate. Non-contact systems
generally spray moisture onto the envelope flap. In non-contact flap moistening
systems, envelope flap moistening has been performed with nozzle and pump
systems. The pump which is connected to a reservoir is also connected to spray
nozzles. A solenoid actuated valve can be placed between the pump and the
nozzle(s) to control spraying.Some non-contact systems with pump(s) and nozzles rely on leading edge
sensors and a time lag for compensating for the distance between the nozzle and
the leading edge sensor for spraying fluid onto the glue area of the envelope flap.
This method can be imprecise, spraying fluid onto an incorrect place on the
envelope. Also, since the systems have few nozzles, they are not highly accurate.
Other sensing systems, such as systems comprising an envelope sensor and a flap
sensor, are designed to sense limited flap profiles, such as, profiles of no. 10
envelope flaps.Other non-contact systems can have several nozzles. The nozzles which are
not highly accurate produce considerable over-spray which can wet portions of the
envelope flap which do not have a glue area and can also wet the contents of the
envelope. The inaccuracy of some non-contact systems may also cause over
spraying and/or miss portions of the flap, thus requiring a fluid collection means for
collecting unused fluid. The size of the nozzles prohibits a larger number of nozzles
to be placed in a small area of a mailing machine which is in alignment with an
envelope flap path. Thus, an array of nozzles can be large and difficult to implement
into a mailing machine. An example of a non-contact system is a pump and nozzle
system as the one described in US-A-3 911 862. The amount of fluid that pump and nozzle systems use is large since the
nozzles spray in a continuous manner, are imprecise and also over-spray. Pump and nozzle systems can also require a large amount of space in the
systems in which they are mounted. These pump systems usually include a pump
and motor, and as such, they can be large and difficult to locate in the space
available.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for applying moisture to a flap of an envelope having an
envelope flap glue line, the apparatus comprising:


a sensor (90) for sensing a flap profile of an envelope;
at least one inkjet print head (60) for selectively spraying a metered amount
of fluid on the envelope flap glue line.
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 wherein the fluid is distilled water.
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 wherein the sensor is for sensing the
envelope flap glue line.
An apparatus for applying moisture to a flap of an envelope having an
envelope flap glue line, the apparatus comprising:


at least one inkjet print head (60);
a fluid supply system (64) for supplying fluid to the inkjet print head;
an inkjet interface driver circuit (62);
an envelope transport system (50) for transporting the envelope past the
inkjet print heads (60);
a system controller (70) for controlling the motion of the envelope in the
apparatus;
an envelope position sensor (90) for detecting the position of the envelope
in the apparatus, the envelope position sensor provides signals

indicative of envelope position to the system controller; and

whereby the system controller processes signals indicative of the
envelope position and provides firing signals to the inkjet interface

driver circuit so that the inkjet print head will moisten the flap glue
area by firing metered amounts of fluid on the glue area of the

envelope.
The apparatus claimed in claim 4 wherein the envelope position sensor
comprises an envelope position encoder. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 4 wherein the envelope position sensor
comprises a motor drive system for providing synchronized pulses.
The apparatus claimed in claim 4 further comprising a document
scanner for scanning the envelope flap to sense the envelope flap

profile.
The apparatus claimed in claim 4 further comprising:

a document scanner for scanning the envelope flap to sense the
envelope flap glue area.
The apparatus claimed in claim 4 further comprising a collection
system for collecting excess fluid.
The apparatus claimed in claim 4 wherein more than one inkjet print
head is provided in an array of inkjet print heads.
The apparatus claimed in claim 4 wherein the fluid supply system
comprises:


a fluid reservoir connected to a buffer reservoir, the reservoir for
supplying fluid to the buffer reservoir at a selected level; and
the buffer reservoir connected to the inkjet print head.
A method of applying moisture to a flap of an envelope having an
envelope flap glue line, the method comprising the steps of:


a) tracking and transporting the envelope;
b) scanning the envelope flap;
c) building a flap profile;
d) building a firing sequence for inkjet print head for moistening a
glue area of the envelope flap; and 
e) moistening the glue area of the flap in accordance with the firing
sequence, by means of at least one inkjet print head.
The method claimed in claim 12 whereby the firing sequence is built
using information comprising a flap profile, envelope position,

horizontal resolution and drop size.
A method of applying moisture to a flap of an envelope having an
envelope flap glue line, the method comprising the steps of:


a) selecting a preset horizontal resolution and preset fluid drop size;
b) scanning the envelope flap;
c) tracking and transporting the envelope;
d) building a inkjet firing sequence using information comprising a flap
profile, the preset horizontal resolution and preset fluid drop size;

and
e) moistening the glue area of the flap in accordance with the firing
sequence as the flap passes the inkjet print heads.
The method claimed in claim 14 whereby the firing sequence is built
using information comprising a flap profile, envelope position, default

horizontal resolution and default fluid drop size.
The method claimed in claim 12 or 14 whereby the firing sequence is
built using information comprising a glue area profile, envelope

position, horizontal resolution and drop size.
The method claimed in claim 12 or 14 whereby the flap is scanned to
obtain a profile of the envelope glue area.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
