<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1995000321</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR THE DISPERSION OF MINUTE BUBBLES IN LIQUID MATERIALS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF POLYMER FOAMS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F304	B01F304	B01F500	B01F510	B01F700	B01F700	B01F716	B01F716	B01F1500	B01F1500	B29B700	B29B774	B29C6720	B29C6720	B29C6724	B29C6724	B29K10504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B29B	B29B	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F3	B01F3	B01F5	B01F5	B01F7	B01F7	B01F7	B01F7	B01F15	B01F15	B29B7	B29B7	B29C67	B29C67	B29C67	B29C67	B29K105	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus (20) for the dispersion of minute bubbles in a liquid resin material comprises high pressure tank means (21) containing a liquid resin material (M) under pressure; means for delivering (45) at least one agent such as a blowing agent or nucleating agent into the liquid resin material; means for agitating (63) the mixture of liquid resin material and the selected agent within the tank; means for shearing (60) the mixture; and control means (50) for determining the population of bubbles of the agent within the mixture and provides an output signal for controlling operation of the means for shearing, thereby altering the fineness of dispersion of the agent in the liquid resin material as desired. The present invention futher provides apparatus (60), for homogenizing the bubble population within a mixture of liquid resin material and agents such as gaseous or liquid blowing agents or nucleating agents which comprises housing means (71) having inlet means (52, 110, 112, 115) and outlet means (100, 105, 111, 112); first chamber means (95), cooperative with the inlet means for the introduction of the mixture into the housing, and at least one blade (80A); at least one additional chamber means (95C), providing at least one blade (80D) for pumping the mixture axially through the housing; and means for rotating the blades (72). A method for the dispersion of minute bubbles in a liquid resin material comprising the steps of withdrawing a quantity of the liquid resin material and an agent such as a gaseous or liquid blowing agent or nucleating agent from a supply tank; controlling the operation of means for shearing the liquid resin material and dispersed blowing agent, positioned within the supply tank, thereby affecting as desired the size and homogeneity of the bubbles of blowing agent; and, agitating the mixture of liquid resin material and dispersed blowing agent within the tank with the output from the means for shearing to obtain a uniform and homogeneous population of bubbles dispersed in the liquid resin material. Gas-filled RIM articles are produced from a liquid resin material having an open-cup specific gravity of less than about 0.45.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILLMER DONALD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONS MARK A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KILLMER, DONALD, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONS, MARK, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR THE DISPERSION OF MINUTE BUBBLES IN LIQUID MATERIALSFOR THE PRODUCTION OF POLYMER FOAMS This invention relates to an apparatus and method to incorporate minute gas bubbles into a liquid resin material for tne manufacture of polymer foam More particularly, the invention relates to an apparatus and method to measure the quality and fineness of dispersion of a reactive material/blowing agent or nucleating agent mixture by counting the number of minute gas bubbles of blowing agent or nucleating agent in the liquid, measuring their distribution in a given control volume and measuring the size of the bubble necessary to produce an acceptable part Additionally, this invention relates to an apparatus and method to optimize the dispersion of the liquid resin material/blowing agent or nucleating agent mixture by regulating the speed of a custom designed dispersion agitator proportional to an electronic analog feedback signal obtained from a particle size analyzerIn the manufacture of polymeric foams, such as, for example, polyurethanes and polyureas, a heat activated or gaseous chemical blowing agent is normally added to a liquid resin material in order to provide the cell structure after polymerizationThe term liquid resin material is understood to include any reactive liquid material that can be converted into a polymer by a polymerization reaction Of particular interest are polyurethane, polyurea and isocyanate polymers which are produced by contacting under reactive conditions, suitable amounts of liquid resin material comprising a polyahl and an isocyanateThe term polyahl is understood to include any compound containing active hydrogens in the sense of the Zerewitinoff test, see Kohler, "Journal of the American Chemical Society," page 381, Volume 49 (1927) Representative active-hydrogen groups include -OH, COOH, -SH and -NHR where R is H, alkyl and aryl The term isocyanate is understood to include organic isocyanates and polymeric derivatives thereof useful in making polyurethanes, polyureas and polyisocyanurates such as aromatic, aliphatic and cycloaliphatic polyisocyanates Exemplary compounds include toluene dnsocyanate (TDI), diphenylmethane dnsocyanate (MDI), polymeric diphenylmethane diisocyanate, hexamethylene dnsocyanate and mixtures thereof A crude polyisocyanate may also be used in the practice of this invention, such as the crude toluene dnsocyanate obtained by the phosgenation of a mixture of toluene diamines or the crude diphenylmethane dnsocyanate obtained by the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. Apparatus for the dispersion of minute bubbles in a liquid resin material comprising: high pressure tank means containing a liquid resin material under pressure; means for delivering at least one gaseous or liquid blowing agent or nucleating agent into said liquid resin material; means for agitating the mixture of liquid resin material and the selected agent within said tank; means for shearing said mixture; and control means for determining the population of bubbles of said agent within said mixture and providing an output signal for controlling operation of said means for shearing, thereby altering the fineness of dispersion of said agent in said liquid resin material as desired.
2. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles as set forth in Claim 1 , wherein said means for shearing comprises: housing means having inlet and outlet means; a rotatable shaft; first chamber means, cooperative with said inlet means for the introduction of said mixture into said housing, and providing at least one blade mounted upon said shaft and carried within said chamber; at least one additional chamber means, cooperative with said outlet means, and providing at least one blade means for rotating said blades.
3. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 2, wherein said first chamber means further includes a plurality of axially oriented baffles affixed to the inner wall of said sidewall. 4. Apparatus for the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 2, further comprising a plurality of chamber means between said first chamber means and said additional chamber means, each said chamber means of said plurality including a pair of shear plates and at least one blade therebetween.
5. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 2, further including sidewall port means in said housing means communicable with said mixture within said tank.
6. Apparatus for the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 1 , wherein said means for shearing comprises: housing means having inlet and outlet means; a rotatable shaft; 


 first chamber means, cooperative with said inlet means for the introduction of said mixture into said housing, and providing at least one blade mounted upon said shaft and carried within said chamber; at least one pumping blade for pumping said mixture axially through said housing; means for rotating said blades; and sidewall port means in said housing communicable with said mixture within said tank.
7. Apparatus for controlling the fineness of dispersion as set forth in Claim 6 further comprising a plurality of chamber means between said first and said additional chambers, each said chamber of said plurality including a pair of shear plates and at least one blade therebetween.
8. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 6, wherein said housing means is positioned within a tank containing a quantity of the mixture of agent and liquid resin material.
9. Apparatus for the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 1 , wherein said control means includes means for measuring the density of said mixture and generating a first control signal proportional thereto.
10. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 9, wherein said control means further includes means for measuring the distribution of blowing agent bubbles in a plurality of bubble size ranges and generating a second control signal representative of bubble size distribution in said preselected plurality of bubble size ranges.
1 1. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 10, wherein a filler is included in the liquid resin material and said means for measuring the distribution of blowing agent bubbles includes means for non-optically detecting bubbles.
12. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 1 1, wherein said control means further includes bubble size control means for receiving said second control signal and generating a third control signal.
13. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 12, wherein said bubble size control means includes bubble size feedback control means for receiving said second control signal and generating said third control signal.
14. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 13, wherein said bubble size feedback control means is a proportional integral derivative controller. 15. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 14, wherein said proportional integral derivative controller includes a plurality of feedback loops equal in numberto said plurality of bubble size ranges. 



 16. Apparatus for the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 15, wherein each of said plurality of feedback loops has a weighing factor and includes weighing means forseparately adjusting said weighing factor for each of said plurality of feedback loops. 17. Apparatus for the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 10, wherein said control means further includes density control means for receiving said first control signal and generating a fourth control signal.
18. Apparatus for the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 17, wherein said density control means includes density feedback control means for receiving said first control signal and generating said fourth control signal.
19. Apparatus for the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 10, wherein said control means further includes bubble size control means for receiving said second control signal and generating a third control signal, density control means for receiving said first control signal and generating a forth control signal, and junction means for receiving and combining said third control signal and said forth control signal and providing a fifth control signal.
20. Apparatus forthe dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 19, wherein said control means further includes limiter means for receiving said fifth control signal, limiting a preselected characteristic of said fifth control signal to be within a range acceptable by said means for shearing, and providing said fifth control signal having a limited preselected characteristic as said output signal for controlling operation of said means for shearing.
21. Apparatus for homogenizing the bubble population within a mixture of liquid resin material and agents such as gaseous or liquid blowing agents or nucleating agents comprising: housing means having inlet and outlet means; a rotatable shaft; first chamber means, cooperative with said inlet means for the introduction of said mixture into said housing, and at least one blade mounted upon said shaft and carried within said chamber; at least one additional chamber means, providing at least one blade mounted upon said shaft and carried within said chamber; and means for rotating said shaft and said blades.
22. Apparatus for homogenizing the bubble population, as set forth in Claim
21 , wherein said first chamber means is defined by a pair of shear plates and the sidewall of said housing.
23. Apparatus for homogenizing the bubble population, as set forth in Claim
22, wherein said first chamber means further includes a plurality of axially oriented baffles affixed to the inner wall of said sidewall. 


 24. Apparatus for homogenizing the bubble population, as set forth in Claim 21 , further comprising a plurality of chamber means between said first and said additional chambers, each said chamber of said plurality including a pair of shear plates and at least one blade therebetween. 25. Apparatus for homogenizincj the bubble population, as set forth in Claim
21, further including sidewall port means in said housing communicable with said mixture within said tank.
26. Apparatus for homogenizing the bubble population within a mixture of liquid resin material and agents such as gaseous or liquid blowing agents or nucleating agents comprising: housing means having inlet and outlet means; first chamber means, cooperative with said inlet means forthe introduction of said mixture into said housing, and providing at least one blade; at least one additional chamber means, cooperative with said outlet means, and providing at least one pumping blade for pumping said mixture axially through said housing; means for rotating said blades; and sidewall port means in said housing communicable with said mixture within said tank. 27. A method forthe dispersion of minute bubbles in a liquid resin material comprising the steps of: withdrawing a quantity of said liquid resin material and an agent such as gaseous or liquid blowing agents or nucleating agents from a supply tank; controlling the operation of means for shearing said liquid resin material and dispersed agent, thereby affecting as desired the size and homogeneity of the bubbles of said agent; and agitating the mixture of liquid resin material and dispersed agent within the tank with the output from said means for shearing to obtain a uniform and homogeneous population of bubbles dispersed in said liquid resin material. 28. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in
Claim 27, wherein said step of controlling the operation of said means for shearing includes the steps of measuring the density of said mixture and generating a first control signal proportional thereto.
29. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 27, wherein said step of controlling the operation of said means for shearing further includes the steps of determining the population of bubbles of said agent within said liquid resin material. 


 30. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 29, wherein said step of determining the population of bubbles within said liquid resin material includes the steps of measuring the distribution of bubbles in a plurality of bubble size ranges and generating a second control signal representative of bubble size distribution in said preselected plurality of bubble size ranges.
31. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 30, wherein said step of measuring the distribution of blowing agent bubbles in a plurality of bubble size ranges includes the step of non-optically detecting bubbles when a filler is included in the liquid resin material. 32. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in
Claim 30, wherein said step of determining the population of bubbles includes the further steps of bubble size control means receiving said second control signal and generating a third control signal.
33. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 32, wherein said step of generating a third control signal includes the step of providing bubble size distribution feedback control in a proportional integral derivative controller.
34. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 33, wherein said step of providing said bubble size feedback control in a proportional integral derivative controller includes the step of providing a number of feedback loops in said proportional integral derivative controller equal in number to said plurality of bubble size ranges.
35. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 34, wherein said step of providing bubble size in a proportional integral derivative controller includes the step of applying a separately adjustable weighing factor to each of said plurality of feedback loops.
36. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles as set forth in Claim 30, wherein said step of controlling the operation of said means for shearing includes the steps of density control means receiving said first control signal and generating a fourth control signal. 37. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in
Claim 36, wherein said step of generating said fourth control signal includes the step of providing density feedback control in a proportional integral derivative controller.
38. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 29, wherein said step of determining the population of blowing agent bubbles includes the further steps of bubble size control means receiving said second control signal and generating a third control signal, said step of controlling the operation of said means for shearing includes the steps of density control means receiving said first control signal and 


generating a fourth control signal, and junction means receiving and combining said third control signal and said fourth control signal and providing a fifth control signal.
39. A method for controlling the dispersion of minute bubbles, as set forth in Claim 38, wherein said step of controlling the operation of said means for shearing includes the step of limiting a characteristic of said fifth control signal to be within a range acceptable by said means for shearing, and providing an output signal for controlling operation of said means for shearing.
40. A gas-filled RIM article produced from a liquid resin material having an open-cup specific gravity of less than 0.45. 41. A gas-filled RIM article, as set forth in Claim 40, wherein said liquid resin materials are polyahls or isocyanates.
42. A gas-filled RIM article, as set forth in Claim 40, having an open-cup specific gravity of less than 0.4.
43. A gas-filled RIM article, as set forth in Claim 42, having an open-cup specific gravity of at least 0.32.
44. A gas-filled RIM article, as set forth in Claim 40, which is essentially clear. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
