<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1998018281</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELECTING A COMMUNICATIONS CHANNEL FOR A MOBILE STATION BASED ON HANDOVER INTENSITY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W3600	H04W3604	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W36	H04W36	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A threshold limit representing the number of handovers allowed to be performed by a mobile station (140) within a predetermined period of time is assigned to a serving mobile network (130). In case a fast moving mobile station (140) exceeds the prescribed number of handovers, a cell selection in accordance with the hierarchical cell location method is overruled. Instead, a cell selection in accordance with the normal cell location method is implemented to reduce the number of future handovers by the fast moving mobile station (140).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERGKVIST BENGT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERGKVIST, BENGT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SELECTING A COMMUNICATIONS CHANNEL FOR A MOBILE STATION BASED ON HANDOVER INTENSITYBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Technical Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to mobile telecommunications systems and, in particular, to the facilitation of handover between different layers of hierarchical cells for fast moving mobile stations within a mobile telecommunications network. Description of Related Art A mobile telecommunications service area associated with a particular PublicLand Mobile Network (PLMN) is sub-divided into a number of geographic areas known as cell areas. The size of each cell area is determined by a number of different factors. Such factors include the traffic capacity and carrier-to-interference ratio expected or required from a particular geographic area. The carrier- to- interference ratio (C/I ratio) is defined as the ratio of the level of the received desired signal to the level of the received undesired signal. The distribution of the C/I ratio desired in a system determines the number of frequency groups, F, which may be used. If the total allocation of N channels is partitioned into F groups, then each group will contain N/F channels. Since the total number of channels (N) is fixed, a smaller number of frequency groups (F) would result in more channels per set and per cell. Accordingly, decreasing the number of frequency groups and reducing the frequency re-use distance result in high channel capacity but also results in a lower average C/I distribution in the system. As a result, in order to provide an increase in channel capacity and, at the same, maintain an acceptable C/I ratio, the corresponding cell area needs to be reduced. Inversely, in order to obtain a larger cell area, low channel capacity is maintained by increasing the total number of frequency groups (F).With the continuing development in mobile telecommunications technology, the concept of hierarchical cells has been introduced. Instead of "planning" or providing a single layer of cells, a number of different over-layed radio coverage cells are provided for a particular geographic area. As an illustration, layer 1 cells 

(also known as microcells) are first provided with the smallest cell areas. On top of the layer 1 cells, layer 2 cells (also known as macrocells) are provided with larger cell areas. Layer 3 cells can further be over-lay ed at the very top with even larger cell areas. Such structure ensures optimal coverage, by covering up holes in the cell plan and providing extra capacity for high
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for selecting a new cell channel for a mobile station traveling out of a cell area and traveling into a geographic area concurrently covered by a microcell and a macrocell within a mobile telecommunications network, wherein said mobile station can either be assigned a traffic channel within either said macrocell or said microcell in accordance with a hierarchical cell selection procedure or normal cell selection procedure, said method comprising the steps of: determining that a handover to one of said microcell or macrocell is needed for said traveling mobile station; determining a number of handovers allowed within a particular period of time within said mobile telecommunications network; determining whether a number of handovers performed by said mobile station within said particular period of time is less than said allowed number of handovers; and in response to an affirmative determination, performing a hierarchical cell selection procedure to select a cell with which to handover said mobile station; otherwise; performing a normal cell selection procedure to select a cell with which to handover said mobile station.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of performing said hierarchical cell selection procedure comprises the step of selecting a channel associated with said microcell.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of performing said normal cell selection procedure comprises the step of selecting a channel associated with said macrocell. 

4. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of performing a normal call selection procedure comprises the step of selecting a channel associated with a cell associated with the strongest radio strength.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of performing a hierarchical cell selection procedure further comprises the steps of: maintaining data representing said handover being performed to said selected cell; and communicating said data to a telecommunications node associated with said selected cell.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein said telecommunications node comprises a base station controller (BSC) associated with said selected cell.
7. The method of claim 5 wherein said data further includes a time stamp indicating the time of said handover being performed.
8. The method of claim 5 wherein said step of communicating said data is performing using handover signals.
9. A method for handing over a mobile station from a first geographic area to a second geographic area within a mobile telecommunications network, said second geographic area being served by a plurality of cells including a microcell and a macrocell, said method comprising the steps of: determining the number of handovers that have been performed by said mobile station within a particular period of time; evaluating whether said determined number of performed handovers exceeds a threshold number associated with said mobile telecommunications network; if yes, handing over said mobile station to a particular one of said plurality of cells using a first cell location procedure; 


 otherwise, handing over said mobile station to a particular one of said plurality of cells using a second cell location procedure.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein said second cell location procedure comprises a hierarchical cell location procedure wherein said mobile station is handed over to said microcell.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein said step of handing over said mobile station to said microcell further comprises the steps of: generating data representing said handover to said microcell; and communicating said data to a telecommunications node serving said microcell.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein said data include a time stamp indicating the time of said handover.
13. The method of claim 9 wherein said first cell location procedure comprises a normal cell location method.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein said step of handing over said mobile station to said particular one of said plurality of cells using said normal cell location procedure comprises the step of handing over said mobile station to said macrocell.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein said step of handing over said mobile station to said macrocell further comprises the step of initializing data representing the number of handovers performed by said mobile station.
16. The method of claim 13 wherein said step of handing over said mobile station to said particular one of said plurality of cells using said normal cell location 


procedure comprises the step of handing over said mobile station to one of said plurality of cells with the strongest signal strength.
17. A system for handing over a mobile station from a first geographic area to a second geographic area within a mobile telecommunications network, said second geographic area being served by a plurality of cells including a microcell and a macrocell, said microcell associated with a telecommunications node, comprising: a first processor for determining the number of handovers that have been performed by said mobile station within a particular period of time; a second processor for evaluating whether said determined number of performed handovers exceeds a threshold number associated with said mobile telecommunications network; if yes, a first module for handing over said mobile station to particular one of said plurality of cells using a first cell location method; otherwise, a second module for handing over said mobile station to particular one of said plurality of cells using a second cell location method.
18. The system of claim 17 wherein said first and second processors are the same.
19. The system of claim 17 wherein said first and second modules are the same.
20. The system of claim 17 wherein said first cell location method comprises a normal cell location method.
21. The system of claim 20 wherein said particular one of said plurality of cells selected using said normal cell location method comprises said macrocell. 


22. The system of claim 20 wherein said particular one of said plurality of cells selected using said normal cell location method comprises a particular cell with the strongest signal strength received by said mobile station.
23. The system of claim 17 wherein said second cell location method comprises a hierarchical cell location method wherein said mobile station is handed over to said microcell.
24. The system of claim 23 further comprising: a generator for generating data representing said handover to said microcell; and a transmitter for communicating said data with said telecommunications node associated with said microcell.
25. The system of claim 24 wherein said telecommunications node comprises a base station controller (BSC) serving said microcell.
26. The system of claim 24 wherein said data include a time stamp indicating the time of said handover. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
