<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1998020991</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SUPERPLASTIC FORMING WITH DIRECT ELECTRICAL HEATING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D2600	B21D2602	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D26	B21D26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Sheet materials are superplastically formed and optionally diffusion bonded into structures, by directly electrically resistance heating the sheets and forming them with a controlled gas-mass flow while the dies (362) in which they are formed may remain relatively cool. The dies include electrodes and thermocouples placed therein, and gas interface ports that connect to the sheets to be formed to allow rapid formation of structures. Some of the gas interface ports may become sealably attached to the part during the formation process so that the structures may be removed from the dies hot, thus allowing a high die throughput.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MC DONNELL DOUGLAS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YASUI KEN K
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YASUI, KEN, K.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YASUI KEN K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YASUI, KEN, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SUPERPLASTIC FORMING WITH DIRECT ELECTRICAL HEATINGField of the Invention This invention relates to the field of metal forming and, more particularly, to the production forming and diffusion bonding of metal sheets, which exhibit superplastic characteristics, by directly electrically resistance heating the sheets and forming them with a controlled gas-mass flow, which has a capability of self- regulating forming pressure according to the forming temperature.Background of the Invention Superplasticity is the characteristic demonstrated by certain metal alloys that exhibit extremely high plasticity. These alloys develop high tensile elongations with minimum necking when deformed within specific temperature ranges and limited strain rate ranges . The methods used to form and in some cases diffusion bond superplastic materials capitalize on this characteristic and typically employ gas pressure to form sheet material into or against a heated configurational die in order to form the part . Normally the one or more sheets to be formed are sealed about their perimeters into a forming pack with gas pressure tubes welded to the pack to communicate pressurized inert gas used to form the part out of the forming pack. The edge and tube welding usually must be done by hand and gas leaks from faulty welds are a common cause of process failure.Once sealed around its perimeter, the forming pack is placed between heated dies, that are usually below superplastic forming temperature. The temperature of the dies is then elevated so that the forming pack gradually heats up to superplastic forming temperature. No matter what the temperature of the dies when they are loaded with sheets to be formed, a substantial time must elapse before forming starts. The time enables the 

sheets to reach temperature equilibrium there across. The sheets are heated conductively from the edges of the dies, radiantly from the dies and to a lessor extent convectively by atmospheric gas within the dies, which are not particularly efficient heat transfer mechanisms . It is critical in most superplastic forming processes, which control the pressure of the forming gas that the sheets of the forming pack be heated to a known, controlled, uniform temperature since pressure control relies on the superplastic characteristics from sheet to sheet being identical, which in large measure depend on the assumption that the sheets do not have a temperature gradient there across.Pressurized inert gas is then used to form the forming pack into the desired part
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims :
1. A superplastic forming process performed between at least two dies that interface gas passages to one or more superplastically formable sheets as a blank to be superplastically formed there within, the process including : placing the blank in the at least two dies; establishing at least one gas interface from the at least two dies to the blank; connecting an electrical current source to opposite edges of the blank; heating the blank to superplastic forming temperature by: applying current from the electrical current source through the blank; applying pressurized inert gas from the at least one gas interface to the blank at a controlled rate to form the one or more superplastically formable sheets thereof ; cooling the formed blank by: stopping the application of current through the blank; and removing the formed blank from the at least two dies .
2. The process is defined in claim 1 wherein the application of pressurized inert gas from the at least one gas interface to the blank at a controlled rate includes : controlling the pressurized inert gas by: introducing the pressurized inert gas at a controlled gas-mass flow rate, whereby minor temperature differences in the blank do not adversely affect its formation. 

3. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the heating of the blank to superplastic forming temperature includes : measuring the temperature of the blank; and reducing the rate at which current is applied when one temperature of the blank reaches superplastic forming temperature.
4. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the heating of the blank to superplastic forming temperature includes: maintaining the dies at a temperature near ambient temperature.
5. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the blank includes at least two sheets, the process further including: purging the blank with inert gas prior to the heating of the blank.
6. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the blank includes at least two sheets, and wherein the cooling of the formed blank is also accomplished by: purging the blank with cooler inert gas.
7. The process as defined in claim 6 wherein the purging of the blank with ambient inert gas is accomplished at a pressure elevated above ambient and continued after the formed blank is removed from the at least two dies .
8. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the blank includes at least two sheets, and wherein the cooling of the formed blank is accomplished while maintaining the pressurized inert gas at a pressure elevated above ambient pressure, which is continued after the formed blank is removed from the at least two dies. 

9. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the formed blank is removed from the at least two dies before the formed blank has been cooled below superplastic forming temperature.
10. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least two dies is constructed from ceramic material .
11. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the blank includes at least first and second sheets, and wherein the establishing at least one gas interface from the at least two dies to the blank includes: providing two of the at least two dies with: a forming cavity in at least one of the dies, mating edge surfaces, at least one of the edge surfaces having a sealing ring depression therein which has a gas passage extending therein from outside the die, and a galley that extends from the sealing ring depression to the forming cavity; providing a hole in the first sheet of the blank so the hole is in gas communication with the gas passage when the blank is placed in the at least two dies; placing a sealing ring having at least one gas passage formed there through about the hole opposite the sealing ring depression and between the first and second sheets; and forcing the mating edges surfaces toward each other to seal the first sheet against the dies.
12. The process as defined in claim 11 further including: providing a seal depression in at least one of the dies centered in the ring depression and a tube galley from the seal depression to the edge of the at least one die; 


 providing a seal member with a gas passage tube in the seal depression and the tube galley, the seal member having a surface in contact with the first sheet and being constructed from a material that can be diffusion bonded to the first sheet at superplastic forming temperatures; and diffusion bonding the seal member surface to the first sheet as the blank is superplastically formed.
13. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the connecting an electrical current source to opposite edges of the blank includes : connecting at least two end electrical connectors and a central electrical connector to each of the opposite edges, the two end electrical connectors on each edge being positioned closer to each other than the central electrical connectors to even the flow of current across the blank.
14. The process as defined in claim 1 wherein the connecting an electrical current source to opposite edges of the blank includes: connecting at least two end electrical connectors and a central electrical connector to each of the opposite edges; and establishing more current flow through the end electrical connectors than through the central electrical connectors to even the flow of current across the blank.
15. A die for a superplastic forming process wherein the blank to be superplastically formed is directly heated by electrical current, the die including: a peripheral edge surface for engaging a blank to be superplastically formed; a forming cavity within said peripheral edge surface; and 


 at least one pair of spaced electrodes positioned with said forming cavity there between and extending through said peripheral edge surface positioned for electrical contact with a blank engaging said peripheral edge surface .
16. The die for a superplastic forming process as defined in claim 15 further including: at least one temperature measuring device positioned on said peripheral edge surface for measuring the temperature of a blank engaged therewith.
17. The die for a superplastic forming process as defined in claim 15 further including: at least one gas interface extending through said peripheral edge for supplying pressurized gas to form the blank.
18. The die for a superplastic forming process as defined in claim 17 wherein said at least one gas interface includes : a gas connector extending from said die outside said peripheral edge surface; a seal depression in said peripheral edge surface; a seal protrusion in said seal depression; and a first gas passage extending from said seal protrusion to said gas connector.
19. The die for a superplastic forming process as defined in claim 18 wherein said at least one gas interface includes : a passageway extending from outside said peripheral edge surface along said peripheral edge surface to said seal depression, and wherein said seal protrusion is a protrusion member that nests in said seal 


depression and is constructed from diffusion bondable material, said gas connector being: a gas tube connected to said protrusion member that rests in said passageway when said protrusion member is nested in said seal depression.
20. The die for a superplastic forming process as defined in claim 18 wherein said peripheral edge surface includes : a galley therein for forming a gas passageway in the blank.
21. The die for a superplastic forming process as defined in claim 15 further including: at least two additional pairs of electrodes positioned with said forming cavity there between and extending through said peripheral edge surface positioned for electrical contact with a blank engaging said peripheral edge surface, said at least two additional pairs of electrodes being positioned with said at least one pair of electrodes positioned there between, said at least one pair of electrodes being positioned further apart than said electrodes of said at least two additional pairs of electrodes.
22. A blank for positioning in a die for a superplastic forming process including: at least one sheet of superplastically formable, electrically conducting material having: first and second opposite edge portions; and a central portion to be superplastically formed positioned between said first and second edge portions ; at least one first electrically conducting doubler positioned adjacent said first edge portion; and 


 at least one second electrically conducting doubler positioned adjacent said second edge portion, said at least one first and second doublers lowering the electrical resistance at said first and second edge portions so that electrical current applied between said first and second edge portions heats said central portion more than m said first and second edge portions.
23. The blank as defined m claim 22 wherein said at least one first and second electrically conducting doublers are shaped to provide even electrical flow and hence even electrical heating to said central portion.
24. The blank as defined m claim 22 wherein said at least one first and second electrically conducting doublers are constructed from a material that has less electrical resistance than said at least one sheet of superplastically formable, electrically conducting material .
25. The blank as defined m claim 22 wherein said at least one first and second electrically conducting doublers are constructed from superplastically formable, electrically conducting material. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
