<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2002009270</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM AND APPARATUS FOR A DIRECT CONVERSION RECEIVER AND TRANSMITTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03C300	H03C309	H03D300	H03D300	H04B104	H04B104	H04B130	H04B130	H04B140	H04B140	H04L2720	H04L2720	H04L2722	H04L2722	H04L2738	H04L2738	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03C	H03C	H03D	H03D	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03C3	H03C3	H03D3	H03D3	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for transmitting and receiving data is provided. The system includes a direct-conversion receiver that receives a signal modulated on a carrier frequency signal. The direct-conversion receiver includes one or more subharmonic local oscillator mixers. A local oscillator is connected to the direct conversion receiver, and generates a signal having a frequency equal to a subharmonic of the carrier frequency signal. A transmitter is connected to the local oscillator, which uses the local oscillator signal to transmit outgoing data.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONEXANT SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONEXANT SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOMINO WILLIAM J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFITH SCOTT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZENBLIT DMITRIY NMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOMINO, WILLIAM, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFITH, SCOTT, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZENBLIT, DMITRIY (NMI)
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IN THE UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE U.S. RECEIVING OFFICESPECIFICATION accompanyingTITLE: SYSTEM AND APPARATUS FOR A DIRECT CONVERSION RECEIVER AND TRANSMITTERFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention pertains to the field of data transmission. More specifically, the invention relates to a system and apparatus for data transmission that allows a direct conversion receiver and transmitter to be used without the shielding or offset circuitry for a direct current component in the received signal that is normally required for such direct conversion receivers and transmitters .RELATED CASES This case is related to U.S. Patent Application serial number 09/260,919, "DIRECT CONVERSION RECEIVER," filed March 02, 1999, which is commonly owned and assigned with the present application and is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. 

 BACKGROUND Direct conversion receivers are known in the art. In a direct conversion receiver, the received carrier frequency signal with the data signal modulated on it is mixed with a signal from a local oscillator having the same frequency as the carrier frequency. The signal product of these two signals is a signal having components at the base band and at two times the carrier frequency. The high frequency component can be filtered using a low pass filter, such that the data signal remains in the base band signal. The base band signal is then processed to extract the data encoded in the transmitted signal.One drawback of direct conversion receivers is that the local oscillator can radiate a leakage signal that may be stronger than the signal transmitted and received by the antenna. In this configuration, it is possible for the local oscillator signal to be received at the antenna of the direct conversion receiver or at intermediate points between the antenna and the mixer. If this condition occurs, the radiated local oscillator signal is received and mixed with the local oscillator signal that is provided directly at the input of the mixer, which creates a significant DC signal component in the output from the mixer.In order to prevent the generation of a DC signal from such feedback, shielding or filtering can be performed. Likewise, it is also possible to offset the DC signal by applying a DC signal that is equal to that created by the leakage signal from the local oscillator and having a reverse polarity. Both shielding and offsetting the DC signal require additional costs, such as the cost and expense of shielding, the additional weight of shielding,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS
1. A system for transmitting and receiving data comprising: a direct-conversion receiver receiving a signal modulated 
•
 on a carrier frequency signal, the direct- conversion receiver further comprising one or more subharmonic local oscillator mixers; a local oscillator coupled to the direct conversion receiver, the local oscillator generating a signal having a frequency equal to a subharmonic of the carrier frequency signal; and a transmitter coupled to the local oscillator.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the direct conversion receiver further comprises: a phase shifter coupled to a first subharmonic local oscillator mixer, where the output of the first subharmonic local oscillator mixer is used to generate a quadrature signal of a phase shift keyed signal; and a second subharmonic local oscillator mixer, where the output of the second subharmonic local oscillator mixer is used to generate an in-phase signal of a phase shift keyed signal .
3. The system of claim 2 wherein the phase shifter is further coupled to the local oscillator. 

4. The system of claim 2 further comprising a low- noise amplifier coupled to the phase shifter, wherein the signal modulated on the carrier frequency signal is received by the low-noise amplifier and is transmitted to the phase shifter after being amplified.
5. The system of claim 1 further comprising a frequency multiplier coupled between the local oscillator and the transmitter, wherein the frequency multiplier increases the frequency of the oscillator.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the frequency multiplier increases the frequency of the oscillator up to the frequency of the carrier signal.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the transmitter comprises : a frequency multiplier coupled to the local oscillator; and an in-phase/quadrature modulator coupled to the frequency multiplier, receiving an in-phase modulation input signal and a quadrature modulation input signal, and outputting a quadrature phase shift keyed signal modulated at the multiplied local oscillator frequency. 

8. The system of claim 1 wherein the transmitter comprises : an in-phase/quadrature modulator coupled to the local oscillator, receiving an in-phase modulation input signal and a quadrature modulation input signal, and outputting a quadrature phase shift keyed signal modulated at the local oscillator frequency; and a frequency multiplier coupled to the in- phase/quadrature modulator and multiplying the frequency of the quadrature phase shift keyed signal.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the transmitter comprises : a frequency modulator coupled to the local oscillator, wherein the local oscillator is modulated by the frequency modulator; a phase locked loop coupled to the frequency modulator and the local oscillator; and a switch coupled between the local oscillator and the phase locked loop, wherein the switch can couple the phase locked loop to the local oscillator during a transmit cycle and can decouple the phase locked loop from the local oscillator during a receive cycle. 

10. The system of claim 1 wherein the transmitter comprises : a frequency modulator coupled to the local oscillator, where the local oscillator is modulated by the frequency modulator; a voltage-controlled reference oscillator coupled to the frequency modulator, where the voltage-controlled reference oscillator is modulated by the frequency modulator; and a phase locked loop coupled to the local oscillator in a feedback loop, the phase locked loop further coupled to the voltage controlled oscillator. 

11. A method for receiving and transmitting data comprising: receiving a carrier signal modulated with a data signal; mixing the carrier signal with a subharmonic local oscillator signal to extract a baseband signal; and modulating an outgoing data signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein mixing the carrier signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal to extract the baseband signal further comprises: mixing the carrier signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal to extract an in-phase signal; phase-shifting the subharmonic local oscillator signal; and mixing the carrier signal with the phase-shifted subharmonic local oscillator signal to extract a quadrature phase signal.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein mixing the carrier signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal to extract the baseband signal further comprises: mixing the carrier signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal to extract an in-phase signal; phase-shifting the carrier signal; and mixing the phase-shifted carrier signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal to extract a quadrature phase signal. 

14. The method of claim 11 wherein modulating the outgoing data signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal comprises: multiplying the subharmonic local oscillator signal; and modulating an outgoing in-phase data signal and an outgoing quadrature phase data signal with the multiplied subharmonic local oscillator signal.
15. The method of claim 11 wherein modulating the outgoing data signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal comprises: modulating an outgoing in-phase data signal and an outgoing quadrature phase data signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal to generate a modulated outgoing data signal; and multiplying the modulated outgoing data signal to generate the outgoing data signal.
16. The method of claim 11 wherein modulating the outgoing data signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal comprises: frequency modulating the subharmonic local oscillator signal during a transmit cycle; and interrupting frequency modulation of the subharmonic local oscillator signal during a receive cycle.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising opening a phase locked loop during the transmit cycle to lock the subharmonic local oscillator signal.
18. The method of claim 16 further comprising 


frequency modulating a reference oscillator signal of a phase locked loop that locks the subharmonic local oscillator signal.
19. The method of claim 11 wherein modulating the outgoing data signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal comprises: modulating an outgoing in-phase data signal and an outgoing quadrature phase data signal with the subharmonic local oscillator signal at a subharmonic modulation index to generate a modulated outgoing data signal; and multiplying the modulated outgoing data signal by an inverse subharmonic to generate the outgoing data signal. 

20. A system for transmitting and receiving data comprising: a low noise amplifier receiving a modulated incoming carrier signal having a carrier signal frequency; a local oscillator generating a signal having a subharmonic frequency of the carrier signal; a first mixer coupled to the low noise amplifier and the local oscillator, the first mixer receiving the modulated incoming carrier signal and generating an in-phase incoming data signal; a second mixer coupled to the low noise amplifier and the local oscillator, the second mixer receiving the modulated incoming carrier signal and generating a quadrature phase incoming data signal; a modulator coupled to the local oscillator, the modulator receiving an outgoing data signal and modulating the outgoing data signal onto the local oscillator signal to generate an outgoing modulated carrier signal; and a transmit amplifier coupled to the modulator, the transmit amplifier amplifying the outgoing modulated carrier signal to a transmission power level.
21. The system of claim 20 further comprising a general purpose computing platform coupled to the first mixer, the second mixer, and the modulator, the general purpose computing platform decoding an incoming data signal from the in-phase incoming data signal and the quadrature phase incoming data signal, and generating the outgoing data signal . 

22. The system of claim 20 further comprising a telephone handset coupled to the first mixer, the second mixer, and the modulator, the telephone handset decoding an incoming data signal from the in-phase incoming data signal and the quadrature phase incoming data signal, and generating the outgoing data signal. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
