<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2002009281</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
5-ARY RECEIVER UTILIZING COMMON MODE INSENSITIVE DIFFERENTIAL OFFSET COMPARATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K508	H03K508	H03K5153	H03K51532	H03M700	H03M700	H03M702	H03M706	H04L2502	H04L2502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K5	H03K5	H03K5	H03K5	H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	H04L25	H04L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A signal converter is provided for converting multiple level encoded digital signals into a binary equivalent signal. The signal converter includes a reference voltage generator, a plurality of four-input differential comparators, timing recovery circuitry, and signal conversion circuitry. The reference voltage generator is operative to generate a plurality of progressively larger differential reference voltages. The plurality of differential comparators are each operative to compare magnitude of a differential input voltage with magnitude of a dedicated one of the progressively larger differential reference voltages and produce a differential output voltage having a first logical sense if the magnitude of the differential input voltage is greater than the magnitude of the differential reference voltage, and having a second logical sense if the magnitude of the differential input voltage is less than the magnitude of the differential reference voltage. Each comparator has an offset input voltage. The timing recovery circuitry is configured to receive the differential output voltages from each of the differential comparators and is operative to derive a clock via edge detection and generate a recovered clock signal. The signal conversion circuitry is coupled with the timing recovery circuitry and the differential comparators and is operative to convert the differential output voltages into a binary equivalent. A method is also provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CICCONE JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIEPOLD CARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SESSIONS D C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CICCONE, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIEPOLD, CARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SESSIONS, D., C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
5-ary receiver utilizing common mode insensitive differential offset comparatorThe present invention relates generally to signal and data transmission technology and, more particularly, to multiple level encoding and the conversion of encoded digital signals into binary equivalentsSignal transmission of data at high frequency rates, such as at exemplary rates of 4 x 109 bits/second, can generate problems. At such high frequency rates, line losses are higher. Secondly, electromagnetic interference (EMI) is generally higher. High line losses and high EMI tend to be undesirable consequences of high frequency data transmission rates. In contrast, jitter tends to be worse when clock power is relatively low. However, increased levels of clock power tend to correspond with relatively high frequency data transmission rates. Hence, attempts to achieve relatively low line loss and reduced EMI, in combination with reduced jitter, appear to present a conflict where traditional signal transmission techniques are employed. Accordingly, a compromise is needed that enables the realization of relatively low line losses and reduced EMI while, at the same time, realizing reduced jitter. One technique involves the use of multiple level signaling schemes.A system is provided for converting a multiple level encoded digital signal into a binary equivalent. A system of differential comparators are used to compare a differential input signal for purposes of extracting multiple level coding.According to one aspect of the invention, a signal converter is provided for converting multiple level encoded digital signals into a binary equivalent. The signal converter includes a reference voltage generator, a plurality of differential comparators, error recovery circuitry, and signal conversion circuitry. The reference voltage generator is operative to generate a plurality of progressively larger differential reference voltages. The plurality of differential comparators are operative to compare a differential input voltage with the reference voltages and produce differential output voltages having first logical senses if 

the input voltage is greater than the reference voltages, and having second logical senses if the input voltage is less than the reference voltages, respectively. Furthermore, each comparator has an offset input voltage. The error recovery circuitry is configured to receive the differential output voltages from the differential comparators, and is operative to recover the clock via edge detection and generate a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A signal converter (10) for converting multiple level encoded digital signals into a binary equivalent signal, comprising:
- a reference voltage generator(30) operative to generate a plurality of progressively larger differential input voltages; - a plurality of four-input differential comparators (16, 18, 20, 22), each comparator operative to compare magnitude of a differential input voltage with magnitude of a dedicated one of the progressively larger differential reference voltages and produce a differential output voltage having a first logical sense if the magnitude of the differential input voltage is greater than the magnitude of the differential reference voltage, and having a second logical sense if the magnitude of the differential input voltage is less than the magnitude of the differential reference voltage, respectively, and wherein each comparator has an offset input voltage;
- timing recovery circuitry (32) configured to receive the differential output voltages from each of the differential comparators and operative to derive a clock via edge detection and generate a recovered clock signal; and
- signal conversion circuitry (54, 56, 58) coupled with the timing recovery circuitry and the differential comparators and operative to convert the differential output voltages into a binary equivalent.
2. The signal converter of claim 1 wherein the reference voltage generator comprises a voltage divider circuit.
3. The signal converter of claim 1 wherein the reference voltage generator comprises a series resistor network operative to generate a plurality of differential output voltages.
4. The signal converter of claim 1 wherein each differential comparator comprises a common-mode insensitive differential offset comparator. 

5. The signal converter of claim 1 wherein, for each differential comparator, when the differential input signal is greater in value than the differential reference voltage, the polarity of the respective comparator will be positive.
6. The signal converter of claim 1 wherein the timing recovery circuitry is adapted to recover a clock signal via edge detection.
7. The signal converter of claim 1 wherein the timing recovery circuitry comprises at least one comparator, delay circuitry and logic circuitry.
8. The signal converter of claim 7 wherein the logic circuitry comprises an XOR gate, the at least one comparator comprises a plurality of amplified comparators configured to receive and amplify the differential output voltage from one of the differential comparators to produce an amplified differential output voltage, the delay circuitry adapted to delay the amplified differential output voltage, and the XOR gate adapted to logically compare the delayed, amplified differential output voltage with the differential output voltage.
9. The signal converter of claim 8 wherein the logic circuitry further comprises at least one OR gate signal coupled with a pair of the comparators and operative to implement clock recovery.
10. The signal converter of claim 1 wherein the signal conversion circuitry comprises a plurality of latches, each latch configured to receive the differential output voltage from one of the differential comparators, and the recovered clock signal, and generate an output signal. . . - - -
11. The signal converter of claim 10 wherein the plurality of differential comparators comprises four four-input comparators, the plurality of latches comprises four latches, and the signal conversion circuitry further comprises a pair of buffers and an exclusive-or (XOR) gate, one of the buffers configured to receive an output signal from a first of the latches, another of the buffers configured to receive an output signal from a second of the latches, and the XOR gate configured to receive an output signal from each of a third and a fourth of the latches. 

12. A digital-to binary signal conversion circuit, comprising:
- a reference signal generator operative to generate a plurality of progressively larger differential reference signals;
- a plurality of four-input differential comparators, each differential comparator configured to receive a dedicated one of the differential reference signals and operative to compare the difference between a differential input signal and the dedicated one of the differential reference signals and produce a differential output signal having a first logical value if the differential input signal is greater than the differential reference signal, and having a second logical value if the differential input signal is less than the differential reference signal;
- timing recovery circuitry configured to receive the differential output signals from the differential comparators and operative to generate a clock via edge detection that provides a recovered clock signal; and
- signal conversion circuitry coupled with the timing recovery circuitry and the differential comparators and operative to convert the differential output signal into a binary equivalent signal.
13. The conversion circuit of claim 12 wherein the plurality of four-input differential comparators comprise four four-input differential comparators, each comparator receiving a dedicated one of a series of progressively larger differential reference signals, the differential comparators operative to detect the status of a five-level encoded digital signal from the differential input signal.
14. The conversion circuit of claim 12 wherein the signal conversion circuitry receives differential output voltages from each of the differential comparators and converts the differential output voltages into a binary equivalent.
15. The conversion circuit of claim 12 wherein the timing recovery circuitry comprises error recovery circuitry operative to implement clock recovery through edge detection of the differential output signals from each of the differential comparators.
16. The conversion circuit of claim 12 wherein the reference voltage generator comprises circuitry operative to generate a plurality of differential output voltages. 

17. The conversion circuit of claim 12 wherein each of the four-input differential comparators comprises a common-mode insensitive differential offset comparator.
18. The conversion circuit of claim 12 wherein the timing recovery circuitry comprises a plurality of comparators and logic circuitry.
19. The conversion circuit of claim 18 wherein the logic circuitry comprises an XOR gate.
20. A signal converter for converting an (N+l)-level encoded digital input signal into a binary equivalent signal, comprising:
- a reference signal generator operative to generate N progressively larger differential reference signals;
- N common-mode insensitive differential offset comparators each operative to compare an (N+l)-level differential input signal with one of the N separate differential reference signals and produce a differential output signal having first logical senses if the input signal is greater than the reference signal, and having second logical senses if the input signal is less than the reference signal;
- edge detection circuitry configured to receive the N differential output signals from the differential comparators and operative to recover the clock via edge detection and generate a recovered clock signal; and
- signal conversion circuitry coupled with the edge detection circuitry and the differential comparators and operative to convert the differential output signals into a binary equivalent signal.
21. The signal converter of claim 20 wherein the error recovery circuitry comprises a plurality of differential offset comparators.
22. The signal converter of claim 20 wherein the reference signal generator is a reference voltage generator that generates N progressively larger differential reference signals, and the input signal comprises a differential input voltage.
23. A method for converting an (N+l)-level encoded digital signal into a binary equivalent signal, comprising: 


 - generating N progressively larger differential reference signals;
- comparing the (N+l)-level differential input signal with each of the N reference signals;
- for each compared N reference signal, producing a differential output signal having first logical senses if the input signal is greater than the reference signal and having second logical senses if the input signal is less than the reference signal;
- generating a clock by edge detecting the N differential output signals so as to recover a clock signal; and
- converting the N differential output signals into a binary equivalent signal.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein the error recovery circuitry comprises a plurality of differential offset comparators.
25. The method of claim 23 wherein the reference signal generator is a reference voltage generator that generates N progressively larger differential reference signals, and the input signal comprises a differential input voltage.
26. The method of claim 23 wherein timing recovery circuitry receives differential output voltages from each of a plurality of four-input differential comparators. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
