<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0683852</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TURBOCHARGERS FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B3718	F02B3718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B37	F02B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A turbocharger has a drive-shaft mounted in bearing means in a housing. The drive shaft drivably connects an exhaust gas driven turbine wheel to the impeller of an air compressor (22). A gas flow control device, such as a wastegate (10, 39) and/or a variable geometry turbine inlet nozzle, positioned upstream of the turbine wheel is operable to adjust the operating performance of the turbocharger. An electrically drivable actuator motor (17, 45), such as a D.C. motor or a stepper motor, is provided for regulating the operation of the gas flow control device via a linkage means (14, 15, 405, 407, 406, 825, 830, 835) in response to an electrical signal dependent at least upon the delivery pressure of the compressor. In a preferred arrangement the linkage means includes a relatively rotatable threaded lead screw (15) and a correspondingly threaded female screw member (14) threadably engaged therewith.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLIEDSIGNAL LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLIEDSIGNAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALSALL PHILIP STUART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALSALL, PHILIP, STUART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to turbochargers for internal 
combustion engines and relates more particularly to the 
control of the exhaust gas driven turbine of a 
turbocharger. With the increase in popularity of compression 
ignition engines, particularly in passenger cars and light 
commercial vehicles, there is an incentive to provide small 
turbochargers for such engines to enhance their power 
output. With a well designed turbocharger a compression 
ignition engine can produce a power output which is similar 
to an engine of much larger capacity. Moreover the 
environmental cleanliness and fuel consumption may even 
show improvements relative to petrol engines. Again, a 
turbocharger employed on a petrol engine can greatly 
increase its power output. A typical exhaust gas driven turbocharger comprises a 
bearing housing assembly supporting a rotatable shaft, one 
end of which carries an air compressor wheel enclosed by a 
compressor housing and the other end of which carries a 
turbine wheel enclosed by a turbine housing and which is 
subjected to exhaust gas flow to drive the compressor. In order to constrain the boost pressure which such a 
turbocharger can produce at the air induction manifold of 
the engine, it has been proposed to provide a so-called 
"wastegate" including a controllable exhaust gas by-pass 
valve. Typically, such a wastegate valve has comprised a 
spring biased poppet valve having a valve stem connected to 
a pressure responsive diaphragm subject, in a valve opening 
direction, to a control pressure derived from the output of 
the turbocharger compressor. By providing such a wastegate 
it is possible to prevent a turbocharger from overboosting 
and advantageously to improve the matching of the operation 
of the turbocharger to the demands of the engine. However, 
the control thereby achieved is only approximate because 
the system is pneumatic and is dependent not only upon the 
boost pressure but also upon the value of a spring bias,  
 
the effective control areas and the exhaust gas pressure 
acting on the valve. In practice such control is only a 
compromise consistent with providing reasonable engine 
performance whilst preventing possible damage to the engine 
due to overboosting. An alternative form of turbocharger control has also 
been proposed in which the input nozzle geometry of a drive 
turbine of a turbocharger is variable. One form of such a 
variable input nozzle is described in EP-A-0 571 205 
published on 24 November 1993, the disclosure of which is 
incorporated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A turbocharger comprising a drive-shaft mounted 
in bearing means in a housing, the drive-shaft drivably 

connecting an exhaust gas driven turbine wheel to the 
impeller of a compressor, a gas flow control device 

positioned upstream of the turbine wheel and operable to 
adjust the operating performance of the turbocharger, and 

an electrically drivable actuator motor for regulating the 
operation of the gas flow control device via a linkage 

means in response to an electrical signal dependent at 
least upon the delivery pressure of the compressor, the 

linkage means comprising a male threaded lead screw having 
a multistart thread and a correspondingly female threaded 

screw member threadedly engaged therewith and one of said 
screw member and lead screw being arranged to move 

generally linearly on rotation of the other of said screw 
member and lead screw by the actuator motor, whereby to 

convert said rotation into movement of the gas flow control 
device. 
A turbocharger as claimed in claim 1, wherein 
the female screw member is rotated by driving of the 

actuator motor. 
A turbocharger as claimed in claim 1 or claim 
2, wherein the generally linearly movable one of said 

threaded lead screw and said screw member is provided with 
means for adjusting the longitudinal extent of the linkage 

means. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the gas flow control device 

comprises a wastegate valve operable to by-pass around the 
turbine wheel exhaust gas from upstream of the turbine 

wheel. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 3, wherein the gas flow control device comprises a 

variable geometry nozzle at the exhaust gas input to the  
 

turbine wheel. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the actuator motor comprises a DC 

motor. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 5, wherein the actuator motor is a stepper motor. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of claims 
1 to 5, wherein the actuator motor is a switch reluctance 

technology motor. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the actuator motor output passes 

to the linkage means through a reducing gearbox. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the linkage means is arranged to 

translate rotary motion of the output shaft of the actuator 
motor into generally linear movement of the gas flow 

control device. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the axis of rotation of the 

actuator motor is positioned generally parallel to, and 
offset from, the axis of the turbocharger drive-shaft. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising boost pressure sensing 

means arranged to sense the delivery pressure of the 
compressor, said electrical signal being at least in part 

dependent on the pressure sensed by said pressure sensing 
means. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising a position sensor to 

provide positional information on the gas flow control 
device, said electrical signal being further dependent on 

the output of the position sensor. 
A turbocharger as claimed in claim 13, when 
dependent on claim 9, wherein the position sensor, actuator 

motor and gearbox are packaged together in a single water-resistant 
housing.  

 
A turbocharger as claimed in claim 13 or claim 
14, wherein the position sensor comprises a potentiometer. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said electrical signal is further 

dependent on the speed of the engine to which compressed 
air is, in use, supplied by the compressor. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said electrical signal is further 

dependent on one or more of the temperature of the exhaust 
gas, the mass flow rate of air passing through the 

compressor and the throttle setting of the engine to which 
compressed air is, in use, supplied by the compressor. 
A turbocharger as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising control means for 

producing said electrical signal to control operation of 
the actuator motor to regulate the operation of the gas 

flow control device. 
A turbocharger as claimed in claim 18, wherein 
the control means is an electronic control unit (ECU). 
A turbocharger as claimed in either of claims 
18 and 19 when dependent on claim 4, wherein the control 

means is adapted to regulate the position of the wastegate 
valve, through operation of the actuator motor, to keep the 

compressor delivery pressure below a predetermined value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
