<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656193</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multipurpose surgical tool
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1732	A61B1730	A61B1730	A61B1732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
1. A tool comprising:
 

   a body (10) comprising a pair of flexible 
leaves (12, 14) joined at their forward ends by a 

bridge (16) having an elongate aperture (22) therein, 
said leaves also being joined face-to face at their 

rearward ends, and being normally bowed outward from 
one another; and

 
   an elongated collet (40) having a rearward end 

affixed to the rearward ends of said leaves, and a 
bifurcated forward end comprising a pair of resiliently 

flexible tines (44, 46), each tine having thereon a 
jaw (48) protruding through said aperture, each jaw 

including an inwardly facing working surface (50) and 
an outwardly facing oblique cam surface (52) in a 

position to engage a side of said aperture, so that 
relative longitudinal movement between the bridge and 

the jaws, produced by squeezing the leaves together, 
causes interaction between the sides of the aperture 

and the cam surfaces to drive the jaws together
 

   is improved by providing that:
 

   the tines of the collet lie in a common plane 
perpendicular to and bisecting both of said leaves, the 

length of the aperture being aligned with said plane; 
and

 
   the two opposed leaves and the bridge a
re within a 
blank of sheet material, the aperture being formed 

within the sheet. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the field of
surgery and more particularly to a hand tool capable
of performing cutting, clamping, or shearing functions
in surgical operations.In surgery, there is a frequent need to cut,
clamp or shear tissues and other materials of small
size. A variety of tools have been developed to
perform such functions. Prior devices, however, tend
to be unnecessarily complex and thus relatively
expensive and difficult to clean properly.Forceps and tweezers typically have a pair of
handles interconnected by a pivot or flexible
connection at a point along their length, so that
squeezing the handles together produces relative jaw
movement. The handles usually are substantially
rigid, as in U.S. Patent 4,693,246; however, thin-section
handles designed to flex when pressure is
applied, in order to move the jaws, have been proposed
also, as in U.S. Patents 4,212,305, No. 3,805,792,
No. 1,615,125, No. 3,827,277 and No. 3,774,438.The jaws of tweezers or forceps are usually
integral extensions of the handles; however, some
prior devices have separate jaws which are closed by
withdrawing the jaws, or a jaw assembly, into a tube
or the like. Examples of such devices are found in
U.S. Patents 4,592,347 and 4,394,864, and in Patents
3,827,277 and 3,774,438, above. The latter two 
patents are made of plastic, so that they can be
thrown away after use.A tool in accordance with the pre-characterising
portion of claim 1 below is disclosed in
US-A-3,827,277.It is an object of the present invention to
provide a tool of simple manufacture.A further object of the invention is to provide a
lightweight tool capable of performing cutting,
clamping or shearing functions, depending upon the
shape of the jaws.It is also an object of the invention to provide
a tool which can be easily disassembled, cleaned and
reassembled.One further object is to assist a surgeon in
regulating the degree of closure of jaws of such a
tool by providing tactile feedback in the form of
increasing resistance to the hand as a function of jaw
closure.The invention is embodied in a tool in accordance
with claim 1 below. Disclosed below are specific
embodiments of the intention comprising a body portion
including a pair of flexible leaves joined at their
forward ends by a bridge having an aperture therein,
and joined face-to-face at their rearward ends. An
elongated collet extending perpendicularly between the
leaves of the body is retained between the leaves at
its rearward end. The leaves, normally bowed outward
from one
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tool comprising:

a body portion (10) comprising a pair of resiliently
flexible opposed leaves (12,14) joined at their forward ends

by a bridge (16) having an elongate aperture (22) therein,
said leaves also being joined face-to face at their

rearward ends, and being normally bowed outward from
one another; and
an elongated collet (40) having a rearward end
affixed to the rearward ends of said leaves, and a

bifurcated forward end comprising a pair of
resiliently flexible tines (44,46), each tine having thereon

a jaw (48) protruding through said aperture, each jaw
including an inwardly facing working surface (50) and an

outwardly facing oblique cam surface in a position
to engage a side of said aperture, so that relative

longitudinal movement between the bridge and the
jaws, produced by squeezing the leaves together,

causes interaction between the sides of the aperture
and the cam surfaces to drive the jaws together

   characterised in that:

the tines of the collet lie in a common plane
perpendicular to and bisecting both of said leaves,

the length of the aperture being aligned with said
plane; and in that
the two opposed leaves and the bridge are within
a blank of resilient sheet material, the aperture being formed

within the sheet.
A tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein the
blank is a sheet metal blank having the aperture (22)

preformed therein, with a bend in the blank on
either side of the aperture to define said bridge (16).
A tool as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein
said aperture (22) has the form of a slot, widened at its

center.
A tool as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3
wherein the bridge (16) is substantially

perpendicular to the leaves (12, 14).
A tool as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims wherein the body portion (10) and collet (40)

are both made of stainless steel.
A tool as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims and including a centre plane (P)

about which the aperture (22) is symmetrical.
A tool as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims wherein the rearward ends joined

together provide a handle for the tool.
A tool as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, in which the collet (40) is a resilient

snap fit within the body portion, to enable
disassembly of the collet and body portion.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
