<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613143</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Disc playing apparatus with auto-changer mechanism
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2700	G11B1722	G11B2700	G11B1722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B27	G11B17	G11B27	G11B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A disc playing apparatus includes a disc magazine for storing a plurality of 
discs, a changer unit for removing and returning a disc to the disc magazine, a 

player unit for playing the disc removed from the disc magazine by the changer 
unit, and a controller for controlling the changer unit. The control unit stores and 

updates management information regarding the position of each disc in the disc 
magazine and the number of times that each disc is requested to be played. 

According to the management information, the rearrangement of the discs in the 
disc magazine is executed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to disc playing systems, and more
particularly to a disc playing system having an auto-changer mechanism.There are several types of conventional disc playing systems for compact
discs or laser discs that have an auto-changer mechanism. Figure 1 illustrates a
conventional disc playing system with an auto-changer mechanism. The disc
playing system 10 includes a disc magazine 11 for storing a plurality of discs D,
for instance, 100 discs. Each disc D is positioned at an individual address in disc
magazine 11. A control unit (not shown) stores the address of each disc according
to the disc number by which the discs are identified. When a user requests that
a particular disc is to be played, the control unit causes an auto-changer
mechanism to extract the particular disc from the corresponding address in the disc
magazine 11. The auto-changer mechanism includes a changer unit 13, separate
from the disc magazine 11, which is capable of moving back and forth along guide
shaft 14 in the direction of arrow Y. In order to play a requested disc, first the
requested disc must be extracted from the disc magazine. To extract the requested
disc, the changer unit 13 moves to the address at which the requested disc is
positioned, and then removes the requested disc from magazine 11 in the direction
of arrow X. Following this operation, changer unit 13, together with the requested
disc, moves along guide shaft 14 in the direction of the Y arrow to a position
adjacent to a player unit 12. The changer unit 13 then supplies the requested disc
to player unit 12, and the player unit 12 plays the requested disc. After the disc
has been played, the changer unit returns the requested disc to its previous address
in the disc magazine 11 by the movements described above. Between requests, the 
control unit controls the changer unit 13 to remain positioned at a stand-by position
P. In the conventional disc playing system 10, the stand-by position P is set to the
position adjacent to player unit 12.Figure 2 illustrates another disc playing system 20 having an auto-changer
mechanism. The disc playing system 20 includes a player unit 22 and a changer
unit 23. The player unit 22 and changer unit 23 of Figure 2 differ from the player
unit 12 and changer unit 13 of the disc playing system 10 in Figure 1 in that
player unit 22 is coupled to changer unit 23 such that the player unit 22 and the
changer unit 23 move together along guide shaft 14 in the direction of the Y
arrow. The disc playing system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A disc playing apparatus comprising;

a disc magazine (11) having a plurality of addresses
(A1-An) at each of which a disc (D) can be stored;
a changer device (13) for removing a selected disc
(D) from the magazine (11), transferring the disc to a

player device (12) at which the disc is played and for
returning the disc to the magazine;
control means for storing and updating the number of
requests to play each of the discs and for controlling the

changer device (13) to position the discs in the addresses
(A1-An) relative to a reference position in accordance with

said number of requests to play each of the discs;

characterised in that said control means is arranged to

(a) control said changer device to remove a first
disc from a first address of said disc magazine and to

transfer said first disc to said player device;
(b) calculate a return address for said first disc
according to the number of requests to play the first disc

relative to the number of requests to play each of said
other discs;
(c) determine whether or not a second disc is stored
at the return address;
(d) control the changing device to move the second
disc to said first address, if the controller determines

that the second disc is stored at the return address;
(e) control the changing device to return the first
disc to the return address.
A disc playing apparatus according to claim 1,

wherein the control means calculates the return address for
the first disc by determining the address at which the

stored number of requests for the particular disc at that
address is equal to or less than the current number of

requests to play the first disc. 
A disc playing apparatus according to claim 2,
wherein the control means stores and updates a blank flag

for each address within the disc magazine, each blank flag
indicating whether a disc is currently stored at the

particular address, and the control means determines whether
or not a second disc is stored at the return address by

reading the blank flag corresponding to the return address.
A disc playing apparatus according to any preceding
claim, wherein said reference position is a position

adjacent to said player device.
A disc playing apparatus according to any preceding
claim, wherein said player device is integral with said

changer device, and said reference position is a position
adjacent to the center of said disc magazine.
A method of operating a disc playing apparatus
having a disc magazine for storing each of a plurality of

discs at an individual address, a changer device for
selectively removing one of said plurality of discs from

said disc magazine, for returning said one disc to said disc
magazine, and for transferring said one disc to a player

device for playing said one disc, and a control means for
controlling oper
ation of said changer device; said method
comprising the steps of storing the number of requests to

play each of the discs; and controlling said changer device
to rearrange the address of the discs relative to a

reference position in accordance with the stored number of
requests to play each of the discs, characterised by the

steps of

(a) calculating a return address of a first disc
according to the number of requests to play the first disc

relative to the number of requests to play each of said
plurality of discs;
(b) determining whether or not a second disc is 
stored at the return address;
(c) controlling the changing device to move the
second disc to an address from which the first disc had been

previously removed when the control means determines that
the second disc is stored at the return address; and
(d) controlling the changing device to return the
first disc to the return address.
A method of operating a control means of a disc
playing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the step of

calculating the return address of the first disc comprises
determining the address at which the stored number of

requests for the particular disc at such address is equal to
or less than the current number of requests to play the

first disc.
A method of operating a control means of a disc
playing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said control

means stores and updates a blank flag for each address
within the disc magazine, each blank flag indicating whether

a disc is currently stored at the particular address, and
the step of determining whether or not a second disc is

stored at the return address comprises reading the blank
flag corresponding to the return address.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
