<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0952533</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Text summarization using part-of-speech
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	G06F1730	G10L1300	G10L1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G10L	G10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G10L13	G10L13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Text is summarized using part-of-speech (POS) data indicating parts of speech
for tokens in the text. The POS data can be obtained using input text data

defining the text, such as by POS tagging. The POS data can be used to obtain
group data indicating groups of tokens of the text, such as verb groups and

noun groups. The group data can also indicate, within each group, any tokens
that meet a POS based removal criterion. The group data can be used to obtain

summarized text data by removing tokens that meet the removal criterion. The
original text may be obtained via scanner or video camera from a user's

document, and may be recognized to obtain input text data. The summarized
text may output as text or as audio pronunciation using a speech synthesizer.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREFENSTETTE GREGORY T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREFENSTETTE, GREGORY T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to automatic text summarization based on part-of-speech. A conventional reading machine for the blind or visually impaired allows 
the user to manually increase the rate at which text in a scanned document is 
converted into speech, making it possible to generate very rapid speech and thus 
audibly flip through the document to obtain a sort of summary. Also, the user 
could manually select samples of the document and generate speech from each 
sample to obtain another type of summary. A number of automatic summarization techniques have been proposed in 
other contexts. According to one such technique, manually derived templates 
are used to match certain patterns in text. When the templates are filled, a gloss 
of the template can be produced by the computer. This gloss ignores any item 
that was not included in the template and thereby reduces the quantity of text. 
This is the approach used by the participants in the yearly Message 
Understanding Conference (MUC). A drawback of this technology is that building 
templates is a long manual process that produces a domain-specific filter that 
cannot be applied to unrestricted text. According to another known method it is necessary to read an entire text 
into memory and calculate statistics of word use, the most frequent terms being 
deemed to be most important for the sense of the text. Then, the original text is 
rescanned in memory and entire sentences are scored in terms of position and 
term importance. The highest scoring sentences are extracted in their entirety as 
the summary of the text. A disadvantage of this sort of summarization is that it 
cannot be done on a page by page basis without having to read in an entire 
document. Sager, N., Natural Language Information Processing―A Computer 
Grammar of English and Its Applications, Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley, 
1981, 7-16 and 253-255, describes a technique for teaching a second language 
that applies a string excision method starting at the end of a sentence and 
moving leftward. The method excises one word or a word sequence from the 
sentence if the residue is again a grammatical sentence; this is repeated for each 
successive residue until no more excisions are possible. Examples of excisions  
 
include removal of a prepositional phrase, reduction of the number of elements in 
a conjunction, and so forth. The excision analyses of a French sentence and its 
English translation proved to be remarkably similar. The invention addresses problems that arise in automatically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for automatically summarizing text, comprising: 

(a) obtaining input text data defining a text that includes two or more 
tokens; 
(b) using the input text data to obtain part-of-speech (POS) data 
indicating parts of speech for tokens in the text; 
(c) using the POS data to obtain group data indicating one or more 
groups of consecutive tokens of the text and indicating, within each group, any 

tokens that meet a POS-based removal criterion; and 
(d) using the group data to obtain summarized text data defining a 
summarized version of the text in which tokens in each group that are indicated 

as meeting the removal criterion are removed so that the number of tokens in 
the summarized version of the text is less than the number of tokens in the text. 
The method of claim 1, wherein (c) comprises: 

(c1) obtaining first group type data indicating one or more groups of 
consecutive tokens that have a first word group type, and, within each group 

having the first word group type, any tokens that meet a first POS-based 
removal criterion applicable to groups of the first word group type; 
(c2) obtaining second group type data indicating one or more groups of 
consecutive tokens that have a second word group type, and, within each group 

having the second word group type, any tokens that meet a second POS-based 
removal criterion applicable to groups of the second word group type. 
The method of claim 2, wherein said first word group type is a verb group 
type, and said first group type data include, for each group having the first word 

group type, a verb group start element preceding the group and a verb group end 
element following the group. 
The method of claim 2 or 3, wherein said second word group type is a 
noun group type, and said second group type data include, for each group having 

 
the second word group type, a noun group start element preceding the group and 

a noun group end element following the group. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein (b) comprises: 

(b1) using the input text data to tokenize the text, the tokenized text 
including one or more tokenized sentences, each tokenized sentence including, 

in sequence, two or more word tokens and a sentence-final token, the word 
tokens each indicating a word of text and the sentence-final token indicating the 

end of a sentence; and 
(b2) obtaining POS data for each of the tokenized sentences from (b1); 
and in which, in (c), the POS data for each tokenized sentence are used to obtain 

group data for the sentence and, in (d), the group data for each sentence are 
used to obtain summarized text data for the sentence. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein (a) comprises 

(a1) using an image capture device directed upon an image bearing 
portable medium containing text matter to generate image data representative of 

the text matter; and 
(a2) converting the image data to machine readable text data, the text 
data being a representation of the text matter, the text data being said input text 

data. 
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising: 

(e) converting the summarized text data to audio data, the audio data being a 
representation of the pronunciation of the words in the summarized text data, and 

emitting sounds corresponding to said audio data. 
A system for automatically summarizing text, the system comprising: 

input text data defining a text that includes two or more tokens; and 
a processor connected for accessing the input text data; the processor 
automatically summarizing the text; in automatically summarizing, the processor 

operating to: 

use the input text data to obtain part-of-speech (POS) data indicating 
parts of speech for tokens in the text; 
use the POS data to obtain group data indicating one or more groups of 
consecutive tokens of the text and indicating, within each group, any tokens that 

meet a POS-based removal criterion; and 
use the group data to obtain summarized text data defining a summarized 
version of the text in which tokens in each group that are indicated as meeting 

the removal criterion are removed so that the number of tokens in the 
summarized version of the text is less than the number of tokens in the text. 
A method for automatically summarizing text, comprising: 

(A) receiving a signal from a user input device selecting one of a set of 
part-of-speech (POS) based removal criteria and obtaining input text data 

defining a text that includes two or more tokens; 
(B) using the input text data to obtain POS data indicating parts of 
speech for tokens in the text; and 
(C) using the POS data to obtain summarized text data defining a 
summarized version of the text in which tokens are removed in accordance with 

the selected POS based criterion so that the number of tokens in the summarized 
version of the text is less than the number of tokens in the text. 
The method of claim 9 in which (A) comprises: 

(A1) displaying on a display device an image showing the set of POS 
based removal criteria; and 
(A2) receiving the signal from the user input device, the signal selecting 
the selected POS based removal criterion. 
The method of claim 9 or 10, further comprising: 
(D) converting the summarized text data to audio data, the audio data being a 
representation of the pronunciation of the words in the summarized text data , 

and emitting sounds corresponding to said audio data. 
A system for automatically summarizing text, the system comprising: 

input text data defining a text that includes two or more tokens; and 
a processor connected for accessing the input text data; the processor 
automatically summarizing the text; in automatically summarizing, the processor 

operating to: 

receive a signal from a user input device selecting one of a set of part-of-speech 
(POS) based removal criteria; 
use the input text data to obtain POS data indicating parts of speech for 
tokens in the text; and 
use the POS data to obtain summarized text data defining a summarized 
version of the text in which tokens are removed in accordance with the selected 

POS based criterion so that the number of tokens in the summarized version of 
the text is less than the number of tokens in the text. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
