<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642393</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A CLEANSING AND STERILIZATION MECHANISM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L220	A61L220	A61L1100	A61L1100	A61L1200	A61L1212	B08B310	B08B310	G02C1300	G02C1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	B08B	B08B	G02C	G02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L2	A61L2	A61L11	A61L11	A61L12	A61L12	B08B3	B08B3	G02C13	G02C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cleansing and sterilization mechanism which is usable on contact lenses, surgical instruments, dental tools, and other items which require regular cleansing and sterilization. Using ozone (58) as the cleansing and sterilization medium, the apparatus (50) provides for added guaranty of operation through the use of feedback mechanism (53 and 54) to assure that all the components (55 and 58) are working and that the to-be-cleaned items are exposed to the ozone bath for the specified time. Furthermore, the item is capable of communicating, via phone line (57), to a central unit which monitors the operation and performance of the mechanism (50). Other characteristics of the invention provide for improved sterilization techniques through ease of operation, effectiveness, and such.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEW IMPORT EXPORT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEW IMPORT/EXPORT INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGFORD TERRENCE R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGFORD, TERRENCE, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A CLEANSING AND STERILIZATION MECHANISM Bac crround of the Invention:This invention relates generally to cleansing and sterilization of items and more particularly to the cleansin and sterilization of items through the use of ozone.Although this invention has tremendous applications to variety of items to be cleaned including but not limited to, dental tools, surgical instruments, implants, etc., for an understanding of the problems associated with cleansing and sterilization, the following discussion focusses on the cleansing and sterilization of contact lenses.The success or tragic failure of contact lens wear is ultimately determined by the care and aseptic handling of the lenses. With over seventeen million contact lens wearers in the United States spending two billion dollars on contact len supplies, a simple one step cleaning and sterilizing process is sought. Both hard and soft lenses currently need daily, o in the case of extended wear contacts, weekly cleaning and antiseptic treatment. By their very nature, being in close relationship with the wearer for extended periods of time, contact lenses are susceptible to both: buildups of protein and lipids from the wearer; and also from contamination from microorganisms. Either of these, buildup or contamination, can have debilitating affects such as reduced vision, scarring of the eye, and even blindness.Hydrophilic contact lenses, being soft and composed mainly of water, have made the problem of cleaning even more difficult. Physical pressure on the hydrophilic lense may cause rips; strong disinfectants become lodged within the bod of hydrophilic lense itself and then irritate the wearer's ey causing an ulcer.Without a good cleaning process, both the hard and soft contact lense is susceptible to a wide variety of contaminating microorganisms including: Acanthamoeba,Pseudomonas organisms, Alcaligenes faecalis, staph, Aureus, and Enterobacter aerogenes. 

 For a thorough understanding of the diseases associated with contact lenses, see: "Pseudomonas aeruginosa Contamination of Hydrophilic Contact Lenses and Solutions", b Milauskas, appearing in Transactions of the American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otology, vol. 76, March-April 1972, page 511; "Complications Associated with Contact Lens Solutions", by Morgan, appearing in Ophthalmology AAO, vol. 86, June 1979 page 1107; "The Soft Plastic Contact Lenses", by Dastoor, appearing the Indian Journal of Ophthalmology, vol. XXI, on page 25; "Microbiological Evaluation of Soft Contact Lens Disinfecting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is: 1 1. A contact lense cleaning system having: a) a housing; b) an ozone generator for producing ozone, said ozone generator located within said housing;
5 c) a contact lense container being insertable into said housing d) a pump for transferring ozone from said ozone generator to sa contact lense container, said pump being located in said housing; e) a switch located on said housing for operator activation; f) means for sensing operation of said ozone generator and 10 generating an ozone operating signal having at least two states; g) means for sensing operation of said pump and generating a pum operating signal having at least two states; and, h) control means for,
1) activating said pump and said ozone generator in ■re response to activation of said switch, and,
2) deactivating said pump and said ozone generator in response to the states of said ozone generating signal and said pump generating signal.
2. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 1 wherein said control means further includes: a) clock means for determining elapsed time from activation of said pump and said ozone generator; and, b) means for deactivating said pump and said ozone generator when the elapsed time is equal to a predetermined level.
3. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 2 further including means for receipt of electrical power to said lense cleaning system, and wherein said control means further includes: a) means for sensing a power failure to said contact lense cleaning system; and, b) means for initializing said clock means upon restoration of power to said contact lense cleaning system.
4. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 3 further including a non-volatile memory means and wherein said control means includes means for recording, in said memory means, usage data indicative of operation of said contact lense cleaning system. 


 5. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 4 furthe including communication means for receipt of command data and transmissio of usage data via a telephone line and wherein said control means include means for transmitting said usage data from said memory in response to sa command data.
6. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 5 wherei said memory means further includes use counter data and wherein said control means includes: a) means for, prior to activation of said pump and said ozone generator, comparing said use counter data with said usage data; and, b) means for terminating operation if said usage data equals or exceeds said counter data.
7. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 1 wherei said contact lense container includes: a) a first valve being automatically sealed upon removal of said contact lense container from said housing, said first valve for receipt o ozone from said pump; and, b) a second valve being automatically sealed upon removal of sai contact lense container from said housing, said second valve permitting excess ozone within said container to pass into the environment.
8. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 7 wherei said contact lense container includes a sealable opening for putting contact lenses into said contact lense container.
9. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 1 further including: a) a liquid agent contained in said contact lense container; and, b) a diffuser, located in said contact lense container, for diffusion of said ozone in said liquid agent.
10. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 9 wherein said diffuser includes at least one flat plate diffuser. 


 1 11. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 1 where said ozone generator includes an ultraviolet lamp for generation of said ozone.
1 12. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 11 where said ultraviolet lamp is U shaped and further including a chamber encirculing said ultraviolet lamp, said chamber having a first end open f receipt of ambient air from said pump and a second end communicating with
5 said first valve of said contact lense container.
1 13. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 7 furthe including an ozone trap interposed between a second valve of said contact lense container and the environment.
1 14. A contact lense cleaning system having: a) a housing; b) an ozone generator for producing ozone, said ozone generator located within said housing; c) a contact lense container being insertable into said housing; and, d) a pump for transferring ozone from said ozone generator to sai contact lense container, said pump being located in said housing.
15. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 14 furthe including: a) a switch located on said housing for operator activation; b) means for sensing operation of said ozone generator and generating an ozone operating signal having at least two states; c) means for sensing operation of said pump and generating a pump operating signal having at least two states; and, d) control means for,
1) activating said pump and said ozone generator in o response to activation of said switch, and,
2) deactivating said pump and said ozone generator in response to the states of said ozone generating signal and said pump generating signal. 


 16. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 15 where said control means further includes: a) clock means for determining elapsed time from activation of said pump and said ozone generator; and, b) means for deactivating said pump and said ozone generator whe the elapsed time is equal to a predetermined level.
17. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 16 furthe including means for receipt of electrical power to said lense cleaning system, and wherein said control means further includes: a) means for sensing a power to failure to said contact lense cleaning system; and, b) means for initializing said clock means upon restoration of power to said contact lense cleaning system.
18. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 17 furthe including a non-volatile memory means and wherein said control means includes means for recording, in said memory means, usage data indicative of operation of said contact lense cleaning system.
19. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 18 furthe including communication means for receipt of command data and transmission of usage data via a telephone line and wherein said control means includes means for transmitting said usage data from said memory in response to sai command data.
20. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 19 wherei said memory means further includes use counter data and wherein said control means includes: a) means for, prior to activation of said pump and said ozone generator, comparing said use counter data with said usage data; and, b) means for terminating operation if said usage data equals or exceeds said counter data. 


 21'. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 14 where said contact lense container includes: a) a first valve being automatically sealed upon removal of said contact lense container from said housing, said first valve for receipt o ozone from said pump; and, b) a second valve being automatically sealed upon removal of sai contact lense container from said housing, said second valve permitting excess ozone within said container to pass into the environment.
22. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 21 wherei said contact lense container includes a sealable opening for putting contact lenses into said contact lense container.
23. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 14 furthe including: a) a liquid agent contained in said contact lense container; and, b) a diffuser, located in said contact lense container, for diffusion of said ozone in said liquid agent.
24. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 23 wherei said diffuser is a flat plate diffuser.
25. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 14 wherei said ozone generator includes an ultraviolet lamp for generation of said ozone.
26. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 25 wherein said ultraviolet lamp is U
"
 shaped and further including a chamber encirculing said ultraviolet lamp, said chamber having a first end open for receipt of ambient air and a second end communicating with said pump.
27. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 21 further including an ozone trap interposed between said second valve of said contact lense container and the environment. 


 28. A cleansing and sterilization mechanism comprising: a) a housing having at least two slots therein; b) an ozone generator for producing ozone, said ozone generator located within said housing; c) at least two containers being insertable into the slots of sa housing; d) a pump for transferring ozone from said ozone generator to a selected group of said at least two containers, said pump being located i said housing; β) a switch located on said housing for operator activation; f) sensing means for identifying which of said slots have a container therein and for generating slot occupation data indicative thereof; and, g) control means for, 1) activating said pump and said ozone generator in response to activation of said switch, and 2) for directing, in response to said slot occupation data, ozone to a selected group of said at least two containers.
29. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim further including: a) means for sensing operation of said ozone generator and generating an ozone operating signal having at least two states; b) means for sensing operation of said pump and generating a pu operating signal having at least two states; and, wherein said control means includes means for deactivating said pump and said ozone generator i response to the states of said ozone generating signal and said pump generating signal.
30. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 2 wherein said control means further includes: a) clock means for determining elapsed time of ozone being delivered to each of said slots; and, b) means for discontinuing delivery of ozone to a slot when said slot's elapsed time is equal to a predetermined level. 


 31. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim further including means for receipt of electrical power to said lense cleaning system, and wherein said control means further includes: a) means for sensing a power failure to said contact lense cleaning system; and, b) means for initializing said clock means upon restoration of power to said contact lense cleaning system.
32. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 3 further including a non-volatile memory means and wherein said control means includes means for recording, in said memory means, usage data indicative of operation of said contact lense cleaning system.
33. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 3 further including communication means for receipt of command data and transmission of usage data via a telephone line and wherein said control means includes means for transmitting said usage data from said memory in response to said command data.
34. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 33 wherein said memory means further includes use counter data and wherein said control means includes: a) means for, prior to activation of said pump and said ozone generator, comparing said use counter data with said usage data; and, b) means for terminating operation if said usage data equals or exceeds said counter data.
35. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 28 wherein each of said at least two containers includes: a) a resealable door for deposit of items to-be-cleaned into said container; and, b) status indicator means having at least two states and being visible to an operator, at least one of said states of said status indicator being in response to opening of said resealable door. 


 36. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim wherein said control means includes means for changing states of said status indicator.
37. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 3 wherein each of said containers includes: a) a first valve being automatically sealed upon removal of said contact lense container from said housing, said first valve for receipt of ozone from said pump; and, b) a second valve being automatically sealed upon removal of sai contact lense container from said housing, said second valve permitting excess ozone within said container to pass into the environment.
38. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 2 further including: a) a liquid agent contained in said containers; and, b) a diffuser, located in each of said at least two containers, for diffusion of said ozone in said liquid agent.
39. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 3 wherein the diffuser in each of said at least two containers includes at least one flat plate diffuser.
40. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 2 wherein said ozone generator includes an ultraviolet lamp for generation o said ozone.
41. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 4 wherein said ultraviolet lamp is U shaped and further including a chamber encirculing said ultraviolet lamp, said chamber having a first end open fo receipt of ambient from said pump air and a second end communicating with the first of each of said at least two containers.
42. An ozone generation system comprising: a) means for supplying oxygen gas under pressure; b) a container having therein an article to be exposed to ozone, said container having an inlet port and an outlet port; and, c) an ozone generator receiving oxygen gas from said means for supplying oxygen gas and communicating an oxygen with ozone gas stream to the inlet port of said container. 


 43. The ozone generation system according to claim 42 wherein said inlet port contains a valve permitting disengagement of said container fr said ozone generator.
44. The ozone generation system according to claim 43 wherein said article to be exposed to ozone includes a hollow tube having N openings therein and further including an adapter attached to an interior side of said inlet port, said adapter communicating said gas stream to N-l of said N openings in said hollow tube.
45. The ozone generating system according to claim 44 wherein the valve in said inlet port includes pressure sensing means for opening said valve in said inlet port when a preselected pressure difference exists between the interior of said container and said ozone generator.
46. The ozone generation system according to claim 44 further including an ozone destruction means for destroying ozone, said ozone destruction means communicating with said outlet port of said container.
47. The ozone generation system according to claim 46 wherein said outlet port includes a valve which seals upon disengagement of said container from said ozone destruction means.
48. The ozone generation system according to claim 47 wherein said valve in said outlet port includes means for releasing gas from said container when pressure within said container reaches a predetermined level.
49. The ozone generation system according to claim 45 wherein said means for supplying oxygen includes a pressure vessel containing a substantially pure source of oxygen under pressure.
50. The ozone generation system according to claim 45 wherein said container is a rigid structure. 


 51. The ozone generation system according to claim 45 wherein said container is a flexible bag.
52. The ozone generation system according to claim 45further including means for cooling said container to a selected temperature.
53. An ozone generation system comprising: a) means for supplying oxygen gas under pressure; -and, b) an ozone generator receiving oxygen gas from said means for supplying oxygen gas and generating a gaseous stream of oxygen and ozone.
54. The ozone generation system according to claim 53 further including a container having therein an article to be exposed to ozone, said container having an inlet port and an outlet port said inlet port receiving said gaseous stream from said ozone generator.
55. The ozone generation system according to claim 54 further including means for chilling said container to a preselected temperature.
56. The ozone generation system according to claim 55 wherein said inlet port contains a valve which seals upon disengagement of said container from said ozone generator.
57. The ozone generation system according to claim 56 wherein said article to be exposed to ozone includes a hollow article having N openings therein and further including an adapter attached to an interior side of said inlet port, said adapter communicating said gaseous stream to N-l of said N openings in said hollow article.
58. The ozone generating system according to claim 57 wherein the valve in said inlet port includes pressure sensing means for opening said valve in said inlet port when a preselected pressure difference exists between the interior of said container and said ozone generator.
59. The ozone generation system according to claim 57 further including an ozone destruction means for destroying ozone, said ozone destruction means communicating with said outlet port of said container. 


 60. The ozone generation system according to claim 59 wherein said outlet port includes a valve permitting disengagement of said container from said ozone destruction means.
61. The ozone generation system according to claim 60 wherein said valve in said outlet port includes means for releasing gas from said container when pressure within said container reaches a predetermined level.
62. The ozone generation system according to claim 58 wherein said means for supplying oxygen includes a pressure vessel containing a substantially pure source of oxygen under pressure.
63. The ozone generation system according to claim 58 wherein said container is a rigid structure.
64. The ozone generation system according to claim 58 wherein said container is a flexible bag.
65. An dry gas sterilizing mechanism comprising: a) means for supplying oxygen gas under pressure; b) a container having therein an article to be exposed to ozone, said container having an inlet port and and outlet port, said container maintaining an internal gaseous pressure at a predetermined level; c) an ozone generator receiving oxygen gas from said means for supplying ojqrgen gas and communicating a gaseous stream of oxygen and ozone to the inlet port of said container; and, d) means for maintaining said container at a preselected temperature.
66. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 65 wherein said article to be exposed to ozone includes a hollow tube having N openings therein and further including an adapter attached to an interior side of said inlet port, said adapter communicating said gaseous stream to N-l of said N openings in said hollow tube. 


 67. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 66 wherei said inlet port contains a valve permitting disengagement between said container from said ozone generator, and further having pressure sensing means for opening said inlet port when a preselected pressure difference exists between the interior of said container and said ozone generator.
68. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 67 furthe including an ozone destruction means for destroying ozone, said ozone destruction means receiving excess gas from said outlet port of said container.
69. The ozone generation system according to claim 67 wherein said outlet port includes a valve permitting disengagement of said container from said ozone destruction means and includes means for releasing gas fr said container when pressure within said container reaches a predetermine level.
70. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 69 wherei said means for supplying oxygen includes a pressure vessel containing a substantially pure source of oxygen under pressure.
71. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 70 wherei said container is a rigid structure.
72. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 70 wherei said container is a flexible bag.
73. An ozonenating system comprising: a) a pressure vessel having a selected liquid therein; b) means for injecting pressurized ozone gas into the liquid withi said pressure vessel; c) a container having an article therein; d) means for communicating a mixture of liquid and ozone gas from said pressure vessel to said container such that said mixture contacts sai article; and, e) means for removing excess mixture from said container. 


 74. The ozonenating system according to claim 73 further including means for chilling said container and said pressure vessel.
75. The ozonenating system according to claim 74 wherein said mean for removing excess mixture communicates said excess mixture to an ozone destruct mechanism.
76. The ozonenating system according to claim 74 wherein said means for removing excess mixture communicates with a waste water disposal system.
77. The ozonenating system according to claim 74 further including means for diffusing said ozone gas in said selected liquid in said pressur vessel.
78. The ozonenating system according to claim 77wherein said liquid is distilled water.
79. The ozonenating system according to claim 78 further including: a) first valve means for disengaging said container from said pressurized vessel; and, b) second valve means for disengaging said container from said mean for destruct.
80. The ozonenating system according to claim 79 wherein said first and said second valve means seal upon disengagement.
81. The ozonenating system according to claim 80 wherein said first valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from said pressure vessel.
82. The ozonenating system according to claim 80 wherein said second valve means includes means for regulating an outflow rate so as to maintain a selected amount of pressure from said container. 


 83. The ozonenating system according to claim 80 wherein said article within said container includes a hollow tube having at least N openings and further including an adapter means communicating mixture fro said pressure vessel via said first valve to N-l of said N openings in sa hollow tube.
84. An ozone bath generating system comprising: a) a pressure vessel having a selected liquid material therein; b) means for injecting pressurized ozone gas into the liquid material within said pressure vessel; and, c) means for chilling said pressure vessel.
85. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 84 further including: a) a container having an article therein; b) means for communicating a mixture of liquid material and ozone gas from said pressure vessel to said container; and, e) means for removing excess mixture from said container.
86. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 85 further including means for destroying ozone is said excess mixture.
87. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 86 wherein said means for removing excess mixture communicates with a waste water disposal system.
88. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 85 further including means for diffusing said ozone gas in said liquid material in said pressure vessel.
89. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 88 wherein said liquid material is distilled water.
90. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 89 further including: a) first valve means for disengaging said container from said pressurized vessel; and, b) second valve means for disengaging said container from said mean for destroying ozone. 


 91. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 90 wherein said first and said second valve means seal upon disengagement.
92. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 91 wherein said first valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from sa pressure vessel.
93. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 91 wherein said second valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from said container.
94. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 91 wherein said article within said container includes a hollow article having at least N openings and further including an adapter means communicating mixture from said pressure vessel via said first valve to N-l of said N openings in said article tube.
95. An sterilizing system comprising: a) a pressure vessel having a selected liquid material therein; b) means for injecting pressurized ozone gas into the liquid material within said pressure vessel; c) a container having an article therein; d) means for communicating said mixture of liquid material and ozon gas from said pressure vessel to said container; e) means for removing excess mixture from said container; and, f) means for chilling said container and said pressure vessel.
96. The sterilizing system according to claim 95 further including means for destroying ozone in said excess mixture from said container.
97. The sterilizing system according to claim 95 wherein said means for removing excess mixture communicates with a waste water disposal system.
98. The sterilizing system according to claim 95 further including means for diffusing said ozone gas in said liquid material within said pressure vessel. 


 99. The sterilizing system according to claim 98 wherein said liqui material is distilled water.
100. The sterilizing system according to claim 99 further including a) first valve means for disengaging said container from said pressurized vessel; and, b) second valve means for disengaging said container from said mean for destruct.
101. The sterilizing system according to claim 100 wherein said first and said second valve means seal upon disengagement.
102. The sterilizing system according to claim 101 wherein said first valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from said pressure vessel.
103. The sterilizing system according to claim 101 wherein said second valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from said container.
104. The sterilizing system according to claim 101 wherein said article within said container includes a hollow tube having at least N openings and further including an adapter means communicating mixture from said pressure vessel via said first valve to N-l of said N openings in sai hollow tube.
105. A cleansing and sterilization mechanism comprising: a) a drum being water sealed and having a primary entry for deposit of flexible articles; b) means for creating an ozone bath in said drum; and, c) agitation means for agitating said ozone bath and said articles.
106. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 105 wherein said agitation means includes means for generating a sonic vibration in said ozone bath. 


 107. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
105 wherein said ozone bath is a gaseous mixture of oxygen and ozone.
108. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 105 wherein said ozone bath is a liquid with gaseous ozone suspended therein.
109. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 108 wherein said liquid is water.
110. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 109 further including filter means for filtration of water prior to creation of said ozone bath.
111. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 08 wherein said drum includes means for sealing said primary entry.
112. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 11 further including means for pressurizing said drum.
113. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 12 further including means for discharging liquid from said drum.
114. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 13 further including means for spinning said drum.
115. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 14 further including cooling means for chilling said drum. 


 116. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
115 further including: a) detergent adding means for depositing detergent into said drum; and, b) control means for,
1) directing the means for creating an ozone bath to create first ozone bath,
2) causing said detergent adding means to deposit detergent into said drum, 3) directing said agitation means to agitate the detergent a said first ozone bath mixture,
4) causing said means for discharging to empty said detergen and ozone bath mixture from said drum,
5) directing the means for creating an ozone bath to create second ozone bath,
6) causing said agitation means to agitate said second ozone bath, and,
7) simultaneously directing,
A) said means for discharging to empty liquid from sai drum, and,
B) said means for spinning to spin said drum.
117. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 108 further including a reservoir for holding said ozone bath and wherein said means for creating an ozone bath draws said bathing mixture from sai reservoir.
118. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 117 wherein said reservoir is sealed and pressurized.
119. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 118 wherein said cooling means includes means for chilling said reservoir.
120. A biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism comprising: a) means for creating an ozone bath of a selected liquid and suspended ozone gas, said ozone bath surrounding biologically contaiminat materials; and, b) agitation means for mechanically agitating said ozone bath and said biologically contaminated material. 


 121. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism accordin to claim 120 wherein said agitation means includes means for generating a sonic vibration in said ozone bath.
1 122. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism accordin to claim 120 wherein said selected liquid is water.
1 123. The biologically hazaradous waste treatment mechansim accordin to claim 120 further including filter means for filtration of water prior to creation of said ozone bath.
1 124. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 121 further including a drum for holding said ozone bath and said biologically contaminated material, said drum having, a) a primary entry for deposit of said material; and,
5 b) means for operator sealing said primary entry.
1 125. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 124 further including means for pressurizing said drum.
_ 126. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 125 further including means for discharging liquid from said drum.
127. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 126further including means for spinning said drum.
128. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 127 further including cooling means for chilling said drum to a selected temperture. 


 129. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism accordin to claim 128 further including: a) detergent adding means for depositing detergent into said drum; and, b) control means for,
1) directing the means for creating an ozone bath to create first ozone bath in said drum,
2) causing said detergent adding means to deposit detergent into said drum, 3) directing said agitation means to agitate any contents of said drum,
4) causing said means for discharging to empty the detergent and ozone bath mixture from said drum,
5) directing the means for creating an ozone bath to create second ozone bath in said drum,
6) causing said agitation means to agitate said ozone bath, and,
7) simultaneously directing,
A) said means for discharging to empty liquid from sai drum, and,
B) said means for spinning to spin said drum.
130. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 129 further including a reservoir containing a bath mixture of liquid material with ozone gas dispersed therein and wherein said means fo creating an ozone bath draws said bath mixture from said reservoir.
131. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 130 wherein said reservoir is sealed and pressurized.
132. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 131 wherein said cooling means includes means for chilling said reservoir. 


 133. A biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism comprising: a) means for creating an ozone bath of liquid and suspended ozone gas surrounding material contaminated with biological materials; b) agitation means for mechanically agitating said ozone bath and said material; c) a drum for holding said ozone bath and said material, said drum having,
1) a primary entry for deposit of said material, and,
2) means for sealing said primary entry; d) means for pressurizing said drum; e) detergent adding means for depositing detergent into said drum; and, f) control means for,
1) creating a first mixture of an ozone bath with detergent i said drum via said means for creating an ozone bath and said detergent adding means in said drum,
2) agitating the first mixture in said drum via said agitatin means,
3) discharging said first mixture from said drum, 4) creating a second mixture of an ozone bath via said means for creating an ozone bath in said drum,
5) agitating the second mixture in said drum via said agitating means, and,
6) emptying the second mixture from said drum.
134. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according t claim 133 wherein said agitation means includes means for generating a sonic vibration in said ozone bath.
135. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 133 further including means for spinning said drum and wherein said means for emptying the second mixture includes means for simulteineously, a) discharging liquid from said drum; and, b) spinning said drum via said means for spinning.
136. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 135 further including cooling means for chilling said drum. 


 137. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according claim 134 further including a reservoir containing a bath mixture of a selected liquid with ozone gas dispersed therein and wherein said means f creating an ozone bath draws said bath mixture from said reservoir.
138. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according claim 137 wherein said reservoir is sealed and pressurized.
139. A method of treating biologically hazardous waste comprising the steps of: a) creating a first mixture of a first selected liquid having gaseous ozone suspended therein with detergent in a drum having biologically contaminated materials therein; b) agitating the first mixture in said drum; c) discharging said first mixture and residue from said drum; d) creating a second mixture of a second selected liquid with gaseous ozone suspended therein in said drum; e) agitating the second mixture in said drum; and, f) emptying the second mixture from said drum.
140. The method of treating biologically hazardous waste according to claim 139 wherein the step of agitating the first mixture includes the step of creating a sonic vibration in said first mixture, and wherein the step of agitating the second mixture incudes the step of creating a sonic vibration in said second mixture.
141. The method of treating biologically hazardous waste according to claim 139 further including the step of spinning said drum during the step of emptying the second mixture from said drum.
142. The method of treating biologically hazardous waste according to claim 139 further including the step of cooling said drum when a mixtur is present in said drum.
143. A flexible bag for sterilizing through application of ozone having an inlet port and an outlet port, said inlet port for receiving ozone from an ozone generator and said outlet port for communication of ozone to an ozone from said flexible bag destruct mechanism. 


 144. The flexible bag according to claim 143 wherein said inlet po and said outlet port seal upon disengagement.
145. The flexible bag according to claim 143 wherein said inlet po contains an inlet valve permitting disengagement of said flexible bag fro the ozone generator.
146. The flexible bag according to claim 145 wherein said inlet valve includes pressure sensing means for opening said inlet valve when preselected pressure difference exists between the interior of said flexible bag and said ozone generator.
147. The flexible bag according to claim 146 wherein said outlet port includes an outlet valve permitting disengagement of said flexible ba from the ozone destruct mechanism.
148. The flexible bag according to claim 147 wherein said outlet valve includes means for releasing gas from said flexible bag when pressur within said flexible bag reaches a predetermined level.
149_ The flexible bag according to claim 148 wherein a first end of said bag is open for deposit of articles into said flexible bag.
150. The flexible bag according to claim 149 wherein the first end is sealable.
151. The flexible bag according to claim 150 wherein said first end is sealed by heat melding side portions of said flexible bag.
152. The flexible bag according to claim 150 wherein a first side of said first end includes a bead and a second side of said first end includes a bead locking mechanism. 


 153. A sterilizing bag comprising: a) two flexible side members sealed around a portion of the periphery thereof and forming an envelope therein; b) an inlet port; and, c) an outlet port.
154. The sterilizing bag according to claim 153 wherein said inlet port and said outlet port seal upon disengagement.
155. The sterilizing bag according to claim 153 wherein said inlet port contains an inlet valve mechanism permitting simultaneous disengagement and sealing of said inlet port.
156. The sterilizing bag according to claim 155 wherein valve in said inlet port includes pressure sensing means for opening said inlet valve mechanism when a preselected pressure difference exists between the interior and exterior and of said sterilizing bag.
157. The sterilizing bag according to claim 156 wherein said outlet port includes an outlet valve mechanism permitting simultaneous disengagement and sealing of said outlet port.
158. The sterilizing bag according to claim 157 wherein said outlet valve mechanism includes means for releasing gas from said sterilizing bag when pressure within said sterilizing bag reaches a predetermined level.
159. The sterilizing bag according to claim 158 wherein a first end of said bag is open for deposit of articles.
160. The sterilizing bag according to claim 159 wherein the first end is sealable.
161. The sterilizing bag according to claim 160 wherein said first end is sealed by heat melding said side portions of said sterilizing bag. 


 162. The sterilizing bag according to claim 160 wherein a first sid of said first end includes a bead and a second side of said first end includes a bead locking mechanism.
163. A sterilizing bag comprising: a) two flexible side members sealed around the periphery thereof an forming an envelope therein; b) an inlet port having an inlet valve mechanism permitting simultaneous disengagement and sealing of said inlet port, and pressure sensing means for opening said inlet valve mechanism when a preselected pressure difference exists across the inlet valve mechanism; and, c) an outlet port having an outlet valve mechanism permitting simultaneous disengagement and sealing of said outlet port, and means for releasing gas from said envelope when pressure within said envelope reaches a predetermined level.
164. The sterilizing bag according to claim 163 wherein a first end of said bag is open for deposit of articles.
165. The sterilizing bag according to claim 164 wherein the first end is sealable.
166. The sterilizing bag according to claim 165 wherein said first end is sealed by heat melding portions of said flexible sides.
167. The sterilizing bag according to claim 165 wherein a first flexible side at said first end includes a bead and a second flexible side at said first end includes a bead locking mechanism. 

[received by the International Bureau on 11 March 1993 (11.03.93); original claims 23-26 cancelled; claims 105 and 116 replaced by amended claim 105; claims 120, 124 and 127 replaced by amended claim 120; claims 139 and 141 replaced by amended claim 139; other claims unchanged (28 pages)]
1 1. A contact lense deeming system having: a) a housing; b) an ozone generator for producing ozone, said ozone generator located within said housing;
5 c) a contact lense container being insertable into said housing; d) a pump for transferring ozone from said ozone generator to said contact lense container, said pump being located in said housing; e) a switch located on said housing for operator activation; f) means for sensing operation of .said ozone- generator and 10 generating an ozone operating signal having at least two states; g) means for sensing operation of said pump and generating a pump operating signal having at least two states; and, h) control means for,
1) activating said pump and said ozone generator in 5 response to activation of said switch, and,
2) deactivating said pump and said ozone generator in response to the states of said ozone generating signal and said pump generating signal.
1 2. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 1 wherein said control means further includes: a) clock means for determining elapsed time from activation of said pump and said ozone generator; and, 
D
 b) means for deactivating said pump and said ozone generator when the elapsed time is equal to a predetermined level.
' 3. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 2 further including means for receipt of electrical power to said lense cleaning system, and wherein said control means further includes: a) means for sensing a power failure to said contact lense 
1
 cleaning system; and, b) means for initializing said clock means upon restoration of 


 4. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 3 further including a non-volatile memory means and wherein said control means includes means for recording, in said memory means, usage data indicative of operation of said contact lense cleaning system.
5. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 4 further including communication means for receipt of command data and transmission of usage data via a telephone line and wherein said control means includes means for transmitting said usage data from said memory in response to said command data.
6. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 5 wherein said memory means further includes use counter data and wherein said control means includes: a) means for, prior to activation of said pump and said ozone generator, comparing said use counter data with said usage data; and, b) means for terminating operation if said usage data equals or exceeds said counter data.
7. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 1 wherein said contact lense container includes: a) a first valve being automatically sealed upon removal of said contact lense container from said housing, said first valve for receipt of ozone from said pump; and, b) a second valve being automatically sealed upon removal of said contact lense container from said housing, said second valve permitting excess ozone within said container to pass into the environment.
8. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 7 wherein said contact lense container includes a sealable opening for putting contact lenses into said contact lense container. 


 9. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 1 further including: a) a liquid agent contained in said contact lense container; and, b) a diffuser, located in said contact lense container, for diffusion of said ozone in said liquid agent.
10. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 9 wherein said diffuser includes at least one flat plate diffuser.
11. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 1 wherein said ozone generator includes an ultraviolet lamp for generation of said ozone.
12. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 11 wherein said ultraviolet lamp is ϋ shaped and further including a chamber encirculing said ultraviolet lamp, said chamber having a first end open for receipt of ambient air from said pump and a second end communicating with said first valve of said contact lense container.
13. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 7 further including an ozone trap interposed between a second valve of 
'
said contact lense container and the environment.
14. A contact lense cleaning system having: a) a housing; b) an ozone generator for producing ozone, said ozone generator located within said housing; c) a contact lense container being insertable into said housing; and, d) a pump for transferring ozone from said ozone generator to said contact lense container, said pump being located in said housing. 


 1 15. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 14 further including: a) a switch located on said housing for operator activation; b) means for sensing operation of said ozone generator and 5 generating an ozone operating signal having at least two states; c) means for sensing operation of said pump and generating a pump operating signal having at least two states; and, d) control means for,
1) activating said pump and said ozone generator in 10 response to activation of said switch, and,
2) deactivating said pump and said ozone generator in response to the states of said ozone generating signal and said pump generating signal.
' 16. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 15 wherein said control means further includes: a) clock means for determining elapsed time from activation of said pump and said ozone generator; and, b) means for deactivating said pump and said ozone generator when the elapsed time is equal to a predetermined level.
17. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 16 further including means for receipt of electrical power to said lense cleaning system, and wherein said control means further includes: a) means for sensing a power to failure to said contact lense cleaning system; and, b) means for initializing said clock means upon restoration of power to said contact lense cleaning system.
18. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 17 further including a non-volatile memory means and wherein said control means includes means for recording, in said memory means, usage data indicative of operation of said contact lense cleaning system. 


 ' 19. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 18 further including communication means for receipt of command data and transmission of usage data via a telephone line and wherein said control means includes means for transmitting said usage data from said memory 5 in response to said command data.
1 20. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 19 wherein said memory means further includes use counter data and wherein said control means includes: a) means for, prior to activation of said pump and said ozone 5 generator, comparing said use counter data with said usage data; and, b) means for terminating operation if said usage data equals or exceeds said counter data.
I 21. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 14 wherein said contact lense container includes: a) a first valve being automatically sealed upon removal of said contact lense container from said housing, said first valve for
1
 receipt of ozone from said pump; and, b) a second valve being automatically sealed upon removal of said contact lense container from said housing, said second valve permitting excess ozone within said container to pass into the environment.
22. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 21 wherein said contact lense container includes a sealable opening for putting contact lenses into said contact lense container.
23. Cancelled
24. Cancelled
25. Cancelled 


1 26. Cancelled
1 27. The contact lense cleaning system according to claim 21 further including an ozone trap interposed between said second valve of said contact lense container and the environment.
' 28. A cleansing and sterilization mechanism comprising: a) a housing having at least two slots therein; b) an ozone generator for producing ozone, said ozone generator located within said housing; c) at least two containers being insertable into the slots of said housing; d) a pump for transferring ozone from said ozone generator to a. selected group of said at least two containers, said pump being located in said housing; 0 e) a switch located on said housing for operator activation; f) sensing means for identifying which of said slots have a container therein and for generating slot occupation data indicative thereof; and, g) control means for, 1) activating said pump and said ozone generator in response to activation of said switch, and
2) for directing, in response to said slot occupation data, ozone to a selected group of said at least two containers.
29. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 28 further including: a) means for sensing operation of said ozone generator and generating an ozone operating signal having at least two states; b) means for sensing operation of said pump and generating a pump operating signal having at least two states; and, wherein said control means includes means for deactivating said pump and said ozone generator in response to the states of said ozone generating signal and said pump generating signal. 


 ' 30. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
29 wherein said control means further includes: a) clock means for determining elapsed time of ozone being delivered to each of said slots; and, 5 b) means for discontinuing delivery of ozone to a slot when said slot's elapsed time is equal to a predetermined level.
1 31. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
30 further including means for receipt of electrical power to said lense cleaning system, and wherein said control means further includes: a) means for sensing a power failure to said contact lense 
3
 cleaning system; and, b) means for initializing said clock means upon restoration of power to said contact lense cleaning system.
' 32. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
31 further including a non-volatile memory means and wherein said control means includes means for recording, in said memory means, usage data indicative of operation of said contact lense cleaning system.
1 33. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
32 further including communication means for receipt of command data and transmission of usage data via a telephone line and wherein said control means includes means for transmitting said usage data from said memory in response to said command data.
34. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
33 wherein said memory means further includes use counter data and wherein said control means includes: a) means for, prior to activation of said pump and said ozone generator, comparing said use counter data with said usage data; and, b) means for terminating operation if said usage data equals or exceeds said counter data. 


 35. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 28 wherein each of said at least two containers includes: a) a resealable door for deposit of items to-be-cleaned into said container; and, b) status indicator means having at least two states and being visible to an operator, at least one of said states of said status indicator being in response to opening of said resealable door.
36. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
35 wherein said control means includes means for changing states of said status indicator.
37. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
36 wherein each of said containers includes: a) a first valve being automatically sealed upon removal of said contact lense container from said housing, said first valve for receipt of ozone from said pump; and, b) a second valve being automatically sealed upon removal of said contact lense container from said housing, said second valve permitting excess ozone within said container to pass into the environment.
38. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 28 further including: a) a liquid agent contained in said containers; and, b) a diffuser, located in each of said at least two containers, for diffusion of said ozone in said liquid agent.
39. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 38 wherein the diffuser in each of said at least two containers includes at least one flat plate diffuser.
40. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 28 wherein said ozone generator includes an ultraviolet lamp for generation of said ozone. 


 41. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 40 wherein said ultraviolet lamp is U shaped and further including a chamber encirculing said ultraviolet lamp, said chamber having a first end open for receipt of ambient from said pump air and a second end communicating with the first of each of said at least two containers.
42. An ozone generation system comprising: a) means for supplying oxygen gas under pressure; b) a container having therein an article to be exposed to ozone, said container having an inlet port and an outlet port; and, c) an ozone generator receiving oxygen gas from said means for supplying oxygen gas and communicating an oxygen with ozone gas stream to the inlet port of said container.
43. The ozone generation system according to claim 42 wherein said inlet port contains a valve permitting disengagement of said container from said ozone generator.
44. The ozone generation system according to claim 43 wherein said article to be exposed to ozone includes a hollow tube having N openings therein and further including an adapter attached to an interior side of said inlet port, said adapter communicating said gas stream to N-l of said N openings in said hollow tube.
45. The ozone generating system according to claim 44 wherein the valve in said inlet port includes pressure sensing means for opening said valve in said inlet port when a preselected pressure difference exists between the interior of said container and said ozone generator.
46. The ozone generation system according to claim 44 further including an ozone destruction means for destroying ozone, said ozone destruction means communicating with said outlet port of said container. 


 47. The ozone generation system according to claim 46 wherein said outlet port includes a valve which seals upon disengagement of said container from said ozone destruction means.
48. The ozone generation system according to claim 47 wherein said valve in said outlet port includes means for releasing gas from said container when pressure within said container reaches a predetermined level.
49. The ozone generation system according to claim 45 wherein said means for supplying oxygen includes a pressure vessel containing a substantially pure source of oxygen under pressure.
50. The ozone generation system according to claim 45 wherein said container is a rigid structure.
51. The ozone generation system according to claim 45 wherein said container is a flexible bag.
52. The ozone generation system according to claim 45further including means for cooling said container to a selected temperature.
53. An ozone generation system comprising: a) means for supplying oxygen gas under pressure; and, b) an ozone generator receiving oxygen gas from said means for supplying oxygen gas and generating a gaseous stream of oxygen and ozone.
54. The ozone generation system according to claim 53 further including a container having therein an article to be exposed to ozone, said container having an inlet port and an outlet port said inlet port receiving said gaseous stream from said ozone generator. 


 55. The ozone generation system according to claim 54 further including means for chilling said container to a preselected temperature.
56. The ozone generation system according to claim 55 wherein said inlet port contains a valve which seals upon disengagement of said container from said ozone generator.
57. The ozone generation system according to claim 56 wherein said article to be exposed to ozone includes a hollow article having N openings therein and further including an adapter attached to an interior side of said inlet port, said adapter communicating said gaseous stream to N-l of said N openings in said hollow article.
58. The ozone generating system according to claim 57 wherein the valve in said inlet port includes pressure sensing means for opening said valve in said inlet port when a preselected pressure difference exists between the interior of said container and said ozone generator.
59. The ozone generation system according to claim 57 further including an ozone destruction means for destroying ozone, said ozone destruction means communicating with said outlet port of said container.
60. The ozone generation system according to claim 59 wherein said outlet port includes a valve permitting disengagement of said container from said ozone destruction means.
61. The ozone generation system according to claim 60 wherein said valve in said outlet port includes means for releasing gas from said container when pressure within said container reaches a predetermined level. 


 1 62. The ozone generation system according to claim 58 wherein said means for supplying oxygen includes a pressure vessel containing a substantially pure source of oxygen under pressure.
1 63. The ozone generation system according to claim 58 wherein said container is a rigid structure.
1 64. The ozone generation system according to claim 58 wherein said container is a flexible bag.
' 65. An dry gas sterilizing mechanism comprising: a) means for supplying oxygen gas under pressure; b) a container having therein an article to be exposed to ozone, said container having an inlet port and and outlet port, said container maintaining an internal gaseous pressure at a predetermined level; c) an ozone generator receiving oxygen gas from said means for supplying oxygen gas and communicating a gaseous stream of oxygen and ozone to the inlet port of said container; and, d) means for maintaining said container at a preselected 0 temperature.
' 66. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 65 wherein said article to be exposed to ozone includes a hollow tube having N openings therein and further including an adapter attached to an interior side of said inlet port, said adapter communicating said gaseous stream to N-l of said N openings in said hollow tube.
67. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 66 wherein said inlet port contains a valve permitting disengagement between said container from said ozone generator, and further having pressure sensing means for opening said inlet port when a preselected pressure difference exists between the interior of said container and said ozone generator. 


 68. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 67 further including an ozone destruction means for destroying ozone, said ozone destruction means receiving excess gas from said outlet port of said container.
69. The ozone generation system according to claim 67 wherein said outlet port includes a valve permitting disengagement of said container from said ozone destruction means and includes means for releasing gas from said container when pressure within said container reaches a predetermined level.
70. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 69 wherein said means for supplying oxygen includes a pressure vessel containing a substantially pure source of oxygen under pressure.
71. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 70 wherein said container is a rigid structure.
72. The dry gas sterilizing mechanism according to claim 70 wherein said container is a flexible bag.
73. An ozonenating system comprising: a) a pressure vessel having a selected liquid therein; b) means for injecting pressurized ozone gas into the liquid within said pressure vessel; c) a container having an article therein; d) means for communicating a mixture of liquid and ozone gas from said pressure vessel to said container such that said mixture contacts said article; and, e) means for removing excess mixture from said container.
74. The ozonenating system according to claim 73 further including means for chilling said container and said pressure vessel. 


 1. 75. The ozonenating system according to claim 74 wherein said means for removing excess mixture communicates said excess mixture to an ozone destruct mechanism.
1 76. The ozonenating system according to claim 74 wherein said means for removing excess mixture communicates with a waste water disposal system.
1 77. The ozonenating system according to claim 74 further including means for diffusing said ozone gas in said selected liquid in said pressure vessel.
1 78. The ozonenating system according to claim 77 wherein said liquid is distilled water.
1 79. The ozonenating system according to claim 78 further including: a) first valve means for disengaging said container from said pressurized vessel; and, 5 b) second valve means for disengaging said container from said means for destruct.
1 80. The ozonenating system according to claim 79 wherein said first and said second valve means seal upon disengagement.
1 
'
81. The ozonenating system according to claim 80 wherein said first valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from said pressure vessel.
' 82. The ozonenating system according to claim 80 wherein said second valve means includes means for regulating an outflow rate so as to maintain a selected amount of pressure from said container. 


' 83. The ozonenating system according to claim 80 wherein said article within said, container includes a hollow tube having at least N openings and further including an adapter means communicating mixture from said pressure vessel via said first valve to N-l of said N openings in said hollow tube.
84. An ozone bath generating system comprising: a) a pressure vessel having a selected liquid material therein; b) means for injecting pressurized ozone gas into the liquid material within said pressure vessel; and, c) means for chilling said pressure vessel.
85. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 84 further including: a) a container having an article therein; b) means for communicating a mixture of liquid material and ozone gas from said pressure vessel to said container; and, e) means for removing excess mixture from said container.
86. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 85 further including means for destroying ozone is said excess mixture.
87. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 86 wherein said means for removing excess mixture communicates with a waste water disposal system.
88. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 85 further including means for diffusing said ozone gas in said liquid material in said pressure vessel.
89. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 88 wherein said liquid material is distilled water. 


 90. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 89 further including: a) first valve means for disengaging said container from said pressurized vessel; and, b) second valve means for disengaging said container from said means for destroying ozone.
91. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 90 wherein said first and said second valve means seal upon disengagement.
92. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 91 wherein said first valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from said pressure vessel.
93. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 91 wherein said second valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from said container.
94. The ozone bath generating system according to claim 91 wherein said article within said container includes a hollow article having at least N openings and further including an adapter means communicating mixture from said pressure vessel via said first valve to N-l of said N openings in said article tube.
95. An sterilizing system comprising: a) a pressure vessel having a selected liquid material therein; b) means for injecting pressurized ozone gas into the liquid material within said pressure vessel; c) a container having an article therein; d) means for communicating said mixture of liquid material and ozone gas from said pressure vessel to said container; e) means for removing excess mixture from said container; and, f) means for chilling said container and said pressure vessel. 


 96. The sterilizing system according to claim 95 further including means for destroying ozone in said excess mixture from said container.
97. The sterilizing system according to claim 95 wherein said means for removing excess mixture communicates with a waste water disposal system.
98. The sterilizing system according to claim 95 further including means for diffusing said ozone gas in said liquid material within said pressure vessel.
99. The sterilizing system according to claim 98 wherein said liquid material is distilled water.
100. The sterilizing system according to claim 99 further including: a) first valve means for disengaging said container from said pressurized vessel; and, b) second valve means for disengaging said container from said means for destruct.
101. The sterilizing system according to claim 100 wherein said first and said second valve means seal upon disengagement.
102. The sterilizing system according to claim 101 wherein said first valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from said pressure vessel.
103. The sterilizing system according to claim 101 wherein said second valve means is opened by a selected amount of pressure from said container. 


 104.. The sterilizing system according to claim 101 wherein said article within said container includes a hollow tube having at least N openings and further including an adapter means communicating mixture from said pressure vessel via said first valve to N-l of said N openings in said hollow tube.
105. A cleansing and sterilization mechanism comprising: a) a drum being water sealed and having a primary entry for deposit of flexible articles; b) means for creating an ozone bath in said drum; c) agitation means for agitating said ozone bath and said articles; d) detergent adding means for depositing detergent into said drum; and, e) control means for, 1) directing the means for creating an ozone bath to create a first ozone bath,
2) causing said detergent adding means to deposit detergent into said drum,
3) directing said agitation means to agitate the detergent and said first ozone bath mixture,
4) causing said means for discharging to empty said detergent and ozone bath mixture from said drum,
5) directing the means for creating an ozone bath to create a second ozone bath, 6) causing said agitation means to agitate said second ozone bath, and, 7) simultaneously directing,
A) said means for discharging to empty liquid from said drum, and, B) said means for spinning to spin said drum. 


 1.06. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 105 wherein said agitation means includes means for generating a sonic vibration in said ozone bath.
107. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 105 wherein said ozone bath is a gaseous mixtμre of oxygen and ozone.
108. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 105 wherein said ozone bath is a liquid with gaseous ozone suspended therein.
109. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
108 wherein said liquid is water.
110. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
109 further including filter means for filtration of water prior to creation of said ozone bath.
111. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 108 wherein said drum includes means for sealing said primary entry.
112. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
111 further including means for pressurizing said drum.
113. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
112 further including means for discharging liquid from said drum.
114. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 13 further including means for spinning said drum.
115. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 14 further including cooling means for chilling said drum.
116. Cancelled 


 117. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim 108 further including a reservoir for holding said ozone bath and wherein said means for creating an ozone bath draws said bathing mixture from said reservoir.
118. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
117 wherein said reservoir is sealed and pressurized.
119. The cleansing and sterilization mechanism according to claim
118 wherein said cooling means includes means for chilling said reservoir.
120. A biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism comprising: a) means for creating an ozone bath of a selected liquid and suspended ozone gas, said ozone bath surrounding biologically contaiminated materials; b) agitation means for mechanically agitating said ozone bath and said biologically contaminated material; c) a drum for holding said ozone bath and said biologically contaminated material, said drum having, 1) a primary entry for deposit of said material, and,
2) means for operator sealing said primary entry; and, d) means for spinning said drum.
121. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 120 wherein said agitation means includes means for generating a sonic vibration in said ozone bath.
122. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 120 wherein said selected liquid is water. 


 123. The biologically hazaradous waste treatment mechansim according to claim 120 further including filter means for filtration of water prior to creation of said ozone bath.
124. Cancelled
125. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 120 further including means for pressurizing said drum.
126. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 125 further including means for discharging liquid from said drum.
127. Cancelled
128. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 120 further including cooling means for chilling said drum to a selected temperture. 

129. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 128 further including: a) detergent adding means for depositing detergent into said drum; and, b) control means for,
1) directing the means for creating an ozone bath to create a first ozone bath in said drum,
2) causing said detergent adding means to deposit detergent into said drum, 3) directing said agitation means to agitate any contents of said drum,
4) causing said means for discharging to empty the detergent and ozone bath mixture from said drum,
5) directing the means for creating an ozone bath to create a second ozone bath in said drum,
6) causing said agitation means to agitate said ozone bath, and,
7) simultaneously directing,
A) said means for discharging to empty liquid from said drum, and,
B) said means for spinning to spin said drum.
130. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 129 further including a reservoir containing a bath mixture of liquid material with ozone gas dispersed therein and wherein said means for creating an ozone bath draws said bath mixture from said reservoir.
131. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 130 wherein said reservoir is sealed and pressurized.
132. The biologically hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 131 wherein said cooling means includes means for chilling said reservoir. 


 133. A biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism comprising: a) means for creating an ozone bath of liquid and suspended ozone gas surrounding material contaminated with biological materials; b) agitation means for mechanically agitating said ozone bath and said material; c) a drum for holding said ozone bath and said material, said drum having,
1) a primary entry for deposit of said material, and,
2) means for sealing said primary entry; d) means for pressurizing said drum; e) detergent adding means for depositing detergent into said drum; and, f) control means for,
1) creating a first mixture of an ozone bath with detergent in said drum via said means for creating an ozone bath and said detergent adding means in said drum,
2) agitating the first mixture in said drum via said agitating means,
3) discharging said first mixture from said drum, 4) creating a second mixture of an ozone bath via said means for creating an ozone bath in said drum,
5) agitating the second mixture in said drum via said agitating means, and,
6) emptying the second mixture from said drum.
134. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 133 wherein said agitation means includes means for generating a sonic vibration in said ozone bath. 


 135. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 133 further including means for spinning said drum and wherein said means for emptying the second mixture includes means for simultaneously, a) discharging liquid from said drum; and, b) spinning said drum via said means for spinning.
136. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 135 further including cooling means for chilling said drum.
137. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 134 further including a reservoir containing a bath mixture of a selected liquid with ozone gas dispersed therein and wherein said means for creating an ozone bath draws said bath mixture from said reservoir.
138. The biological hazardous waste treatment mechanism according to claim 137 wherein said reservoir is sealed and pressurized.
139. A method of treating biologically hazardous waste comprising the steps of: a) creating a first mixture of a first selected liquid having gaseous ozone suspended therein with detergent in a drum having biologically contaminated materials therein; b) agitating the first mixture in said drum; c) discharging said first mixture and residue from said drum; d) creating a second mixture of a second selected liquid with gaseous ozone suspended therein in said drum; e) agitating the second mixture in said drum; f) simultaneously,
1) emptying the second mixture from said drum, and,
2) spinning said drum. 


 140. The method of treating biologically hazardous waste according to claim 139 wherein the step of agitating the first mixture includes the step of creating a sonic vibration in said first mixture, and wherein the step of agitating the second mixture incudes the step of creating a sonic vibration in said second mixture.
141. Cancelled
142. The method of treating biologically hazardous waste according to claim 139 further including the step of cooling said drum when a mixture is present in said drum.
143. A flexible bag for sterilizing through application of ozone having an inlet port and an outlet port, said inlet port for receiving ozone from an ozone generator and said outlet port for communication of ozone to an ozone from said flexible bag destruct mechanism.
144. The flexible bag according to claim 143 wherein said inlet port and said outlet port seal upon disengagement.
145. The flexible bag according to claim 143 wherein said inlet port contains an inlet valve permitting disengagement of said flexible bag from the ozone generator.
146. The flexible bag according to claim 145 wherein said inlet valve includes pressure sensing means for opening said inlet valve when a preselected pressure difference exists between the interior of said flexible bag and said ozone generator.
147. The flexible bag according to claim 146 wherein said outlet port includes an outlet valve permitting disengagement of said flexible bag from the ozone destruct mechanism. 


 148. The flexible bag according to claim 147 wherein said outlet valve includes means for releasing gas from said flexible bag when pressure within said flexible bag reaches a predetermined level.
149. The flexible bag according to claim 148 wherein a first end of said bag is open for deposit of articles into said flexible bag.
150. The flexible bag according to claim 149 wherein the first end is sealable.
151. The flexible bag according to claim 150 wherein said first end is sealed by heat melding side portions of said flexible bag.
152. The flexible bag according to claim 150 wherein a first side of said first end includes a bead and a second side of said first end includes a bead locking mechanism.
153. A sterilizing bag comprising: a) two flexible side members sealed around a portion of the periphery thereof and forming an envelope therein; b) an inlet port; and, c) an outlet port.
154. The sterilizing bag according to claim 153 wherein said inlet port and said outlet port seal upon disengagement.
155. The sterilizing bag according to claim 153 wherein said inlet port contains an inlet valve mechanism permitting simultaneous disengagement and sealing of said inlet port.
156. The sterilizing bag according to claim 155 wherein valve in said inlet port includes pressure sensing means for opening said inlet valve mechanism when a preselected pressure difference exists between the interior and exterior and of said sterilizing bag. 


 157. The sterilizing bag according to claim 156 wherein said outlet port includes an outlet valve mechanism permitting simultaneous disengagement and sealing of said outlet port.
158. The sterilizing bag according to claim 157 wherein said outlet valve mechanism includes means for releasing gas from said sterilizing bag when pressure within said sterilizing bag reaches a predetermined level.
159. The sterilizing bag according to claim 158 wherein a first end of said bag is open for deposit of articles.
160. The sterilizing bag according to claim 159 wherein the first end is sealable.
161. The sterilizing bag according to claim 160 wherein said first end is sealed by heat melding said side portions of said sterilizing bag.
162. The sterilizing bag according to claim 160 wherein a first side of said first end includes a bead and a second side of said first end includes a bead locking mechanism.
163. A sterilizing bag comprising: a) two flexible side members sealed around the periphery thereof and forming an envelope therein; b) an inlet port having an inlet valve mechanism permitting simultaneous disengagement and sealing of said inlet port, and pressure sensing means for opening said inlet valve mechanism when a preselected pressure difference exists across the inlet valve mechanism; and, c) an outlet port having an outlet valve mechanism permitting simultaneous disengagement and sealing of said outlet port, and means for releasing gas from said envelope when pressure within said envelope reaches a predetermined level. 


 164. The sterilizing bag according to claim 163 wherein a first end of said bag is open for deposit of articles.
165. The sterilizing bag according to claim 164 wherein the first end is sealable.
166. The sterilizing bag according to claim 165 wherein said first end is sealed by heat melding portions of said flexible sides.
167. The sterilizing bag according to claim 165 wherein a first flexible side at said first end includes a bead and a second flexible side at said first end includes a bead locking mechanism. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
