<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625882</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPAR TRACK CLEANING AND MAINTENANCE DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47L2500	A47L2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47L	A47L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47L25	A47L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device (10) for maintaining an elongated, generally, T-shaped, spar track for a free running of mating slides and boltropes under loadings of a sail through cleaning and maintenance is described. A first internal surface region (64) of the T-shaped track opening (15) is comparatively wider than a second internal surface region (66) of the track opening. The second internal surface region (66) merges with a third external region (68) of the track opening (15). The improvement comprises a compressible, flexible, pliable member (12) for cleaning, lubricating and maintenance of the T-shaped track opening (15). The pliable member (12) is prefolded and united to provide a T-shape corresponding to the shape of the track opening (15). The pliable member (12) comprises a T-shape to facilitate insertion of the pliable member (12) into the track opening (15) and to enbale the pliable member (12) to be in slidable engagement with the track opening (15). A control means (42) adjustably shapes the pliable member (12) when inserted within the track opening (15) to cause the pliable member (12) to compress and to substantially correspond to the T-shape of the track opening (15). The inserted pliable member (12) is in slidable engagement with the track opening (15) when subjected to compression through the control means (42), and when being slidably moved to allow the effects of corrosion to be reduced, and thereby, enhance a free running of the slides and boltropes under the loadings.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOTH JOHN B
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOTH, JOHN B.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOTH JOHN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOTH, JOHN B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Description Spar Track Cleaning and Maintenance DeviceThis is a continuation-in-part of an application having U.S. Pat Appli. Ser. No.07/623,692, filed December 7, 1990.Technical FieldThis invention generally relates to the cleaning and preventive maintenance of sailboats, and more particularly, to a device for maintaining a spar track for the free running of sail slides and boltropes under sail loadings.Background ArtSails, supporting spars and rigging form a sailboat system for movement and navigation. A spar can generally be defined as a pole or system of poles used to support sails. Spars are used herein to describe other sail supports such as mast, booms, gaffs and headfoils. The handling of sails to allow navigation of the sailboat, particularly the hoisting and lowering of sails, depends on spar tracks or grooves and mating slides, slugs, boltropes and luffropes. Tracks can be generally described as elongated slot-like or channel-like fittings having a T-shaped or bottle-shaped profile and are normally longitudinally irøsitioned on a spar. Slides or slugs are usually interchangeably referred to and may be simply described as fittings that interconnect the sail and the spar track to hold the sail thereto.Similarly, boltropes and luffropes typically function to interconnect and hold the sail to the spar. Boltropes are usually stitched to a bottom edge or foot of a sail, while 

luffropes are typically stitched to a luff edge or forward edge of a sail. Boltropes and luffropes are substantially equivalent to one another, although boltropes normally are used with different types of spars than luffropes. For instance, boltropes are typically used with boom tracks, while luffropes are normally used with mast tracks. Therefore, boltropes will be defined herein to include luffropes.A number of spar tracks are fabricated from metal, metal alloy, or plastic materials. Spar tracks so constructed are designed to mate with boltropes and slides fabricated from non-metallic natural materials or non-metallic synthetic materials. Some spar track and mating slide arrangements are completely made of metal, metal alloy or plastic materials. The metal of popular choice for fabricating spar tracks is aluminum. This choice is dictated in part because of aluminum's great strength, durability, weight and low cost with respect to other marine metals, and because aluminum spars will normally be hollow and comprise extruded aluminum tracks.Slides and boltropes are inserted within the spar tracks through openings therein.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A device for maintaining an elongated, generally, T-shaped spar track for a free running of mating slides and boltropes under loadings of a sail through cleaning and maintenance, wherein a first internal surface region of said T-shaped track opening is comparatively wider than a second internal surface region, and wherein the second internal surface region of said track opening merges with a third external region of said track opening; and wherein the improvement comprises: a. a compressible, flexible, pliable member for cleaning, lubricating and maintenance of said T-shaped, track opening; said pliable member being prefolded and united to provide a shape corresponding to said T-shaped track opening; b. said pliable member comprising said T-shape of said track opening to facilitate insertion of said pliable member into said track opening and to enable said pliable member to be in slidably engagement with said track opening; and c. a control means for adjustably shaping said pliable member when said inserted within said track opening; said control member adjustably shaping said pliable member to allow said pliable member to compress and to substantially correspond to said T-shape of said track opening; and wherein said inserted pliable member is in slidable engagement with said track opening when subjected to compression through said control means, and when being slidably moved to allow effects of corrosion to be reduced and thereby enhance a free running of said slides and boltropes under said loadings. 


 2. The device of claim 2, wherein said pliable member includes at least one, elongated, first, flattened section and an elongated, raised, strip section for insertion into said track opening so as to be in slidably engagement with said track opening; said first flattened and strip sections being integrally formed with said pliable member so as to structurally provide said slidable member with said shape generally similar to said T-shape of said track opening; said first flattened and strip sections structurally cooperating with one another for facilitating the insertion of said flattened and strip sections into said track opening, and for retaining the inserted flattened and strip sections within said T-shaped track opening; and said control member adjustably shaping said pliable member to allow said first flattened and strip sections to compress and to substantially correspond to said T- shape of said track opening.
3. The device of claim 2, further comprising said first flattened section being in slidable engagement and in substantial contact with said first internal track surface when subjected to compression through said control means; said strip section being in slidable engagement and in substantial contact with said second internal track surface and said third external track surface, when subjected to compression through said control means; and wherein said T-shape of said pliable member allows a longitudinally extending, neck- shaped region of said track opening, defined by said first and second internal track surfaces, to be received between said first and second internal track surfaces, such that, said strip section of said pliable member is squeezed within said neck-shaped portion of said track opening.
4. The device of claim 3, further comprising an elongated holder member for retaining said inserted first flattened and strip sections in slidable engagement within said 


track opening; said holder member being removably, slidably fixed to said track opening; said pliable member being releasably attached to said holder member in a manner for said holder member to exert a firm pressing pressure on said pliable member when said holder member is said slidably fixed to said track opening; said holder member retaining said pliable member between said holder member and said track opening; and said pressure preventing said inserted pliable member from becoming free of said track opening while said first flattened and strip sections are being slidably moved within said track opening.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein said pliable member further comprises a pair of spaced, rigid, guide members for directing a motion of said pliable member when said pliable member is being slid within said track opening, and for retaining said inserted first flattened and strip sections within said track opening when said first flattened and strip sections are being slid within said track opening; each one of said pair of guide members being attached to a different one of said opposed, transverse, end sides of said pliable member, and said pair of guide members having a shape corresponding to a shape of a channel-like aperture defined by boundaries of said first external surface region of said track opening.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein each one of said pair of guide members comprises a flattened plastic material.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein said holder member includes a top side and a bottom side; said bottom side of said holder member exerting said pressure on said pliable member, when said pliable member is said attached thereto; and said bottom side of 



said holder member retaining said pliable member between said holder member bottom side and said track opening.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein said control means includes a pair of cordage members fastened to said pliable member in a manner to allow said first flattened and strip sections of said pliable member when under the influence of the compression force to adjustably correspond to and slidably engage said intemal T-shaped track opening; and wherein a locking means is joined to said holder member for releasably fastening said pair of cordage members thereto, and for adjustably maintaining a desired amount of said compression on said pliable member.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein said holder member comprises an elongated bar, said bar defining said top side and bottom side; said top side including a pair of spaced fasteners for attaching to an external pulling force; said holder member being caused to slide back and forth within said track opening when said pair of fasteners are subject to said pulling force; and wherein the sliding holder member causes said pliable member to concurrently slide back and forth within said track opening.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein each one of said pair of cordage members are fastened at a different, longitudinally spaced, opposed side of said pliable member through a first terminal end thereof, each one of said pair of cordage members including a second terminal end projecting from said pliable member for applying said compression to said pliable member, and for adjustably said maintaining the applied compression; said compression being applied when each one of said pair of cordage members receives said pulling force; said compression being adjustably maintained by releasably fastening the 


pulled pair of cordage members to said locking means; and said compression being adjusted by increasing and decreasing said pulling force applied to said pair of terminal ends.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein said holder member through its bar structure locates said locking member on said top side of said bar, said bar further including a pair of longitudinally spaced, elongated apertures for receiving therethrough a matching one of said pair of cordage members to effect fastening said pair of cordage members to said locking member, and said pair of apertures enabling the desired compression to be applied to said terminal ends of said cordage members, when each one of said pair of terminal ends is inserted through a corresponding one of said pair of apertures, and when each one of the inserted pair of terminal ends is pulled and releasably attached to said locking member.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein said holder member includes at least two, spaced, track slides for inserting into said track opening to effect removably, slidably, fixing said holder member to said track opening; said track sides being disposed on a bottom bar side of said holder member; and said inserted track slides setting a level of said pressure being exerted on said pliable member, said level of pressure causing said holder member to maintain said pliable member between said bottom bar side of said holder member and said track opening, and to retain said first flattened and strip sections within said track opening, when said pliable member is fastened to said holder member inserted within said track opening. 


 13. The device of claim 12, wherein said pliable member is flexible, resilient and capable of receiving and maintaining thereon a friction-reducing material and a cleaning material for enhancing an ability of said pliable member to reduce a resistance of said intemal track surfaces to the sliding motion of said slides and boltropes within said track opening, while being subject to loadings from the sail, subsequent to said device being used for maintenance of said track opening.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein said pliable member comprises a flat, rectangularly-shaped cloth; said cloth being prefolded to provide an united, elongated, T- shaped sleeve; said prefolded sleeve being formed to permit said first flattened section to enclose a compressible, pliable, elongated, perforated, sheet member, and said sheet member being capable of absorbing said friction reducing material and cleaning material.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein said prefolded sleeve is further formed to permit said strip section to enclose a flexible, pliable, elongated, support member; said support member being capable of absorbing said friction reducing material and cleaning material; and wherein said enclosed support member is integrally formed with respect to said enclosed sheet member therein so as to project upright therefrom.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein said sleeve is united by stitching; said first flattened and strip sections being sewn along transversely spaced, longitudinally extending, opposed, side edges of said sleeve; said sleeve being further sewn through said two transverse side edges of said pliable member, said strip section being sewn along two, adjoining, longitudinally extending, top edges thereof; two longitudinally extending folds of said strip being positioned intermediate said longitudinally extending sewn side edges of 


said sleeve; said strip section being further sewn with said sheet member at said longitudinally extending strip folds; and said sheet member being further sewn to said sleeve along said longitudinally opposed sheet sides.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein said sheet member comprises cotton webbing for providing said pliable member with a flattened shape; said support member comprising a cordage member fabricated from natural fibers for maintaining said strip member generally upright with respect to said first flattened section, and wherein said pliable member is fastened to said holder member, such that, said strip section abuttingly engages said holder member, when said holder member, , is said fixed to said track opening to provide pressure on said pliable member.
18. The device of claim 16, wherein said support member comprises a cordage member fabricated from synthetic fibers.
19. The device of claim 16, wherein said sheet member comprises perforated plastic.
20. The device of claim 17, wherein said friction-reducing material comprises an abrasive cloth for enhancing a cleaning, polishing and buffing of said internal track surface.
21. The device of claim 20, wherein said friction-reducing material comprises a material for lubricating said intemal surface of said track opening to enhance reducing a friction thereat. 


 22. The device of claim 21, wherein said cleaning material comprises soap.
23. The device of claim 21, wherein said friction reducing material comprises a wax material to enhance reducing a friction at said surface of said track opening.
24. The device of claim 3, wherein said pliable member is elongated and includes a top side , a bottom side, and two longitudinally spaced, transverse, end sides; the top side being formed by said upright strip section; said upright strip section extending longitudinally between said transverse end sides; said bottom side being formed by said flattened section; said strip section including a pair of spaced, lateral, parallel, side walls extending from said flattened section; said pliable member being prefolded, such that, a different portion of said strip section projects outward from a matching one of said pair of lateral strip walls; each different projecting strip portion being contiguous witii an upper region of said top strip side; said projecting strip portions slidably engaging a shape of a fourth external surface region of said mast which adjoins said track opening, and said strip portions also conforming to the shape of the fourth external surface of said track opening when said inserted pliable member is compressed with said control means.
25. The device of claim 24, further comprising an elongated holder member for retaining said inserted first flattened and strip sections in slidable engagement within said track opening; said holder member being releasably, slidably fixed to said track opening; said pliable member being releasably attached to said holder member in a manner for said holder member to exert a firm pressing pressure on said top side of said upright strip section of said pliable member when said holder member is said slidably fixed to said track opening; said holder member retaining said pliable member between said holder 


member and said track opening; and said pressure preventing said inserted pliable member from becoming free of said track opening while said first flattened and strip sections are being slidably moved within said track opening.
26. The device of claim 25, wherein said pliable member further comprises a pair of spaced, rigid, guide members for directing a motion of said pliable member when said pliable member is being slid within said track opening, and for retaining said inserted, first flattened and strip sections within said track opening when said first flattened and strip sections are being slid within said track opening; each one of said pair of guide members being attached to a different one of the spaced, opposed, transverse, end sides of said pliable member, and said pair of guide members having a shape corresponding to a shape of a channel-like aperture defined by boundaries of said first, external, surface region of said track opening.
27. The device of claim 26, wherein each one of said pair of guide members comprises a plastic material.
28. The device of claim 3, wherein said pliable member is prefolded to further include a second flattened section; said second flattened section slidably engaging and conforming to a fourth external surface region of said mast which adjoins said track opening, when said inserted pliable member is compressed through said control means; said second flattened section being supported by said upright strip section and being formed integrally therewith; and said second flattened section providing said pliable member with a general H-shape. 


 29. The device of claim 28, wherein said pliable member is elongated and includes a top side, a bottom side, and two, longitudinally-spaced, transverse, end sides; the top side being formed by said second flattened section; said upright strip extending longitudinally between said transverse end sides; said bottom side being formed by said first flattened section; said strip section including a pair of spaced, lateral, parallel, side walls extending between said first and second flattened sections; said pliable member being prefolded, such that, a different longitudinally extending side portion of said second flattened section projects outward from a matching wall of said strip section; said projecting side edge portions of said second flattened section slidably engaging said fourth external mast surface; and said projecting side portions of said second flattened section conforming to a shape of said fourth external mast surface when said inserted pliable member is compressed with said control means.
30. The device of claim 29, further comprising an elongated holder member for retaining said inserted first and second flattened sections and said strip section in slidable engagement within said track opening; said holder member being releasably, slidably, fixed to said track opening; said pliable member being releasably attached to said holder member in a manner for said holder member to exert a firm pressing pressure on said second flattened section when said holder member is said slidably fixed to said track opening; said holder member retaining said pliable member between said holder member and said track opening; and said pressure preventing said inserted pliable member from becoming free of said track opening while said first and second flattened sections and said strip section are being slidably moved within said track opening. 


 31. The device of claim 30, wherein said pliable member further comprises a pair of spaced, rigid, guide members for directing a motion of said pliable member when said pliable member is being slid within said track opening and for retaining said inserted first and second flattened sections and said strip section within said track opening when said first flattened and strip section are being slid within said track opening; each one of said pair of guide members being attached to a different one of said spaced, opposed, transverse, end sides of said pliable member, and said pair of guide members having a shape corresponding to a shape of a channel-like aperture defined by boundaries of said first external surface of said track opening.
32. The device of claim 31, wherein each one of said pair of guide members comprises a flattened plastic material.
33. The device of claim 5, wherein said pliable member further comprises a compressible, flexible, pliable, wrapping member for changing a working surface defined by said pliable member; said working surface being defined by said first flattened and strip sections, and for effecting said cleaning and maintenance operations; said wrapping member being removably joined to said pliable member by said control means so as to allow said wrapping member and said pliable member to be concurrently inserted in slidable engagement within said track opening, and to be concurrently, adjustably shaped by said pliable member to enable said pliable member and wrapping member to compress and substantially correspond to said T-shape of said track opening.
34. The device of claim 33, wherein said wrapping member removes and receives contaminants from said track opening during cleaning and maintenance operations 


so as to substantially minimize an impregnation of said pliable member with said removed contaminants; said wrapping member being said joined to said pliable member in a manner to allow said wrapping member to be removed from said pliable member when impregnated with said contaminants, and when said wrapping member loses a capabiUty to satisfactorily perform cleaning and maintenance operations; and said removed wrapping member serving to allow said woi ing surface of said pliable member to remain sufficiently clean for subsequent cleaning and maintenance operations, and for receiving therein a different clean wrapping member.
35. The device of claim 34, wherein said wrapping member is adopted to enclose said pliable member so as to match said T-shape of said pliable member, said wrapping member being joined to said pliable member in a manner to prevent said wrapping member from becoming free of said pliable member, said wrapping member being selected from a group of material and synthetic fabrics used to perform lubricating, cleaning, polishing and waxing applications; said wrapping member being tied to said pliable member with a pair of cordage members defined by said control means through a lace arrangement; and wherein pulling each cordage member in counter directions simultaneously applies said compression to said pliable member and wrapping member enclosed thereabout 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
