<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653992</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INDUCTION MOTOR MONORAIL SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60L1300	B60L1300	B60L1310	B61B500	B61B500	B61B1304	B61B1306	B61B1308	B61B1308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60L	B60L	B60L	B61B	B61B	B61B	B61B	B61B	B61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60L13	B60L13	B60L13	B61B5	B61B5	B61B13	B61B13	B61B13	B61B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magnetic levitated vehicle (10), including a linear rotor (62) connected thereto, runs on a tubular track (12) having a circular cross section and a tubular linear induction motor stator (30) mounted therein. The rotor (62) is movably mounted within the stator (30) and the vehicle (10) is positioned above the track (12). The rotor (62) is connected to the vehicle (10) by a riser (64) extending through longitudinal slots (54, 56) of the track (12) and stator (30), and by an actuator mechanism, which includes a transversely curved saddle (142, 144, 146) movably connected to drive members (76a, 76b), for enabling the vehicle (10) to be banked at curve sections of the tubular track (12). Further, vehicle banking is also accomplished by constructing the track (12) and stator (30) with the slots (54, 56) laterally offset at the curved sections of the track (12).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISCHER PHILLIP A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISCHER PHILLIP A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER PHILLIP A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER PHILLIP A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INDUCTION MOTOR MONORAIL SYSTEMBackground of the InventionThe present invention relates to tracked vehicle systems and more particularly concerns a vehicle system embodying a track guideway that has an upwardly convex transverse curvature.Tracked vehicle systems generally embody a track structure including spaced rails particularly configured for support of vehicle wheels or other levitation arrangements. Magnetic levitation has been widely suggested, though less widely employed, for systems in which speeds may exceed those that are conveniently or safely attainable for wheeled vehicles. Particularly for high speed inter-city public transportation, magnetic levitation systems of various designs and configurations continue to be proposed. High speed trains provide advantages of easing overcrowded freeways and airports, reduction of pollution and facilitating mass transportation of riders between congested urban centers. Despite the many advantages of proposed high speed transport systems, few such proposals have been adopted. Among obstacles to widespread adoption of high speed transport systems are the track configuration, and, in particular, track system costs. Track configuration cross sections frequently include planes and surfaces for magnetic levitation extending in different directions, requiring complex structures needed to provide both lateral and vertical support. High speed magnetically levitated vehicle systems presently require high precision of track configuration and position, thereby greatly increasing cost of construction 

and maintenance. Such tracks must be carefully leveled and aligned, both longitudinally and transversely, often to small fractions of an inch.Banking of such track structures at curved track sections is essential and becomes ever more important as speeds increase. As the vehicle travels along a curved track section, optimum lateral stability is achieved when the resultant of gravitational and centrifugal acceleration forces is perpendicular to the track surface. The direction of such resultant depends upon track curvature and vehicle speed, and thus, for a track of given curvature, the track has an optimum bank angle for any one speed. In present systems this bank angle is fixed when the track is constructed, and thus, for optimum operation, the vehicle must traverse such a banked curved section at a single predetermined speed. This may cause difficulties for a vehicle normally programmed for high speed operation on a track banked for such speed. Under certain
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS
1. A tracked vehicle system comprising: a track including a longitudinally extending guideway having an upwardly convex transverse curvature, said track having a longitudinally curved section, a vehicle means for supporting said vehicle on said guideway for longitudinal and transverse motion relative to the track, means for propelling the vehicle longitudinally along the track, and means for positioning the vehicle transversely around said guideway toward an inward side of the track curved section to provide a banked position of the vehicle as it travels along the track curved section.
2. The system of Claim 1 wherein said means for supporting comprises means for guiding said vehicle relative to the guideway in a transverse path having a curvature that matches said guideway curvature.
3. The system of Claim 1 wherein a longitudinal slot is formed in an upper portion of said guideway, and including a slot follower fixed to the vehicle and projecting into said slot.
4. The system of Claim 3 wherein said slot is trans¬ versely offset from a longitudinally extending vertical plane through the center of said guideway at portions of said longitudinally curved track sections. 


 5. The system of Claim 1 wherein said means for supporting comprises a saddle fixed to said vehicle and having a support surface adjacent said track guideway, said saddle being configured and arranged to support said vehicle on said guideway, said support surface extending transversely of said track and having a downwardly concave transverse curvature that matches the curvature of said guideway.
6. The system of Claim 5 wherein said means for propelling comprises a motor on said track having a drive member that is propelled along the track, and a longitudinal driving connection between said saddle and said drive member.
7. The system of Claim 6 wherein said drive member is movably connected to said saddle for transverse motion of the saddle relative to said drive member.
8. The system of Claim 1 wherein said means for propelling comprises a linear motor secured to said track, said motor including a linear stator below said track and having a stator slot, said track having a guide slot in alignment with said stator slot, a linear rotor mounted to said stator to be driven along said stator and track, a riser fixed to said rotor and extending upwardly through both said slots, and means for connecting an upper portion of said riser to said vehicle.
9. The system of Claim 8 wherein said slots are aligned in a direction inclined to the vertical at said longitudinally curved section of said track. 


 10. The system of Claim 1 wherein said guideway has a longitudinally extending slot, said means for propelling including a movable member mounted below said track and having a riser extending upwardly through said slot, a drive member fixed to said riser above said track, and means for connecting said drive member to said vehicle, said slot being laterally displaced from a surface extending vertically through the center of said track at said longitudinally curved section.
11. The system of Claim 1 wherein said means for positioning comprises means for indicating motion of the vehicle along said curved section, and lateral drive means responsive to said means for indicating for transversely shifting the vehicle partly around said guideway.
12. The system of Claim 1 wherein sa
~
id means for positioning comprises acceleration means for sensing centrifugal acceleration of said vehicle, and transverse drive means responsive to said acceleration means for transversely moving the vehicle partly around said guideway.
13. The system of Claim 1 wherein said track comprises an elongated guide tube having track walls, a plurality of longitudinally extending tension cables mutually spaced around said guide tube and fixed to said track wall at longitudinally spaced points, and means for adjusting the lengths of at least some of said cables between said points to control longitudinal configuration of the track.
14. The system of Claim 1 wherein said track comprises an elongated guide tube of substantially circular cross section having a longitudinally extending guide slot in an upper part thereof, said means for propelling 


comprising a linear motor secured to said tube, said motor including a linear tubular stator within said tube, said stator having a stator slot registered with said guide slot, said motor including a linear rotor mounted in said tubular stator to be driven along said stator and track, a riser fixed to said rotor and extending upwardly through both said slots, a saddle fixed to said vehicle and supported on said track for longitudinal and transverse mo¬ tion relative to the track, and a longitudinal drive connection between said saddle and said riser, said means for positioning comprising means for driving said saddle transversely around said track.
15. The system of Claim 14 wherein said track includes a straight section, and wherein said stator and guide slots are aligned with each other in a direction that is vertical at said straight section and in a direction that is inclined to the vertical at said longitudinally curved section.
16. A tracked vehicle system comprising: an elongated track having at least one longitudinally curved section, said track having a cross section including a transversely curved upwardly convex guideway, a vehicle, means for supporting the vehicle from the track for longitudinal motion along the track guideway and for limited transverse motion about the track guideway, propulsion means for driving the vehicle along the track guideway, and means for shifting the vehicle transversely around the track guideway when the vehicle is at said curved track section, whereby the vehicle is banked at said curved track section. 


 17. The system of Claim 16 wherein said guideway has a circular transverse curvature, and wherein said mean for shifting comprise means for rotating the vehicle transversely around the center of curvature of the circularly curved guideway.
18. The system of Claim 16 wherein said propulsion means comprises a linear motor having a stator fixed to said track guideway and having a longitudinally driven rotor, said means for supporting the vehicle from the track comprising a saddle connected to the vehicle and extending transversely about a portion of said track guideway, and means for connecting the saddle to the rotor for longitudinal motion with the rotor and for limited transverse motion relative to the rotor.
19. The system of Claim 16 wherein said means for shifting comprises means for indicating motion of the vehicle along said curved section, and lateral drive means responsive to said means for indicating for transversely shifting the vehicle partly around said convex guideway.
20. The system of Claim 16 wherein said means for shifting comprises acceleration means for sensing centrifugal acceleration of said vehicle, and transverse drive means responsive to said acceleration means for transversely moving the vehicle partly around said guideway.
21. The system of Claim 16 wherein said track comprises an elongated guide tube having track walls, a plurality of longitudinally extending tension cables mutually spaced around said guide tube and fixed to said track wall at longitudinally spaced points, and means for adjusting the lengths of at least some of said cables between said points. 


 22. The system of Claim 16 wherein said track guideway has a longitudinally extending slot, and including a driver member mounted below said track guideway and having a riser extending upwardly through said slot, a drive member fixed to said riser above said track guideway and a saddle fixed to the vehicle and connected to be driven by said drive member.
23. The system of Claim 16 wherein said track guideway has a longitudinally extending slot offset from the center of said guideway at said longitudinally curved section, a riser extending through said slot, and means for connecting said riser to said vehicle above said track guideway.
24. The system of Claim 16 wherein said means for shifting the vehicle transversely comprise a saddle connected to the vehicle and extending transversely about a portion of said guideway, means for connecting the saddle to said propulsion means for driving the saddle longitudinally along the track guideway, and means for connecting the saddle to said propulsion means for limited transverse motion of the saddle relative to the propulsion means.
25. The system of Claim 23 wherein said means for shifting the vehicle comprises said riser and said slot.
26. A tracked vehicle system comprising: an elongated track having a transversely curved guideway that is upwardly convex, a longitudinally extending guide slot in said guideway, a linear motor comprising: a stator fixed to said track beneath said guideway, said stator having a 


 longitudinally extending stator slot in registration with said guide slot, a riser extending through said guide slot, rotor means for driving the riser along said guideway, a drive member fixed to said riser above said guideway, a vehicle supported for motion along said guideway, and means for connecting the vehicle to said drive member to be driven along the guideway with the riser.
27. The system of Claim 26 wherein said means for connecting the vehicle comprises means for providing limited transverse motion of said vehicle in an arcuate path relative to said drive member.
28. The system of Claim 27 wherein said guideway is transversely circularly curved and including means for banking the vehicle by driving it in a circular path transversely of said drive member.
29. The system of Claim 26 wherein said means for connecting the vehicle to said drive member comprises a transversely curved guide saddle, means for magnetically supporting the saddle from the guideway, said saddle being slidably connected to said drive member for motion in a limited transversely curved path relative to said drive member and around said guideway.
30. A tracked vehicle system comprising: an elongated track having at least one longitudinally curved section, said track section having a longitudinally extending guideway. 


 a longitudinally extending guide slot in said guideway, said guide slot being transversely offset at said longitudinally curved section from an upper portion of said guideway toward an inner side of the longitudinally curved section, a riser extending through said guide slot, a vehicle supported for longitudinal motion along said guideway, means for driving the vehicle longitudinally along the guideway, and means for connecting the vehicle to said riser for guiding the vehicle along the guideway.
31. A tracked vehicle system comprising: an elongated track having at least one longitudinally curved section, said track section having a guideway that is transversely curved about a center of curvature below the guideway, a vehicle supported for motion along said guideway, and means for banking said vehicle at said curved section, said means for banking comprising means for transversely shifting said vehicle in a curved path relative to said guideway.
32. The system of Claim 31 wherein said means for banking includes a longitudinal slot formed in said guideway, said slot being transversely offset at said curved portion, and a riser extending through said slot and connected to said vehicle.
33. The system of Claim 31 wherein said guideway is transversely circularly curved, and including a drive member, means for propelling the drive member along said track, a saddle, means for transmitting thrust from the drive member to said saddle, and means for mounting the 


saddle to the drive member for transverse motion relative to said guideway in a circular path about the center of curvature of said guideway.
34. The system of Claim 33 wherein said means for propelling comprises a linear motor stator mounted below said track, a rotor mounted adjacent the stator below said track to be driven along the track, a longitudinal slot formed in said track, and a riser extending through said track and connected to said rotor to said drive member.
35. The system of Claim 34 wherein said drive member includes a transverse drive arm, said saddle comprising an outrigger bridge extending transversely along said drive arm, means for mounting the bridge for transverse motion relative to the drive arm, means for transferring longitudinal thrust from said drive arm to said bridge, means for supporting outer end portions of said bridge from said guideway for transverse and longitudinal motion relative to said guideway, and means for mounting said vehicle to said bridge for motion therewith.
36. The system of Claim 32 including outer support means carried by the vehicle for supporting the vehicle from an outer surface of the track, said track having an inner surface, and inner support means carried by said riser for bearing against said inner surface.
37. A tracked vehicle system comprising: an elongated track having at least one longitudinally curved section, said track section having a guideway, a vehicle supported for motion along said guideway, and means for banking said vehicle at said curved section, said means for banking comprising a longitudinal 


slot formed in said guideway, said slot being transversely and angularly offset at said curved portion, and a riser extending through said slot and connected to said vehicle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
