<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635812</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Remotely controlled thermostat.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05D2319	G05D2319	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05D23	G05D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A boiler control system includes a room temperature sensor 10 
which utilises radio transmission to send temperature 

information via antenna 11 to receiver 15 via antenna 16. The 
receiver will provide an output to a control unit 18 to cause 

actuation of the boiler 19 for example if the room temperature 
falls below a preset value. The temperature selected can be 

varied by means of up/down keys 13/14 on the sensor 10. 
Temperature information can be displayed by means of display 

12. Unique coding identifies the transmitting sensor and 
transmission can be sequenced on a number of frequencies to 

reduce the risk of reception failure. Additional temperature 
sensors including a hand held unit each with a unique identity 

code can be used and transmission time is varied to avoid 
coincident transmission from the sensors. Telephone linkage 

for a number of devices can be provided. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH GAS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKOPOULOS CHRISTOS PALOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCNAIR HENRY PETRIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKOPOULOS,CHRISTOS PALOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCNAIR, HENRY PETRIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a control system and more 
specifically to a control system typically for a central 
heating system which may be gas fired. One aspect of the invention is concerned with reducing wiring 
requirements. The room thermostat normally provided will 
typically be located in a different room to the boiler and its 
associated control unit and have electrical wiring 
therebetween. According to the invention there is provided a control system 
for a heating or cooling arrangement incorporating a 
heating/cooling device, said control system comprising: 
control means for providing operational control of the 
heating/cooling device; at least one temperature sensor device 
including radio transmission means remote from the control 
means for providing temperature information for transmission 
to the control means to allow said control means to receive 
said information to determine whether to operate the 
heating/cooling device, said radio transmission means 
including means for reducing the risk of loss of reception of 
the information by the control means.  Further according to the invention there is provided a method 
for controlling a heating or cooling arrangement incorporating 
a heating/cooling device, said method including the steps of:
 
sensing a temperature remote from the heating/cooling device;
 
transmitting temperature information to the device using radio 
signals in such a manner as to reduce the risk of loss of 
reception; and
 
receiving the transmitted information to determine whether to 
activate/deactivate the heating/cooling device. The invention will now be described by way of example with 
reference to the accompanying drawings in which: 
Figure 1 shows a first embodiment of a control system for a 
boiler including a remote temperature sensor; Figure 2 shows an embodiment of the remote temperature sensor 
in more detail; Figure 3 shows details of the frequency hopping technique 
employed by the Figure 2 arrangement. Figure 4 shows a flow chart relating to the operation of the 
remote sensor;  Figure 5 shows an embodiment of the receiver configuration of 
Figure 1 in more detail; Figure 6 shows a receiver suitable for the Figure 5 
configuration; Figure 7 shows a flow chart relating to the operation of the 
receiver configuration of Figure 6; Figure 8 shows a second embodiment of a central heating 
control system with a number of temperature sensors; Figure 9 shows an embodiment of a temperature sensor of Figure 
8 in more detail; Figure 10 shows an embodiment of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A control system for a heating or cooling arrangement 
incorporating a heating/cooling device, said control 

system comprising: control means for providing 
operational control of the heating/cooling device; at 

least one temperature sensor device including radio 
transmission means remote from the control means for 

providing temperature information for transmission to the 
control means to allow said control means to receive said 

information to determine whether to operate the 
heating/cooling device, said radio transmission means 

including means for reducing the risk of loss of 
reception of the information by the control means. 
A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the means for 
reducing the risk of loss of reception includes means for 

transmitting temperature data at a plurality of 
frequencies. 
A system as claimed in claim 2, wherein memory means are 
provided to store information on said plurality of 

frequencies used for transmission. 
A system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the memory means 
stores digital number information for a frequency 

synthesiser which synthesises each frequency in 
dependence on a digitally stored number. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the 
means for reducing the risk of loss of reception includes 

means for transmitting information at variable time 
intervals to reduce the risk of other devices 

transmitting repeatedly at the same period in time. 
A system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the time interval 
means includes means for periodically generating a pseudo 

random time value. 
A system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the means for 
generating a pseudo random time value includes a 

microprocessor. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the 
temperature sensor device is configured to transmit a 

unique code to accompany the temperature information to 
allow said control means to determine from which sensor 

device the information has been received. 
A system as claimed in claim 8 wherein the temperature 
sensor device inclu
des memory means for storing an 
identity code for accompanying the transmitted 

temperature data. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the 
temperature sensor device includes means for setting 

 
operational parameters including temperature selection 

for transmission to the control means. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
display means are provided within the temperature device 

to indicate current and/or selected temperature. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
display means are provided for the control means to 

indicate operational status of the remote temperature 
device. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein means 
are provided for the control means to store identity 

codes for a remote temperature sensor to avoid responding 
to incorrect signals. 
A system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the control 
means includes means for receiving and retaining new 

identity codes indicative of the signal source to allow 
new remote temperature devices to be utilised. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the 
control means includes memory means for holding default 

operational parameters for utilisation should a remote 
temperature device become inoperative. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein at 
least one of the temperature sensor devices includes 

means for setting operational parameters for transmission 
to the control means. 
A system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the means for 
setting parameters includes time and temperature 

selection. 
A system as claimed in claim 16 or 17, wherein the 
control means includes transmission means for sending a 

signal indicating reception of the transmitted parameters 
and at least one temperature sensor device includes 

receiver means for receiving a signal confirming 
successful reception by the control means. 
A system as claimed in claim 16, 17 or 18, wherein the 
control means includes code generating means for 

accompanying the confirmation signal to identify the 
source of the confirmation signal. 
A system as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 19, 
wherein the temperature sensor device includes display 

means provided to indicate parameters selected and to 
indicate correct reception thereof by the control means. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claims including a 
remote control sensor module, said module including means 

 
for effecting two-way communication with the control 

device to select operational parameters and means within 
the module for indicating successful reception of the 

selected parameter. 
A system as claimed in claim 21, wherein interrogation 
means are provided within the sensor module to receive 

current parameter information from the control device to 
determine if this needs changing. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claims including 
means for receiving an instruction from a remote 

telephone for transmission by the radio transmission 
means to allow control to be effected. 
A system as claimed in claim 23 including radio 
transmission means for acknowledging receipt by the 

control means for allow information thereon to be passed 
back to the remote telephone. 
A system as claimed in claim 23 or 24 wherein control 
means are provided to allow control of a plurality of 

independent devices to be effected. 
A system as claimed in claim 25 where the devices are 
appliances or equipment all located within a dwelling. 
A method for controlling a heating or coding arrangement 
incorporating a heating/cooling device, said method 

including the steps of: 
sensing a temperature remote from the heating/cooling 

device; 
transmitting temperature information to the device using 

radio signals in such a manner as to reduce the risk of 
loss of reception; and 

receiving the transmitted information to determine 
whether to activate/deactivate the heating/cooling 

device. 
A method as claimed in claim 27, wherein the temperature 
information is transmitted at a plurality of frequencies. 
A method as claimed in claim 27 or 28, wherein the 
temperature information is transmitted at variable time 

intervals to reduce the risk of other devices 
transmitting repeatedly at the same time. 
A method as claimed in claim 27, 28 or 29, wherein 
identity code information is transmitted with the 

temperature information to identify the signal source. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 30, 
including sending parameter selection signals from the 

sensor to the heating/cooling device and transmitting 
 

information thereon back to the sensor to allow two-way 
communication therebetween. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 30 
including sending an instruction from a remote telephone 

and transmitting the instruction thereafter using radio 
signals. 
A telephone control system comprising means for receiving 
instructions from a remote telephone to effect a change 

in operational status of a device, 
means for determining the desired instruction, 

radio transmission means for transmitting a control 
signal to said device and means for receiving said 

control signal to effect said change in the operational 
status of the device. 
A system as claimed in claim 33, wherein the transmission 
means is configured to transmit the signal sequentially 

on a plurality of frequencies to reduce the risk of loss 
of reception due to interference. 
A system as claimed in claim 33 or 34, wherein the means 
for receiving the wireless control signal includes 

sending means for acknowledging receipt of the change of 
status from the transmitter means. 
A method of controlling a device comprising 
 

receiving instructions from a remote telephone to effect 
a change in operational status of the device, 

determining the desired instruction, 
transmitting control information to said device using 

radio signals, 
receiving the transmitted information to effect said 

change in the operational status of the device. 
A control system for a heating or cooling arrangement 
substantially as described herein with reference to the 

accompanying drawings. 
A method for controlling a heating/cooling arrangement as 
claimed in claim 27 and substantially as described 

herein. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
