<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641863</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Blast furnace operation management method and apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C21B500	C21B500	C21B724	C21B724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C21B	C21B	C21B	C21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C21B5	C21B5	C21B7	C21B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Inference is carried out through intermediate 
hypotheses representing physical states of a blast 

furnace using HG (Heuristic Grade) in order to 
comprehensively diagnose the state of the furnace 

to ascertain optimum actions. Specific parameters 
are monitored to immediately recognize a transition 

of conditions inside the furnace to additionally 
execute the inference. Various types of actions 

such as defensive actions and offensive actions are 
covered in this inference. A burden distribution 

estimation model considering collapse of a coke bed is 
used for calculating distribution inside the furnace to 

aid in deciding on an optimum action when an action to 
alter distribution in the furnace is required as the 

result of the inference. Creation and alteration of a 
knowledge base for the inference are carried out without 

interrupting the inference. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus for management of a blast furnace in the iron
industry.A blast furnace in the iron industry has to be operated taking into account numerous
operational factors relating to each other. Furthermore, as it is difficult to directly view
the inside of the furnace due to restrictions of the equipment, etc, numerous sensors of
various types are attached to the equipment. Therefore, a comprehensive estimation
based on information from the sensors, etc, and an optimum control according to the
estimation, are required to maintain and improve the level of operation. In this regard,
the experience and knowledge of operators are valuable and important for the routine
management of the operation of the blast furnace, even at the present time.
As in an expert system, the aforementioned human know-how can be programmed into
a computer and be executed, and the introduction of an expert system into the
management of the operation of the blast furnace is disclosed in Japanese Unexamined
Patent Publication (Kokai) No. 62-270708 and No. 62-270712. Also see EP-A-246618.
By systemization of the management of the operation of a blast furnace, the
problems of an oversight of information or misjudgement are avoided, and
rationalization and standardization of the management of the operation of the blast
furnace are effectively carried out.In the conventional method of the management of the operation of the blast furnace
utilizing an expert 
system as disclosed in the aforementioned publications,
as the results obtained by the inference are a forecast
of channeling and slip, and a decision regarding heat
level in the furnace, the inference is independently
carried out for each respective matter among the
phenomena occurring inside the furnace, by providing
knowledge bases with regard to these matters.However, the phenomena inside the furnace
such as permeation of gas, burden descent, and heat
level of the furnace, etc., are correlated with each
other as an integrated process inside the blast furnace,
and therefore, it is necessary to comprehensively
recognize the individual phenomena to decide actions
to take in a blast furnace operation management system.
To realize the above management, a large capacity
knowledge base which derives final actions from a great
deal of information regarding the blast furnace, is
required.Furthermore, as another important matter
required in the blast furnace operation management
system, recognization of the transition of a condition
inside the blast furnace,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for management of a blast furnace comprising:

a data base including information related to said blast furnace,
a knowledge base including rules for diagnosing the state of said blast furnace,
an input means arranged to gather said information in a first interval and to
renew said data base by using said gathered information,
an inference means arranged to infer the state of said blast furnace using said
data base and said knowledge base, and
an initiating means arranged to initiate said inference means in a second
interval,

characterised in that said second interval is longer than said first interval and the
apparatus further comprises:


a watching means arranged to watch parameters related to said blast furnace to
detect a remarkable change in the parameters,
the initiating means including means arranged additionally to initiate said
inference means when a remarkable change in the parameters is detected by the

watching means.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the watching means includes means
arranged to detect when any parameter is outside a management range, and so a

remarkable change is present.
An apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the watching means further
includes an additional knowledge base including rules for monitoring the state of said

blast furnace.
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the watching means includes an
additional inference means arranged to infer the state of the blast furnace using the

second knowledge base to detect any remarkable change.
An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the watching means includes means
arranged to initiate the means arranged additionally to initiate said inference means. 
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising
means arranged to take action to control the blast furnace in response to the result of the

inference means.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that said
rules stored in said knowledge base include


a group of defense rules to infer requirement of defense actions to avoid an
accident in said blast furnace,
a group of offensive rules to infer requirement of offensive actions which is the
reverse of said defensive actions in order to reduce operational cost, and
a group of distribution improvement rules to infer requirement of distribution
improvement actions.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the
knowledge base includes rules for detecting a remarkable change, and a second

knowledge base includes the rules for diagnosing the state of the blast furnace.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
