<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632443</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Disk player with secure magazine
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1726	G11B1726	G11B1722	G11B1722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B17	G11B17	G11B17	G11B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A disk player has a magazine for storing disks and a disk 
transport mechanism transporting a selected disk between a playback 

position outside the magazine and a store position located entirely 
within the magazine. The carriages are stacked upon each other and 

pivotally supported within the magazine. The carriages are extracted 
from the stack by lifting a front end of a carriage above a selected 

carriage. Subsequent to the lifting of the carriage, the selected carriage 
is withdrawn from the magazine to the playback position. When a 

selected carriage is moved to the playback position, the disks on 
carriages above and below the selected carriage are prevented from 

shifting with the removal of the selected carriage by coaxial opposing 
shafts which extend through spindle holes in the disks on the carriages 

above and below the selected disk. A closeable gap between the two 
shafts permits the selected disk to be shifted. The gap is closed, except 

when a carriage is being shifted into or out of the magazine, thereby 
preventing disks and their carriages from shifting due to vibration or 

tilting of the cabinet. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKAMICHI CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKAMICHI CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMICHI NIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMICHI, NIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a disk player having a magazine
for holding a plurality of disks and which capable of continuous
playback of disks from the magazine. In particular, the disk player of
the present invention has a magazine with a securing mechanism for
preventing displacement of disks within the magazine due to vibration
or inclination of the disk player.Disk players with various magazine configurations exist. One
type of magazine configuration is disclosed in
JP-A-4-38663 (corresponding to U.S. Patent No.
5,210,728). The magazine configuration disclosed in this publication
purports to reduce size requirements for the magazine. The magazine
disclosed has a screw shaft, for raising and lowering the magazine, which
passes through spindle holes of disks within the magazine. Carriages
support the disks in the magazine. The carriages have a 8cm diameter
disk mounting recess for mounting small-diameter disks and a 12cm
diameter disk mounting recess for mounting large-diameter disks. Only
disks raised above a predetermined level of a top of the screw shaft are
removable from the magazine. This document has been used for the delimitation of appended claims 1 and 15.While disks below a top of the screw shaft are secured in place
by the screw shaft passing through the spindle holes of the disks so
disposed, disks above the top of the screw shaft are not secured by the
screw shaft and are subject to displacement. Thus, disks above the top
of the screw shaft, especially the 8cm disks, are subject to displacement
by vibrations or an inclination of the disk player. In the case of the 8cm 
disk, it is possible for the disk to be dislodged from a small diameter
recess of the carriage to a 12cm disk mounting recess. Such a
dislodgement results in damage to both the dislodged disk and the disk
player when the magazine is lowered and the top of the screw shaft
engages the dislodged disk.Another type of magazine is proposed by the present applicant
in Japanese Patent Application number 5-71178. Carriages are stacked
upon each other and pivotally supported within the magazine. Each
carriage has a recess for supporting a disk such that the disks are
secured between the carriages in the stack. Carriages are extracted
from the stack by lifting a front end of a carriage above a selected
carriage. Subsequent to the lifting of the carriage, the selected carriage
is withdrawn from the magazine to a disk playback position. The lifting
of the carriage above the selected carriage provides a clearance margin
above a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A disk player which can store a stack of disks, the spindle holes of the disks being aligned,
the player comprising


a magazine (50) having holding means (58, 591 - 596) for holding said stack of disks;
means for selecting a disk from said stack of disks;
means (309) for moving said selected disk from a store position in said magazine to a playback position and vice versa; and
means for reading (202, 203) said selected disk, when said
selected disk is moved to said playback position;

characterized by

a first shaft (250) extending into said magazine, through the spindle
hole (163) of at least one of said disks in said magazine and having an end in

said magazine at a first position;
a second shaft (251) extending into said magazine, coaxially aligned
with and opposing said first shaft (250);
said second shaft (251) extending through the spindle hole (163) of at least
another of said disks held in said magazine (50) and having an end in said

magazine at a second position; and
said first and second positions defining a gap, aligned in a
common plane with said playback position, allowing said selected disk

to be moved between said store position in said magazine (50) and said
playback position.
The disk player of claim 1 further comprising:

means for slidably mounting (252) said second shaft; and
means for shifting (253 - 258) said second shaft in an axial direction to a lock
position, closing said gap, thereby securing said disks in said magazine

by extensions of each of said first and second shafts through spindle
holes of said disks.
The disk player of claim 2 further comprising control means (101, 110, 260)
for controlling said means for shifting to place said second shaft in said

lock position when said means for transporting is in a store state.
The disk player of claim 3 further comprising control means (101, 110, 260)
for controlling said means for shifting to place said second shaft in said

lock position when said means for transporting is in a playback state.
The disk player of claim 2 further comprising control means (101, 110, 260)
for controlling said means for shifting to place said second shaft in said

lock position when said means for transporting is in a playback state.
The disk player of claim 2 further comprising:

said means for transporting including means for moving (20) a disk
from between said playback position to an eject position whereat access

is provide for loading and unloading disks; and
control means (101, 110, 260) for controlling said means for shifting to place said
second shaft in said lock position when said means for transporting is

in an eject state.
The disk player of claim 2 further comprising:

further means for shifting said second shaft to an unlock position
to open said gap;
control means for controlling said means for shifting to place said
second shaft in said unlock position when said means for transporting

is in a transport mode for effecting transport of said selected disk out
of said magazine from said store position, and to place said second shaft

in said lock position when said means for transporting is in a mode
other than said transport mode.
The disk player according to claim 1 further comprising:

carriages for carrying said disks in said magazine;
at least one of said carriages including a first disk mounting
recess (162) for accepting ones of said disks having a first diameter; and
said at least one of said carriages including a second disk
mounting recess (166), concentric with said first disk mounting recess, for

accepting other ones of said disks having a second diameter smaller
than said first diameter.
A disk player according to claim 2, wherein 

said shifting means (253 - 258) includs means for biasing (253) said second shaft
toward said first shaft and means for displacing (254) said second shaft, in a

direction opposing said means for biasing, (253) a distance effective for
permitting only said selected disk to pass therebetween.
The disk player according to claim 9 wherein said means for
displacing further includes a cam member (110) applying pressure to said

second shaft to effect displacement against said means for biasing.
The disk player according to claim 10 wherein:

said means for reading includes an optical head (203) and turntable
assembly;
means for movably mounting (204) said optical head and turntable
assembly permitting functional engagement of said selected disk at said

playback position when said optical head and turntable assembly is in
a read position; and
means for coupling said cam member and said optical head and
turntable assembly permitting movement of said optical head and

turntable assembly between said read position and an inactive position.
The disk player according to claim 9 further comprising
coupling means for coupling an optical head and turntable assembly

with said means for displacing to move said optical head and turntable
assembly between a read position, whereat said selected disk is engaged

by said turntable, and an inactive position whereat said optical head and
turntable assembly is moved clear of a path of transport of said means

for transporting. 
A magazine (50) for storing disks, each having a spindle hole (163)
characterized by


means for holding (58, 591-596) said disks in a concentric array with said
spindle holes (163) aligned;
a first shaft (251) extending through said spindle holes (163) of said disks to
secure said disks in said magazine (50);
means for slidably mounting (252) said shaft; and
retracting means (253-258) for retracting said shaft, at least partially from said
magazine, to allow withdrawal or insertion of a single disk at a time in

said magazine;
a second shaft extending into said magazine, through said spindle
hole of at least one disk of said disks in said magazine and having an

end in said magazine at a first position;
said second shaft being coaxially aligned with and opposing said

first shaft in said magazine;
said first shaft having an end contacting an end of said second
shaft in said magazine; and
retracting means for shifting said first shaft in an axial direction
to an unlock position, opening a gap between said ends of said first and

second shafts;
said gap permitting removal of selected ones of said disks from
said magazine; and
means for biasing said first shaft toward said second shaft.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
