<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619913</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VOICE CONTROLLED MESSAGING SYSTEM AND PROCESSING METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M166	G10L1500	G10L1506	H04M338	H04M166	H04M350	H04Q372	H04M338	H04M3533	H04M1663	H04Q372	G10L1500	H04M350	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	G10L	G10L	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04Q	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04Q	G10L	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	G10L15	G10L15	H04M3	H04M1	H04M3	H04Q3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M1	H04Q3	G10L15	H04M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A voice controlled voice-messaging system (1) permits manipulation of voice messages over the telephone without the need for keypressed commands. Manipulation includes playback of messages, deletion of messages, saving messages, and sending a new message to a recipient from a user-defined list. Access to the system is by spoken password. Voice input also allows: enrollment of a spoken password; granting or refusing user access to the system based on verification of the user speaking a password; recognition of spoken "yes" or "no" in response to prompts by the VMS; recognition of "stop" to interrupt and stop a voice message during playback; enrollment of a spoken personal directory of names of potential message recipients; and recognition of names in the spoken personal directory. The invention uses speaker verification, speaker-independent recognition (SIR) of "yes/no", speaker-independent recognition of "stop" during message playback, and speaker-dependent recognition (SDR) of limited vocabulary of short phrases such as a list of message recipients' names. Spoken password processing comprises calibration, enrollment and verification modes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to digital voice processing methods for control of
voice messaging systems. The invention specifically relates to hands-free or total voice
control of voice processing systems connected to the telephone network.A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject
to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction
by anyone of the patent document as it appears in the Patent & Trademark Office file or
records, but otherwise reserves all other rights.In voice messaging systems (VMS) coupled to the public switched telephone network,
a user (or "subscriber") usually controls the VMS by pressing push buttons by hand on a dual
tone multi-frequency (DTMF) keypad of a telephone set. This method of data input is
inconvenient, and even dangerous, when the user's hands, eyes, or both, are busy.For example, when a user is operating a car phone or cordless telephone the user may
be occupied by other tasks (such as driving a car) which make manual data input difficult or
dangerous. Other circumstances include use of the telephone while typing, using a computer
terminal, or working at a workbench. Owners of rotary dial telephones cannot generate
DTMF signals needed by most VMSs. Moreover, persons having impaired sight and persons 
who lack hands or have other physical handicaps may find using telephone sets difficult or
impossible. In all these cases, voice commands are the only convenient means of interacting
with and controlling a VMS.General functions of VMSs are well known, as shown in U.S. Patents Nos. 4,757,525; 4,761,807
and 4,371,752 (Matthews et al.) which disclose voice-store-and-forward systems. In most
prior art systems, the user controls all or most of the functions of a VMS by manual input
of DTMF digits. For example, in the Matthews et al. '807 patent, DTMF keypresses are
required for some system functions such as enrollment of message recipients. In both the
'807 and '752 patents, the VMS requires DTMF input and responds with "beep" sounds
rather than digitized voice prompts. FIG. 16 of the '752 patent indicates that the '752 system
requires DTMF digits for user identification.Prior attempts to automate VMSs have focused on elements of a system but fail to
automate the entire system. For example, U.S. Patent No. 5.048.074 (Dugdale) simply
replaces DTMF pushbuttons with foot switches.Text to speech (TTS) conversion is a known means for supplying a text or e-mail
message to a caller, as exemplified
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A voice controlled digital messaging system comprising:

at least one subscriber telephone line coupled to a line interface controller, said
controller for digitizing voice signals received on the telephone line;
a storage device storing a plurality of digitized voice prompts;
signal processor coupled to the line interface controller and to the storage device
for controlling storage, retrieval, playback, and sending of voice messages, comprising


means for selecting voice verification data responsive to an identification
of said at least one subscriber telephone line;
means for controlling access to the system by voice verification of a
spoken password using said selected voice verification data, so as to verify that

the password is spoken by an authorised person;
means for controlling playback of voice messages stored on the storage
device, comprising means for interrupting playback when the subscriber inputs a

voice command during playback; and
means for controlling storage, retrieval, and sending of voice messages
in response to voice commands of YES and NO given by the subscriber.
The system of claim 1 wherein the means for controlling access to the
system further comprises means for enrollment of a password template, the template

comprising a digital representation of features of a spoken password signal provided by
the subscriber.
The system of claim 2 wherein the means for enrollment further
comprises means for receiving a first plurality of input spoken password utterances

from the subscriber, means for creating the template based on a second plurality of the 
utterances fewer in number than the first plurality, and means for testing the template

by comparing a third plurality of the utterances to the template.
The system of claim 1, wherein the means for controlling playback
of voice messages stored on the storage device, comprises means for enrolling the word

STOP spoken by the subscriber.
The system of claim 4 wherein the means for enrolling the word
STOP further comprises means for receiving a first plurality of input spoken password

utterances from the subscriber, means for creating the template based on a second
plurality of the utterances fewer in number than the first plurality, and means for

testing the template by comparing a third plurality of the utterances to the template.
The system of claim 4 wherein the means for controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises means for speaker

independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO.
The system of claim 4 wherein the means for controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises:


means for prompting the subscriber to select a play message mode for playing
messages stored on the storage device;
means for speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by
the subscriber; and
means responsive to a YES utterance for playing back a stored message.
The system of claim 4 wherein the means for controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises: 


means for prompting the subscriber to select a save message mode for saving
messages recently stored on the storage device;
means for recognition of utterances of YES and NO by the subscriber; and
means responsive to a YES utterance for saving a recently received stored
message on the storage device.
The system of claim 4 wherein the means for controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises:


means for prompting the subscriber to select an erase message mode for
erasing messages recently stored on the storage device;
means for speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by
the subscriber; and
means responsive to a YES utterance for erasing a recently received message
from the storage device.
The system of claim 4 wherein the means for controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises:


means for prompting the subscriber to select a review saved message mode for
replaying messages previously stored on the storage device by the subscriber;
means for speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by
the subscriber; and
means responsive to a YES utterance for replaying a message stored on the
storage device.
The system of claim 4 wherein the means for controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises:


means for prompting the subscriber to select an erase saved message mode for
erasing messages stored on the storage device by the subscriber in the save message 

mode; means for speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by the
subscriber; and
means responsive to a YES utterance for erasing a saved message from the
storage device.
The system of claim 1 wherein the means for controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises:


means for prompting the subscriber to select a send message mode for sending
messages from the subscriber to one of a plurality of message recipients;
means for speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by
the subscriber;
means responsive to a YES utterance for sending messages from the subscriber
to one of the plurality of message recipients, comprising:


means for speaker dependent recognition of the name of a message
recipient;
means for recording a digitized voice message to the recipient on the
storage device;
means for selectively replaying the voice message upon speaker
independent recognition of a YES utterance from the subscriber.
The system of claim 12 wherein the means for sending messages
further comprises means for enrolling a plurality of speaker dependent templates

representing digitized utterances of a plurality of names of message recipients.
The system of claims 2 or 13 wherein the template is created using
a hidden Markov model having at least fourteen states and having cepstral coefficients

of at least twentieth order. 
The system of claim 14 wherein the means for testing the template
comprises measuring spectral distance using smoothed Laplacian group delay spectrum.
The system of claim 14 wherein the means for testing the template
comprises means for weighting the cepstral coefficients using smoothed group delay.
A method for controlling storage, retrieval, playback, and
sending of voice messages of a data processing system having at least one subscriber telephone line

coupled to a line interface controller for digitizing voice signals received on the
telephone line, a storage device having a plurality of digitized voice prompts recorded

thereon, and signal processor coupled to a memory and to the line interface controller
and to the storage device, said method comprising the steps of:


identifying the at least one subscriber telephone line;
selecting verification data responsive to said identification;
controlling access to the system by voice verification of a spoken
password, thereby verifying that the password is spoken by an authorised

person;
controlling playback of voice messages stored on the storage device,
comprising means for interrupting playback when a system subscriber speaks a

voice command during playback; and
controlling storage, retrieval, and sending of voice messages in response
to voice commands of YES and No given by the subscriber.
The method of claim 17 wherein the step of controlling access to the
method further comprises steps for enrollment of a speaker dependent password

template, the template comprising a digital representation of features of a spoken
password signal provided by the subscriber.
The method of claim 18 wherein the step of enrollment further comprises

the steps of 

receiving a first plurality of input spoken password utterances from the
subscriber,
creating the template based on a second plurality of the utterances fewer in
number than the first plurality, and
testing the template by comparing a third plurality of the utterances to the
template.
The method of claim 17, wherein the step of controlling playback of
voice messages stored on the storage device, includes the substep of enrolling the word

STOP spoken by a subscriber.
The method of claim 20 wherein the step of enrolling the word STOP
further comprises the steps of:


receiving a first plurality of input spoken password utterances from the
subscriber,
creating the template based on a second plurality of the utterances fewer in
number than the first plurality, and
testing the template by comparing a third plurality of the utterances to the
template.
The method of claim 20 wherein the step of controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises the step of recognizing

utterances of YES and NO independent of the speaker.
The method of claim 20 wherein the step of controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises the steps of:


prompting a subscriber to select a play message mode for playing messages
stored on the storage device; 
speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by the
subscriber; and
responding to a YES utterance by playing back a stored message.
The method of claim 20 wherein the step of controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises the steps of:


prompting a subscriber to select a save message mode for saving messages
recently stored on the storage device;
speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by the
subscriber; and
responding to a YES utterance for saving a recently received stored message
on the storage device.
The method of claim 20 wherein the steps of controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises the steps of:


prompting a subscriber to select an erase message mode for erasing messages
recently stored on the storage device;
speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by the
subscriber; and
responding to a YES utterance for erasing a recently received message from
the storage device.
The method of claim 20 wherein the step of controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises:


prompting a subscriber to select a review saved message mode for replaying
messages previously stored on the storage device by the subscriber;
speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by the
subscriber; and 
responding to a YES utterance for replaying a message stored on the storage
device.
The method of claim 20 wherein the step of controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises the steps of:


prompting a subscriber to select an erase saved message mode for erasing
messages stored on the storage device by the subscriber in the save message mode;

speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by the subscriber; and
responding to a YES utterance for erasing a saved message from the storage
device.
The method of claim 17 wherein the step of controlling storage,
retrieval, and sending of voice messages further comprises the steps of:


prompting a subscriber to select a send message mode for sending messages
from the subscriber to one of a plurality of message recipients;
speaker independent recognition of utterances of YES and NO by the
subscriber;
responding to a YES utterance for sending messages from the subscriber to one
of the plurality of message recipients, comprising the steps of:


speaker dependent recognition of the name of a message recipient;
recording a digitized voice message to the recipient on the storage
device; and
selectively replaying the voice message upon speaker independent
recognition of a YES utterance from the subscriber.
The method of claim 28 wherein the step of sending messages further
comprises the step of enrolling a plurality of speaker dependent templates representing

digitized utterances of a plurality of names of message recipients. 
The method of claims 18 or 28 wherein the template is created using
a hidden Markov model having at least fourteen states and having cepstral coefficients

of at least twentieth order.
The method of claim 30 wherein the step of testing the template
comprises measuring spectral distance using smoothed Laplacian group delay spectrum.
The method of claim 30 wherein the step of testing the template
comprises step of weighting the cepstral coefficients using smoothed group delay.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
