<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647083</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Medium temperature conductive-resistant articles and method for providing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B334	H01C702	H05B314	H05B334	H05B320	H01B124	H01C702	H01B124	H05B320	H05B314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	H01C	H05B	H05B	H05B	H01B	H01C	H01B	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B3	H01C7	H05B3	H05B3	H05B3	H01B1	H01C7	H01B1	H05B3	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method for providing and medium 
temperature conductive-resistive articles comprising 

graphite suspended in a high temperature polymer based 
activator and water. The conductive-resistive substance 

can be applied to a fabric-like substrate in order to 
provide an electrical resistive temperature adjustable 

heating element which can alter the temperature of the 
fabric-like substrate when electrical current is 

permitted to flow through the conductive-resistive 
substance. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAPESWITCH CORP OF AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAPESWITCH CORPORATION OF AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVELL WALTER C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVELL, WALTER C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to temperatureproducing
electrically-resistive medium and to a method of
producing a variety of articles therefrom.There have been many attempts to produce
electrically-conductive coatings such as paints.
Generally, there are two types of electrically-conductive
coatings. The first is a low resistivity,
high conductivity paint that contains a pigmentation of
metal particles while the second is a high resistivity,
low conductivity paint that is formed from compositions
containing carbon or graphite.Low resistivity paints have traditionally been used
to provide coatings having a high conductivity for
connecting conductors that require a superior electrical
bond with a minimum resistance. Generally, low
resistivity paints cannot be applied to materials in
order to produce temperature adjustable heating elements 
because the low resistivity paint requires a high volume
of current to generate a reasonable output of heat. In
contrast, the resistivity of traditional highly
resistive paints is often so high that a relatively high
voltage drop is required in order to generate sufficient
heat. As a result, the use of high resistivity paints
usually sacrifices safety. Furthermore, when either of
the above-identified traditional conductive paints are
applied to various substrates, cracks and flaking of the
paint often develop over a period of time. This causes
a breakdown in the temperature adjustable property of
the article.It is therefore an object of the present invention
to provide a method and apparatus for generating an
electrical resistance temperature adjustable substance
for application to a variety of substrates in order to
provide temperature controllable properties.It is another object of the present invention to
provide a method and apparatus for generating an
electrical resistance temperature adjustable substance
for application to a variety of materials wherein the
electrical resistance temperature adjustable substance
does not inhibit the inherent flexibility of the
substrate to which it is applied. Other and further objects will be made known to the
artisan as a result of the present disclosure and it is
intended to include all such objects which are realized as a
result of the disclosed invention.The invention therefore provides an electrical-resistant
temperature adjustable article, comprising a first
substrate, an electrically resistive coating and a binder,
characterized in that the said coating is a medium-temperature
electrically-resistive coating which is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical-resistant temperature adjustable
article, comprising a first substrate (10), an electrically-resistive

coating (30) and a binder,

   characterized in that the said coating (30) is a
medium-temperature electrically-resistive coating which is directly

applied to said substrate (10) and comprises graphite
particles having a particle size from about 100 µm (150

mesh) to about 45 µm (325 mesh), and that the binder is
polymer latex.
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said

first substrate (10) is a fabric-like material.
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said

first substrate (10) is hydrophilic in nature.
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the

first substrate (10) is treated with a hydrophilic substance

before the electrically-resistive coating (30) is applied,
the hydrophilic substance causing the first substrate (10)

to be hydrophilic.
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the

first substrate (10) remains pliable after the electrically-resistive
coating (30) has been applied thereto.
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 1, characterized by further

comprising spaced-apart electrical conductors (20) secured 
to said medium temperature electrically-resistive coating

for electrical conductance between said electrical
conductors (20).
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 1, characterized by further

comprising spaced-apart electrical conductors (20) secured
to said first substrate (10).
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that said

spaced-apart electrical conductors (20) are interposed
between said first substrate (10) and said medium

temperature electrically-resistive coating for electrical
conductance between said electrical conductors (20).
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 7, characterized by further

comprising:

a power source coupled to said spaced-apart
electrical conductors (20);
wherein when said power source is activated,
electrical current flows between the spaced-apart electrical

conductors (20) through the medium temperature electrically
resistive coating, whereby heat is generated as a result of

the electrical current flow.
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that the

power source is a battery.
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that it

further comprises a second substrate (40) positioned
substantially coextensively with and in parallel relation to

said first substrate (10) whereby said spaced-apart
electrical conductors (20) and said electrically-resistive 

coating (30) are between said first (10) and second
substrates (40).
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that said

second substrate (40) is a fabric-like material.
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said

electrically-resistive coating (30) comprises graphite
suspended in a binder in an amount sufficient to provide

controllable conductivity and resistance for said
temperature variance of the substrate.
The electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable
article as claimed in claim 13, characterized in that said

electrical-resistant temperature-adjustable article can
attain temperatures up to 204.4°C (400°F).
The method of providing temperature-adjustable
capability to a substrate (10), characterized by the steps

of applying a coating (30) of a medium temperature
electrically-resistive substance directly to said substrate (10),

said medium-temperature, electrically-resistive substance
comprising graphite particles having a particle size from

about 100 µm (150 mesh) to about 45 µm (325 mesh) and
wherein polymer latex is used as a binder.
The method of providing temperature-adjustable
capability to a substrate (10) as claimed in claim 15,

characterized in that said substrate (10) is a fabric-like
material.
The method of providing temperature-adjustable
capability to a substrate (10) as claimed in claim 15,

characterized in that a hydrophilic substance is interposed 
between said substrate (10) and said medium temperature

electrically-resistive substance.
The method of providing temperature-adjustable
capability to a substrate (10) as claimed in claim 15,

characterized in that spaced-apart electrical conductors
(20) are interposed between said substrate (10) and said

medium temperature electrically-resistive substance.
The method of providing temperature-adjustable
capability to a substrate (10) as claimed in claim 15,

characterized by further comprising securing spaced-apart
electrical conductors (20) to said substrate (10).
The method of providing temperature-adjustable
capability to a substrate (10) as claimed in claim 15,

characterized by further comprising securing spaced-apart
electrical conductors (20) to said medium temperature

electrically-resistive substance.
The method of providing temperature-adjustable
capability to a substrate (10) as claimed in claim 15,

characterized by further comprising:

electrically coupling a power source to said medium
temperature electrically-resistive substance so as to

provide current flow through the medium temperature
electrically-resistive substance in order to vary the

temperature of the substrate (10).
The method of providing temperature-adjustable
capability to a substrate (10) as claimed in claim 15,

characterized by further comprising:

applying a second substrate (10) to the medium
temperature electrically-resistive substance so that the

medium temperature electrically-resistive coating is between
the substrate (10) and the second substrate (40).
An electrically-resistive composition for providing
temperature-adjustable capability to a substrate (10), the

composition consisting essentially of:

10-30 weight percent graphite having a particle size
from about 100 µm (150 mesh) to about 45 µm (325 mesh),

20-65 weight percent polymer latex and 6 to 60 weight
percent total water based on 100 weight percent total

composition.
The electrically-resistive composition as claimed in
claim 23, characterized in that the graphite is in the form

of a graphite-water slurry when combined with the polymer
latex.
The electrically-resistive composition as claimed in
claim 23, characterized in that it further comprises a fire

retardant chemical.
The electrically-resistive composition as claimed in
claim 23, characterized in that the polymer latex is

selected from the group consisting of acrylics and vinyl
acetates.
The electrically-resistive composition as claimed in
claim 23, characterized in that the particle size of the

graphite is 75 µm (200 mesh).
The electrically-resistive composition as claimed in
claim 23 characterized in that the graphite has 2% ash

therein.
An electrically-resistive composition consisting essentially of:

15 to 25 weight percent graphite having a particle
size from about 100 µm (150 mesh) to about 45 µm (325 mesh)

and containing ash, 25-50 weight percent polymer latex and
20 to 45 weight percent total water based on 100 weight

percent total composition.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
