<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646982</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Frequency translation of true time delay signals.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S702	G01S702	G01S728	G01S728	H01Q326	H01Q326	H01Q330	H01Q342	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	H01Q3	H01Q3	H01Q3	H01Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for frequency translation of true 
time delay signals (50) in a phased array radar system is 

provided. A local oscillator signal (52) is true time delayed 
(54) or modulo 2π phase shifted and then mixed (56) with a true 

time delay beamsteering signal (50) from a true time delay 
circuit (48) to produce a frequency translated transmit signal 

(58) which is supplied to an antenna element. A receive signal 
(58) received by an antenna element is mixed (56) with a true 

time delayed (54) or modulo 2π phase shifted local oscillator 
signal (52) to provide a frequency translated receive signal 

(50). The frequency translated receive signal (50) can then 
be passed through a true time delay circuit (48) and other 

subsequent processing circuitry. The frequency translation 
permits higher frequency transmit and receive signals (58) to 

be used with lower frequency true time delay devices (48). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWBERG IRWIN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NUSSBAUM HOWARD S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANGONAN GREGORY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALSTON ANDREW A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWBERG, IRWIN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NUSSBAUM, HOWARD S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANGONAN, GREGORY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALSTON, ANDREW A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
electronically beamsteered phased array radar antennas. 
More particularly, the present invention relates to the use 
of true time delay beamsteering signals in phased array 
radar antennas. An electronically beamsteered phased array is an 
antenna system comprising individual fixed antenna elements 
in which the relative phases of the signals respectively 
radiated or received by the antenna elements control the 
effective beam pointing direction. A typical phased array 
antenna system 10 is shown in FIG. 1. The antenna 10 
includes a number of phase shifters 12. Each phase shifter 
12 provides signals to and receives signals from its 
corresponding antenna element 14. A pointing angle 15 is 
established by imparting an appropriate phase shift to the 
transmit and receive signals in each phase shifter 12. An 
RF wavefront 18 represents a line along which signals 
transmitted from each of the antenna elements 14 will line 
up in phase. A beam pointing direction 16 is perpendicular 
to the RF wavefront 18. The beam pointing direction 16 and 
RF wavefront 18 define a beam pointing angle 15 relative to 
the plane 19 of the antenna elements 14. An effective beam 
pointing angle is established for receive signals by 
applying an appropriate phase shift to the signals as they 
are received by elements 14. The beamsteering effect on 
both transmit and receive is substantially the same as that 
produced by physical repositioning of the antenna elements  
 
in a mechanically scanned antenna. The operation of a prior art phased array antenna 
utilizing conventional phase shifters can be understood by 
reference to FIG. 2(a). The exemplary antenna system 20 
includes a number of phase shifters 22 imparting appropriate 
phase shift to the signals transmitted by or received from 
their corresponding antenna elements 24. The different 
phase shift applied by each phase shifter 22 provides a beam 
pointing direction 25 at a desired beam pointing angle 23 
as previously discussed. A portion of an exemplary radar 
signal is also shown in FIG. 2(a). The radar signal 
includes a pulse modulation envelope 27 superimposed on a 
composite RF carrier signal 28. The different phase shift 
imparted to signals from each phase shifter 22 results in 
a number of distinct phase shifted carrier signals 26. For 
purposes of clarity only the portion of each carrier signal 
26 which falls within the time duration of a single 
exemplary modulation pulse is shown. The various phase 
shifted
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A phased array antenna true time delay beamsteering 
device comprising: 

   a first oscillator (46) generating an output of a 
first signal; 

   a first true time delay circuit (48) having an input 
and an output, said input of said true time delay circuit (48) 

connected to said output of said first oscillator (46); 
   a local oscillator (52) generating an output of a 

local oscillator signal; 
   a local oscillator delay device (54) having an input 

and an output, said input of said local oscillator delay device 
(54) connected to said output of said local oscillator (52), 

said delay device (54) producing a delayed local oscillator 
signal; and 

   a transmit mixer (56) having a plurality of inputs, 
the first of said inputs of said transmit mixer (56) connected 

to the output of said local oscillator delay device (54), the 
second of said inputs of said transmit mixer (56) connected 

to the output of said true time delay circuit (48), said transmit 
mixer (56) generating a transmit signal (58), said transmit 

signal (58) being applied to an antenna element for transmission. 
The beamsteering device of claim 1, characterized 
in that said local oscillator delay device (54) delays said 

local oscillator signal by a predetermined amount based on the 
beam steering angle required. 
The beamsteering device of claim 1 or claim 2, 
characterized in that said local oscillator delay device (54) 

includes a second true time delay circuit. 
The beamsteering device of any of claims 1 - 3, 
characterized in that said local oscillator device (54) includes 

a modulo 2π phase shifter. 
The beamsteering device of any of claims 1 - 4, 
characterized in that said transmit signal (58) applied to said 

antenna element includes a sum of signals applied to said first 
and said second transmit mixer inputs. 
The heamsteering device of any of claims 1 - 5, further 
characterized by a receive mixer (56) having a plurality of 

inputs, the first of said inputs of said receive mixer (56) 
connected to the output of said local oscillator delay device 

(54), the second of said inputs of said receive mixer (56) 
connected to said antenna element for receiving a receive signalm 

(58), said receive mixer (56) generating a receive mixer output 
signal (50). 
The beamsteering device of claim 6, characterized 
in that said receive mixer output signal (50) includes a 

difference of signals applied to said first and said second 
receive mixer inputs. 
The beamsteering device of claim 7, characterized 
in that said delayed local oscillator signal has a phase when 

said receive signal (58) is received by said antenna element 
which is a conjugate of said delayed local oscillator signal 

phase when said transmit signal (58) is transmitted by said 
antenna element. 
A method for controlling the beam pointing direction 
of phased array radars comprising the steps of: 

   generating (46) a first signal; 
   true time delaying (48) said first signal; 

   generating (52) a local oscillator signal; 
   delaying (54) said local oscillator signal by a 

predetermined amount to provide a delayed local oscillator 
signal; 

   mixing (56) said true time delayed first signal (50) 
and said delayed local oscillator signal such that a sum of 

said first signal (50) and said delayed local oscillator signal 
forms a transmit signal (58); and 

   sending said transmit signal (58) to an antenna element 
for transmission. 
The method of claim 9, characterized in that said 
step of delaying (54) said local oscillator signal includes 

true time delaying (54) said local oscillator signal by an amount 
equivalent to said true time delay (48) applied to said first 

signal. 
The method of claim 9 or claim 10, characterized in 
that said step of delaying (54) said local oscillator signal 

includes modulo 2π phase shifting said local oscillator signal 
by a phase shift equivalent to the modulo 2π value of said true 

time delay (48) applied to said first signal. 
The method of any of claims 9 - 11, further characterized 
by the steps of: 

   receiving a receive signal (58) from said antenna 
element; and 

   mixing (56) said receive signal (58) and said delayed 
local oscillator signal such that a difference of said receive 

signal (58) and said delayed local oscillator signal forms a 
frequency translated receive signal (50). 
The method of claim 12, characterized in that said 
step of mixing (56) said receive signal (58) with said delayed 

local oscillator signal further includes using a delayed local 
oscillator signal having a phase which is a conjugate of a phase 

of said delayed local oscillator signal used in said step of 
mixing (56) said true time delayed first signal (50) and said 

delayed local oscillator signal to form said transmit signal 
(58). 
A method for steering phased array radar antennas 
comprising a plurality of discrete antenna elements comprising 

the steps of: 
   generating (46) a first signal; 

   delaying (48) said first signal independently for 
each of the plurality of discrete antenna elements to form a 

plurality of true time delay beamsteering signals (50), one 
for each of the plurality of antenna elements, having a particular 

delay associated with each of the plurality of antenna 
elements which is determined by the direction of transmission 

desired; 
   generating (52) a local oscillator signal; 

   delaying (54) said local oscillator signal independently 
for each of the plurality of discrete antenna elements by 

an amount based on a desired direction of antenna transmission 
to form a plurality of delayed local oscillator signals; 

   mixing (56) said plurality of true time delay beam-steering 
signals (50) with said plurality of delayed local 

oscillator signals for each of said plurality of antenna elements 
such that a sum of said true time delay beamsteering signals 

(50) and said delayed local oscillator signals form a plurality 
of transmit signals (58), one for each of said plurality of 

antenna elements; and 
   sending each of said plurality of transmit signals 

(58) to an associated antenna element for transmission. 
The method of claim 14, characterized in that said 
step of delaying (54) said local oscillator signal includes 

true time delaying (54) said local oscillator signal by an amount 
equivalent to said true time delay (48) applied to each of said 

true time delay beamsteering signals (50). 
The method of claim 14 or claim 15, characterized 
in that said step of delaying (54) said local oscillator signal 

includes modulo 2π phase shifting (54) said local oscillator 
signal by a phase shift equivalent to the modulo 2π value of 

said true time delay (48) applied to each of said true time 
delay beamsteering signals (50). 
The method of any of claims 14 - 16, characterized 
by the further steps of: 

   receiving a plurality of receive signals (58), one 
from said each of said plurality of antenna elements; and 

   mixing (56) each of said plurality of receive signals 
(58) with said delayed local oscillator signals such that a 

difference of said receive signals (58) and said delayed local 
oscillator signals forms a plurality of frequency translated 

receive signals (50). 
The method of claim 17, characterized in that said 
step of mixing (56) said receive signals (58) with said delayed 

local oscillator signals for each of said antenna elements 
further includes using a delayed (54) local oscillator signal 

for each of said elements having a phase which is a conjugate 
of a phase of said delayed (54) local oscillator signals used 

for each of said elements in said step of mixing (56) said true 
time delay beamsteering signals (50) and said delayed local 

oscillator signals to form said transmit signals (58). 
The method of any of claims 14 - 18, characterized 
in that said transmission of said output signals (58) remains 

pointed in a predetermined direction regardless of variation 
in a frequency of said transmit signal (50). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
