<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635183</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (CDMA) INBOUND MESSAGING SYSTEM UTILIZING RE-USE OF SEQUENCES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04J1300	H04J1300	H04J1302	H04J1302	H04L2726	H04L2730	H04W1600	H04W1602	H04W1612	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04J13	H04J13	H04J13	H04J13	H04L27	H04L27	H04W16	H04W16	H04W16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A communication system for providing two-way communication comprises base stations (15) for transmitting and receiving information and a central controller (10) coupled to and controlling the base stations (15). The central controller (10) selectively assigns seeds to each of the base stations (15) in accordance with the information transmitted and received by the base stations (15).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AYERST DOUGLAS I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARSELLO STEPHEN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLOTZBACH WARREN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AYERST, DOUGLAS, I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARSELLO, STEPHEN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLOTZBACH, WARREN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (CDMA) INBOUND MESSAGING SYSTEM UTILIZING RE-USE OF SEQUENCESRelated ApplicationsThis application is being filed of even date with related U.S. Patent Application No. 08/003,720 (Attorney's Docket No. PT00276U) to Ayerst et al. entitled "Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) Inbound Messaging System Utilizing Interference Cancellation to Recover Inbound Messages" and with related U.S. Patent Application No. 08/004,160 (Attorney's Docket No. PT00313U) to Ayerst et al. entitled "Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) Inbound Messaging System Utilizing Over-the-Air Programming".Field of the InventionThis invention relates in general to code division multiple access (CDMA) messaging systems, and more specifically to a CDMA inbound messaging system in which fixed base stations are grouped into re-use groups.Background of the InventionMany conventional messaging systems include portable radio communication devices carried by subscribers and at least one fixed base station for transmitting messages to the radio communication devices for subsequent presentation to the subscribers. In some of these systems, one or more of the radio communication devices may be transceivers capable of transmitting signals as well as receiving messages from the base station. These systems are described as two-way messaging systems.In two-way messaging systems, a portable transceiver can signal a base station for a number of reasons. By way of example, the portable transceiver could transmit a signal to the base station to deliver a message, to acknowledge reception of a message, or to indicate to the base station that the portable transceiver is located within the coverage area of the base station. 

 Currently, one-way messaging systems, e.g., paging systems, are typically allocated a frequency channel, for example, 25 kHz. To add two- way messaging capability to such a system, portable transceivers require limited throughput to the base station, e.g., 100 bits/sec. Additionally, to maximize battery life, it is desirable for the portable transceivers to use low power levels when transmitting. However, it is then necessary to transmit at a very low rate in order to balance the range between the low power inbound channel and the high-rate, high-power outbound channel. If the low-rate inbound signals are multiplexed into the channel, a plurality of the portable transceivers could share a single channel.One possible method for multiplexing a set of narrowband inbound signals is frequency division multiple
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for assigning seeds in a communication system comprising base stations for communicating with portable transceivers within the communication system, the communication system further comprising a central controller for controlling the operation of the base station and for assigning the seeds, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) the central controller determining which of the seeds are available seeds; and (b) the central controller assigning a subset of the available seeds to a first one of the base stations.
2. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising the step of: (c) the first one of the base stations, prior to step (a), transmitting a seed request to the central controller.
3. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising the step of: - (d) the first one of the base stations, in response to step (b), transmitting the subset of the available seeds to one or more portable transceivers located within a coverage area associated with the first one of the base stations.
4. The method in accordance with claim 2, wherein the base stations are grouped into a plurality of re-use groups and step (a) comprises the step of:
(e) the central controller determining which of the seeds are unassigned seeds that are currently unassigned to any of the base stations; (f) the central controller determining which of the seeds are assigned seeds that are currently assigned to a second one of the base stations included in a re-use group different than that of the first one of the base stations; and
(g) the central controller determining that the unassigned seeds and the assigned seeds that are currently assigned to the second one of the base stations are available seeds. 


 5. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising the step of:
(h) the central controller, subsequent to step (b), tagging the subset of the available seeds as unavailable.
6. The method in accordance with claim 5, further comprising the steps of:
(i) the first one of the base stations, when a seed included in the subset of the available seeds is no longer in use, transmitting a signal to the central controller indicating that the seed is no longer in use; and
(j) the central controller, in response to step (i), tagging the seed as available.
7. A method for assigning seeds in a central controller having a data port for transmitting and receiving information signals and a memory for storing the seeds, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving a first information signal via the data port; and
(b) tagging, in the memory, one or more seeds as available or unavailable in accordance with the first information signal.
8. The method in accordance with claim 7, further comprising the steps of:
(c) transmitting a second information signal, wherein the second information signal includes at least one seed that is tagged as available; and
(d) tagging, in the memory, the at least one seed as unavailable.
9. A central controller for assigning seeds, comprising: memory means for storing the seeds; a data port for transmitting and receiving information; and processing means coupled to the memory means and the data port for allocating the seeds in accordance with the information transmitted and received by the data port. 


 10. The central controller in accordance with claim 9, wherein the processing means tags each of the seeds as assigned or unassigned in the memory in accordance with the information transmitted and received by the data port.
11. The central controller in accordance with claim 10, wherein the processing means provides a seed that is tagged as unassigned to the data port for subsequent transmission therefrom and tags the seed as assigned in response thereto.
12. The central controller in accordance with claim 11, wherein the processing means comprises means for determining whether an assigned seed is available for transmission from the data port.
13. The central controller in accordance with claim 10, further comprising a telephone interface coupled to the processing means for receiving selective call messages, wherein the processing means allocates the seeds in response to reception of the selective call messages.
14. The central controller in accordance with claim 13, further comprising a message buffer coupled to the telephone interface for temporarily storing the selective call messages received by the telephone interface.
15. The central controller in accordance with claim 14, wherein the processing means provides a number of available seeds to the data ports for subsequent transmission therefrom, wherein the number of available seeds is proportional to the number of the selective call messages stored in the message buffer.
16. The central controller in accordance with claim 15, wherein the number of available seeds includes one or more seeds that have been tagged as assigned in the memory. 


 17. A communication system for providing two-way communication, the communication system comprising: base stations for transmitting and receiving information; and a central controller coupled to and controlling the base stations, the central controller selectively assigning seeds to each of the base stations in accordance with the information transmitted and received by the base stations.
18. The communication system in accordance with claim 17, wherein: the information transmitted by the base stations includes at least one seed request transmitted by at least one base station to the central controller; and the central controller, in response thereto, determines which of the seeds are available seeds and provides to the at least one base station a subset of the available seeds.
19. The communication system in accordance with claim 18, further comprising at least one portable transceiver for transmitting a communication initiation signal to the at least one base station, wherein the at least one base station transmits the subset of the available seeds to the at least one portable transceiver in response to reception of the communication initiation signal.
20. The communication system in accordance with claim 19, wherein: the central controller, in response to providing the at least one base station with the subset of the available seeds, tags each of the subset of the available seeds as unavailable; and the at least one base station, when a seed included within the subset of available seeds is no longer in use by a portable transceiver included within the at least one portable transceiver, transmits a signal to the central controller indicating that the seed is no longer in use, in response to which the central controller tags the seed as available. 


 21. A communication system for providing two-way communication, comprising: base stations for transmitting and receiving information, wherein the base stations are grouped into a plurality of re-use groups; and a central controller coupled to and controlling the base stations, the central controller comprising: memory means for storing seeds; and processing means coupled to the memory means for tagging each of the seeds as available and unavailable in the memory means, and for selectively providing the base stations with a subset of available seeds.
22. The communication system in accordance with claim 21, wherein: the base stations comprise a first plurality of data ports for transmitting seed requests to the central controller; the central controller comprises a second plurality of data ports coupled to the processing means for receiving the seed requests, wherein, in response to reception of a seed request from a first base station via one of the second plurality of data ports, the processing means determines which of the seeds are unassigned seeds that have not been provided to any of the base stations and which of the seeds are assigned seeds that have been provided to a second base station included within a re-use group different than that of the first base station; and the processing means tags as available for transmission to the first base station the unassigned seeds and the assigned seeds that have been provided to the second base station.
23. The communication system in accordance with claim 21, further comprising at least one portable transceiver for communicating with the base stations and for receiving at least a portion of the subset of available seeds from the base stations. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
