<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611592</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Membranes for use in affinity separation and methods for activating membranes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D6700	B01D6700	B01D6900	B01D6914	B01J2030	B01J2032	C07K100	C07K122	G01N33543	G01N33543	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01J	B01J	C07K	C07K	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D67	B01D67	B01D69	B01D69	B01J20	B01J20	C07K1	C07K1	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Membranes for use in affinity separation and methods of activating such 
membranes are provided having increased binding capacity in affinity 

separation processes. Porous membranes are contacted with activating 
agents to form linking molecules which are particularly effective in the 

production of biologically active membranes. Biologically active membranes 
are also provided, which are prepared by contacting chemically 

active membranes with a volume of solution containing an acceptor 
ligand molecule for immobilization which is close to the void volume of 

the membrane. After void volume loading, the membrane is dried under 
controlled conditions. Biologically active membranes produced in this 

manner are found to have a greatly increased capacity of reversibly 
immobilizing ligates from solution. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PALL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PALL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TROTH HARVEY GRAHAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TROTH, HARVEY GRAHAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for preparing an activated 
membrane suitable for use in affinity separation. The invention also 
relates to membranes obtained by the method which are capable of 
binding acceptor molecules. The invention further relates to a method of 
preparing a biologically active membrane having an acceptor molecule 
covalently attached thereto. Additionally, the invention relates to a 
method of extracting a mobile ligate from solution making use of the 
biologically active membrane. The term "affinity separation" is used to describe a process by which 
biologically active substances, for example antibodies, antigenic substances, 
immunoglobulins, proteinaceous substances or other active materials 
capable of biospecific complex formation are extracted or isolated from 
a fluid. The procedure involves passing the fluid through a porous 
material, for example porous beads or a porous membrane, which has 
acceptor molecules bound thereto, which are capable of immobilizing the 
biologically active substance to be separated. Such active substances are 
referred to herein as "ligates". The acceptor molecules representing the 
pair molecule for complex formation are, of course, also biologically 
active. To distinguish these molecules from the mobile ligates, they are 
referred to herein as "ligands" or "acceptor ligand molecules". A number of membrane materials have been suggested for use in affinity 
separation. US 4,340,479 discloses a membrane made of Nylon 66. The 
membrane comprises amine and carboxylic groups on its surface which  
 
are capable of binding an acceptor ligand molecule or are capable of 
binding with a linking molecule which in turn reacts with the acceptor 
molecule. The term "surface" or "membrane surface" as used herein is 
intended to refer to both the external surface of the membrane exposed 
to view as well as the internal surfaces of the pores of the membrane. The UK Patent Application GB-A 2 115 344 discloses a polyamide 
membrane containing carboxyl groups on its surface and the European 
Patent Application EP-A-272 841 and EP-A-272 842 discloses a surface 
modified porous membrane comprising hydroxyl groups. The functional 
groups on the surfaces of such membranes, for example amines, hydroxyl 
or carboxyl groups, can be activated with an activating agent providing 
a site on the membrane surface which is capable of binding an acceptor 
molecule. The UK Patent Application GB-A 2 163 434 discloses for 
example the activation of the mentioned
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of preparing an activated membrane comprising the steps of: 

a) providing a porous membrane, having reactive moieties on the 
surface thereof, and 
b) contacting the porous membrane with an activating agent capable 
of reacting with said moieties to form a linking molecule, 

the activating agent being selected from the group of acryloyl 
chloride, acetyl chloride, thionyl chloride, and poly(acryloyl 

chloride). 
Method of claim 1, wherein the reactive moieties are selected from 
the group of hydroxyl, carboxyl and amine groups. 
Method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the activating agent is acryloyl 
chloride and the reactive moieties on the surface of the porous 

membrane are hydroxyl groups. 
Method of claim 1, 2 or 3, further comprising after step b), the 
step of: 


c) contacting the membrane with a second activating agent capable 
of reacting with the formed linking molecule of step (b) to 

produce a second linking molecule having a functional amine 
group, and preferably 
d) contacting the membrane of step (c) with a third activating 
agent capable of reacting with the second linking molecule to 

 
produce a third linking molecule having at least one functional 

aldehyde group or at least one functional hydroxyl group. 
Method of claim 4, wherein the second activating agent is selected 
from the group of ammonia, substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbyl 

polyamine with 2 - 12 amine groups, preferably alkane diamine, 
more preferably C₄-C₈ diamine, hexamethylene diamine and 

polyallylamine. 
Method of claim 4 or 5, wherein the third activating agent is selected 
from the group of glutaraldehyde and polyacrolein to form 

functional aldehyde groups. 
Method of one of the preceding claims, wherein said porous membrane 
is a microporous, polyamide membrane, which has been 

surface modified to comprise said reactive moieties, in particular 
wherein said polyamide is poly(hexamethylene adipamide). 
Method of claim 7, wherein the pore rating of the polyamide membrane 
is in the range of 0.1 to 5 µm, in particular wherein the pore 

rating is in the range of 0.1 to 3 µm. 
Method of one of the preceding claims, where after contacting the 
porous membrane with one or more activating agents, the membrane 

is contacted with a blocking agent, preferably mercapto-ethanol or 
ethanolamine. 
A membrane comprising a linking molecule attached to the surface 
of a porous membrane, the linking molecules being derived from 

reaction of an activating agent and the surface moieties of the 
membrane, said activating agent selected from the group of acryloyl 

 
chloride, acetyl chloride, thionyl chloride and poly(acryloyl chloride) 

or two or more thereof. 
A membrane comprising a linking molecule attached to the surface 
of the pores of a porous membrane, the linking molecule being 

selected from the group of molecules obtainable by reacting one or 
more groups selected from acryloyl, anhydride, acid chloride and 

poly(acryloyl chloride)-groups, with one or more activating agents 
selected from the group of ammonia, substituted or unsubstituted 

hydrocarbyl polyamine with 2 - 12 amine groups, preferably alkylene 
diamine, more preferably C₄-C₈ diamine, hexamethylene diamine and 

polyallylamine. 
A membrane comprising a linking molecule capable of binding an 
acceptor ligand molecule, wherein the membrane has been prepared 

by the method of one of the claims 1 to 8. 
Method of preparing a biologically active membrane comprising an 
acceptor ligand molecule capable of reacting with a ligate to form 

a biospecific complex, the method comprising the steps of: 

a) providing an activated membrane comprising a linking molecule 
on the surface thereof capable of binding with and immobilizing 

the acceptor molecule, and 
b) contacting the activated membrane with a volume of solution 
preferably an aqueous solution containing said acceptor ligand 

molecule in the range of 50 % to 150 % of the void volume 
of the membrane, preferably 80 % to 120 % of the void volume 

of the membrane. 
Method of claim 13, wherein said acceptor molecule is selected from 
the group of antibodies, antigenic substances, glycoproteins, Protein 

A, Protein G, lectins, carbohydrates, enzymes, cofactors, inhibitors, 
hormones, IgG class of immunoglobulins, carrier proteins, receptors, 

heparin, coagulation factors, histones and mimetic ligands, in particular 
wherein said acceptor ligand molecule is Protein A 
Method of claim 13 or 14, wherein the activated membrane is the 
membrane of claim 10 or 11 or a membrane obtained by the method 

of one of the claims 1 to 8. 
Method of one of the claims 13 to 15, wherein Protein A is the 
acceptor molecule and said solution is an aqueous solution with a 

Protein A concentration in the range of 1 to 10 mg/ml, preferably 
in the range of 2 to 6 mg/ml. 
Method of one of the claims 13 to 16, further comprising after the 
contacting step b, the step of drying the membrane under controlled 

conditions at ambient temperature for 8 to 20 hours. 
Method of one of the claims 13 to 16, further comprising after the 
contacting step b, the step of drying in an environment of a relative 

humidity in the range of 10 to 65 %, more preferably in the range 
of 15 to 40 %, and preferably carried out at temperatures in the 

range of 20 to 60°C, more preferably at a temperature in the range 
of 25 to 40°C. 
Method of one of the claims 13 to 18, wherein the activated membrane 
is provided as a multilayered, pleated structure of generally 

cylindrical form. 
A biologically active membrane suitable for ligate separation, the 
membrane having an acceptor ligand molecule, selected from the 

group of antibodies, antigenic substances, glycoproteins Protein A, 
Protein G, lectins, carbohydrates, enzymes, cofactors, inhibitors, 

hormones, IgG class of immunoglobulins, carrier proteins, receptors, 
heparin, coagulation factors, histones and mimetic ligands attached 

thereto by a linking molecule as defined in claim 10 or 11. 
A biologically active membrane suitable for ligate separation, the 
membrane having been prepared by the method of one of the 

claims 13 to 19, preferably wherein the membrane is provided as a 
multilayered, pleated structure of generally cylindrical form. 
Process for separating biologically separable, more particularly biologically 
active substances from impure solutions containing same, said 

process comprising 
contacting said impure solution with a product, namely a separating 

material or device or membrane, in accordance with one of the 
preceding claims, thereby separating said substance from said solution 

by immobilizing it at said product, 
and removing said remaining impure solution from said product. 
Process in accordance with claim 22, further comprising recovering 
said separated substance from said product, preferably by elution. 
Process in accordance with claim 22 or 23, comprising, 

immobilizing said substance at said product, 
removing impure solution from said product by washing said 
product while maintaining a substantial quantity of said substance 

on said product, 
eluting said product and thereby removing substance from said 
product, preferably obtaining a more concentrated solution of 

said substance in comparison with said impure solution, 
optionally laundering said product to remove unwanted and/or 
contaminating proteins and other alien materials from the product. 
Process in accordance with claims 22, 23 or 24, wherein the steps 
are repeated, preferably in the form of 10 to 100 cycles. 
Process in accordance with one of claims 22 to 25, characterized by 
employing the conditions or respectively steps of one or more of the 

use claims herein. 
Process for recovering a ligate from a solution, in particular in 
accordance with one of the claims 22 to 26 comprising: 


a) passing a ligate-containing solution through the biologically 
active membrane of claim 20 or 21 or the membrane prepared 

by the method of one of the claims 13 to 19, 
b) reversibly binding the ligate to the acceptor molecule on the 
surface of said biologically active membrane, and 
c) optionally, eluting the reversibly bound ligate from said membrane. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
