<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630262</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITIONS FOR CONTROLLED DELIVERY OF PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOUNDS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K900	A61K900	A61K9107	A61K9107	A61K4732	A61K4732	A61K4738	A61K4738	A61K4748	A61K4748	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	A61K47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLERGAN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLERGAN, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG NIENYUAN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIMMELSTEIN KENNETH J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG, NIENYUAN, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIMMELSTEIN, KENNETH, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMPOSITIONS FOR CONTROLLED DELIVERY OF PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOUNDSField of the Invention The present invention relates in general to sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery systems. More particularly, the present invention is directed toward pharmaceutical drug delivery compositions having improved delivery characteristics and enhanced long-term storage stability, particularly when used in conjunction with hydrophilic pharmaceutical compounds. The compositions of the present invention utilize reversibly gelling polymeric suspensions of ion exchange resin particles which have been loaded with one or more releasably bound pharmaceutical compounds.Background of the InventionA common problem with the administration of many pharmaceutical compounds, including therapeutic and diagnostic drugs, has been the need to retain effective quantities of these compounds in contact with targeted tissue sites for sufficient periods of time to accomplish the desired therapeutic or diagnostic purpose. This problem is particularly acute in connection with physiological systems characterized by rapid fluid turnover or drainage. For example, in the ocular environment tear turnover and drainage through the lacrimal drainage system quickly remove the major portion of any pharmaceutical compound administered to the surface of the eye so that only a small fraction of the original dosage remains in contact with the ocular tissue for any period of time. Analogous problems are encountered in connection with the treatment of the nasal mucosa, oral and anal cavities, uro-genital track, vagina and similar physiologic environments.Early approaches at addressing this problem generally relied upon the repeated administration of relatively 

large dosages of pharmaceutical compounds to compensate for the rapid loss of the compounds following their administration to the target site. Though relatively successful at maintaining effective concentrations of the desired pharmaceutical agents in contact with the target . tissue such strategies were wasteful and had a number of drawbacks. These drawbacks included the expense associated with using relatively large quantities of pharmaceutical compounds, patient discomfort with repeated drug administration and systemic side-effects associated with large and frequent drug doses.Alternative approaches to the solution of this problem utilized viscous ointments and gels as delivery vehicles for the pharmaceutical compounds. These semi- solid delivery vehicles slowed down the rapid loss of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM:
1. A sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition having improved delivery characteristics and enhanced long-term storage stability, said composition comprising: a plurality of porous ion exchange resin particles incorporated in an aqueous solution of a reversible viscosity modifying effective concentration of at least one reversibly gelling polymer, and at least one pharmaceutical compound bound within said pores of said ion exchange resin particles, said pores being sufficiently small in size to prevent said at least one reversibly gelling polymer from diffusing into said pores.
2. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 1 wherein said reversibly gelling polymer is selected from the group consisting of thermally-sensitive gelling polymers and pH-sensitive gelling polymers.
3. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 2 wherein said pH-sensitive gelling polymer is a polycarboxylate.
4. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 2 wherein said thermally- sensitive gelling polymer is selected from the group consisting of alkylcelluloses and hydroxyalkyl celluloses.-
5. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 1 wherein said ion exchange resin particles are sized from about 1 μm to about 50 μm.
6. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 1 wherein said pore size is between about 10 angstroms and about 100 angstroms. 


 7. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 1 wherein said ion exchange resin particles are selected from the group consisting of cation exchange resin particles and anion exchange resin particles.
8. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 7 wherein said cation exchange resin particles have exchange functionalities selected from the group consisting of sulfonic acid and carboxylic acid.
9. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 1 wherein said at least one pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of antibacterials, antihistaminics, antiinflammatories, miotics, anticoloneurgics, mydriatics, antiglaucoma compounds, antiparasitic compounds, antivirals, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, antifungal agents, anesthetic agents, diagnostic agents, and immunosuppressive agents.
10. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 1 wherein said at least one pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of dipivalyl epinephrine, levobunolol, ofloxacin, 5-bromo-6-(imidazolin-2-ylamino)-quinoxaline, clonidine, pilocarpine, flurbiprofen, timolol, betaxolol, ibuprofen, and acetaminophen and their salt forms.
11. A sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition having improved delivery characteristics and enhanced long-term storage stability, said composition comprising: a plurality of porous cation exchange resin particles sized from about 1 μm to about 50 μm in diameter, said porous cation exchange resin particles 


incorporated in an aqueous solution of a reversible viscosity modifying effective concentration of polymer, said polymer selected from the group consisting of pH- sensitive gelling polymer and temperature-sensi ive gelling polymer; and at least one basic pharmaceutical compound ionically bound within said pores of said ion exchange resin particles , said porous cation exchange resin particles having a pore size sufficiently small to prevent said polymer from diffusing into said pores.
12. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said pH-sensitive gelling polymer is selected from the group of polycarboxylates consisting of polyacrylic acids, polymethacrylic acids, polycrotonic acids, carboxypolymethylene and poly(methylvinylether/maleic acids) .
13. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said thermally- sensitive gelling polymer is selected from the group consisting of alkylcelluloses and hydroxyalkyl celluloses.
14. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said aqueous solution of reversible viscosity modifying polymer is an aqueous solution of from about 0.01 wt% to about 10 wt% carboxypolymethylene.
15. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said aqueous solution of reversible viscosity modifying polymer is an aqueous solution of from about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt% methylcellulose. 


 16. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said aqueous solution of reversible viscosity modifying polymer is an aqueous solution of from about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt% methyl cellulose and from about 0.01 wt% to about 10 wt% polycarboyxlate.
17. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said pore size is from about 10 angstroms to about 100 angstroms.
18. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said cationic exchange resin particles have exchange functionalities selected from the group consisting of sulfonic acid and carboxylic acid.
19. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of antibacterials, antihistaminics, antiinflammatories, iotics, anticoloneurgics, mydriatics, antiglaucoma compounds, antiparasitic compounds, antivirals, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, antifungal agents, anesthetic agents, diagnostic agents, and immunosuppressive agents.
20. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 1 wherein said pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of dipivalyl epinephrine, levobunolol, ofloxacin, 5-bromo-6-(imidazolin-2-ylamino)-quinoxaline, clonidine, pilocarpine, flurbiprofen, timolol, betaxolol, ibuprofen, and acetaminophen and their salt forms. 


 21. A process for forming a sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition having improved delivery characteristics and enhanced long-term storage stability, said process comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of ion exchange resin particles, each of said ion exchange resin particles having pores and surface ionic functionalities within said pores; loading said pores of said plurality of ion exchange resin particles with at least one pharmaceutical compound; and incorporating said loaded plurality of ion exchange resin particles in an aqueous solution of a reversible viscosity modifying effective concentration of polymer.
22. The process of claim 21 wherein said reversible viscosity modifying effective concentration of polymer is from about 0.01 wt% to about 10 wt% carboxypolymethylene.
23. The process of claim 21 wherein said reversible viscosity modifying effective concentration of polymer is from about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt% methylcellulose.
24. The process of claim 21 wherein loading said pores of said ion exchange resin particles with said at least one pharmaceutical compound is accomplished through the steps of: providing a liquid solution of said at lease one pharmaceutical compound; mixing said ion exchange resin particles with said liquid solution; and removing said plurality of loaded ion exchange resin particles from said liquid solution. 


 25. the process of claim 21 wherein said aqueous solution of reversible viscosity modifying effective concentration of polymer is from about 0.01 wt% to about 10 wt% polycarboxylate and from about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt% methyl cellulose.
26. The process of claim 21 wherein said pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of antibacterials, antihistaminics, antiinflammatories, miotics, anticoloneurgics, mydriatics, antiglaucoma compounds, antiparasitic compounds, antivirals, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, antifungal agents, anesthetic agents, diagnostic agents, and immunosuppressive agents.
27. The process of . claim 21 wherein said pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of dipivalyl epinephrine, levobunolol, ofloxacin, 5-bromo-6-(imidazolin-2-ylamino)-quinoxaline, clonidine, pilocarpine, flurbiprofen, timolol, betaxolol, ibuprofen, and acetaminophen and their salt forms. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 2 August 1993 (02.08.93); original-claims 1-10 cancelled;-original claims 11-16 and 18-27 amended; other claims unchanged (5 pages)]
1. (Canceled)
2. (Canceled)
3. (Canceled) 0
4. (Canceled)
5. (Canceled)
5 6. (Canceled)
7. (Canceled)
8. (Canceled) 0
9. (Canceled)
10. (Canceled)
5 11. (Amended) A sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition having long-term storage stability, said composition comprising: a plurality- of 
"
porous ion exchange resin particles sized from about 1 μm to about 50 μm in 0 diameter, said porous ion exchange particles incorporated in an aqueous solution of at least one reversibly gelling polymer selected from the group consisting of pH-sensitive gelling polymers and temperature-sensitive gelling polymers wherein said aqueous solution has a free flowing,
35 drop instillable viscosity at room temperature and at a pH value of from about 2.5 to 4.0, and a gel-like viscosity at a pH value of about 7.4 and at about 35°C; and 


 at least one pharmaceutical compound ionically bound within the pores of said ion exchange resin particles, said pores being sufficiently small to prevent said polymer from diffusing into said pores.
12. (Amended) The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said reversibly gelling polymer is a pH-sensitive gelling polymer and said pH-sensitive gelling polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyacrylic acids, polymethacrylic acids, polycrotonic acids, carboxypolymethylene and poly(methylvinylether/maleic acids) .
13. (Amended) The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said reversibly gelling polymer is a thermally-sensitive gelling polymer and said thermally-sensitive gelling polymer is selected from the group consisting of alkylcelluloses and hydroxyalkyl celluloses.
14. (Amended) The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said aqueous solution of reversibly gelling polymer is an aqueous solution of from about 0.01 wt% to about 10 wt% carboxypolymethylene.
15. (Amended) The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said aqueous solution of reversibly gelling polymer is an aqueous solution of from about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt% methylcellulose.
16. (Amended) The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said aqueous solution of reversibly gelling polymer is an aqueous solution of from about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt% 


methylcellulose and from about 0.01 wt% to about 10 wt% polycarboyxlate.
17. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said pore size is from about 10 angstroms to about 100 angstroms.
18. (Amended) The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said plurality of ion exchange resin particles have exchange functionalities within said pores, said exchange functionalities selected from the group consisting of sulfonic acid and carboxylic acid.
19. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of antibacterials, antihistaminics, antiinflammatories, miotics, anticholinergics, mydriatics, antiglaucoma compounds, antiparasitic compounds, antivirals, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, antifungal agents, anesthetic agents, diagnostic agents, and immunosuppressive agents.
20. The sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition of claim 11 wherein said pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of dipivalyl epinephrine, levobunolol, ofloxacin, 5-bromo-6-(imida
'
zolin-2-ylamino)-quinoxaline, clonidine, pilocarpine, flurbiprofen, timolol, betaxolol, ibuprofen, acetaminophen and their salt forms.
21. (Amended) A process for forming a sustained release pharmaceutical compound delivery composition having long-term storage stability, said process comprising the steps of: 


 providing a plurality of ion exchange resin particles, each of said ion exchange resin particles having pores and exchange functionalities within said pores; loading said pores of said plurality of ion exchange resin particles with at least one pharmaceutical compound; and incorporating said, loaded plurality of ion exchange resin particles in an aqueous solution of at least one reversibly gelling polymer selected from the group consisting of pH-sensitive gelling polymers and temperature-sensitive gelling polymers wherein said aqueous solution has a free flowing viscosity at room temperature and a pH value of from about 2.5 to 4.0 and a gel-like viscosity at about 35°C and a pH value of about 7.4.
22. (Amended) The process of claim 21 wherein said aqueous solution of reversibly gelling polymer comprises about 0.01 wt% to about 10 wt% carboxypolymethylene.
23. (Amended) The process of claim 21 wherein said aqueous solution of reversibly gelling polymer comprises about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt% methylcellulose.
24. (Amended) The process of claim 21 wherein loading said pores of said ion exchange resin particles with said at least one pharmaceutical compound is accomplished through the steps of: providing a liquid solution of at least one pharmaceutical compound; mixing a plurality of ion exchange resin particles with said liquid solution thereby forming a plurality of loaded ion exchange resin particles; and removing said plurality of loaded ion exchange resin particles from said liquid solution. 


 25. (Amended) The process of claim 21 wherein said aqueous solution of reversibly gelling polymer comprises from about 0.01 wt% to about 10 wt% polycarboxylate and from about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt% methylcellulose.
26. (Amended) The process of claim 21 wherein said pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of antibacterials, antihistaminics, antiinflammatories, miotics, anticholinergics, mydriatics, antiglaucoma compounds, antiparasitic compounds, antivirals, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, antifungal agents, anesthetic agents, diagnostic agents, and immunosuppressive agents.
27. (Amended) The process of claim 21 wherein said pharmaceutical compound is selected from the group consisting of dipivalyl epinephrine, levobunolol, ofloxacin, 5-bromo-6-(imidazolin-2-ylamino)-quinoxaline, clonidine, pilocarpine, flurbiprofen, timolol, betaxolol, ibuprofen, acetaminophen and their salt forms. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE19
Claims 11-16 and 18-27 have been amended to emphasize the differences between the claimed invention and the references cited by the International Searching Authority. More specifically, European Patent Application 0 429 732 discloses an ophthalmic formulation involving the dispersion of ion exchange resin bound drug in a polymeric medium. The disclosed composition may be either an aqueous dispersion or semi-solid ointment. Each separate embodiment may have a pH value anywhere between 3.0 and 8.5. In contrast, the presently claimed drug delivery composition is formulated as a free flowing liquid which exhibits a sharp sol-gel transition in response to changes in pH value or temperature. Accordingly the claims have been amended to emphasize that our invention is one composition which assumes both states upon a change in physical conditions.
Similarly, Japanese patent application 1 071 822 is directed to a polymeric drug release composition formed and administered as either an ointment or a solid without any 


viscosity change.
European patent applications 0 254 811 and 0 254 822 are directed to the treatment of ion exchange resin particles with various polymers to improve their coatability. Following this polymeric treatment the drug- resin complex is coated with a film forming agent using fluidized bed technology and then dried. In contrast, the amended claims do not disclose dried coated particles. Instead of being treated with a small amount of polymer that rigidly binds to the surface of the resin particle, the ion exchange particles of the present invention are continuously bathed in an aqueous polymer solution.
Also directed to drug encapsulation, PCT application 9 211871 involves the integration of drug loaded ion exchange resin particles in an erodible polymeric matrix which is then dried and sized before being suspended in a liquid medium for administration. This is in sharp contrast to the reversibly gelling aqueous polymer solutions used to incorporate the drug loaded ion exchange particles of the claims as amended. Unlike the presently claimed invention, these microparticulate suspensions do not exhibit any gelling characteristics upon introduction into a physiological environment.
Accordingly, the claimed invention as reflected in these amended claims is both novel and inventive with respect to these references. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
