<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657973</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical terminal applicator with improved split cycle system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R43055	H01R4304	H01R43048	H01R43052	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R43	H01R43	H01R43	H01R43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical terminal applicator (10) is 
provided for crimping terminals (24) onto electrical wires 

(90). An applicator ram (14) is movable mounted on an 
applicator frame and is drivable by a press ram through a 

working stroke (A) towards, and a return stroke away from, 
a crimping anvil (22). A crimping die (18, 20) is mounted 

on the applicator ram for cooperation with the anvil to 
crimp a portion of a terminal onto a wire during each 

working stroke of the applicator ram. A pneumatic piston-and-cylinder 
device (110) is mounted directly on the 

applicator frame (12) adjacent the applicator ram (14) and 
is connected to the crimping die (18, 20) for moving the 

crimping die through a first portion of movement into 
engagement with an uncrimped terminal to preposition the 

terminal for crimping thereof. The crimping die is mounted 
for limited movement on the applicator ram such that the 

piston-and-cylinder device (110) can move the crimping die 
through the first portion of movement and the applicator 

ram (14) thereafter can move the crimping die through a 
second portion of movement to effect crimping of the 

terminal. A magnet (120) is mounted on the applicator ram 
(14) and is releasably engageable with the crimping die 

(18, 20) for moving the die with the ram away from the 
crimping anvil on the return stroke of the applicator ram. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN, ROBERT L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to the art of
electrical terminal applicators and, particularly, to an
improved split cycle system for the crimping die means of
the applicator.A known type of electrical terminal applicator
includes an applicator ram drivable by a press ram through
a working stroke towards, and a return stroke away from, a
crimping anvil. The applicator ram has crimping die means
for cooperation with the anvil to crimp at least a portion
of an electrical terminal onto an electrical wire during
each working stroke of the applicator ram. Often, the
crimping die means include a first crimping die for
crimping a first portion of the terminal onto a conductive
core of an insulated electrical wire, and a second crimping
die for crimping a second portion of the terminal onto the
insulation of the wire. Various adjusting plates are
provided for adjusting one of the crimping dies axially of
the applicator ram as well as to adjust the shut height of
the crimping die means.Such electrical terminal applicators are often
used with crimpable terminals that have a closed barrel and
are secured together by some type of carrier such as thin
plastic tape, continuously molded plastic or even metal
strips. Such carriers can be fed to the crimping die
means, and the leading terminal on the carrier is crimped
onto a wire after which it is removed from the carrier. 
The terminal applicator is operated in a cyclical manner.
After each crimping cycle and a succeeding uncrimped
terminal is fed to the location of the crimping die means,
a wire is fed to the located terminal, and this often is
done in an automated machine. Therefore, if the located
terminal is not precisely in position for receiving the
electrical wire, problems can be encountered. For
instance, the wire might be improperly inserted into the
terminal, resulting in an ineffective or defective crimped
connection. Still worse, a wire may substantially miss an
improperly located terminal and cause jamming or damage to
the crimping dies, anvil means or other components of the
applicator.A solution to the problem of improperly located
terminals is to employ what is called a "split cycle
press"; see US-A-4 924 693. In such presses, the press ram is moved through a
first portion of its stroke a sufficient distance to have
the crimping die means engage and locate but not crimp a
terminal. A wire is then inserted into the terminal. The
press ram then is moved through a second or complete
portion of its stroke to effect crimping of the terminal
onto the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical terminal applicator (10) for
removably mounting in a crimp press to crimp closed barrel

terminals (24) onto electrical wires (90), including

an applicator frame (12),
an applicator ram (14) movably mounted on the
frame and drivable by a press ram through a working stroke

(A) towards, and a return stroke away from, a crimping
anvil (22),
a crimping die (18, 20) movably mounted on the
applicator for cooperation with the anvil to crimp a

portion of a terminal onto a wire during each working
stroke of the applicator ram,

   characterized in that:

moving means (110) mounted on the applicator
frame (12) adjacent the applicator ram (14) and connected

to the crimping die (18, 20) for moving the crimping die
independent of the applicator ram through a first portion

of movement into engagement with an uncrimped terminal to
preposition the terminal between the crimping die and the crimping an oil for crimping thereof,
whereby the applicator ram (14) is adapted to subsequently
move the crimping die (18, 20) through a second portion of

movement to effect crimping of the terminal.
An electrical terminal applicator as set
forth in claim 1, wherein said moving means is a piston-and-cylinder

device.
An electrical terminal applicator as set
forth in claim 2, wherein the axis (X) of the piston-and-cylinder

device (110) is generally parallel to the working
stroke (A) of the applicator ram (14). 
An electrical terminal applicator as set
forth in claim 3, wherein said applicator ram

(14) is reciprocally mounted in a housing portion (12a) of
the applicator frame (12), and the piston-and-cylinder

device (110) is mounted on the outside of the housing
portion (12a).
An electrical terminal applicator as set
forth in any of claim 2, 3 or 4, wherein said crimping die

(18, 20) has an arm portion (124) projecting transversely
outwardly of said housing portion (12a) for connection to

the piston (112) of said piston-and-cylinder device (110).
An electrical terminal applicator as set
forth in claim 1, including magnet means (120) on the

applicator ram (14) engageable with the crimping die (18,
20) for moving the crimping die with the applicator ram

away from the crimping anvil (22) and a crimped terminal on
the return stroke of the applicator ram.
An electrical terminal applicator as set
forth in claim 6, including stop means (116a) engageable by

the crimping die (18, 20) as it is moved by the applicator
ram during the return stroke thereof such that the magnet

means (120) is disengaged from the crimping die to allow
the piston-and-cylinder device (110) to again move the

crimping die through said first portion of movement thereof
in a subsequent cycle of the applicator. 
An electrical terminal applicator as set
forth in claim 1, including lifting means (120) on the

applicator ram (14) engageable with the crimping die (18,
20) for moving the crimping die with the applicator ram

away from the crimping anvil (22) and a crimped terminal on
the return stroke of the applicator ram.
An electrical terminal applicator as set
forth in claim 8, including stop means (116a) engageable by

the crimping die (18, 20) as the die is moved by the
applicator ram during the return stroke thereof such that

the lifting means (120) is disengaged from the crimping die
to allow the moving means (110) to again move the crimping

die through said first portion of movement thereof in a
subsequent cycle of the applicator.
An electrical terminal applicator as set
forth in claim 9, wherein said lifting means comprises a

magnet releasably engageable with a magnetically
attractable portion of the crimping die.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
