<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621142</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article and method of manufacture.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M312	B41M312	B44C117	B44C117	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	B44C	B44C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M3	B41M3	B44C1	B44C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pressure sensitive dry transfer article (2) comprising a backing 
film (4), a release coating (6) applied to a first face of the 

backing film, a continuous film (8) of brittle polymeric
 

compound applied to the release coating (6), and a pigmented 
pressure sensitive adhesive (10) coating applied in imagewise 

fashion to said polymeric film (8) to form a graphic pattern. On 
application of the article to the bonding substrate (12) by pressure 

applied to the areas defined by the graphic pattern, the pigmented 
pressure sensitive adhesive (10) is transferred to the bonding 

substrate (12) and, after peeling the article away from the bonding 
substrate (12), the polymeric film (8) fractures along the borders 

defining the graphic pattern such that the polymeric film (8a) in 
union with the graphic pattern is transferred with the pressure 

sensitive adhesive (10) to the bonding substrate (12) and the 
polymeric film (8b) not in union with the graphic pattern remains 

with the release coating (6). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DECORA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DECORA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH JOHN RALPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH JOHN RALPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a pressure sensitive dry transfer article 
and a method of manufacture of such article. There are many applications for a high strength, well protected, 
strongly adherent dry transfer article, or label. Such labels are 
traditionally made by printing inks onto a self-adhesive base film 
and then overlaminating the printed matter with a further layer of 
clear film to cover and protect the printed inks from abrasion and 
weathering. Traditional materials for the base film or substrate are transparent 
or pigmented vinyl or polyester, and various types of natural or 
synthetic papers. The appropriate substrate is chosen to give the 
desired properties of color, opacity, elasticity, tensile strength, 
etc. The over laminating material is, of necessity, clear and transparent 
and may have a gloss or matt surface. The associated adhesive for 
affixing the protective overlaminating layer must be compatible with 
the previously printed inks and the base layer. The overlaminate may be applied by several different methods; e.g., 
(1) hot laminating using an adhesive that melts upon the application 
of heat; (2) cold laminating using a pressure sensitive adhesive; 
and (3) solvent based adhesive where the adhesive is applied as a  
 
solution and its associated solvent must be driven off prior to 
bonding. Other methods have also been utilized. The known methods for manufacturing such dry transfer articles are 
costly and time consuming. Also, since the overlaminate applied to 
the ink and backing layers is continuous, the dry transfer articles 
must be die cut from the continuous sheets before final use. This involves the added expense of costly dies and cutting 
equipment, particularly when the article has a complex shape. There are many other different types of labels or dry transfer 
articles produced by various processes. One common process requires printing successive layers of inks onto 
a release coated paper stock and finally applying an adhesive. Such 
labels are normally printed with nitrocellulose ink systems and do 
not approach the strength of the laminated articles. Labels of such 
construction also suffer from another major disadvantage. They are 
printed onto a paper based substrate and they are printed by screen 
process. Paper substrates are heavy and generally opaque. Still 
the heavy substrate is necessary to allow the sheet to be printed 
with many layers needed to build up the strength of the label by 
applying many coats of clear lacquer as well as all the colors
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for preparing a pressure sensitive dry transfer 
graphics article for application to a bonding substrate comprising 

the steps of: 

a) applying, to a backing film (4) comprising a first face and a 
second face, a release coating (6) to said first face; 
b) applying to said release coating (6) a continuous film (8) of 
brittle polymeric compound; 
c) applying in imagewise fashion to said polymeric film (8) a 
pigmented pressure sensitive adhesive (10) coating to form a graphic 

pattern; and 
d) curing said article (2) formed by steps (a) through (c); 
 
whereby, upon application of said pressure sensitive dry transfer 

graphics article (2) to the bonding substrate (12) by pressure 
applied to the areas defined by said graphic pattern, said pigmented 

pressure sensitive adhesive (10) is transferred to the bonding 
substrate (12) and, after peeling said article away from said 

bonding substrate (12), said polymeric film (8) fractures along the 
borders defining said graphic pattern such that the polymeric film 

(8a) in union with said graphic pattern is transferred with said 
pressure sensitive adhesive (10) to the bonding substrate (12) and 

the polymeric film (8b) not in union with said graphic pattern 
remains with said release coating (6). 
The method of claim 1 in which a release coating (6) is applied 
to said second face of said backing film (4) so that said pressure 

 
sensitive dry transfer graphics article (2) can be self-wound. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of applying 
to said pigmented pressure sensitive adhesive (10) coating a release 

liner. 
A pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article (2) for 
application to a bonding substrate (12) comprising: 


a) a backing film (4) comprising a first face and a second face; 
b) a release coating (6) applied to said first face of said 
backing film (4); 
c) a continuous film (8) of brittle polymeric compound applied to 
said release coating (6); and 
d) a pigmented pressure sensitive adhesive (10) coating applied in 
imagewise fashion to said polymeric film (8) to form a graphic 

pattern; 
 
whereby, upon application of said pressure sensitive dry transfer 

graphics article (2) to the bonding substrate (12) by pressure 
applied to the areas defined by said graphic pattern, said pigmented 

pressure sensitive adhesive (10) is transferred to the bonding 
substrate (12) and, after peeling said article away from said 

bonding substrate (12), said polymeric film (8) fractures along the 
borders defining said graphic pattern such that the polymeric film 

(8a) in union with said graphic pattern is transferred with said 
pressure sensitive adhesive (10) to the bonding substrate (12) and 

the polymeric film (8b) not in union with said graphic pattern 
remains with said release coating (6). 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 
 

4 in which a release coating (6) is applied to said second face of 
said backing film (4) so that said pressure sensitive dry transfer 

graphics article (2) can be self-wound. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 4 
further comprising a release liner applied to said pigmented 

pressure sensitive adhesive (10) coating. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 4 
in which said backing film (4) is kraft paper. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 7 
in which said kraft paper is in the range of about 20 to about 80 

pounds per 3000 square feet. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 4 
in which said release coating (6) has properties similar to silicone 

coated release paper. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 4 
in which said backing film (4) is a plastic film. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 
10 in which said plastic film is polyethylene, PET or polypropylene. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 4 
in which said polymeric compound has a maximum elongation of 100%. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 
12 in which said polymeric compound is an acrylic. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 
12 in which said polymeric compound is a vinyl copolymer. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 
 

12 in which said polymeric compound ranges from 0.01 oz/square yard 
to 0.1 oz/square yard of dry deposit. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 4 
in which said pigmented pressure sensitive adhesive (10) is acrylic 

in the range of 0.1 to 0.3 oz/square yard dry deposit. 
A method for preparing a pressure sensitive dry transfer 
graphics (22) article for application to a bonding substrate (12) 

comprising the steps of: 

a) applying, to a backing film (24) comprising a first face and a 
second face, a release coating (26) to said first face; 
b) applying to said release coating (26) a continuous film (28) of 
brittle polymeric compound; 
c) applying in imagewise fashion to said polymeric film (28) a 
layer of ink (30) to form a graphic pattern; 
d) applying in imagewise fashion to said layer of ink (30) a clear 
or pigmented pressure sensitive adhesive (32) coating, said pressure 

sensitive adhesive (32) coating being approximately the same graphic 
pattern as said layer of ink (30) and being in approximate 

registration therewith; and 
e) curing said article formed by steps (a) through (d); 
 
whereby, upon application of said pressure sensitive dry transfer 

graphics article (22) to the bonding substrate (12) by pressure 
applied to the areas defined by said graphic pattern, said pigmented 

pressure sensitive adhesive (32) is transferred to the bonding 
substrate (12) and, after peeling said article away from said 

bonding substrate (12), said polymeric film (28) fractures along the 
 

borders defining said graphic pattern such that the polymeric film 
(28a) in union with said graphic pattern is transferred with said 

pressure sensitive adhesive (32) to the bonding substrate and the 
polymeric film (28b) not in union with said graphic pattern remains 

with said release coating (26). 
The method of claim 17 in which a release coating (26) is 
applied to said second face of said backing film (24) so that said 

pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article (22) can be self-wound. 
The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of applying 
to said pigmented pressure sensitive adhesive (32) coating a release 

liner. 
A pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article for 
application to a bonding substrate comprising: 


a) a backing film (24) comprising a first face and a second face; 
b) a release coating (26) applied to said first face of said 
backing film (24); 
c) a continuous film (20) of brittle polymeric compound applied to 
said release coating (26); 
d) a layer of ink (30) applied in imagewise fashion to said 
polymeric film (28) to form a graphic pattern; and 
e) a clear or pigmented pressure sensitive adhesive (32) coating 
applied in imagewise fashion to said layer of ink (30), said 

pressure sensitive adhesive coating (32) being approximately the 
same graphic pattern as said layer of ink (30) and being in 

 
approximate registration therewith; 
 
whereby, upon application of said pressure sensitive dry transfer 

graphics article (22) to the bonding substrate (11) by pressure 
applied to the areas defined by said graphic pattern, said pressure 

sensitive adhesive (32) is transferred to the bonding substrate (12) 
and, after peeling said article away from said bonding substrate 

(12), said polymeric film (28) fractures along the borders defining 
said graphic pattern such that the polymeric film (28a) in union 

with said graphic pattern is transferred with said pressure 
sensitive adhesive (32) to the bonding substrate (12) and the 

polymeric film (28b) not in union with said graphic pattern remains 
with said release coating (26). 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 
20 in which a release coating (26) is applied to said second face of 

said backing film (24) so that said pressure sensitive dry transfer 
graphics article (22) can be self-wound. 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 
21 further comprising a release liner applied to said pigmented 

pressure sensitive adhesive (32) coating. 
A pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article for 
application to a bonding substrate comprising: 


a) a backing film (4, 24) comprising a first face and a second 
face, said backing film (4, 24) comprising a non-bonding substrate; 
b) a continuous film (8, 28) of brittle polymeric compound applied 
to said backing film (4, 24), said brittle polymeric compound 

comprising lubricants sufficient to supply release properties 
 

thereto; and 
d) a pigmented or clears pressure sensitive adhesive (10, 32) 
coating applied in imagewise fashion to said polymeric film (8, 28) 

to form a graphic pattern; 
 
whereby, upon application of said pressure sensitive dry transfer 

graphics article (2, 22) to the bonding substrate (12) by pressure 
applied to the areas defined by said graphic pattern, said pigmented 

pressure sensitive adhesive (10, 32) is transferred to the bonding 
substrate and, after peeling said article away from said bonding 

substrate (12), said polymeric film (8, 28) fractures along the 
borders defining said graphic pattern such that the polymeric film 

(8a, 28a) in union with said graphic pattern is transferred with 
said pressure sensitive adhesive (10, 32) to the bonding substrate 

and the polymeric film (8b, 28b) not in union with said graphic 
pattern remains with said release coating (4, 24). 
The pressure sensitive dry transfer graphics article of claim 
23 wherein said non-bonding substrate backing film is an untreated 

polyolefin. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
