<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657762</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Backlit liquid crystal display with edge-mounted night lamp.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F11335	G02F113357	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved night vision goggle (NVG) compatible 
day/night backlighting 

assembly for a color liquid crystal display (63) includes a 
daytime high intensity light source (70), an edge-mounted 

night time low intensity light source (72), and an integral 
collimating/reflecting/image splitting lens (65) which 

collimates and image splits the light emitted from the 
high intensity daytime light source, and reflects upward 

the low intensity light rays emanating from the low 
intensity edge-mounted light source. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPTICAL IMAGING SYST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OIS OPTICAL IMAGING SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABILEAH ADIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABILEAH, ADIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to backlit liquid crystal 
display devices (LCDs) having a first light source for 
operation during the day, and a second light source for 
operation at night. This invention is related to commonly owned, 
copending, U.S. Application Serial No. 08/031,120, the 
disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by 
reference. LCDs (i.e. liquid crystal display devices) are 
gaining in popularity for use in systems such as 
television receivers, computer monitors, avionic 
displays, aerospace displays, and other military-related 
displays where the elimination of cathode ray tube (CRT) 
technology is desirable for several reasons. In 
particular, cathode ray tubes are characterized by large 
depth dimensions, undesirably high weight, and fragility. 
Additionally, cathode ray tubes (CRTs) require a 
relatively high voltage power supply in order to 
sufficiently accelerate electron beams for displaying 
images. The aforementioned shortcomings of cathode ray tubes 
are overcome by flat panel liquid crystal displays in  
 
which matrix arrays of liquid crystal picture elements or 
pixels are arranged in a plurality of rows and columns. 
Patterns of information are thereby defined by the two 
dimensional array of pixels, which because of differences 
in the orientation of the liquid crystal material within 
each pixel, are caused to appear either darkened or 
transparent. Liquid crystal displays may be either transflective 
or transmissive. Transflective displays depend upon 
ambient light conditions in order to be viewed, i.e. 
light from the surrounding environment, wherein ambient 
light incident upon the side of the display facing the 
viewer is reflected back to the viewer and allows the 
display to be viewed by observers. Transflective liquid 
crystal displays cannot, therefore, be used in dark or 
low light environments, because there is no light 
available for reflection back to the viewing surface of 
the display. Conversely, transmissive or backlit liquid crystal 
displays require the use of illuminating means, such as a 
tubular or serpentine fluorescent lamp array, operatively 
disposed on the side of the matrix array opposite the 
viewer. This illumination means, or backlight, may also 
include a back reflector adapted to efficiently redirect 
any stray illumination towards the matrix array of 
pixels, thus insuring that the displayed image is as  
 
bright as possible (given the characteristics of the 
lighting scheme employed). In the past, a large amount of research in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A backlighting system for a liquid crystal 
display, comprising: 

   a first light source for emitting high 
intensity light; 

   a second light source for emitting low 
intensity light; 

   an integral collimating, reflecting, and image 
splitting means for: 


i) collimating light from said first 
light source; 
ii) refracting light from said first 
light source to provide two similar images thereof; and 
iii) reflecting light rays from said 
second light source and redirecting said rays from said 

second light source toward said liquid crystal display; 
and 
 
   wherein said first light source is located on a 

first side of said integral collimating, reflecting, and 
image splitting means which is opposite a viewer, and 

said second light source directs its light rays toward 
said integral collimating, reflecting, and image 

splitting means from a second side of said integral means 
opposite said first side. 
The backlighting system of claim 1, wherein 
said integral means includes a thin film layer having a 

plurality of faceted prisms formed thereon defining an 
outer surface thereof, and wherein said faceted prisms 

reflect the light rays of said second light source, and 
collimate and refract light rays of said first light 

source, whereby the light rays of both the first and 
second light sources are directed toward a matrix array 

of liquid crystal display pixels. 
In a backlit liquid crystal display which 
includes: a first light source for emitting high 

intensity light activated for daylight viewing of the 
display; a second light source for emitting low intensity 

light for viewing in darkened conditions when said first 
light source is deactivated; and means for diffusing said 

high and low intensity light wherein said diffusing means 
is operatively disposed between a matrix array of liquid 

crystal picture elements and said first and second light 
sources; said liquid crystal display being capable of 

providing an image to a remotely positioned observer, the 
improvement comprising: 

   an integral collimating, reflecting, and image 
splitting means, fixedly mounted between said diffusing 

means and said first light source, for: 

i) collimating light from said first light 
source; 
ii) refracting light rays emanating from said 
first light source to provide two similar images thereof; 

and 
iii) reflecting light rays emanating from said 
second light source and redirecting said rays upward and 

through said diffusing means and into said matrix array 
of liquid crystal picture elements; 
 
   thereby enlarging the area effectively 

illuminated by said first and second light sources, 
whereby a uniform light distribution is provided in a low 

profile assembly.. 
The display of claim 3 wherein said second 
light source for emitting low intensity light includes an 

elongated tubular lamp which is edge-mounted between said 
diffusing means and said integral collimating, 

reflecting, and image splitting means. 
The display of claim 4 wherein an elongated 
infrared light-absorbing filter capable of preventing 

substantially all infrared light from being emitted from 
said second light source while, at the same time, 

transmitting substantially all red light and all other 
light in the visible spectrum therethrough thereby to 

maintain the color integrity of the display, is fixedly 
mounted between said second light source and said 

 
integral collimating, reflecting, and image splitting 

means. 
The display of claim 5 wherein said infrared 
filter maintains the color integrity of the image of the 

display throughout a viewing angle of from about 0°-30° 
from normal. 
The display of claim 6 wherein said infrared 
filter maintains the color integrity of the image of the 

display throughout a viewing angle of from about 0°-60° 
from normal. 
The display of claim 5 wherein the display 
includes, in order from back to front: a reflector 

plate; said first light source; said integral 
collimating, reflecting, and image splitting means; said 

edge-mounted second light source; corresponding infrared 
filter; said diffusing means; and said matrix array. 
The display according to claim 8 having an RGB-triad 
color pattern. 
The display of claim 5 wherein said integral 
collimating, reflecting, and image splitting means 

includes a thin film layer having faceted prisms formed 
on an upper face thereof, w
herein light rays from said 
first light source are refracted by said faceted prisms 

to provide two similar images thereof, and light rays 
from said second light source are reflected by said 

faceted prisms toward said matrix array. 
The display of claim 3 wherein the high 
intensity light of the first light source is directed 

upward from said first light source through inner and 
outer surfaces of said integral collimating, reflecting, 

and image splitting means and thereafter through said 
diffusing means; and 

   wherein the low intensity light of said second 
light source is directed toward and reflected by said 

outer surface of said integral collimating, reflecting, 
and image splitting means toward and thereafter through 

said diffusing means. 
The display of claim 11, wherein said integral 
collimating, reflecting, and image splitting means 

includes a thin film layer having faceted prisms formed 
thereon defining said outer surface, and wherein said 

faceted prisms reflect light rays of said second light 
source, and collimate and refract light rays of said 

 
first light source, whereby the light rays of both the 

first and second light sources are directed toward said 
matrix array. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
