<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637282</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THERMOPLASTIC SYNTACTIC FOAM PIPE INSULATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C7000	B29C7066	C08J900	C08J932	F16L900	F16L914	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	C08J	C08J	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C70	B29C70	C08J9	C08J9	F16L9	F16L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Flexible syntactic foam insulation, and methods for making it, are disclosed. A low melt index thermoplastic resin is fluidified to produce a melt stream, and microspheres are metered into the melt stream under low shear conditions. The method allows for faster production of syntactic foams and for the production of higher quality foams because breakage of the microspheres is substantially reduced. An integral insulated pipe section (16) including a pipe (17) and a covering of syntactic foam insulation (18) is produced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRACE W R 
&
 CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
W.R. GRACE 
&
 CO.-CONN.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURRAY THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TESSIER NOEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURRAY, THOMAS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TESSIER, NOEL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THERMOPLASTIC SYNTACTIC FOAM FIFE INSULATIONFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to syntactic foam insulation, and more particularly to flexible thermoplastic syntactic foam pipe insulating material made by fluidifying a thermoplastic resin having a defined melt index to produce a melt stream; metering a spherical filler into the melt stream under low shear conditions to form a mixture, and forming the mixture into a final form.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONOff-shore petroleum production requires the use of submarine pipes or conduits to transport oil or gas back to a centralized surface platform or to shore. In some fields, the oil or gas contains paraffins that can precipitate out as the temperature of the oil or gas passing through the pipes is lowered due to heat transfer from the pipe contents to the cold ocean. This significantly reduces flow or causes blockage of production lines, increasing the cost of production. If blockage occurs costly mechanical or chemical means are necessary to clear any blockage. Added expenses are the cost of shutting down production and the potential loss of any pipe contents caused during removal of the blockage. Several techniques are known for alleviating this problem: 1) adding chemicals to the oil to prevent paraffin precipitation, 2) heating the production lines, or 3) insulating the pipes. However, adding chemicals to the oil or gas is costly because of the effort and money expended in purchase and addition, and the chemicals must later be refined out of the oil. Heating the pipeline is also costly because it is not energy-efficient and requires heating equipment which must be installed over kilometers of pipeline, and monitored for proper operation. On the other hand, insulating the production lines is a cost-effective 
solution because the insulation may be installed on the pipeline before it is laid and needs no continuous monitoring.Submarine oil or gas production pipelines must also be physically protected. Steel pipes are most commonly used in fabricating off-shore pipelines, and as such require protection from the corrosive sea water. Typically neoprene or epoxy coatings are used for this purpose. However, such coatings are subject to abrasion caused by the installation process,- and an additional overcoating is needed, e.g., of polyethylene.Appropriate syntactic foam insulation could insulate the pipe as "well as provide corrosion resistance, abrasion resistance and resistance to hydrostatic pressures. Syntactic materials are those in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Ts n aimed Is:
1. A method for making syntactic foam insulation, comprising the steps of: a) fluidifying a thermoplastic resin to produce a melt stream, said thermoplastic resin having a melt index of from 3 to 30g/10 min; b) metering a spherical filler into said melt stream under low shear conditions to form a mixture; and c) forming said mixture into a final form.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said thermoplastic resin is selected from the group consisting of thermoplastic polyolefins; ionically cross-linked thermoplastic polymers derived from ethylene/methacrylic acid copolymers; and polyether blocked polyamide thermoplastic elastomers.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein said thermoplastic resin is selected from the group consisting of polyimides; acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene resins; acetals; acrylics; cellulosics; chlorinated polyethers; fluorocarbons; nylons; polycarbonates; polyolefins and copolymers thereof; and mixtures thereof.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the size of said spherical filler is in the range of from about 3 to lOOμ in diameter.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the size of said spherical filler is in the range of from about 5 to 80μ in diameter.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the size of said spherical filler is in the range of from about 20 to 70μ in diameter.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the density of said spherical filler is in the range of from about 0.1 to l.lg/cc.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the density of said spherical filler is in the range of from about 0.2 to 0.40g/cc.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein unreinforced air is substantially removed from said mixture after said spherical filler is metered into said melt stream under low shear conditions. 


9. The method of claim 1 wherein said second stage of said extruder further comprises a venting zone means for substantially removing unreinforced air from said mixture.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein said final form consists of pellets or spheres.
11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the steps of adding said pellets or spheres, as a masterbatch, to an extruder; fluidifying said masterbatch to produce a melt stream; and forming said melt stream into a final form.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of blending a filler into said masterbatch.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein said filler is selected from the group consisting of rubber and extender resin.
14. The method of claim 1 wherein said final form is a ribbon or tape.
15. The method of claim 1 -wherein said melt stream is produced using an extruder.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein said extruder is selected from the group consisting of twin-screw extruders; two-stage extruders; and Buss kneaders.
17. The method of claim 1 wherein a proportion of said spherical filler is metered into a first point of said melt stream under low shear conditions; and the remainder of said spherical filler is metered into a second point of said melt stream, located downstream of said first point, under low shear conditions.
18. The method of claim 1 comprising the additional step of applying an outer coating to said final form. 


19. The method of claim 17 wherein said outer coating is selected from the group consisting of neoprene; polyethylene; polypropylene; polyurethane; glass; and aromatic nylons.
20. A method for making an insulated pipe unit comprising superimposing, over the outer surface of a pipe, a covering of syntactic foam pipe insulation made by a process comprising the steps of: a) fluidifying a thermoplastic resin to produce a melt stream, said thermoplastic resin having a melt index of from 3 to 30g/10 min; b) metering a spherical filler into said melt stream under low shear conditions to form a mixture; and c) forming said covering from said mixture.
2 . A syntactic foam insulation made by the process comprising the steps of: a) fluidifying a thermoplastic resin to produce a melt stream, said thermoplastic resin having a melt index of from 3 to 30g/10 min; b) metering a spherical filler into said melt stream under low shear conditions to form a mixture; and c) forming said mixture into a final form.
22. The syntactic foam insulation of claim 21 wherein said insulation has a thermal conductivity of no higher than about 0.14W/m-T .
23. The syntactic foam insulation of claim 21 wherein said insulation has a flexural modulus of at least about 3000 to 4000psi.
24. A syntactic foam insulation comprising: a) a thermoplastic resin having a melt index of from 3 to 30g/10 min and being selected from the group consisting of polyolefins and ionically cross-linked thermoplastic polymers derived from ethylene/methacrylic acid copolymers; and b) a spherical filler of reinforced air present in an amount of from 10 to 50% by volume of the insulation; and wherein the insulation is substantially free of chain scission agents, has a modulus of elasticity from 3000 to 4000 psi and a thermal conductivity of less than 0.14W/m-X 


25. The insulation of claim 24 further comprising a second filler selected from the group consisting of rubber and extender resin.
26. The insulation of claim 24 further comprising an outer coating formed on a major surface of the insulation and -wherein the coating is selected from the group consisting of neoprene; polyethylene; polypropylene; polyurethane; polyvinyl chloride; glass; and nylon.
27. The syntactic foam insυlni ion of claim ?Λ wherein the spherical filler is formed of glass microspheres and the size of said spherical filler is in the range of from about 3 to lOOμ in diameter.
28. The syntactic foam insulation of claim 24 wherein the density of said spherical filler is in the range of from about 0.1 to l.lg/cc.
29. An integral insulated pipe section comprising a section of pipe and an outer covering of a syntactic foam pipe insulation comprising: an uncrosslinked thermoplastic resin and from 10 to 50% by volume of the insulation of reinforced air in the form of glass microspheres; wherein the insulation has a thermal conductivity of less than 0.14W/m- T , a modulus of elasticity from 3000 to 4000 psi, is substantially free of unreinforced air and has less than 5% of the microspheres broken or damaged.
30. The insulated pipe of claim 29 wherein the insulation is applied to the pipe as a tape.
31. The insulated pipe of claim 29 wherein the insulation is applied to the pipe as a molten coating.
32. The insulated pipe of clnim 29 -wherein Hie insulation is applied to the pipe as a sleeve-
33. The insulated pipe of claim 29 further comprising a filler selected from the group consisting of rubber and extender resin. 


34. The insulated pipe of claim 29 wherein said thermoplastic resin is selected from the group consisting of polyolefins and ionically cross¬ linked thermoplastic polymers derived from ethylene/methacrylic acid copolymers. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 6 September 1993 (06.09.93); original claim 9 cancelled; original claim 2 amended; other claims unchanged;
(1 page)
2. (amended once) The method of claim 1 wherein said thermoplastic resin is selected from the group consisting of thermoplastic polyolefins; ionically cross-linked thermoplastic polymers derived from ethylene/methacryUc acid copolymers; [and] polyether blocked polyamide thermoplastic elastomers.
"
.1: polyimides: acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene resins: acetals: acrylics: cellulosics: chlorinated polyethers: fluorocarbons: nylons: polycarbonates: polyolefins and copolymers thereof and mixtures thereof.
Please cancel claim 9 (the claim immediately following claim 2). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
