<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623903</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System, station and method for smart card funds refill
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07B1700	G07F708	G07B1700	G07F710	G07F710	G07F708	G07F1700	G07F1726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07B	G07F	G07B	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07B17	G07F7	G07B17	G07F7	G07F7	G07F7	G07F17	G07F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for providing items of value, charging the 
items to a smart card, and for recharging the smart card. 

The system includes a station (30) for providing the items 
of value, which may be postal services, and debiting the 

cost of the items to a smart card; the smart card being 
charged with funds equivalent data. The station also 

communicates with a Data Center (10) for recharging the 
smart card. Users of the system communicate with the data 

center to request recharge of a particular smart card and 
in response to an authorization request the data center 

generates an encrypted authorization message which includes 
an identification number, the amount of recharge requested, 

and control data, which preferably includes a control sum 
formed by adding the amounts stored in a descending 

register, which stores the amount available on the smart 
card, and an ascending register which stores the total of 

the amounts by which the card has been charged since 
initialization. Thus, the authorization message may be 

used only once. From time-to-time the Data Center (10) 
transmits authorization messages to each station (30) on 

the system. When a particular smart card for which an 

authorization message has been received is connected to a 
station (30), the smart card compares the control data with 

the control data stored on the smart card and if there is a 
match updates the funds equivalent data in the descending 

register of the smart card. To provide security against 
transmission of false authorization messages to a station,  

 
the authorization messages are encrypted, preferably using 

a public key encryption system. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER WALTER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARGIULO JOSEPH L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIDEN RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER, WALTER J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARGIULO, JOSEPH L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIDEN, RICHARD W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The subject invention relates to systems and stations for dispensing
items of value and to methods for refilling or recharging smart cards with
funds equivalent data. The invention is applicable to systems having a
capability for recharging a smart card and which are also for dispensing
items of value and debiting the cost of the items to the smart cards. (By
"items of value", herein is meant goods or services for which a charge is
made).Systems for performing cashless transactions using smart cards are
disclosed in EP-A-0 416 916 and WO 91/16691.Smart cards are known devices typically comprising a
plastic card approximately the size and shape of a credit
card, in which a microprocessor and associated memory are
embedded, and which includes a mechanism for making
connection to a smart card reader which has a capability to
read and write data to the smart card. Because a smart
card includes a microprocessor, access to data stored on
the smart card may be controlled and the smart card may be
used as a store of value and/or funds equivalent data. The
smart card stores a number representative of a credit
balance. To add to this credit balance, the user of the
smart card makes payment to a second party and provides the
second party with information identifying the smart card,
such as a personal identification number (PIN) an account
number and possibly other relevant information. The second
party then generates an authorization signal, which
typically is a coded number unique to a particular smart
card, which is recognized by the microprocessor embedded in 
the smart card as authorizing the increase of the funds
equivalent data representing the users balance in the
memory of the smart card. By keeping the encryption keys
used by the smart card secret, the user of the card is
prevented from fraudulently altering the balance.When the smart card user wishes to spend some of the
balance represented in the smart card, he or she merely
places the smart card in a smart card reader, which is a
secure device having the capability to communicate with the
microprocessor embedded in the smart card, and draws down
the represented balance by reducing the amount represented
by the funds equivalent data stored in the smart card
memory. If the balance is being spent with a third party,
the smart card reader will include a capability to
increment a similar balance for the third party by the
amount drawn from the smart card users balance. If the
balance is spent with the party who charged the card, the
balance in the users
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for providing items of value, comprising:

a) a station (30) for providing said items of value and debiting the
cost of said items of value to a smart card (SC) charged with funds

equivalent data, and for recharging said smart card, said station further
comprising:


a1) a controller (32);
a2) a smart card reader (38) operatively connected to said
controller;
a3) input means (40,44) for input of control signals to said
controller controlling provision of said items of value; and
a4) providing means (34), responsive to said controller, for
dispensing said items of value;
b) data processing means (10) for generating an authorization
signal unique to a particular smart card;
c) communications means (44,46) for connecting said station (30)
and said data processing means (10) for transmitting said unique

authorization signal to said station; and
d) said station being responsive to reception of said authorization
signal and connection of said particular smart card (SC) to said card reader

to recharge said smart card, providing that said unique authorization signal is
effective to recharge the particular smart card only a single time.
A system as claimed in Claim 1, further comprising at least one further
station (30) for providing said items of value. 
A system as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said data processing means
is arranged to transmit, from time-to-time, a plurality of said authorization

signals to each of said stations, through said communications means.
A system as claimed in Claim 3, wherein each of said stations stores
said plurality of authorization signals and, upon connection of one of said

particular smart card corresponding to one of said stored authorization
signals recharges said corresponding particular smart card and deletes the

corresponding one of said stored authorization signals.
A system as claimed in Claim 4, further comprising means for purging
said stored authorization signals.
A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said
authorization signal comprises an encrypted message.
A system as claimed in Claim 6, wherein said encrypted message
comprises control data relating to said particular card for identifying said

particular smart card.
A system as claimed in Claim 7, wherein said control data comprises
a control sum.
A system as claimed in Claim 6, 7 or 8, wherein said message is
encrypted using the private key of a public key encryption system and

decrypted by said smart card using the public key of said encryption system,
whereby compromise of said smart card will not provide the capability to

generate said encrypted message. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein a user is
enabled to communicate with said data processing means to request

recharge of particular smart cards over a telephone or similar public access
network.
A system as claimed in Claim 10, wherein means are provided for
including a surcharge for recharge of said particular smart cards in a user

charge for use of said telephone or similar public access network.
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
items of value are franked mailpieces.
A system according to any of Claims 1 to 12, wherein said
communication means is responsive to said data processing means.
A station (30) for dispensing items of value and debiting the cost of
said items of value to a smart card (SC), said smart card being charged with

funds equivalent data, and for recharging said smart card, comprising:

a) a controller (32);
b) a smart card reader (38) operatively connected to said
controller;
c) input means (40,42) for input to said controller of control
signals for controlling dispensing of said items of value;
d) dispensing means (34), responsive to said controller, for
dispensing said items of value;
e) receiving means (44) for receiving authorization signals unique
to particular smart cards; and
f) said station being responsive to reception of an authorization
signal and connection of a corresponding smart card to said card reader to 

recharge said corresponding smart card, provided that said smart card has
not already been recharged in response to said unique authorization signal.
A station as claimed in Claim 14, wherein said operation of dispensing
items of value comprises franking of mailpieces.
A station as claimed in Claim 14 or 15, wherein said authorization
signal comprises an encrypted message.
A station as claimed in Claim 16, wherein said encrypted message
comprises control data relating to said particular card for identifying said

particular smart card.
A station as claimed in Claim 17, wherein said control data comprises
a control sum.
A station as claimed in Claim 16, 17 or 18, wherein said message is
encrypted using the private key of a public key encryption 
system and
decrypted by said smart card using the public key of said encryption system,

whereby compromise of said smart card will not comprise the capability to
generate said encrypted message.
A method of recharging smart cards with funds equivalent data
comprising the steps of:


a) receiving a request to recharge a particular smart card (SC);
b) generating an authorization signal unique to said particular
smart card;
c) transmitting said authorization signal to a station (30) for
providing items of value to users of said smart cards and debiting the cost of

said items of value to said smart cards; and said station then 
d) responding to receipt of said authorization signal and
connection of said particular smart card to said station to recharge said

particular smart card with funds equivalent data, provided that said particular
smart card has not already been recharged in response to said unique

authorization signal.
A method according to Claim 20, in which said authorization signal is
transmitted to a plurality of stations for providing items of value.
A method as claimed in Claim 20 or 21, wherein said authorization
signal comprises an encrypted message.
A method as claimed in Claim 22, wherein said encrypted message
comprises control data relating to said particular smart card for identifying

said particular smart card.
A method as claimed in Claim 23, wherein said control data comprises
a control sum.
A method as claimed in Claim 22, 23 or 24, wherein said message is
encrypted using the private key of a public key encryption system and

decrypted by said smart card using the public key of said encryption system,
whereby compromise of said smart card will not comprise the capability to

generate said encrypted message.
A method as described in any of Claims 20 to 25, wherein a user
inputs said request via a telephone or similar public access network, said

user receives a bill for use of said network, and bill including a surcharge for
recharging of said particular smart card. 
A method according to any one of Claims 20 to 26, in which said
operation of providing items of value comprises franking of mailpieces.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
