<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630322</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SAFETY GLASS ELEMENT WITH HEAT-INSULATING PROPERTIES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B522	E06B367	C03C2712	E06B366	C03C2712	B32B524	B32B1710	B32B1706	E06B366	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	E06B	C03C	E06B	C03C	B32B	B32B	B32B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B5	E06B3	C03C27	E06B3	C03C27	B32B5	B32B17	B32B17	E06B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In its most simple embodiment, the disclosed glazing element consists of a glass pane and of a spacing textile fabric arranged on the covering surface of the glass pane. The spacing fabric has at least two covering layers mutually linked by threads which extend transversely to the glass pane. The disclosed glazing element has heat-insulating properties and may be used as safety glass, in particular for glazing roofs or overhead structures.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KUNERT HEINZ
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KUNERT, HEINZ, DR.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNERT HEINZ DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNERT, HEINZ, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A glazing element (1) comprising at least one pane (2) and
a coating which is provided on one of the covering surfaces of

the pane and extends at least over a substantial part of the
extent of the area thereof, composed of fibers extending in

parallelism to the covering surfaces of the pane (2),
characterized in that such fiber coating is constituted by a

first covering layer (4) of a spacer fabric or knit (3)
impregnated with resin and is connected in a force transmitting

manner with the covering surface of the pane, the spacer
fabric or knit possessing at least one second covering layer

(5) opposite to the first covering layer (4) and the covering
layers (4, 5) being connected together by rib fibers (6) which

extend transversely in relation to the covering layers (4, 5)
and, after curing of the resin, are elastic and flexurally

stiff.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 1, characterized in
that the rib fibers (6) intersect with one another.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 2, characterized in
that at least a substantial portion of the intersecting rib

fibers (6) is connected at the points of intersection.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the spacer fabric (3) is

composed of glass, synthetic resin or carbon fibers or
mixtures thereof. 
The glazing element as claimed in claim 4, characterized in
that the rib fibers (6) comprise glass fibers, which are

provided with silane sizes.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 4 or in claim 5,
characterized in that the glass, synthetic resin or carbon

fibers are constituted at least partly of hollow fibers.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that said resin is selected from the

group consisting of epoxy, polyurethane, phenol or polyester
resins or mixtures thereof.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the covering layers (4, 5) of

the spacer fabric or knit (3) are pressed together in the edge
region in a surrounding manner.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that attachment elements (8) are

embedded in the spacer fabric or knit (3) in a force transmitting
manner.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the spacer fabric or knit (3) is

extended past the edge of the pane (2).
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that at least one further pane (9) is

arranged in parallelism to the pane (2) and the spacer fabric
(3) is arranged in the intermediate space between the panes.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 11, characterized
in that the second covering layer (5) of the spacer fabric or

knit (3) is connected with the further pane (9) in a force
transmitting manner. 
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the covering layers (4, 5) of

the spacer fabric or knit (3) are connected with the pane (2)
or the panes (2, 9) by means of an adhesive film.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 13, characterized
in that the adhesive film is constituted by polyvinylbutyral

or polyurethane.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 13 or in claim 14,
characterized in that glass, synthetic resin or carbon fibers

are integrated in the adhesive film.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the rib fibers (6) are coated

with materials whose index of refraction is greater than that
of the material of which the rib fibers consist.
A glazing element comprising at least two transparent
panes (2, 9) arranged in parallelism to each other and a fiber

coating which is connected with one of the covering surfaces
of the first pane (2) and is made up of fibers extending in

parallelism to the covering surfaces of said pane,
characterized in that the fiber coating is constituted by the

covering layer (4) of a resin impregnated textile spacer
fabric or knit (3) which comprises said covering layer and rib

fibers (6) extending transversely in relation to the covering
layer and protruding therefrom, the free ends of the rib

fibers (6) being arranged at the second pane (9).
The glazing element as claimed in claim 17, characterized
in that the rib fibers (6) are secured on the second pane (9)

by means of an intermediate coating (12).
The glazing element as claimed in claim 18, characterized
in that the intermediate coating (12) is constituted by a

resin coating or an adhesive film. 
The glazing element as claimed in claim 18, characterized
in that the intermediate coating (12) is constituted by a

material allowing the passage of thermal radiation.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the claims 11
to 20, characterized in that to the outside of the spacer

fabric (3) a diffusion-tight edge seal (10) is provided.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 21, characterized
in that the diffusion-tight edge seal (10) is formed by direct

welding of the panes.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the claims 11
to 22, characterized in that the intermediate space between

the panes is at least partly evacuated.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the claims 11
to 22, characterized in that the intermediate space between

the panes is filled with a thermally insulating material.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 24, characterized
in that the thermally insulating material is a gas.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the claims 11
to 22, characterized in that the intermediate space between

the panes is filled with a fireproof material.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 26, characterized
in that the fireproof material is constituted by a transparent

gel of a polymer which has a highly hydrous, inorganic saline
solution embedded therein.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that approximately half way up the

rib fibers (6) the same are free of resin coating. 
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that one of the panes (2, 9) is

designed to absorb radiation.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that a low E coating (13) is applied

to at least one of the panes (2, 9).
The glazing element as claimed in claim 30, characterized
in that the low E coating (13) is applied pyrolytically to the

outer side of one of the panes (2, 9).
The glazing element as claimed in claim 30, characterized
in that the low E coating (13) is provided in the intermediate

space between the panes and at least partly adjoins a gaseous
medium or film material (18) transparent to thermal radiation.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the claims 11
to 32, characterized in that the glazing element (1) is

arranged so that it may be turned through 180°.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the claims 11
to 33, characterized in that at least one further pane (15,

16) is arranged in the intermediate space between the panes.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 34, characterized
in that the panes (15, 16) arranged in the intermediate space

between the panes are respectively connected with at least one
of the outer panes (2, 9) by a spacer fabric or knit (3) in a

force transmitting manner.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 34 or in claim 35,
characterized in that the pane arranged in the intermediate

space between the panes is constituted by a synthetic resin
sheet or film (19).
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the claims 34
to 36, characterized in that the pane (15, 16; 19) arranged in 

the intermediate space between the panes has a low E coating
(13) on at least one of its surfaces.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that recesses are provided in the

spacer fabric (3) in order to constitute partly transparent
areas.
The glazing element as claimed in claim 38, characterized
in that the spacer fabric (3) is constituted by bands arranged

linearly or in grids.
The glazing element as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, characterized by the use thereof as a thermal insulating

safety glass, more particularly for roof or overhead
glazing arrangements, facade cladding or door elements, as a

glass proof against breaking in or out or as acoustic insulating
glass.
A method for the production of a glazing element as

claimed in claim 1, characterized in that on the covering
surface of a transparent pane or sheet (2) a resin impregnated

spacer fabric (3) of at least two covering layers (4, 5) and
rib fibers (6) extending transversely in relation to the

covering layers is placed to cover the area thereof, and the
resulting laminated body is compressed in a pressing mold so

that the pane (2) is adhesively bonded to one of the covering
layers (4, 5) of the fabric (3), whereafter the pressing mold

is opened and the resin is cured.
The method as claimed in claim 41, characterized in that
prior to pressing a second pane or sheet (9) is placed on the

laminated body.
The method as claimed in claim 41 or in claim 42,
characterized in that the pressing mold is opened a graduated

amount until the desired distance is reached between the
covering layers (4, 5). 
A method for the production of a glazing element as
claimed in claim 11, characterized in that an at least partly

resin impregnated spacer fabric (3) of at least two covering
layers (4, 5) and rib fibers (6) extending transversely in

relation to the covering layers is cured and then is placed
between two panes or sheets (2, 9) in a distance determining

manner and is pressed with an adhesive bonding effect.
The method as claimed in claim 44, characterized in that
the covering layers (4, 5) of the spacer fabric (3) are

provided with an adhesive film.
The method as claimed in any one of the claims 41 to 44,
characterized in that the resin coating of the covering layers

(4, 5) of the spacer fabric (3) is cured prior to resin
coating of the rib fibers (6) and/or the edge zone of the

covering layers.
A method for the production of a glazing element as
claimed in claim 17, characterized by the following steps:


a) pressing a resin impregnated spacer fabric (3) comprising
a covering layer (4) and rib fibers extending from the

covering layer with a first pane in a bonding manner;
b) curing the resin and erecting the rib fibers (6) in a
rigid form;
c) laying a second pane (9) on the free ends of the rib
fibers (6); and
d) providing the pane structure with a surrounding edge seal
(10) and at least partly evacuating the same.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
