<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656723</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of and system for enciphering image information.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09C500	G09C500	H04N144	H04N144	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09C	G09C	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09C5	G09C5	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of and system for enciphering image 
information uses an optical fibre array including a 

plurality of fibres assembled irregularly. 
Image information is passed through the optical fibres 

which is then converted into an electric 
signal. 
An image which is scanned with the optical fibre array appears 
scrambled at the output side of the optical fibre bundle. The image 

signal is converted by a CCD array into an electric signal. 
The positional relationship of the fibres at the input and the 
output side is 

determined. A position designating code is sent to a receiver for 
deciphering the image information. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANI DENKI KOGYO KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANI ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANI OKIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANI, OKIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of and 
system for enciphering image information when dealt 
with by computers, facsimile equipments, copying 
machines or diverse cameras. Conventionally, when image information is dealt 
with by the computers, facsimile equipments, copying 
machines or diverse cameras, such image information is 
transmitted/displayed, reproduced, copied or imaged in 
a state comprehensible to all persons concerned. In 
other words, with the above prior art equipments, 
image information is dealt with in a raw state. 
Therefore, even when it is desirable to present image 
information to limited persons in a available state, 
the confidentiality of image information is difficult 
to obtain. One of measures to cope with such problem 
is to encipher image information by computer 
processing, which is, however, a complicated operation 
which needs much time. Moreover, experiences reveal 
that decipherment is possible in most of the cases 
since encipherment by computer processing is carried 
out logically. It is, therefore, an object of the present 
invention to provide a method of and system for 
enciphering image information which allows easy 
encipherment and impossible decipherment. According to one aspect of the present invention, 
there is provided a method of enciphering and 
deciphering an image information with image elements, 
comprising the steps of:
 
   forming a means for guiding the image 
information, said guiding means including a plurality 
of unit guides with end faces on first and second 
sides, said end faces on said first and second sides  
 
failing to correspond to each other in view of a 
positional relationship, each unit guide serving to 
guide one of the image elements;
 
   giving position designating codes to said end 
faces of said plurality of unit guides on said first 
and second sides;
 
   obtaining a corresponding relation information on 
said position designating codes on said first and 
second sides; and
 
   providing to an image information processing 
device the image information which is input to said 
guiding means on said first side and output therefrom 
on said second side,
 
   wherein when deciphering the image information as 
provided, said image information processing device 
recognizes said position designating codes of the 
image elements of the image information as provided 
and rearranges the image elements in accordance with 
said corresponding relation information so as to 
restore the image information input to said guiding 
me
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of enciphering and deciphering an image 
information with image elements, comprising the steps 

of: 
   forming a means for guiding the image 

information, said guiding means including a plurality 
of unit guides with end faces on first and second 

sides, said end faces on said first and second sides 
failing to correspond to each other in view of a 

positional relationship, each unit guide serving to 
guide one of the image ele
ments; 
   giving position designating codes to said end 

faces of said plurality of unit guides on said first 
and second sides; 

   obtaining a corresponding relation information on 
said position designating codes on said first and 

second sides; and 
   providing to an image information processing 

device the image information which is input to said 
guiding means on said first side and output therefrom 

on said second side, 
   wherein when deciphering the image information as 

provided, said image information processing device 
recognizes said position designating codes of the 

image elements of the image information as provided 
and rearranges the image elements in accordance with 

said corresponding relation information so as to 
restore the image information input to said guiding 

means. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
plurality of unit guides of said guiding means are 

irregularly assembled. 
A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein said 
plurality of unit guides are in the form of optical 

fibers. 
A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein said 
plurality of unit guides are in the form of guide 

assemblies, each guide assembly having optical fibers. 
A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein said 
position designating codes are further given to said 

optical fibers. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the 
obtaining step is carried out by providing a light on 

said end face of one of said plurality of unit guides 
on said first side and recognizing a position of said 

end face of said one of said plurality of unit guides 
on said second side from which said light goes out. 
A system for enciphering and deciphering an image 
information with image elements, comprising: 

   a means for guiding the image information, said 
guiding means including a plurality of unit guides 

with end faces on first and second sides, said end 
faces on said first and second sides failing to 

correspond to each other in view of a positional 
relationship, each unit guide serving to guide one of 

the image elements, said end faces on said first and 
second sides having position designating codes, 

respectively; 
   a means for converting the image information 

obtained through said guiding means into a 
predetermined data; 

   a means for providing said predetermined data; 
   a means for receiving said predetermined data 

derived from said providing means; 
   a means for storing a corresponding relation 

information on said position designating codes on said 
end faces on said first and second sides; 

   a means for processing said predetermined data 
derived from said receiving means in recognizing said 

 
position designating codes of the image elements of 

the image information output from said guiding means 
on said second side so as to rearrange the image 

elements in accordance with said corresponding 
relation information; and 

   a means for indicating the image elements of the 
image information as rearranged. 
A system as claimed in claim 7, wherein said 
plurality of unit guides of said guiding means are 

irregularly assembled. 
A system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said 
plurality of unit guides are in the form of optical 

fibers. 
A system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said 
plurality of unit guides are in the form of image 

guide assemblies, each guide assembly having optical 
fibers. 
A system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said 
position designating codes are further given to said 

optical fibers. 
A system as claimed in claim 7, wherein said 
converting means includes an image pickup device. 
A system as claimed in claim 12, wherein said 
image pickup device includes a CCD camera. 
A system for picking up an image information, 
comprising: 

   a means for guiding the image information, said 
guiding means including a plurality of unit guides as 

assembled regularly, each having an end face on an 
outgoing side; and

 
   a means for converting photoelectrically the 

image information into an electric signal, said 
converting means including a plurality of light 

receiving elements, at least one of said plurality of 
light receiving elements being optically coupled with 

said end face of said each unit guide. 
A system as claimed in claim 14, wherein said 
plurality of unit guides of said guiding means include 

optical fibers. 
A system as claimed in claim 14, wherein said 
converting means includes a light receiving element 

array with a plurality of light receiving elements as 
arranged regularly. 
A system as claimed in claim 14, wherein said 
converting means includes a solid state image pickup 

device. 
A system for confirming an identity of an object, 
comprising: 

   a means for picking up an image information of 
the object; 

   a means for reading a unit of said image 
information of said picking up means; 

   a means for storing a unit of a criterion 
information for deciding the identity of said unit of 

said image information; 
   a means for comparing said unit of said image 

information with said unit of said criterion 
information; and 

   a means for deciding the identity of said unit of 
said image information in accordance with a result of 

said comparing means. 
A system as claimed in claim 18, wherein said 
 

picking up means includes a means for guiding said 
image information and including a plurality of unit 

guides as assembled regularly, each unit guide having 
an end face on an outgoing side and serving to guide 

one of image elements of said image information, and 
a means for converting photoelectrically said image 

information into an electric signal and including a 
plurality of light receiving elements, at least one of 

said plurality of light receiving elements being 
optically coupled with said end face of said each unit 

guide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
