<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654003</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN APPARATUS FOR STORING AND DISPENSING ARTICLES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65F114	B09B500	B65G1137	G07F902	B65F114	G03G1500	G07F700	B65G1137	B65F100	G07F902	G03G1500	B65F100	G07F706	B09B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65F	B09B	B65G	G07F	B65F	G03G	G07F	B65G	B65F	G07F	G03G	B65F	G07F	B09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65F1	B09B5	B65G1	G07F9	B65F1	G03G15	G07F7	B65G1	B65F1	G07F9	G03G15	B65F1	G07F7	B09B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus adapted to promote the recycling of complex articles, such as, in particular, printer cartridges, toner cartridges and other complex office items. The invention provides an apparatus having storage space arranged to store a number of such complex articles for recycling. Access to the storage space is controlled by a data processor which interacts with a user by way of a visual display unit and control panel. If the user wishes to store an item, he indicates this by way of the control panel and the apparatus is then operable to open a receptacle to receive the used item. When the used item is placed in the receptacle, in preferred embodiments means are provided to determine that the used item is an article of an appropriate type to be stored. These means preferably employ shape recognition. The article will be rejected if it is not of the correct type and accepted and retained in a storage space if it is of the correct type. The preferred apparatus is also arranged to dispense items on request by the user. A preferred feature is that the apparatus will not dispense a new or recycled item if a predetermined ratio of new items dispensed to used items stored by that user would be exceeded. This encourages recycling.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMAGING TECHNOLOGIES PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMAGING TECHNOLOGIES PTY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRANDMANN SIEGMUND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENKINS ALAN ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH GOWER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRANDMANN, SIEGMUND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENKINS, ALAN, ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, GOWER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is particularly relevant to
articles which are recyclable. Typically, recycling is
restricted to articles of limited complexity and value
which require minimum care in handling. For example,
aluminium cans and bottles can be separated from other
articles in a domestic situation and can then be either
delivered to a recycling location or can be collected by
a recycling organisation.In instances where more fragile and sophisticated
articles are to be recycled, such as toner cartridges and
printer cartridges, for example, at present there is no
real alternative to storing the used articles in boxes
and delivering the used articles to a recycling centre.The present invention provides an apparatus as defined in claim 16. Preferably, the apparatus is adapted to store and
dispense "complex" articles. This includes more
sophisticated articles than the type which are commonly
recycled (cans, bottles, paper, etc). In particular,
these articles include toner cartridges, copier toner
cartridges, bubblejet cartridges, inkjet cartridges,
printer ribbons and other recyclable office materials of
a complex nature. The apparatus may be regularly
serviced to remove used articles for recycling and to
restock the apparatus with recycled articles ("new
articles") for dispensing.The apparatus is preferably established in a
convenient location, such as a retail shop, a foyer of an
office building, or, in a large office, in the office
itself. Apparatus with different configurations may be 
provided depending on the type and volume of recyclable
materials they are intended to handle.Preferably, in order to encourage recycling of used
articles, the dispensing of a new article is tied to the
deposit of a used article, such that the apparatus will
not dispense a new article if that will result in a pre-determined
ratio between new articles dispensed and used
articles deposited being exceeded. The ratio may be 1:1,
for example, so that in order to obtain a new article a
user must first deposit a used article in the apparatus.
The ratio is not limited to 1:1, however, and may be of
any other ratio. For example, the ratio may be three
dispensed articles to one deposited article, ie a fourth
new article will not be dispensed until a further used
article is deposited, if only one used article has been
deposited previously.The apparatus may be arranged to serve the needs of
a number of different users and identification means,
such as a magnetic stripe card and associated reader may
be provided to identify a user
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for monitoring and controlling the
storage of used articles and the dispensing of new

articles, the system comprising; an apparatus (150) for
storing used articles and dispensing new articles,

comprising storage space (400) for storing used and new
articles, detection means (500) for detecting the storage

of a used article, dispensing means (500) for dispensing a
new article, and control means (600) for monitcring the

storage of used articles and for controlling the dispensing
of new articles; 
characterised in that
 the system further
comprises a master control means (200), the master control

means (200) being connected to monitor the operation of the
apparatus to determine when the number of used articles has

reached a predetermined number such that the apparatus
requires servicing to remove used articles, and to

determine when the number of new articles has been reduced
to a predetermined number such that the apparatus requires

servicing to be replenished with new articles, wherein the
master control means (200) is remote from

the apparatus and is connected to the control means of
the apparatus by communication means.
A system in accordance with claim 1,

characterised by
 comprising a plurality of apparatus for
storing used articles and dispensing new articles,

connected to the master control means (200) by
communication means.
A system in accordance with claim 1 or 2,

characterised by
 control means (600) of the apparatus being
operable to prevent a new article being dispensed if it

will result in a predetermined ratio between new articles
that have been dispensed and used articles that have been

stored being exceeded.
A system in accordance with any one of the 
preceding claims, 
characterised by
 the apparatus further
comprising identification means (700) for identifying the

user of the apparatus, and memory means for monitoring the
number of used articles stored and the number of used

articles dispensed for the identified user.
A system in accordance with any one of the
preceding claims, 
characterised by
 the control means (600)
being operable to prevent a new article being dispensed if

it will result in a predetermined ratio between new
articles that have been dispensed and used articles that

have been stored being exceeded, the predetermined ratio
being determined with reference only to used articles

stored and new articles dispensed for the identified user.
A system in accordance with any one of the
preceding claims 
characterised in that
 the detection means
(500) includes determining means for assessing

predetermined features of the article to determine whether
it is of an approved type to be stored in the storage

space.
A system in accordance with claim 6,

characterised in that
 the determining means are arranged to
assess features of shape of the article.
A system in accordance with claim 7,

characterised in that
 the determining means comprises a
physical receptacle (19,203) that accurately reflects the

physical shape of at least a portion of the article to be
stored.
A system in accordance with claim 7,

characterised in that
 the determining means comprises
optical sensors.
A system in accordance with claim 6,

characterised in that
 the control means (600) is responsive
to the determining means determining that an article is not

of an approved type to be stored, to prevent the article
from being stored and/or to produce an alarm condition in 

the apparatus.
A system in accordance with claim 6,

characterised in that
 the control means (600) is responsive
to the determining means determining that an article is not

of an approved type to be stored, to prevent the subsequent
dispensing of a new article.
A system in accordance with any one of the
preceding claims, 
characterised in that
 the storage space
(400) comprises a plurality of separately accessible

storage receptacles (201), each storage receptacle (201)
being arranged to stcre a used article or new article for

dispensing.
A system in accordance with claim 12,

characterised by
 each storage receptacle (201) being
provided with a door (206) controllable by the control

means (600) to enable or present access to the storage
receptacle (201) by a user.
A system in accordance with any one of the
preceding claims, 
characterised by
 the apparatus being
adapted to store office equipment and dispense consumables,

such as toner cartridges, inkjet cartridges, copier toner
cartridges, printer ribbons and the like, as the new and

used articles, the used articles being recyclable.
A method of recycling complex articles,

characterised by
 the steps of providing a system in
accordance with any one of the preceding claims, monitoring

the system to determine when the apparatus contains a
predetermined number of used articles, collecting the used

articles in the apparatus to be dispensed as new articles.
An apparatus for storing used articles and
dispensing new articles, comprising storage space (400) for

storing used and new articles, detection means (500) for
detecting the storage of a used article, dispensing means

(500) for dispensing a new article, and control means (600)
for monitoring the storage of used articles and for 

controlling the dispensing of new articles; 
characterised
in that
 the apparatus is connectable by communication means to a
remote master control means (200), for monitoring

the operation of the apparatus

to determine when the number of used articles has reached a
predetermined number such that the apparatus requires

servicing to remove used articles, and to determine when
the number of new articles has been reduced to a

predetermined number such that the apparatus requires
servicing to be replenished with new articles.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
