<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657942</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Lateral bipolar transistor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21331	H01L2170	H01L218249	H01L2706	H01L2706	H01L2966	H01L2973	H01L29737	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A lateral bipolar transistor is provided in which the active 
base region (48) comprises a layer of a material providing a predetermined 

valence band offset relative to the emitter (44) and collector (46) 
regions, to 

enhance transport of carriers from the emitter (44) to the collector 
(46) in a lateral 

manner. In particular, a silicon hetero-junction lateral bipolar transistor 
(HLBT) is provided. The lateral bipolar transistor structure and method of 

fabrication of the transistor is compatible with a bipolar-CMOS integrated 
circuit. Preferably the base region comprises a silicon-germanium alloy 

or a silicon-germanium superlattice structure comprising a series of 
alternating layers of silicon and silicon-germanium alloy. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHERN TELECOM LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHERN TELECOM LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOVACIC STEPHEN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOVACIC, STEPHEN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a lateral bipolar transistor and a 
method of making a lateral bipolar transistor for an integrated circuit. In fabrication of silicon semiconductor based high speed 
integrated circuits, the integration of both CMOS (complementary metal 
oxide semiconductor transistors) and bipolar transistors to provide 
Bipolar-CMOS (BiCMOS) VLSI integrated circuits is now well 
established for telecommunications applications requiring high speed, 
high drive, mixed voltage and analog-digital performance. However, 
there is considerable challenge in optimizing the performance of both 
CMOS and bipolar devices for integrated circuit fabricated with 
progressively reduced dimensions. A manufacturable fabrication 
process for minimum geometry integrated circuits must be provided 
without inordinately increasing the process complexity, i.e. the number of 
mask levels and process steps. Bipolar transistors having an emitter-base-collector structure 
in either a vertical or a lateral configuration are known. Key parameters 
that must be reduced to increase switching speed are base width, base 
transport time, base resistance and base-collector capacitance. In combining shallow junction CMOS transistors with bipolar 
transistors for a sub-micron BiCMOS VLSI integrated circuit, a vertical 
bipolar transistor is commonly used. For example, a vertical PNP bipolar 
transistor comprises a buried collector formed in a P type region of the 
substrate, a heavily N doped base region is provided in the substrate 
surface and an heavily P doped emitter region overlies an active base 
region, forming an emitter-base junction. Base contacts are provided to 
the base region of the substrate surface adjacent the active base region. 
Contact to the buried collector is made through a heavily P doped region 
(i.e. a sinker) extending to the substrate surface. A vertical bipolar 
transistor with a shallow base width may be obtained in a process  
 
compatible with forming shallow junctions for CMOS transistors. For 
example, a bipolar transistor with a base width of ∼0.2µm may be 
achieved by low energy ion implantation, or by diffusion of impurities 
from an overlying heavily doped layer. On the other hand, a conventional lateral bipolar transistor 
differs in structure considerably from a vertical bipolar transistor. A 
typical PNP lateral bipolar transistor comprises a substrate on which is 
formed a P doped epitaxial layer. Heavily P doped regions are defined 
in the epitaxial layer to form an emitter and a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A lateral bipolar transistor for an integrated circuit, 
comprising: 

   a semiconductor layer of a first conductivity type formed on 
a substrate; 

   first and second heavily doped regions of a second 
conductivity type defined in the surface of the semiconductor layer and 

laterally spaced apart, said first and second heavily doped regions 
defining an emitter and a collector respectively of the lateral bipolar 

transistor; 
   an active base region of the bipolar transistor comprising 

part of said semiconductor layer disposed between said emitter and 
collector, the active base region comprising at least one layer of a 

semiconductor alloy extending laterally between the emitter and the 
collector and having a predetermined valence band offset relative to 

the heavily doped regions forming the emitter and the collector, the 
semiconductor alloy layer also having a valence band offset relative to 

the underlying layer, the resulting energy band structure of said alloy 
layer thereby providing for enhanced minority carrier transport laterally 

through the alloy layer between the emitter and the collector. 
A lateral bipolar transistor as claimed in claim 1, 
characterised in that the semiconductor layer of the first conductivity type 

comprises a semiconductor material having a first bandgap, and the 
semiconductor alloy comprises a relatively narrow band gap alloy. 
A lateral bipolar transistor as claimed in claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that the semiconductor layer of the first conductivity type 

comprises silicon, and the semiconductor alloy comprises a silicon-germanium 
alloy. 
A lateral bipolar transistor as claimed in claim 1, 
characterised in that the active base region comprises a semiconductor 

superlattice structure having a series of alternating layers of a 
semiconductor and an alloy of said semiconductor. 
A lateral bipolar transistor as claimed in claim 2 or 3, 
characterised in that the semiconductor alloy comprises Si1-xGex with 

1≧x
>
0, where x is selected to provide said predetermined valence band 
offset.. 
A lateral bipolar transistor as claimed in claim 4, 
characterised in that the superlattice structure comprises at least one 

series of alternating thin layers of SixGe1-x and Si. 
A lateral bipolar transistor as claimed in claim 1 including a 
gate electrode overlying the base region and separated therefrom by a 

gate dielectric layer, for controlling inversion in the surface region under 
the gate, thereby reducing surface leakage current. 
A lateral bipolar transistor as claimed in claim 1, 

characterised in that a heavily doped buried base contact electrode of a 
first conductivity type is formed in a region of the substrate underlying the 

active base region. 
An integrated circuit comprising a silicon heterostructure 
lateral bipolar transistor formed on a semiconductor substrate having 

defined therein first and second heavily doped semiconductor regions 
forming an emitter and a collector, and a base region extending laterally 

between the emitter and collector, the base region comprising a 
relatively narrow band gap semiconductor alloy, having a valence band 

offset relative to the underlying semiconductor substrate layer. 
An integrated circuit comprising a silicon heterojunction 
lateral bipolar transistor formed on a silicon semiconductor substrate 

having an emitter region and a collector region provided by laterally 
spaced apart regions comprising heavily doped silicon and a base 

region comprising a silicon germanium alloy extending laterally 
therebetween; said alloy having a valence band offset relative to an 

underlying substrate layer, the alloy thereby providing an energy band 
structure having a valence band energy well in the active base region to 

 
provide enhanced carrier transport through the alloy layer in a lateral 

direction between the emitter and collector. 
An integrated circuit according to claim 10, characterised in 
that the silicon-germanium alloy comprises SixGe1-x, and 1≧x
>
0 where 
x is selected to provide a predetermined valence band offset. 
An integrated circuit according to claim 11 characterised in 
that the semiconductor alloy comprises at least one series of alternating 

thin layers of SixGe1-x and Si forming a SiGe superlattice structure. 
An integrated circuit comprising a silicon heterojunction 
lateral bipolar transistor formed on a silicon semiconductor substrate, 

the transistor comprising, 
   first and second laterally spaced apart regions defined in 

the surface of the substrate, said regions providing emitter and collector 
regions of the transistor comprising heavily doped silicon, 

   and an active base region of the transistor disposed 
between the emitter and collector regions, the active base region 

comprising a semiconductor alloy having a predetermined valence 
band offset relative to the collector and emitter regions, and said alloy 

having a valence band offset relative to an underlying substrate layer, 
the alloy 

thereby providing a energy band structure with a valence band energy 
well in the active base region to provide enhanced carrier transport 

through the alloy layer in a 
lateral direction between the emitter and collector. 
A method of forming a lateral bipolar transistor comprising: 
   providing an integrated circuit substrate having a having a 

lightly doped epitaxial semiconductor layer formed thereon of a first 
conductivity type; 

   providing therein first and second heavily doped regions of a 
second conductivity type defining an emitter and a collector respectively; 

   providing in a region disposed between the emitter and the 
collector, an active base region comprising a layer of a semiconductor 

alloy providing a predetermined valence band offset. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that the 
semiconductor layer comprises silicon, and providing a layer of 

semiconductor alloy comprises selectively providing thereon a layer of a 
silicon-germanium alloy, before the step of defining the emitter and 

collector. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that the 
semiconductor layer comprises silicon, and providing a layer of 

semiconductor alloy comprises implantation of the active base region 
with germanium ions to form a silicon germanium alloy. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that 
providing a layer of semiconductor alloy comprises providing a silicon 

superlattice structure comprising at least one series of alternating thin 
layers of SixGe1-x and Si. 
A method as claimed in claim 15, characterised in that after 
providing the silicon alloy layer, said first and second heavily doped 

regions defining an emitter and a collector are formed by ion 
implantation of dopant ions and annealing. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
