<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659272</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANALYSIS SYSTEM AND COMPONENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2728	G01N2728	G01N27333	G01N27333	G01N27403	G01N27403	G01N27416	G01N27416	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides sensing electrodes and electrode assemblies for use in measuring the activity of ions in a fluid sample; measuring blocks which include a sensing module housing such sensing electrodes and a reference electrode; and a fluid analysis system which includes such measuring blocks.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER DIAGNOSTICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER DIAGNOSTICS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORMIER ALAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES RONALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VITIELLO JANET D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINBERG MELVIN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORMIER, ALAN, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, RONALD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VITIELLO, JANET, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINBERG, MELVIN, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANALYSIS SYSTEM AND COMPONENTS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to apparati for and methods of analyzing fluid samples and has particular application in the analysis of parameters of biological fluids, such as blood and serum.Systems for analyzing the ion level of a fluid sample by use of ion selective electrodes are known in the art. Such systems typically include an analyzer instrument which contains electrical circuitry for analyzing the ion levels of the fluid sample. The electrical circuitry is adapted to receive information from measuring units which include the ion selective electrodes. Conventional electronics, pumping and flow meters and the like are interconnected with such measuring units.Measuring units have been used in various electrochemical measuring apparatus. U.S. Patent No. 4,160,714 describes a single unit measuring chamber used for pH values, gas values and other types are known for use in measuring various analytes including metal ions in body fluids such as blood. It is known to use reference electrodes and measure electromotive force between a reference electrode and an electrode mounted beneath a membrane over which a fluid is passed to determine the ionic content of the fluid. Ions such as potassium, sodium and others are customarily tested in medical laboratories by such equipment. For example, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,627,893 and 5,019,238 disclose a testing module having units which can be arranged seriatim to provide narrow through passageways linked to each other for quantitative determination of analytes passing through the units as by electrical testing with electrodes. 

 A module multi-channel automated medical analyzer device characterized by use of an ion selective electrode is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,946,651. Other systems for analyzing ion levels in fluids are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 4,293,307; U.S. Patent No. 4,221,457; and U.S. Patent No. 4,946,651.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThis invention provides means and methods for rapidly, efficiently and quantitatively determining ionic concentration of various ions in fluids, as for example the blood.This invention also provides a novel measuring block which can be used for rapid quantitative and efficient measurement with high accuracy of ionic components of extremely small volumes of body fluids and in a manner which minimizes contamination of the sample to a great extent.Measuring blocks are provided in accordance with the preceding objects wherein the measuring block is removably
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A sensing electrode for use in measuring the activity of ions in a fluid sample, the electrode comprising: (i) a hollow cylindrical body member;
(ii) a contact member disposed at one end of the body member, wherein the contact member is adapted to make electrical connection with a resiliently mounted electrical contact for receiving electrical signals from the electrode;
(iii) a hemispherical sensing tip disposed at one end of the body member, wherein the sensing tip is provided with an opening configured to align with and fit within an opening in a holder for the electrode when the electrode is placed therein, the opening in the holder being in communication with a flow path for the sample;
(iv) an ion selective membrane material disposed on the sensing tip, thereby sealing the opening therein and being capable of providing sealing contact with the opening between the flow path and the electrode holder when the electrode is disposed therein;
(v) an internal reference electrode disposed in the body member and in electrical contact with the sensing tip and the contact member; and
(vi) at least one positioning member disposed on the body member for positioning the electrode in the electrode holder.
2. An electrode assembly for use in measuring the activity of ions in a fluid sample, the assembly comprising at least one electrode holder and at least one sensing electrode, wherein the electrode holder comprises: a hollow cylindrical member adapted to receive the sensing electrode and terminating at one end in a 


hemispherical sensing tip having an opening in communication with a flow path for the sample and at the opposite end in an opening to receive the electrode; wherein the electrode comprises:
(i) a hollow cylindrical body member;
(ii) a contact member disposed at one end of the body member, wherein the contact member is adapted to make electrical connection with a resiliently mounted electrical contact for receiving electrical signals from the electrode;
(iii) a hemispherical sensing tip disposed at one end of the body member, wherein the sensing tip is provided with an opening configured to align with and fit within the opening in the electrode holder when the electrode is placed therein;
(iv) an ion selective membrane material disposed on the hemispherical sensing tip and sealing the opening therein and being capable of providing sealing contact with the opening in the electrode holder when the electrode is disposed therein;
(v) an internal reference electrode disposed in the body member and in electrical contact with the sensing tip and the contact member; and (vi) at least one positioning member disposed on the body member for positioning the electrode in the electrode holder.
3. An electrode assembly in accordance with claim 2, wherein the sensing electrode further comprises an evaporation barrier.
4. An electrode assembly in accordance with claim 3, wherein the evaporation barrier comprises a metalized material. 


 5. An electrode assembly in accordance with
• claim 2, wherein one sensing electrode is a membrane type neutral carrier sodium electrode.
6. An electrode assembly in accordance with claim 2, wherein the hemispherical sensing tip protrudes into the flow path up to about 50%.
7. An electrode assembly in accordance with claim 6, wherein the hemispherical sensing tip protrudes into the flow path from about 25% to about 50%.
8. An electrode assembly in accordance with claim 2, wherein the contact member of the sensing electrode is provided with a rim member.
9. An electrode assembly in accordance with claim 8, wherein the rim member has one or more position key holes disposed therein.
10. An electrode assembly in accordance with claim 8, wherein the rim member is provided with at least one finger access. 11. A sensing module for use in measuring the ion activity of a fluid sample, wherein the sensing module comprises:
(i) a flow-through cell having at least one inlet port and at least one outlet port; (ii) at least one flow path in the cell for the sample, the flow path being in communication with the inlet and outlet ports and having at least two openings between the ports, a first opening for communicating with a sensing electrode and a second opening for communicating with a reference electrode;
(iii) at least one hollow cylindrical member in the cell adapted to receive a sensing electrode and terminating at one end in a hemispherical member having an opening in communication with the flow path for the 


sample and at the opposite end in an opening to receive the electrode; and
(iv) at least one electrode, wherein the electrode comprises: (a) a hollow cylindrical body member;
(b) a contact, member disposed at one end of the body member, wherein the contact member is adapted to make electrical connection with a resiliently mounted electrical contact for receiving electrical signals from the electrode;
(c) a hemispherical sensing tip disposed at one end of the body member, wherein the sensing tip is provided with an opening configured to align with and fit within the opening in the electrode holder when the electrode is placed therein;
(d) an ion selective membrane material sealing the opening in the hemispherical sensing tip and capable of providing sealing contact with the opening in the electrode holder when the electrode is disposed therein;
(e) an internal reference electrode disposed in the body member and in electrical contact with the sensing tip and the contact member; and
(f) at least one positioning member disposed on the body member for positioning the electrode in the electrode holder.
12. A sensing module in accordance with claim 11, wherein the flow-through cell comprises a transparent plastic. 


 13. A sensing module in accordance with claim 11, wherein the flow path from the inlet port past the sensing electrodes is substantially straight.
14. A sensing module in accordance with claim 11, wherein the sensing module is adapted for removably attachment to a reference electrode to provide electrical liquid communication between the flow path and the reference electrode.
15. A sensing module in accordance with claim 11, comprising a plurality of sensing electrodes.
16. A measuring block for use in measuring the ionic activity of a fluid sample, wherein the measuring block is removably engageable to an analyzer instrument containing electrical circuitry for receiving electronic signals from an electrode in the measuring block and, wherein the measuring block comprises: a sensing module in accordance with claim 13 and a reference electrode removably engaged thereto, wherein the reference electrode comprises: (i) a body member, adapted to be removably engageable to the sensing module; and
(ii) an opening in the body member which is sealed by an ion permeable membrane material and is in communication with the second opening of the flow path. 17. A measuring block in accordance with claim 16, wherein the measuring block is adapted for removable attachment to an analyzer instrument to provide electrical communication between the sensing and reference electrodes and the analyzer. 18. A fluid analysis system comprising:
(i) an analyzer instrument containing electrical circuitry for analyzing the ion level of a sample and being adapted to receive a measuring block in accordance with claim 17 in such a manner to provide vertical disposition of the flow path and to provide 


electrical communication with the contact member of the sensing electrode via at least one resiliently mounted contact member;
(ii) a measuring block in accordance with claim 10;
(iii) a pump for flowing sample to be analyzed downwardly through the flow path past the first opening in communication with the sensing electrode and the second opening in communication with the reference electrode. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
