<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655692</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A multiple element interface.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1340	G06F1340	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F13	G06F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The object of the invention is an expanded PCMCIA interface and a method for
identifying such an expanded interface. According to the invention, among the

power transmission pins of a standard PCMCIA interface, two of which are
reserved for operating voltage and four for ground potential (P1, P2, P3, P4),

maximally one operating voltage pin and three ground potential pins (P1, P2, P3,
P4) have been redefined such that they are connected to a different voltage than

standard voltage (GND, GND, VCC). This allows analogue and/or digital signals to
be transferred through the redefined pins. Each redefined pin is preferably provided

with a resistance coupling (Ra, R2, R3), by means of which the voltage prevailing
in the redefined pin (P1, P2, P3, P4) has been raised (VCC) respectively dropped

(GND) compared to the ground potential (GND) and operating voltage (VCC) of a
standard pin. The PCMCIA interface according to the invention is identified such

that the voltages of the redefined pins (P1, P2, P3, P4) are examined in a PCMCIA
card (14) equipped with an expanded PCMCIA interface which can be installed in

the PCMCIA card slot (16) of the host device (1) immediately after the card has
been installed, and if the card slot (16) is identified as a card slot of an expanded

PCMCIA interface (13), signals can be transferred through these redefined pines
(P1, P2, P3, P4).


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA MOBILE PHONES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA MOBILE PHONES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OJALA JORMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OJALA, JORMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a multiple element interface for use with a computer or 
personal organiser. A known multiple element interface comprises 68-pin connectors for transfer of 
data or electrical power, and complies to a PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory 
Card International Association) standard. PCMCIA interfaces fitted to computers 
and other electronic devices allow a variety of exchangeable integrated circuits to 
be connected thereto. The exchangeable integrated circuits are usually contained 
in a convenient credit card sized case, the whole assembly being known as a 
PCMCIA card. Storage cards and expansion cards are the two main categories of 
PCMCIA cards although other uses may become available in the future. A storage 
card may, for example, include memory chips to increase the random access 
memory of a computer. An expansion card has the facility for allowing input and 
output of data to the host device, for example, a network card allowing connection 
of a computer to a network. A card slot is provided on the PCMCIA interface to 
allow insertion of a PCMCIA card into the host device. The interface standard 
defines two sets of connector pins, one of which is intended for a storage card and 
the other for a combined storage and input/output card. Neither the PCMCIA interface standard nor the PCMCIA card specifications support 
the transfer of analogue signals through the standard 68-pin connector. For 
interfaces or cards to be compatible with the PCMCIA standard, data transmission 
over signal elements defined by the PCMCIA standard are required to be digital and 
at pre-determined levels. For all existing PCMCIA cards to be compatible with all 
existing PCMCIA interfaces the requirement for data transmission to be digital over 
the signal elements must remain. Changing one signal element from a digital to an 
analogue system may solve the immediate problem of analogue transmission but 
then existing PCMCIA standard devices will no longer be compatible. According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method for  
 
transferring data between a first multiple element interface having a plurality of 
power transmission contacts and a plurality of digital data transmission contacts 
and a second multiple element interface having corresponding pluralities of power 
and digital data transmission contacts, the method comprising the steps of:
 
   electrically coupling the cooperating power transmission contacts of the first 
and second interfaces; and
 
   varying the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for transferring data between a first multiple element interface 
having a plurality of power transmission contacts and a plurality of digital data 

transmission contacts and a second multiple element interface having 
corresponding pluralities of power and digital data transmission contacts, the 

method comprising the steps of: 
   electrically coupling the cooperating power transmission contacts of the first 

and second interfaces; and 
   varying the voltage potential provided to one of the plurality of power 

transmission contacts on one of the first and second interfaces to provide signals 
indicative of data to be transferred to the cooperating power transmission contact 

of the other of the first and second interfaces. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the voltage potential is varied on one 
of the first and second interfaces and wherein prior to the step of varying the 

voltage, the method further comprises the steps of: 

   one of the first and second interfaces recognising that the voltage potential 
on one of the plurality of power transmission contacts on the other of the first and 

second interfaces is capable of varying; and 
   indicating that the corresponding power transmission contact of the one of 

the first and second interfaces is capable of receiving signals indicative of data. 
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the step of varying the 
voltage potential comprises modulating a predetermined voltage signal. 
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the voltage potential on 
the one of the plurality of power transmission contacts capable of varying is biased 

with a voltage of a predetermined level. 
A multiple element interface, comprising a plurality of digital data 
transmission contacts, and a plurality of contacts arranged to provide plural power 

 
supplies for complementary contacts on a cooperating multiple element interface, 

one of the plurality of contacts providing a predetermined voltage level, and 
characterised in that another of the power supply contacts is operable at a variety 

of voltage potentials for providing signals indicative of data for transmission to the 
complementary contacts and provides a signal indicative thereof for identification 

by the cooperating interface. 
A multiple element interface according to claim 5 further comprising means 
for providing the predetermined voltage level to the another of the contacts if the 

one of the contacts and the another of the contacts are short circuited. 
A multiple element interface according to claim 5 or 6 wherein the means 
for providing the signal indicative of the capability of data transfer comprises a 

voltage generator. 
A multiple element interface according to claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the 
means for supplying the predetermined voltage comprises a voltage generator. 
A multiple element interface according to claim 8 wherein the voltage 
generator circuit comprises a resistance coupling and a potential divider. 
A multiple element interface according to any one of claims 9 to 10 wherein 
the multiple element interface is provided within a host device. 
A multiple element interface comprising a plurality of digital data 
transmission elements, and a plurality of contacts arranged for coupling with plural 

power supply contacts of a complementary element characterised in that the 
multiple element interface comprises means for recognising that one or more of the 

power supply contacts of the complementary element is capable of varying for 
providing signals indicative of data for transmission. 
An interface according to claim 11 wherein the means for recognising 
 

comprises a voltage comparator. 
An interface according to any one of claims 11 or 12 wherein the means for 
recognising further comprises means for providing the complementary element with 

information indicating the capability of receiving signals indicative of data for 
transmission. 
An interface according to any one of claims 11 to 13 further comprising 
means for receiving and/or transmitting signals actuable by the means for 

recognising. 
An interface according to any one of the claims 11 to 14 wherein the 
interface comprises an integrated circuit card. 
A method for transferring data between a first multiple element interface 
having a plurality for power transmission contacts and a plurality of digital data 

transmission contacts coupled with a second multiple element interface having 
corresponding pluralities of power and digital data transmission contacts, the 

method comprising the steps of: 
   providing a first set of signals indicative of data on a set of the plurality of 

digital data transmission elements of the first multiple element interface for 
transmission to the second multiple element interface; 

   processing the first set of signals to provide a second set of signals 
indicative of data; 

   providing the second set of signals to one or more of the power contacts of 
the second multiple element interface for transmission to the first multiple element 

interface. 
A method according to claim 16 wherein the second set of signals is 
suitable for processing by a radio telephone. 
A multiple element interface comprising a plurality of digital data 
 

transmission contacts, and a plurality of power transmission contacts arranged for 
coupling with corresponding pluralities of power and digital transmission contacts 

of a cooperating multiple element interface characterised in that the multiple 
element interface comprises means for processing signals received from one of a 

set of the digital data transmission contacts and a power transmission contact and 
means for coupling the means for processing to the other of the set of digital data 

transmission contacts and the power transmission contact of the multiple element 
interface for transmission of signals indicative of data to the complementary 

element of the cooperating interface. 
A host device comprising a radio telephone, a multiple element interface 
having a plurality of digital data transmission contacts, and a plurality of contacts 

arranged to provide plural power supplies for complementary contacts on a 
cooperating multiple element interface, one of the plurality of contacts providing 

a predetermined voltage level, another of the power supply contacts being operable 
at a variety of voltage potentials for providing signals indicative of data for 

transmission to the complementary element, and means for providing signals from 
the radio telephone to the another of the power supply contacts for transmission 

to the cooperating element. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
