<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617763</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PAD TYPE HYDRODYNAMIC THRUST BEARINGS HAVING A MODULAR CONSTRUCTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C1704	F16C1706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C17	F16C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hydrodynamic bearing which includes a carrier (10) and a plurality of bearing pads (23) circumferentially spaced about the carrier. The pads may have a modular construction whereby pad portions are secured to support portions (72). The pads may also be releasably secured to the carrier (10). Various bearing pad constructions are contemplated.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PAD TYPE HYDRODYNAMIC THRUST BEARINGS HAVING A MODULAR CONSTRUCTIONBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to hydrodynamic bearings. In such bearings, a rotating object such as a shaft is supported by a stationary bearing pad via a pressurized fluid such as oil, air or water. Hydrody¬ namic bearings take advantage of the fact that when the rotating object moves, it does not slide along the top of the fluid. Instead the fluid in contact with the rotat¬ ing object adheres tightly to the rotating object, and motion is accompanied by slip or shear between the fluid particles through the entire height of the fluid film. Thus, if the rotating object and the contacting layer of fluid move at a velocity which is known, the velocity at intermediate heights of the fluid thickness decreases at a known rate until the fluid in contact with the station¬ ary bearing pad adheres to the bearing pad and is motion- less. When, by virtue of the load resulting from its support of the rotating object, the bearing pad is deflected at a small angle to the rotating member, the fluid will be drawn into the wedge-shaped opening, and sufficient pressure will be generated in the fluid film to support the load. This fact is utilized in thrust bearings for hydraulic turbines and propeller shafts of ships as well as in the conventional hydrodynamic journal bearing.Both thrust bearings and radial or journal bearings normally are characterized by shaft supporting pads spaced about an axis. The axis about which the pads are spaced generally corresponds to the longitudinal axis of the shaft to be supported for both thrust and journal bearings. This axis may be termed the major axis. To a large extent, the problems associated with prior art hydrodynamic bearings have been solved by the bearing construction described in U.S. Patent No. 4,676,668 to Ide, the present inventor. This bearing 

construction includes a plurality of discrete bearing pads press fit into a support portion. The bearing pads may be spaced from the support member by at least one leg which provides flexibility in three directions. To pro- vide flexibility in the plane of motion, the legs are angled inward to form a conical shape with the apex of the cone or point of intersection in front of the pad surface. Each leg has a section modulus that is rela¬ tively small in the direction of desired motion to permit compensation for misalignments. These teachings are applicable to both journal and thrust bearings.While the construction described in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim :
1. A modular hydrodynamic bearing adapted to support a rotating shaft, the bearing comprising: a car- rier member, the carrier member having a plurality of openings formed therein, the openings being spaced about a predetermined axis; a plurality of bearing pads secured in the openings of the carrier, each of the bearing pads comprising a pad portion having a pad surface and a sup- port portion supporting the pad portion; wherein each of the pad portions is formed in a sector shape and the sup- port portion extends perpendicularly from the pad por- tion, the support portion having a shape which conforms to the shape of the openings formed in the carrier such that the support portion can be secured in the carrier so as to space the pad portion from the carrier; and the support portion of each of the bearing pads being designed such that, under load, the bearing pads deflect to form a wedge with respect to the shaft.
2. The bearing of claim 1, wherein the support portion of each of the bearing pads has a oblong shape and the openings formed in the carrier have a complemen- tary oblong shape such that when the pad is secured in the openings formed in the carrier, the sector shaped pad is precisely positioned within the carrier.
3. The bearing of claim 1, further comprising a wear surface formed on the pad portion of each of the bearing pads, the wear surface being formed of a differ- ent material than the pad portion.
4. The bearing of claim 3, wherein the wear surface is a high performance resin with a high PV rating such as CELEDYNE™.
5. The bearing of claim 3, wherein the wear surface is a resin molded onto the pad portion. 


 6. The bearing of claim 1, wherein the sector shaped pad portion has two circumferential edges and at least one of these circumferential edges is tapered at its lower end.
7. A modular hydrodynamic bearing adapted to support a rotating shaft, the bearing comprising: a car- rier member, the carrier member having a plurality of openings formed therein, the openings having a predeter- mined shape and being spaced about a predetermined axis; a plurality of bearing pads secured in the openings of the carrier, each of the bearing pads comprising a circu- lar pad portion having a pad surface and a cylindrical support portion extending perpendicular from the pad por- tion and supporting the pad portion.
8. A bearing of claim 7, wherein the pad por- tion has a lower edge and the lower edge is continuously tapered.
9. The bearing of claim 7, wherein the pads further comprise a base on which the cylindrical support post is supported.
10. The bearing of claim 9, wherein a locator projection is provided on the base and carrier includes a projection receiving opening for receiving the projection so as to precisely position the bearing pad with respect to the support portion.
11. The bearing of claim 7, wherein the cylin- drical support post has a support center and the pad por- tion has a pad center and the support center of the cylindrical post is radially offset from the pad center.
12. The bearing of claim 11, wherein the sup- port center of the cylindrical post is circumferentially offset from the center of the pad portion. 


 13. The bearing of claim 7, further comprising a distinct wear surface formed on the pad surface of a different material than the pad portion.
14. The bearing of claim 13, wherein the wear surface is formed of a resin molded onto the pad portion.
15. The bearing of claim 1, wherein the bear- ing pad support portion is threadably connected to the carrier.
16. The bearing of claim 1, wherein the sup- port portion of each bearing pad is connected to the car- rier via a spline lock connection.
17. A modular hydrodynamic bearing adapted to support a rotating shaft, the bearing comprising: a car- rier member, the carrier member having a plurality of openings formed therein, the openings being spaced about a predetermined axis; a plurality of bearing pads secured in the openings of the carrier, each of the bearing pads comprising a pad portion having a pad surface and a sup- port portion having an axis which is perpendicular to the plane of the pad surface and the support portion support- ing the pad portion, and a base supporting the support portion; the support portion having a first end attached to the pad portion and a second end attached to the base and a central region between the first and second ends wherein a support portion is curved so as to flare out- ward toward the first and second ends so that the support portion is wider proximate the first and second ends than it is in the central region.
18. The bearing of claim 17, wherein the pad portion has a lower edge which is tapered to improve inlet bending. 


 19. The bearing of claim 17, wherein a sep- arate and distinct wear surface is formed on the pad surface of a different material than the pad portion.
20. The bearing of claim 19, wherein the wear surface is formed of a resin molded onto the pad portion.
21. The bearing of claim 17, wherein the bear- ing pad portion is circular and has a pad center and wherein the axis of the support portion is radially out- ward of the pad center such that the pads are supported for deflection of the radially innermost edge downward under load.
22. The bearing of claim 17, wherein a locat- ing projection is provided on one of the base portion of the pad and the support portion of the carrier and the other of the pad portion and the support portion includes a projection receiving opening for receiving the projec- tion so as to precisely position the non-circular bearing pad with respect to the support portion.
23. The bearing of claim 17, further compris- ing locating means for precisely orienting each of the non-symmetrical bearing pads in the carrier.
24. The bearing of claim 17 wherein the car- rier includes a plurality of bores adapted to receive the bearing pads and wherein a locating projection is formed in each bore and each bearing pad includes an opening for receiving the locating projection such that when the bearing pad is received a bore in the carrier, the locat- ing projection precisely orients the bearing pad with respect to the carrier. 


 25. A bearing for supporting a rotating shaft part, the bearing comprising: a unitary carrier, the carrier having an axis, the carrier further comprising a plurality of openings spaced about the axis; a plurality of bearing pads, each bearing pad being mounted in one of the openings formed in the car- rier, each bearing pad comprising a pad portion and a support portion, the support portion including a double curved section having a large portion at each end and a narrow center region, one large end being secured to the pad portion.
26. The bearing of Claim 25, wherein the car- rier is a flexible carrier formed with a plurality of openings in which the bearings pads are mounted are flex- ibly supported for deflection in a predetermined direc- tion. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
