<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630183</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DOUGH DIVIDING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A21C500	A21C502	A21C700	A21C701	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A21C	A21C	A21C	A21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A21C5	A21C5	A21C7	A21C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Dividing apparatus for dosing a plastically deformable mass, in particular dough, in equal quantities comprising a supply tank (1), a collection chamber (2) with a first piston (4) and a closing device movable therein, and a dividing chamber (2) movable along a vertical guide, placeable in the line of the collection chamber (5) and adjacent thereto and having a second piston (6) movable therein for successively drawing in mass out of the supply tank (1) into the collection chamber (2), closing off the collection chamber (2) from the supply tank, pressing mass out of the collection chamber (2) into the dividing chamber (5), enclosing mass in the dividing chamber and transferring this mass therefrom onto a transporting device (7), wherein the collection chamber comprises a movable cylinder jacket (3) fitting into this first space, the first piston (4) comprises a movable cylinder-shaped part fitting into this cylinder jacket, the dividing chamber (5) comprises a cylinder-shaped second space, and the second piston (6) comprises a cylinder-shaped part fitting into this second space.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLTKAMP HOLDING BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLTKAMP HOLDING B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLTKAMP LEONARDUS HENDRIKUS M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLTKAMP, LEONARDUS HENDRIKUS MARTINUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DOUGH DIVIDING APPARATUSThe invention relates to a dividing apparatus for dosin a plastically deformable mass, in particular dough, in equal quantities comprising a supply tank, a collection chamber with first piston and a closing device movable therein, a dividing chamber placeable in the line of the collection chamber and adjacent thereto and having a second piston movable therein fo successively drawing in mass out of the supply tank into the collection chamber, closing off the collection chamber from th supply tank, pressing mass out of the collection chamber into the dividing chamber, enclosing mass in the dividing chamber a transferring this mass therefrom onto a transporting device. Such a dividing apparatus is known.In the known dividing apparatus the collection chamber i a space of rectangular cross section under a supply hopper. Th collection chamber connects onto a dividing chamber likewise o rectangular cross section. The pistons movable in the collecti and dividing chambers, which hereinafter will be designated respectively as pressure piston and dividing piston, have a shape of rectangular cross section which fits into the relevan chamber and are usually manufactured from bronze. In the known dividing apparatus a flat plate movable in lengthwise directio is situated between the top of the piston in the collection chamber and the upper wall of the collection chamber. This fla plate, also called knife, functions as closing device between the supply hopper and the collection chamber and also function as upper surface of the collection chamber along which the top surface of the rectangular cylinder can be moved.There are a number of drawbacks associated with the kno dividing apparatus. In order to minimalize the chance of disturbances it is absolutely necessary that the usually heavy, normally cast iro or cast bronze components of the known dividing apparatus 

satisfy extremely strict requirements demanded inter alia for the dimensions thereof. These strict requirements make the machining of the components a very costly affair.Lubrication of moving parts in the dividing apparatus is an essential condition for the good operation thereof even when it is manufactured in accordance with the most stringent norms, but represents in practice a source of disturbances and delays', because, depending on the nature of the product, for instance dough, for processing in the apparatus, lubrication is subject to limitations. Cleaning of the known dividing machine is time-consuming. A high level of wear is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Dividing apparatus for dosing a plastically deformable mass, in particular dough, in equal quantities comprising a supply tank, a collection chamber with a first piston and a closing device movable therein, and a dividing chamber placeable in the line of the collection chamber and adjacent thereto and having a second piston movable therein for successively drawing in mass out of the supply tank into the collection chamber, closing off the collection chamber from the supply tank, pressing mass out of the collection chamber into the dividing chamber, enclosing mass in the dividing chamber and transferring this mass therefrom onto a transporting device, characterized in that the collection chamber comprises a cylinder-shaped first space, the closing device comprises a movable cylinder jacket fitting into this first space, the first piston comprises a movable cylinder-shaped part fitting into this cylinder jacket, the dividing chamber comprises a cylinder-shaped second space, and the second piston comprises a cylinder-shaped part fitting into this second space.
2. Dividing apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the dividing chamber is movable in operating conditions along a vertical guide between a first end position in which the dividing chamber is placed in the line of the collection chamber and a second end position in which the dividing chamber debouches above the transporting device. 3. Dividing apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the inner diameters of the movable cylinder jacket and of the cylinder-shaped second space are at least practically the same.
4. Dividing apparatus as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that the movable cylinder jacket is connectable to the cylinder-shaped second space of a dividing chamber placed 


 in the line of the collection chamber such that a combined, at least practically cylinder-shaped, space is created.
5. Dividing apparatus as claimed in any of the claims 1-4, characterized in that the wall of at least one cylinder- shaped space comprises a replaceable cylinder lining.
6. Dividing apparatus as claimed in any of the claims 1-5, characterized in that at least one piston consists at leas partly of plastic material.
7. Dividing apparatus as claimed in any of the claims 1-6, characterized in that at least one piston comprises a groove in peripheral direction for receiving a piston ring.
8. Dividing apparatus as claimed in any of the claims 1-7, characterized by a driving of the movable cylinder jacket derived from the drive of the first piston. 9. Dividing apparatus as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that during forward movement of the first piston the movable cylinder jacket is coupled under spring tension to a piston rod of this piston.
10. Dividing apparatus as claimed in any of the claims 1-7, characterized by a driving of the first piston derived fro the drive of the movable cylinder jacket.
11. Dividing apparatus as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that during forward movement of the movable cylinder jacket a piston rod of the first piston is coupled under spring tension to this cylinder jacket.
12. Dividing apparatus as claimed in any of the claims 1-7, characterized in that a piston rod of the first piston is coupled under spring tension to this piston during forward movement thereof. 13. Dividing apparatus as claimed in any of the claims 9,
11 or 12, characterized in that the spring tension is provided by a gas spring.
14. Dividing apparatus as claimed in claim 2, characterized by a drive coupled to the drive of the first piston and the drive of the movable cylinder jacket for the vertical movement of the dividing chamber. 


 15. Dividing apparatus as claimed in any of the foregoin claims, characterized in that the transporting device comprises a conveyor belt disposed along a side wall, the carrying surfac of which rises from this side wall at a determined angle in cross section perpendicularly of the transporting direction.
16. Dividing apparatus as claimed in claim 15, characterized in that the angle is adjustable.
17. Dividing apparatus as claimed in claim 15 or 16, characterized in that in a section perpendicularly of the transporting device the side wall has a concave form facing the conveyor belt.
***** 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
