<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651442</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Intelligent power device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27085	H01L2170	H01L2706	H01L27088	H01L2706	H01L218234	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor substrate (1) comprises a P-type 
silicon substrate (2) and an N-type epitaxial silicon 

layer (3) formed on the substrate (2). The N-type 
epitaxial silicon layer (3) is isolatedly separated into 

first and second N-type island regions (5, 6) by means 
of a P-type silicon region (4) which extends from the 

major surface (8) of the layer (3) to the substrate (2). 
A power-related element (7) is formed in the first 

N-type region (5). The current path (A) of the power-related 
element (7) extends in the first N-type island 

region (5) and in the substrate (2), i.e., reaches a 
deep portion of the substrate (1) from the major surface 

(8). The logic-related element (9) is formed in the 
second N-type island region (6). The current path (B) 

of the element (9) extends only in the second N-type 
island region (6), i.e., reaches a shallow portion of 

the substrate (1) from the major surface (8). A 
carrier-recombination-center layer (10) is formed in a 

deep portion of the substrate (1), and overlaps the 
current path (A) of the power-related element (7). The 

layer (10) does not influence the current path (B) of 
the logic-related element (9) which extends only in a 

shallow portion of the substrate (1). 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a semiconductor
integrated circuit device in which elements having
different switching speeds are integrated in a single
chip.A discrete semiconductor device for high power,
such as a power MOS transistor or an IGBT, employs a
technique for controlling the life time of carriers so
as to increase the switching speed. This technique is
generally called "life time control". Specifically, the
life time control is to form a multiplicity of recombination
centers of carriers in a substrate by diffusing
heavy metal into the substrate, thereby increasing the
rate of extinction of excessive minority carriers and
hence the switching speed of the device. A technique
for controlling the life time of carriers are described,
for example, in B. J. Baliga et al. IEEE Trans. Electron
Devices, vol. ED-24, No. 6 pp. 685 (1977). Since this
technique enables the recombination centers of carriers
to be formed substantially uniform in the substrate, all
elements can have short carrier life time.Although the life time control technique can
increase the switching speed, it inevitably reduces the
current capacity. This is because the rate of
extinction of majority carriers is increased as a result
of the forming of the recombination centers of carriers
in the substrate. Further, damage (crystal defect) due 
to life time control reduces the current amplification
factor of the device, or changes the threshold voltage
of the device.Since, as described above, there is a trade-off
relationship between the increase of switching speed and
the security of current capacity, it is difficult for
the conventional life time control technique to
reconcile them.In the field of semiconductor integrated circuit
devices, there is a tendency to try to integrate, in a
single chip, an element for high power and an element
constituting a circuit for driving or controlling the
element for high power. Such an integrated circuit
device is called an "IPD (Intelligent Power Device)",
which is described, for example, in R. S. Wrathall et
al. IEEE Power Electronics Specialists Conference,
pp. 229-233 (1985) and Y. Ohata et al. IEEE Custom
Integraed Circuit Conference, pp. 443-446 (1987).In the semiconductor integrated circuit device of
this type, each chip has both an element for increasing
the switching speed, i.e., a power-related element (or
power system element), and an element from which the
influence of the life time control should be prevented
(i.e., an element whose current amplification factor and
threshold voltage should
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor integrated circuit device comprising:

a semiconductor substrate (1);
a fast switching lateral first device (7), formed in
the semiconductor substrate and having a first current path

(A) in a first portion of the semiconductor substrate (1);
a second device (9) provided to drive or control said
first device (7) and formed in the semiconductor substrate

(1) so as to be separated from said first device (7) and
having a second current path (B) in a second portion of the

semiconductor substrate (1), said second portion being
shallower than said first portion; and
a carrier recombination-center layer (10) formed in
said first portion of said semiconductor substrate (1);

   wherein

said semiconductor substrate (1) including a first
semiconductor layer (2) of a first conductivity type, a

second semiconductor layer (3) of a second conductivity
type formed on said first semiconductor layer (2), and an

isolating region (4; 12; 154) for providing in said second
semiconductor layer (3) a first island region (5) and a

second island region (6) electrically isolated and
separated from each other;
said first device (7) having said first current path
(A) extending in said first island region (5) and said

first semiconductor layer (2);
said second device (9) having said second current path
(B) extending in said second island region (6); and
said carrier recombination-center layer (10) being
formed in said first semiconductor layer (2) wherein said 

first current path (A) extends laterally through said
carrier recombination layer (10).
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according
to claim 1, wherein said isolating region (4) is a first-conductivity

type semiconductor region which extends from a
major surface (8) of said semiconductor layer (3) to said

first semiconductor layer (2).
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according
to claim 1, wherein said isolating region (12) is a

dielectric region which extends from a major surface (8) of
said semiconductor layer (3) to said first semiconductor

layer (2).
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according
to claim 1, wherein


said semiconductor substrate (1) further includes a
third semiconductor layer (151) formed on a back surface of

said first semiconductor layer (2), said back surface being
opposite to a front surface on which said second

semiconductor layer (3) is formed, with an insulating film
(152) interposed between said first layer (2) and said

third layer (151); and
said isolating region (154) is an insulating layer
which extends from a major surface (8) of said second

semiconductor layer (3) to said insulating film (152).
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according
to any of the preceding claims, wherein said carrier-recombination

center (10) is further formed in said first
semiconductor layer (2) in said second portion of the

semiconductor substrate (1).
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according
to any of the preceding claims, wherein said carrier-recombination

center (10) is a crystal defect layer. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according
to any of the preceding claims, wherein said first element

(7) is a power-related element, and said second element (9)
is a logic-related element.
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according
to claim 7, wherein said first element (7) as a power-related

element is selected from a group consisting of a
lateral double-diffusion MOSFET, a lateral insulated-gate

bipolar transistor and a diode.
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according
to claim 7, wherein said second element (9) as a logic-related

element is selected from a group consisting of a
vertical NPN bipolar transistor, a lateral PNP bipolar

transistor, a P-channel MOSFET and an N-channel MOSFET.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
