<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644823</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POLYMERIC ARTICLES AND MATERIALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4706	B29C4706	B29C4712	B29C4712	B29C4900	B29C4900	B29K2900	B29L900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29K	B29L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C49	B29C49	B29K29	B29L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Improvements in the manufacture of multi-layer organic polymer composites are described, particularly applicable to composites including adjacent layers of a relatively water-soluble polymer (e.g. partially hydrolysed polyvinyl alcohol) and a relatively water-insoluble polymer (e.g. fully hydrolysed polyvinyl alcohol). The extruded layers are brought together within the die housing or by nipping means external to the die, or the relatively water-insoluble layer may be coated onto the relatively water-soluble layer. Specific designs of die are claimed, as are specific extrudable compositions and apparatus for conveying the same to the dies. The invention makes available for the first time a range of articles in which plastic parts are water-compatible in normal use but are completely degradable on contact with water during disposal, such as WC-disposable sanitary articles and water-degradable rigid containers for oil and petrol.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TECH GROUP INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TECHNOLOGY GROUP INTER-CORPORATE LICENSING LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GONINAN KEVIN MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR PAUL ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GONINAN, KEVIN MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, PAUL ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 POLYMERIC ARTICLES AND MATERIALSField of the InventionThis invention relates to polymeric materials and articles made therefrom, and to methods and apparatus for 5 forming polymeric articles and materials, more particularly polymeric articles and materials which can readily be disposed of when no longer required.BackgroundPolyvinyl acetate is a water-insoluble polymer which is10 obtained by polymerization of vinyl acetate. This polymer is used for the production of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) by hydrolysis or alcoholysis to remove the acetyl groups from polyvinyl acetate. This removal of acetyl groups may be carried to partial completion so as to give15 a product which is a copolymer of vinyl alcohol and vinyl acetate. If vinyl alcohol predominates, but there is still a substantial quantity of vinyl acetate present, such a copolymer is soluble in cold water and is frequently referred to as "partially hydrolysed"20 polyvinyl alcohol. The residual vinyl acetate content is typically about 11 wt% corresponding to about 12 mol%. If the reaction is taken further, close to completion, the crystallinity of the polyvinyl alcohol increases and the solubility in cold water decreases very markedly.25 Material of this type is referred to as "fully hydrolysed" polyvinyl alcohol. Its contents of residual vinyl acetate is typically no greater than 3 mol%.* WO 92/01556 (the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference) describes certain degradable » 30 articles, typically in sheet form, in which a water- soluble PVA substrate is protected on its surface against contact with water while the article is in use by means of a polymeric composite structure. However, such structures have hitherto been relatively difficult toSUBSTITUTESHEET 

form. In particular^ we have found that the particular casting/moulding and film-blowing coextrusion processes described and claimed in WO 92/01556 do not provide a satisfactory product.It is an aim of the present invention to provide improvements in the formation of polymeric materials such as those of WO 92/01556.The invention is based on our surprising finding that a polymeric material of the type described in WO 92/01556 can be prepared with substantial and unexpected advantages in terms of efficiency, speed and cost, by extruding the layers through certain particular die arrangements or by a specific multistep forming process. It is to be noted that "cast coextrusion" mentioned herein does not in any way resemble the non-extrusion casting/moulding processes described in WO
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A process for preparing a composite polymeric article or polymeric material comprising a first organic polymer layer which is water-soluble at a give temperature and a second organic polymer layer located adjacent to the first polymer, the second polymer being substantially less soluble than the first polymer, or insoluble, in water at the same given temperature, comprising: a blown-film or cast coextrusion process in which the polymers are extruded through a die assembly in such a way that the polymers are discharged from the die assembly as a composite polymeric material including the polymer layers; or an extrusion/lamination process in which the polymers are extruded through die apertures in such a way that the polymers are discharged as separate polymeric layers and are subsequently passed together between nipping means under conditions of temperature and nip pressure to cause the layers to laminate together to orm a composite polymeric material including the polymer layers; or a forming and coating process in which the first polymer layer is formed by extrusion or blow- moulding and the second polymer layer subsequently applied as a coating.
2. A process according to claim 1 for preparing a composite polymeric article or material using blown-film extrusion, wherein the blown-film die comprises a first inlet port for receiving one of the polymers under pressure; a second inlet port for receiving the other of the polymers under pressure; and a pair of mandrel members, the first mandrel member being hollow along its length to encircle the second mandrel member and the arrangement being such that a first annular conduit is defined around the outer circumference of the first mandrel member, for conveying the said one of the organic polymers over the outer surface of the first mandrel member, and a second annular conduit is defined around the outer circumference of the second mandrel member, for 


conveying the said other of the organic polymers over the outer surface of the second mandrel member, the arrangement further including a polymer guide channel associated with one or each of the conduits, for conveying polymer from the respective inlet port to the respective conduit around substantially all of the outer circumference of the respective mandrel member.
3. A process according to claim 2, wherein a guide channel is associated with each of the conduits of the die assembly.
4. A process according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the or each guide channel provides two paths for the polymer entering through the respective inlet ports namely, a first path to convey the polymer in one direction around the respective mandrel and a second path to convey the polymer in the other direction around the mandrel.
5. A process according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein each guide channel is cut into the outer surface of the mandrel.
6. A process according to claim 5, wherein the width of each guide channel tapers inwards away from the inlet port.
7. A process according to claim 1 for preparing a composite polymeric article or material by cast coextrusion or cast extrusion of separate layers and subsequent nip lamination, wherein the cast die or dies comprise(s) a first inlet port for receiving one of the polymers under pressure; a second inlet port for receiving the other of the polymers under pressure; and respective elongate slots in the die(s) through which each layer is extruded.
8. A process according to claim 7, wherein at least one of the inlet ports feeds into an entry channel which then 


widens into a manifold channel to spread the polymer across the mouth of a slot die.
9. A process according to any one of the preceding claims for preparing a composite polymeric article or material by extrusion of separate layers and subsequent nip lamination, wherein the nip lamination is performed between nip rollers.
10. A process according to claim 1 for preparing a composite polymeric article or material by an extrusion or blow-moulding process for forming the first polymer layer and subsequent application of the second polymer layer as a coating, wherein the coating is effected by spraying.
11. A modification of the process according to claim 1 for preparing a composite article or material by an extrusion or blow-moulding process for forming the first polymer layer and subsequent coating, wherein the second polymer coating is replaced by the dry residue of a liquid ink which dissolves more slowly than the first polymer (or not at all) at the given temperature.
12. A process according to claim 11, wherein the ink is a flexographic alcohol-based hydrocarbon-free liquid ink.
13. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first polymer is extruded from a plasticised composition thereof comprising from about 1 to 60 parts of plasticiser per 100 parts of polymer; up to about 30 parts of water per 100 parts of polymer; and up to about 5 parts of a slip agent per 100 parts of polymer.
14. A process according to any one of the preceding claims other than 11 or 12, wherein the second polymer is extruded from a plasticised composition thereof comprising from about 1 to 80 parts of plasticiser per 



100 parts of polymer; up to about 30 parts of water per 100 parts of polymer; and up to about 5 parts of a slip agent per 100 parts of polymer.
15. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first, water-soluble, polymer is partially hydrolysed polyvinyl alcohol and the second, relatively water-insoluble, polymer (where present) is fully hydrolysed polyvinyl alcohol.
16. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or each polymer composition is supplied to the die(s) via a screw extruder having two or more compression zones in the extruder barrel, vented between zones for the release of steam and the barrel being maintained at a controlled temperature or series of temperatures along its length.
17. A polymeric article or polymericmaterial comprising an organic polymer which is water-soluble at a given temperature, wherein the surface of the article or material is wholly or partially coated with an ink which dissolves more slowly or not at all in water at the same given temperature to form a water-resistant barrier coating.
18. An article or material according to claim 17, wherein the given temperature is about room temperature (about 20°C).
19. An article or material according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the ink coating extends over all of that portion of the surface that is expected or intended to become exposed to water during normal use.
20. An article or material according to any one of claims M to (9, wherein the organic polymer is partially hydrolysed polyvinyl alcohol. 


21. An article or material according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the ink coating is the dry residue of a flexographic alcohol-based hydrocarbon-free liquid ink.
22. A method of forming a polymeric article or material as defined in claim 17, wherein there is applied to the organic polymer a whole or partial surface coating of a liquid ink and the said coating is subsequently allowed to dry to form a water-resistant ink barrier coating which dissolves more slowly than the polymer, or not at all, in water at the given temperature.
23. A method according to claim 22, wherein the liquid ink is applied initially to a blank roller of a conventional film printing press and then a film of the liquid ink is rolled onto a film of the organic polymer.
24. A die assembly for coextruding a composite polymeric article or material including first and second organic polymer layers adjacent to one another, the die assembly comprising: an elongate housing having a first inlet port for receiving one of the polymers under pressure, a second inlet port for receiving the other of the polymers under pressure and an outlet port downstream of the inlet ports for discharging the composite polymeric material; and a pair of mandrel members provided within the housing, the first mandrel member being hollow along its length to encircle the second mandrel member and the arrangement being such that a first annular conduit is defined around the outer circumference of the first mandrel member, for conveying the one organic polymer over the outer surface of the first mandrel member towards the housing outlet port, and a second annular conduit is defined around the outer circumference of the second mandrel member, for conveying the other organic polymer over the outer surface of the second mandrel member towards the housing outlet port, the first and second conduits terminating together in such a way that 


the two polymers are discharged from the housing outlet port as a composite polymeric material including polymer layers; the arrangement further including a polymer guide channel associated with one or each of the conduits and preferably of relatively larger width than the respective conduit, for conveying polymer from the respective housing inlet port to the respective conduit around substantially all of the outer circumference of the respective mandrel member.
25. A die assembly for coextruding a composite polymeric article or material including first and second organic polymer layers adjacent to one another, the die assembly comprising: a housing having a first inlet port for receiving one of the polymers under pressure, a second inlet port for receiving the other of the polymers under pressure and an outlet port downstream of the inlet ports for discharging the composite polymeric material; die means defining a first elongate slot aperture and first manifold channel means being provided to connect the first inlet port to said first slot aperture, the manifold channel means widening towards the slot aperture and being arranged to spread the polymer across the mouth of the slot aperture; die means defining a second elongate slot aperture and second manifold channel means being provided to connect the second inlet port to said second slot aperture, the manifold channel means widening towards the slot aperture and being arranged to spread the polymer across the mouth of the slot aperture; the first and second slot apertures terminating together in such a way that the two polymers are discharged from the housing outlet port as a composite polymeric material including polymer layers.
26. An apparatus for delivering an extrudable plasticised composition of an organic polymer to an extrusion die in a process for forming a composite polymeric article or material, the apparatus comprising a screw extruder having two or more compression zones in 


the extruder barrel and being vented between some or all zones, and temperature control means whereby the barrel is capable of being maintained at a controlled temperature or series of temperatures along its length.
27. An apparatus according to claim 26, wherein the die is a coextrusion die as claimed in claim 24 or claim 25.
28. An apparatus according to claim 26 or 27, wherein the screw extruder is adapted to deliver composition under a compression ratio of from 1.1:1 to 5.6:1.
29. An apparatus according to claim 26 or 27, wherein the screw extruder is adapted to deliver composition under a compression ratio of from 1.5:1 to 6:1.
30. An apparatus according to any one of claims 26 to
29, wherein the temperature control means are arranged so that the temperature of each successive third of a barrel increases towards the die.
31. An apparatus according to any one of claims 26 to 29, wherein the temperature control means are arranged so that the temperature of each successive third of a barrel remains substantially constant or decreases slightly towards the die.
32. A plasticised composition of partially hydrolysed polyvinyl alcohol, comprising from about 1 to 60 parts of plasticiser per 100 parts of polymer; up to about 30 parts of water per 100 parts of polymer; and up to about 5 parts of a slip agent per 100 parts of polymer.
33. A plasticised composition of fully hydrolysed polyvinyl alcohol, comprising from about 1 to 80 parts of plasticiser per 100 parts of polymer; up to about 30 parts of water per 100 parts of polymer; and up to about 5 parts of a slip agent per 100 parts of polymer. 


34. An article or material formed by a process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16, 22 and 23.
35. An article or material according to claim 27 in sheet form.
36. An article or material according to claim 27 in the form of a container.
37. A WC-disposable sanitary product wherein substantially all plastic parts are made from a sheet according to claim 35, the water-soluble layer being outermost in normal use to avoid contact with water until disposal is required.
38. A container for non-aqueous materials (e.g. oil or petrol), wherein substantially all of the container is made from a polymeric material according to claim 36, the water-soluble layer being innermost in normal use to avoid contact with water until disposal is required.
39. A WC-disposable sanitary product comprising an absorbent portion and a plastic barrier backing portion, wherein substantially all plastic parts are completely water-degradable on WC-disposal.
40. A degradable oil/petrol container which completely degrades but only upon introduction of water to the interior of the container. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
