<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637412</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR TRANSMISSION AND/OR SYNCHRONIZATION OF AT LEAST ONE COMPONENT OF A MULTIPLEX SIGNAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04H2067	H04H2034	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04H	H04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04H20	H04H20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the transmission and/or synchronization of at 
least one analog component of a multiplex signal comprising at 

least one digital data channel, characterized in that it comprises 
a step of inserting at the transmission an additional 

channel capable of comprising digital data having a given bit 
rate, the said additional channel comprising patterns, at least 

some of which comprise a synchronization signal (SYN) allowing 
at least one analog component as well as the said digital data 

to be brought into phase. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that it 
comprises a step of synchronizing at the reception, on the one 

hand, at least one said analog component, and on the other hand, 
the digital data of the additional channel, on the basis of the 

said synchronization signal (SYN). 
A method according to one of claims 1 or 2, characterized 
in that the digital data are those of digitized audio channels 

of a frequency-modulated transmission FM, the digital data of 
the additional channel being those of an FM multiplex. 
A method according to claim 3, characterized in that the 
digital data of the additional channel are RDS data. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that the digital data of the additional channel are 

transmitted in an NRZ-M mode, the precoding being such that the 
phase of the NRZ signal is changed each time the value of the 

RDS data to be transmitted is equal to 1, which allows the phase 
ambiguity at the reception to be eliminated. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that the patterns of the additional channel have a 

duration that is a multiple of the period of several analog components, 
as well as of the bit rate of the digital data.  

 
A method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that at least one of the said analog components is a 

characteristic frequency signal of a transmission, and in that 
the step of the synchronization at the reception comprises a 

step of generating the said characteristic frequency signal by 
means of a wave-shape generator (WG), synchronized on the basis 

of the synchronization signal (SYN). 
A method according to claim 7, characterized in that the 
said wave-shape generator (WG) is digital and comprises a first 

means for the cyclic reading of a (PROM) memory of wave shapes, 
and in that the said synchronization of the wave shape generator 

(WG) lies in setting the first cyclic reading means to a given 
state. 
A method according to one of claims 1 to 8, characterized 
in that it comprises a step of decoding at least some of the 

said digital data for addressing sectors of a second wave shape 
memory (PROM), it being possible for each sector to be scanned 

by being addressed by a second cyclic reading means. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that the said patterns form a part of blocks starting 

with the said synchronization signal (SYN). 
A method according to claim 10, characterized in that it 
comprises a step of storing the patterns of each block in a sequential 

displacement memory (FIFO), the synchronization signal 
of the (N + p)th block (with p being an integer greater than, or 

equal to 1) being used for actuating the setting of a cyclic 
counter to a specified count, the said specified count producing 

a read signal of the Nth block contained in the sequential displacement 
memory (FIFO). 
A method according to one of claims 1 to 9, characterized 
in that the said patterns are strings.  

 
A method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that the digital data of the additional channel are 

inserted in the form of data blocks comprising a number of bits 
different from the nominal number of bits of an information 

block of the additional channel, and that it comprises a step of 
using at the reception, a sequential displacement memory (FIFO) 

wherein the data packets are joined end to end so as to reconstitute 
the continuity of the information blocks. 
A method according to claim 13, characterized in that for 
information blocks of 104 RDS bits, the duration of the data 

blocks is equal to n x 16 ms (with n being an integer), that is 

to say, n x 19 RDS bits. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that the digital data of the additional channel are 

organized in the form of data blocks, and in that it comprises 
an address signal (ADR) associated with the said synchronization 

signal (SYN), the address signal (ADR) constituting an address 
pointer for reading a storage element (MEM) of a digital information 

block of the additional channel. 
A method according to claim 15, characterized in that the 
duration of a data block of the additional channel does not entirely 

correspond to the duration of a digital information block 
of the additional channel, the address signal (ADR) being such 

that it makes it possible to make up the difference due to the 
incomplete correspondence between the said durations. 
A method according to claim 16, characterized in that the 
duration of the data blocks of the additional channel is variable 

from one block to another. 
A method according to one of claims 16 or 17, characterized 
in that the additional channel has a flow rate permitting the 

transmission of digital RDS information blocks of the additional 
channel.  

 
A use of the method according to one of the preceding 
claims in a synchronous network comprising a network head transmitter 

(EM) and a plurality of retransmitters (REM), characterized 
in that the said additional channel is generated in the 

network head in such a way that at least one analog component is 
synchronized in the same manner in all the retransmitters (REM). 
A use according to 19, characterized in that the digital 
data of the additional channel are inserted down the line from 

the network head transmitter. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
