<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627122</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LASER GENERATED I.C. PATTERN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F7004	G03F7004	G03F720	G03F720	G03F740	G03F740	H01L2102	H01L2120	H01L21268	H01L213065	H01L21311	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved method of patterning layers on a semiconductor element by use of laser processing. A thin film of amorphous silicon (12) is deposited on a fused quartz window (10). Selected regions of the amorphous silicon are crystallized by a laser beam (20) focused through the quartz window. Non-crystallized silicon is removed forming an opaque layer of crystallized silicon in the desired pattern (14). The quartz window (10) is used as a window to a reactive gas containment chamber (30) containing semiconductor devices (40) to be patterned. By irradiating the chamber with ultraviolet light (24) through the patterned quartz window, the semiconductor element is etched in the regions exposed to the light.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LASA IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LASA INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOOLEY DANIEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESLEA ARTHUR R JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOOLEY, DANIEL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESLEA, ARTHUR, R., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LASER GENERATED I.C. PATTERNThis invention relates to an improved method of patterning layers on a semiconductor element using laser processing. Various techniques for direct writing on semiconductor materials have been developed wherein, for example, an electron beam "writes" a pattern in photoresist on an integrated circuit or other semiconductor element. Some of these prior direct write techniques have also included the use of laser beams. Laser patterning is inherently a linear process as opposed to bulk or batch processing as conventionally used in mass produced integrated circuits. Because time required for the direct write process of patterning with a laser beam is directly proportional to the length of the pattern drawn, the process is slow and limited in the number of devices that can be cost effectively processed. It would, however, be cost effective to use a laser technique to pattern a mask which can be used to replicate quickly and efficiently the pattern onto a semiconductor element.In conventional technology, a pattern is transferred to a semiconductor substrate by the use of a photoresist. The number of photo asking steps to make a completed integrated circuit device is typically in the range of from 12 to 20 steps. Each photomasking step requires several steps of processing of the photoresist including coating, exposure, development and various temperature bake steps followed by an etching step to transfer into the semiconductor substrate the desired pattern. Each mask step has yield losses due to dust particles in the photoresist or between the mask and 

the photoresist layer. Other yield losses are due to chemical defects within the photoresist, alpha particle defects occurring in the photoresist, and photoresist adhesion problems at any step within the photomasking process.Accordingly, there is a need in the art for an improved method of patterning semiconductor materials on an integrated circuit. It is desirable that such a process be capable of being performed quickly and capable of economically processing a low volume of circuits. It, therefore, is an object of this invention to provide such an improved method.SHORT STATEMENT OF THE INVENTION The present invention is an improved method of forming integrated circuit patterns on semiconductor material. In accordance with the invention, a thin layer, for example, 2,000 of amorphous silicon is blanket deposited over the surface of a quartz or other transparent substrate. A focused laser beam with sufficient power having a wavelength
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS :
1. A method of improving the throughput of a laser generated integrated circuit pattern comprising the steps of: depositing a changeable layer on a fused quartz window; changing selected regions of said changeable layer to form a pattern of activated regions; etching away the areas of said changeable layer not activated in said changing step; depositing a conductive material on said activated regions; and using the fused quartz window and said conductive material deposited thereon as a mask for etching semiconductor elements.
2. A method of improving the throughput of a laser generated integrated circuit pattern comprising the steps of: depositing an amorphous silicon layer on a fused quartz window; changing selected regions of said amorphous silicon layer to form a pattern of activated regions; etching away the areas of said amorphous silicon layer which are not activated; depositing a conductive material on said activated regions; and using the fused quartz window and said conductive material deposited thereon as a mask for etching semiconductor elements. 


 3. A method of improving the throughput of a laser generated integrated circuit pattern comprising the steps of: depositing an amorphous silicon layer on a quartz window; activating selected regions of said amorphous silicon layer to form a pattern of activated regions; etching the areas of said amorphous silicon layer not activated; and using the quartz window with the activated amorphous silicon layer thereon as a mask for etching semiconductor elements.
4. A method of improving the throughput of a laser generated integrated circuit pattern comprising the steps of: depositing an amorphous silicon layer on a fused quartz window; selectively heating regions of said amorphous silicon to form a pattern of recrystallized silicon; etching the areas of said amorphous silicon layer not recrystallized; depositing a conductive material on said recrystallized silicon regions; and using the fused quartz window and conductive material deposited thereon as a mask for etching semiconductor elements.
5. A method of improving the throughput of a laser generated integrated circuit pattern comprising the steps of: 


 depositing an amorphous silicon layer on a quartz window; selectively heating regions of said amorphous silicon to form a pattern of crystallized silicon; etching the areas of said amorphous silicon layer not crystallized; and using the quartz window with the activated amorphous silicon layer thereon as a mask for etching semiconductor elements.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein said focused laser beam has a wavelength of about 5,145 A.
7. The method of claim 5 wherein the non-crystallized silicon is etched in a plasma process.
8. A method of improving the throughput of a laser generated integrated circuit pattern comprising the steps of: depositing an amorphous silicon layer on a fused quartz window; selectively heating regions of said amorphous silicon to form a pattern of recrystallized silicon; etching the area of said amorphous silicon layer not recrystallized; heating said recrystallized amorphous silicon regions in the presence of WF
g
 gas to deposit tungsten on said recrystallized amorphous silicon regions; and 


 using the fused quartz window with the tungsten deposited thereon as a mask for etching semiconductor elements.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the plasma etchant gas is sulfur hexafluoride.
10. A mask formed by the steps of: depositing a changeable layer on a fused quartz window; changing selected regions of said changeable layer to form a pattern of activated regions; etching the areas of said changeable layer not activated; depositing a conductive material on said activated regions; and using the fused quartz window and conductive material deposited thereon as a mask for etching semiconductor elements.
11. The method of claim 6 including the step of heating said crystallized silicon in the presence of WF- gas to deposit tungsten on said crystallized silicon regions.
12. A method of improving the throughput of a laser generated integrated pattern comprising the steps of: depositing a layer of amorphous silicon on a semiconductor element; raster scanning the semiconductor element with an Argon laser beam through a patterned fused 


quartz window to crystallize the silicon in the form of the pattern; etching the areas of said amorphous silicon layer not crystallized; and transferring the pattern on the fused quartz window into the semiconductor element.
13. A mask formed by the steps of: depositing a catalytic layer on a transparent window; activating selected regions of said catalytic layer to form a pattern of activated regions; etching the areas of said catalytic layer not activated; and using the patterned transparent window as a mask for etching semiconductor elements.
14. The mask of claim 13 including the step of depositing a conductive material on said activated regions of the catalytic layer after the etching of the non-activated areas of the catalytic layer.
15. The mask of claim 13 wherein the catalytic layer is an amorphous silicon layer having a thickness range of 1,000 to 2,000 A.
16. The mask of claim 13 wherein the non- activated layer of amorphous silicon is etched by a plasma process in a plasma halogenated gas atmosphere. 


 17. The mask of claim 13 wherein the non- activated layer of amorphous silicon is etched by a plasma process in a sulfur hexafluoride gas atmosphere.
18. The mask of claim 13 wherein the window material is quartz.
19. A method as in claim 1 wherein said conductive material is tungsten.
20. A method as in claim 2 wherein said conductive material is tungsten.
21. A method as in claim 3 wherein said conductive material is tungsten.
22. A method as in claim 4 wherein said conductive material is tungsten.
23. A method as in claim 10 wherein said conductive material is tungsten. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
