<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659152</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COLLAPSIBLE BAG WITH EVACUATION PASSAGEWAY AND METHOD FOR MAKING THE SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31B1900	B31B1990	B31B3900	B31B3900	B65D	B65D7706	B65D7706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31B	B31B	B31B	B31B	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31B19	B31B19	B31B39	B31B39	B65D	B65D77	B65D77	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A collapsible bag (10) for use in containing and dispensing a liquid, such as in a bag-in-box arrangement, and a method for making the bag. Prior to sealing together two bag walls (20, 22) to form the bag, a one-piece spout (26) and evacuation strip unit (24) is attached to the outside surface of one bag wall and one or more openings (40) are provided through the bag wall in liquid communication with a plurality of liquid channels (34) in the strip. The two bag walls (20, 22) are then sealed together to form the bag and the evacuation strip (24) provides liquid passageways for the liquid in the bag to flow to the spout (26) to achieve complete withdrawal of the liquid from the bag as the bag collapses.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COCA COLA CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REBHOLZ JAMES H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUTTER CHRISTOPHER C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REBHOLZ, JAMES, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUTTER, CHRISTOPHER, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COLLAPSIBLE BAG WITH EVACUATION PASSAGEWAY AND METHOD FOR MAKING THE SAMEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to collapsible bags, of the type used in bag-in-box, for containing and dispensing liquids, such as post-mix, soft drink syrups, and to a method for making such bags. More particularly, this invention relates to such bags having syrup evacuation passageways accessible to the syrup to achieve complete withdrawal of the syrup from the bag as the bag collapses and regardless of how the bag and the bag spout are oriented.Bags for bag-in-box containers are well-known (see for example, U.S. Patents 4,601,410; 4,137,930; 4,138,036; 4,286,636; 3,171,571; and 2,859,899) and some include inserts placed inside of the bag to provide a passageway for complete withdrawal of the liquid from the bag as the bag collapses. Some of these inserts, such as dip tubes, are inserted into the bag after the bag is made and after it is filled with liquid and have the disadvantage of the added time and expense to carry out this separate, additional task. To avoid this disadvantage, inserts were subsequently made part of the bag. Such inserts are placed between the bag walls and attached to the spout before the bag walls are joined to form the bag. However, these bags are subject to the disadvantages of the added time, expense and difficulty of positioning these inserts between the bag walls and also of then securing the inserts to the spout. In addition, some of these inserts, being adjacent or under the spout can interfere with or slow down the filling process. Another disadvantage is the possibility of these inserts become detached from the spout. U.S. Patent 4,893,731 overcomes these disadvantages by placing an insert outside of the bag adjacent to the spout and along the bag wall and providing syrup evacuation 

passageways by forming the bag wall up into channels in the insert. However, when the bag wall is moved up into the insert channels, wrinkles occur in the bag wall which can cause problems in providing a seal at the periphery of the bag walls.It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved bag and method for making the bag that overcomes many of the disadvantages in the prior art.It is another object of this invention to provide such a bag with a liquid evacuation passageway without the necessity of a separate step to insert or attach it.It is a still further object of this invention to provide a bag and method for making the bag which provides a passageway in liquid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
e claim:
l. A collapsible bag for use in containing and dispensing a liquid comprising:
(a) a liquid tight bag having a flexible bag wall having a discharge opening therethrough and enclosing a liquid chamber;
(b) a one-piece spout and elongated evacuation strip unit sealed to an outside surface of said bag wall;
(c) said spout and strip unit including a spout overlying said discharge opening and having an axial spout opening extending axially therethrough in liquid communication with said chamber through said discharge opening and said spout having a sidewall opening into said axial spout opening, and said strip extending away from said spout from a proximal end thereof in contact with said spout to a distal end remote from said spout, said strip including an elongated liquid channel, said strip contacting said spout adjacent said sidewall opening and said channel being in liquid communication with said spout opening through said sidewall opening, said spout and strip unit including a flat peripheral sealing flange sealed to said outside surface of said bag; and
(d) said bag wall having at least one opening therethrough underlying said channel providing liquid communication between said liquid chamber and said channel, said channel and said at least one opening providing a liquid passageway from inside of said bag to said spout opening, said channel and said opening having dimensions such that as said bag wall collapses during dispensing of 


 liquid from the bag, the bag wall cannot collapse into and block said passageway, such that said passageway remains open to achieve substantially complete withdrawal of liquid from said bag as said bag collapses.
2. The bag as recited in claim 1 wherein said evacuation strip includes a plurality of said elongated channels providing a plurality of said passageways.
3. The bag as recited in claim 2 wherein each of said channels have a constant cross-sectional area throughout their length.
4. The bag as recited in claim 2 wherein all of said channels extend substantially the entire length of said evacuation strip.
5. The bag as recited in claim 2 wherein said spout includes an openwork structure of spider arms at its lower end such that the bag wall opposite to said spout cannot collapse into and seal off said spout opening.
6. The bag as recited in claim 2 wherein said bag wall includes a pair of bag walls sealed at their peripheries.
7. The bag as recited in claim 2 wherein said strip is flexible and straight.
8. The bag as recited in claim 2 wherein said spout is located adjacent to one edge of said bag. 


 9. The bag as recited in claim 2 wherein said channels terminate short of a distal end of said strip to eliminate any sharp edges.
10. The bag as recited in claim 2 wherein said spout and strip unit is heat sealed to said bag wall.
11. The bag as recited in claim 2 wherein said spout and strip unit is made of linear low density polyethylene.
12. A method for making a collapsible bag for use in containing and dispensing a liquid comprising the steps of:
(a) sealing a pair of bag walls together to form a collapsible bag with a liquid tight, flexible, bag wall enclosing a liquid chamber;
(b) prior to said sealing step, forming a discharge opening through one of said bag walls and attaching a one-piece spout and elongated evacuation strip unit to an outside surface of said one of said bag walls with said spout having a spout opening extending axially therethrough in liquid communication with said liquid chamber through said discharge opening, said evacuation strip extending from a proximal end thereof in contact with said spout to a distal end thereof remote from said spout, said strip including an elongated channel; and
(c) forming at least one opening through said one of said bag walls underlying said channel to provide a liquid communication passageway between said liquid chamber and said spout opening. 


13. The method as recited in claim 12 including the step of providing said strip with a plurality of said channels to provide a plurality of said passageways and wherein said forming step includes forming a plurality of spaced-apart openings through said one of said bag walls.
14. The method as recited in claim 12 including the step of providing said strip with a plurality of said channels to provide a plurality of said passageways and wherein said forming step includes forming a single elongated slit underneath each of said channels.
15. A collapsible bag for use in containing and dispensing a liquid comprising:
(a) a liquid tight bag having a flexible bag wall having a discharge opening therethrough and enclosing a liquid chamber;
(b) a one-piece spout and elongated evacuation strip unit sealed to said bag wall;
(c) said spout and strip unit including a spout overlying said discharge opening and having an axial spout opening extending axially therethrough in liquid communication with said chamber, and said strip extending longitudinally away from said spout from a proximal end thereof in contact with said spout to a distal end remote from said spout, said strip including therein at least one elongated liquid channel in liquid communication with said spout opening; and
(d) at least one opening providing fluid communication between said liquid chamber and said at least one channel, to provide a liquid passageway for liquid to flow out of said bag, said channel and said at least one 


 opening having dimensions such that as said bag wall collapses during evacuation of liquid from said bag, said bag wall cannot collapse into and block said passageway, such that said passageway remains open to achieve substantially complete withdrawal of liquid from said bag as said bag collapses.
16. The bag as recited in claim 15 wherein said strip includes a plurality of elongated channels providing a plurality of said passageways.
17. The bag as recited in claim 16 wherein said spout includes a side opening into said spout opening and said channels are in liquid communication with said spout opening through said side opening.
18. The bag as recited in claim 15 wherein said strip is flexible and straight.
19. The bag as recited in claim 15 wherein said channels terminate short of a distal end of said strip to eliminate any sharp edges.
20. The bag as recited in claim 15 wherein said strip is sealed to an inside surface of said bag wall, and said at least one opening is an opening in said strip into said at least one channel.
21. The bag as recited in claim 15 wherein said strip is sealed to an outside surface of said bag, and said at least one opening is an opening through said bag wall and said at least one channel is U-shaped.
22. A collapsible bag for use in containing and dispensing a liquid comprising: 


 (a) a liquid tight bag having a flexible bag wall having a discharge opening therethrough and enclosing a liquid chamber;
(b) a spout sealed to said bag wall and an elongated evacuation strip sealed along its entire length to said bag wall;
(c) said spout overlying said discharge opening and having an axial spout opening extending axially therethrough in liquid communication with said chamber through said discharge opening, and said strip extending from a proximal end thereof adjacent said spout to a distal end thereof remote from said spout, said strip including therein at least one elongated liquid channel in liquid communication with said spout opening; and
(d) at least one opening providing fluid communication between said liquid chamber and said at least one channel, to provide a liquid passageway for liquid to flow out of said bag, said channel and said at least one opening having dimensions such that as said bag wall collapses during evacuation of liquid from said bag, said bag wall cannot collapse into and block said passageway, such that said passageway remains open to achieve substantially complete withdrawal of liquid from said bag as said bag collapses.
23. The bag as recited in claim 22 wherein said spout and strip are a one-piece integral unit.
24. The bag as recited in claim 22 wherein said strip is sealed to the outside surface of said bag and said at least one opening is an opening through said bag wall underlying said at least one channel. 


25. The bag as recited in claim 22 wherein said strip is sealed to the inside surface of said bag wall and said at least one opening is an opening in said strip.
26. The bag as recited in claim 25 wherein said strip is sealed to the same bag wall to which said spout is sealed. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
