<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620773</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MACHINE TOOL APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23Q125	B23Q158	B23Q522	B23Q540	B23Q1108	B23Q1108	F16C2900	F16C2908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23Q	B23Q	B23Q	B23Q	B23Q	B23Q	F16C	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23Q1	B23Q1	B23Q5	B23Q5	B23Q11	B23Q11	F16C29	F16C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LASER MACHINING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LASER MACHINING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAMBONI TIMOTHY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERKE DONALD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN HOUTEN JERROL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAMBONI, TIMOTHY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERKE, DONALD, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN HOUTEN, JERROL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MACHINETOOLAPPARATUSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to an apparatus for protecting bearings and shafts, and in particular, the present invention relates to an apparatus for protecting bearings and shafts in ways of x-y movable tables.Many components are shaped by utilizing machine tools. Machine tools have a variety of cutting mechanisms that include bits, blades and lasers for shaping components.Typically, a work piece to be machined is carried on a table top of the machine tool. The table top moves in two directions. The mechanism for moving the table top includes shafts and bearings that are disposed in ways,below the table top. When machining the work piece, the machine tool throws chips, particles, condensate, fluid, or abrasive materials that land upon the shafts and bearings within the way. Way covers protect the shaft and bearings within the way from chips and particles by shielding the shafts and bearings. One type of way cover includes a flexible sheet mounted on a take-up spool. The flexible sheet includes a plurality of shorter flexible sheets and a plurality of ribs to which the flexible sheets are attached. The take-up spool is rolled or un-rolled in order to adjust the length of the flexible sheet. The flexible sheet is unrolled from the spool to a length necessary for protection. One other type of way cover includes a telescoping way cover. The telescoping way cover telescopes as the table moves and covers the exposed portions of the shaft. 

 A shade cover has been employed on machines, such as drilling and milling machines, which generate only small chip loads. The shade cover is similar to the flexible sheet way cover in that the shade cover includes a flexible sheet which is wound around a spool. However, the shade cover is not as strong as a flexible sheet cover because the shade cover does not include reinforcing ribs. Also, the shade cover is typically smaller than the flexible sheet cover. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention includes an apparatus for use in a machine tool having a table with a table top movable along rails located in ways. The apparatus of the present invention includes a way cover and a rail-engaging coupling.The way. cover includes a top, left, and right opposing side walls integral with the top.The rail-engaging coupling includes a bearing mechanism for engaging and traveling along the rail. The coupling further includes a housing portion that houses the bearing mechanism and travels beneath the way cover. Left and right leg
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. An apparatus for use in a machine tool having a table with a table top being movable along a rail disposed in a way, the apparatus comprising: a way cover, having a top wall and left and right opposing side walls, the way cover extending over substantially the entire length of the rail; a rail engaging coupling comprising: bearing means movably engaging the rail; a housing portion housing the bearing means; and left and right legs extending from opposite sides of the housing portion and attached to the table top of the table at distal ends, the left leg extending from the housing under the left side wall and the right leg extending from the housing under the right side wall to movably connect the table top with the rail.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the legs and housing portion are configured to form a W-shaped yoke.
3. The apparatus of claim l wherein each leg is spaced from the housing and extends in a generally upward direction to define a left and right channel respectively between the housing and the leg, and the side walls extend into respective left and right channels. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 1 and further including left and right shield walls positioned proximate the rail and extending substantially alongside the length of the rail, and extending sufficiently upward to provide a barrier to particulate matter.
5. The apparatus of claim 2 and further including: left and right shield walls extending alongside opposing sides of the rail along substantially the length of the rail and extending upwardly above the rail; wherein the left and right legs of the W- shaped yoke extend initially generally downwardly from the housing portion and ttfen outwardly under the side walls of the way cover and generally upwardly to the table top; and wherein the shield walls are disposed on inward sides of the initial downward extension of the left and right legs and wherein the left and right way cover side walls are each disposed between respective left and right downward and upward leg extensions to form an interlocking particulate barrier with the shield walls.
6. The apparatus of claim 2 and further including left and right upwardly extending shield walls disposed on outer sides of the left and right legs, respectively, of the housing portion. 


 7. The apparatus of claim 1 and further including: a top member connecting the left and right legs and connecting the left and right legs to the table top, the top member being spaced from the housing portion; and wherein the top wall of the way cover is disposed between the top member and the housing portion and the left side wall of the way cover being disposed between the left leg and the housing portion and the right side wall of the way cover being disposed between the right leg and the housing portion.
8. The apparatus of claim 4 and further including: left and right flexible lip seals attached to the left and right shield walls, respectively, and biased outwardly to engage the left and right side walls of the way cover.
9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the rail engaging coupling engages the lip seals as it moves along the rail, separating the lip seals from the side walls of the way cover with the lip seals reengaging the side walls of the way covers in areas that the coupling has moved from.
10. A machine tool comprising: 


 a table with a table top movable along a rail; a rail cover having a top wall and left and right opposing side walls extending generally downwardly, the rail cover extending over substantially the entire length of the rail; and a rail engaging coupling comprising: bearing means movably engaging the rail; and left and right legs extending outwardly on opposite sides from the bearing means and attached to the table top of the table at distal ends, the left leg extending from the bearing means under the left side wall and the right leg extending from the bearing means under the right side wall to movably connect the table top with the rail.
11. The machine tool of claim 10 wherein the legs are configured to form a W-shaped yoke member with the bearing means.
12. The tool of claim 10 and further including left and right shield walls positioned proximate the rail and extending substantially alongside the length of the rail, and extending sufficiently upward to provide a barrier to particulate matter.
13. The tool of claim 11 and further including: 


 left and right shield walls extending alongside opposing sides of the rail along substantially the length of the rail and extending upwardly above the rail; wherein the left and right legs of the W- shaped yoke extend initially generally upwardly from the bearing means and then outwardly under the side walls of the rail cover and generally upwardly to the table top; and wherein the shield walls are disposed on inward sides of the initial downward extension of the left and right legs and wherein the left and right rail cover side walls are each disposed between respective left and right downward and upward leg extensions to form an interlocking particulate barrier with the shield walls.
14. The tool of claim 11 and further including left and right upwardly extending shield walls disposed on outer sides of the left and right legs, respectively, of the housing portion.
15. The tool of claim 10 and further including: a top member connecting left and right legs and connecting the left and right legs to the table top, and the top member being spaced from the bearing means; and wherein the top wall of the rail cover is disposed between the top member and the 


 bearing means and the left side wall of the rail cover being disposed between the left leg and the bearing means and the right side wall of the rail cover being disposed between the right leg and the bearing means.
16. The apparatus of claim 14 and further including: left and right flexible lip seals attached to the left and right shield walls, respectively, and biased outwardly to engage left and right side walls of the rail cover.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the rail engaging coupling engages the lip seals as it moves along the rail, separating the lip seals from the side walls of the rail cover with the lip seals reengaging the side walls of the way covers in areas that the coupling has moved from. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
