<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637983</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE AND METHOD TO SEPARATE THE COMPONENTS IN MIXTURES OF NON-MISCIBLE LIQUIDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D3902	C02F140	B01D17025	B01D3904	B01D17025	B01D17022	C02F10132	B01D1702	B01D1702	C02F140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	C02F	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C02F	B01D	B01D	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D39	C02F1	B01D17	B01D39	B01D17	B01D17	C02F101	B01D17	B01D17	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention concerns a device (1) to separate two components of a mixture (11) of non-miscible liquids, especially water or salt water and oils. Said device (1) consists of a hollow body (2), having an inlet port (4) to feed the mixture (11) and outlet ports (5, 6) to discharge the separated components, and a filter (7) formed of a loosely packed hydrophilic material (8) in fibers, and positioned between said inlet port (4) and the outlet port (5) of the separated water. Said filter (7), when soaked with clean water, lets through only the water component of said mixture (11), while the oil component is repelled therefrom. The present invention also concerns a method to separate the components of a mixture of non-miscible liquids, making use of the device specified heretofore.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITALTRACO SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITALTRACO S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORINI ALBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORINI, ALBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The problem of separating oily or hydrocarbon substances (hereinafter 
simply referred to as "oils") dispersed into aqueous solutions, namely 
of the total separation of the insoluble oily phase from the aqueous 
phase containing the dispersed fraction of the oily phase, has been examined 
by various experts, and different techniques have been proposed and 
used up to date. In the separation process, the difficulty notably increases when 
wishing to reduce to a minimum the residual amount of oils in water, 
after separation. This difficulty determines also an increase in the 
operating costs. The known techniques adopted so far include, for example, absorption 
on active substances (eg. active carbon), distillation, decantation 
through packed blades, ultrafiltration and centrifugation. All the aforecited techniques show some inconveniences which greatly 
limit their feasibility, especially when operating on large quantities 
of water which must be "cleaned" from oil residues to the greatest possible 
extent: gravimetric separations, for instance, are limited by the 
availability of sufficient differences of density between the aqueous 
phase and the oily phase, especially when treating very fine emulsions: 
thermic separations involve considerable energy costs and are unproposable 
for application on a vast scale, as in oil separation from surface 
waters; the techniques making use of membranes have the drawback of low 
productivity and suffer from fouling problems. It is of common knowledge, now-a-days, that huge volumes of oilpolluted 
surface waters have to be treated so as to restore the proper 
environmental conditions, since the presence of oils is harmful for the 
environment, the water life and the general use of the water resources. 
There is hence at present an unsatisfied demand for an innovating technology, 
apt to be economically applied - in removing oils from water - on a 
vast scale. A separation device showing a mechanical structure corresponding to the one of the device of 
the present invention is disclosed in FR-A-895586. DE-A-3644665 disclose a traditional filtering process to separate a mixture of oil and water 
with a filter formed of ceramic fibres. When the filter fibers are previously saturated with 
water, the filter shows better performances; when the filter is saturated by the oil droplets, it 
can be cleaned by burning and used again.  
 The main object of the present invention is to provide a solution 
to the technical problem set forth hereabove. The present invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device to separate two components of a mixture (11) of at 
least partially non-miscible liquids, of the type consisting of a 

hollow body (2) having an inlet port (4) to feed said mixture (11), 
a first outlet port (5) and a second outlet port (6) to respectively 

discharge the separate heavier and lighter components of said 
mixture (11), and a filter (7) positioned between said outlet ports 

(5,6),
 
characterized in that said filter (7):
 
is thoroughly and permanently soaked - so that no air is trapped 

therein - with one of the components of said mixture; and is 
positioned between said inlet port (4) and the outlet port of the 

soaking component. 
Device as in claim 1), wherein one of said liquids 
is water - or a liquid similar to water or apt to be mixed therewith - 

and at least another one is an oily liquid, characterized in that said filter (7) 
is formed of an hydrophilic material (8), is soaked with clean water, and 

is positioned between said inlet port (4) and said first outlet port (5). 
Device as in claim 2), characterized in that said hydrophilic 
material (8) is in the form of a finely divided particulate. 
Device as in claim 3), characterized in that the single particles 
of said particulate have one of their dimensions larger than the 

other two. 
Device as in claim 3), characterized in that the single particles 

of said particulate have the largest dimension of their cross-section 
in the range from 10 to 3.000 µm and their length in the range from 

2 to 50 mm. 
Device as in any one of claims 1) to 5), characterized in that 
the percentage of voids in the filter (7) is in the range from 5 to 80% 

in volume. 
Device as in any one of claims 2) to 6), characterized in that 
said hydrophilic material (8) is selected in a group formed by vegetal, 

natural or synthetic fibres, or mixtures thereof. 
Device as in claim 7), characterized in that said hydrophilic 
material (8) is formed of short portions of said fibres, having a lenght 

in the range from 2 to 50 mm.  
 
Device as in claim 7), characterized in that said hydrophilic 
material (8) is formed of spinning wastes or spinning dust. 
Device as in claim 7), characterized in that said hydrophilic 
material (8) is formed of non-woven cloths of said fibres. 
Device as in claim 2), characterized in that the walls of said 
filter (7) of hydrophilic material (8) through which is apt to flow one 

of said components, are formed by nets. 
Device as in claim 2), characterized in that said port (4) 
extends into said hollow body (2) with a duct ending into a conical 

diffuser (10) facing the side opposite to that of the filter (7). 
Device as in claim 2), characterized in that said port (5) is 
connected to a trap device. 
Device as in claim 13), characterized in that said trap device 
has its outlet at a level higher than the filter (7). 
Device as in claim 2), characterized in that said port (6) 
forms a spillway outlet of said hollow body (2). 
Device as in any one of claims 1) to 15), characterized in that 
said hollow body (2) is formed by a cylinder having a circular or rectangular 

cross-section. 
Method to separate two components of a mixture (11) of at least 
partially non-miscible liquids, carried out in a chamber having an inlet 

port (4) to feed said mixture (11) and outlet ports (5, 6) to discharge 
the separated components, characterized in that it comprises the following 

preliminary discontinuos step: 

a) dipping a filter (7) positioned between said inlet port (4) and one of 
said outlet ports (5, 6) into one of the components of said mixture 

(11), up to fully expelling any air trapped in the filter (7), and 
thoroughly soaking its filtering bed;
 
and the subsequent continuos steps: 
b) causing said mixture (11) to pass through said previously soaked and 
deaerated filter (7) under a predetermined hydrostatic head; 
c) recovering one of the separated components, and precisely the one used  
 

in the soaking step a), from the outlet port facing the side of the 
filter (7) opposite to that facing the inlet port (4); 
d) recovering the other separated component from the outlet port facing 
the same side of the filter (7) as the inlet port (4). 
Method as in claim 17), characterized in that one of said 
liquids is water - or a liquid similar to water or apt to be mixed 

therewith - and at least another one is an oily liquid, and in that said 
filter (7) is formed of hydrophilic material (8), is soaked with clean 

water, and is positioned between said inlet port (4) and the outlet port 
(5) through which is discharged the separated acqueous component. 
Method as in claim 18), characterized in that said hydrophilic 
material (8) is in the form of a finely divided particulate. 
Method as in claim 19), characterized in that the single particles 
of said particulate have one of their dimensions larger than the 

other two. 
Method as in claim 19), characterized in that the single particles 
of said particulate have the largest dimension of their cross-section 

in the range from 10 to 3.000 µm, and their length in the range from 
2 to 50 mm. 
Method as in any one of claims 17) to 21), characterized in 
that the percentage of voids in the filter (7) is in the range from 5 to 

80% in volume. 
Method as in any one of claims 18) to 22), characterized in 
that said hydrophilic material (8) is selected in a group formed by 

vegetal or natural fibres, or synthetic fibres, or mixtures thereof. 
Method as in claim 23), characterized in that said hydrophilic 
material (8) is formed of short portions of said fibres, having a lenght 

in the range from 2 to 50 mm. 
Method as in claim 23), characterized in that said hydrophilic 
material (8) is formed of spinning wastes or spinning dust. 
Method as in claim 23), characterized in that said hydrophilic 
material (8) is formed of non-woven cloths of said fibres. 
Method as in claim 17) or 18), characterized in that said  
 

hydrostatic head is in the range from 0.05 to 5 m of water. 
Method as in claim 27), characterized in that said hydrostatic 
head is obtained by controlling the level of the mixture (11) above said 

filter (7) at a predetermined height. 
Method as in claim 27), characterized in that said hydrostatic 
head is obtained by means of a pumping device. 
Method as in claim 17) or 18), characterized in that the flow 
of said mixture (11) on the filter (7) is a laminar flow. 
Method as in claim 17) or 18), characterized in that the 
flowing speed of said mixture (11) on the filter (7) is in the range from 

0.001 to 0.1 m/s. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
