<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626123</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INDUCTION DRYER AND MAGNETIC SEPARATOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B03C102	B03C1253	B21D5130	B21D5130	H05B602	H05B602	H05B610	H05B610	H05B636	H05B636	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B03C	B03C	B21D	B21D	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B03C1	B03C1	B21D51	B21D51	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for inductively heating metal can lids (100) operates at medium frequency, with a many-turn induction coil (223) wrapped partly or entirely around the can closures. No focusing cores are required, nor need the conductors be water cooled. Can ends may be fed through the apparatus in-stick (208). IGBTs (230) are used in the H-bridge of the inverter. A control system (Fig. 19) minimizes peak current flow through the switches. The control system monitors the tank voltage phase angle and turns the switches on and off in optimal response thereto. Can lids (100) are separated magnetically while being motivated by sequentially switched electromagnets, and can bodies may be rotated by a split conveyor belt (210) while being transported. Close-loop temperature control apparatus may also be included to control AC power input and to prevent overheating of the can closures in the event of unintended stoppage of the production line.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERON TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERON TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEPHERD DOUGLAS F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPRENGER ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEPHERD DOUGLAS F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPRENGER ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INDUCTION DRYER AND MAGNETIC SEPARATORThis application is a Continuation-In-Part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/621,231, filed November 30, 1990, which is a Continuation-In-Part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/532,945, filed June 4, 1990. 10 The above two patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention 15 The present invention relates to a method for heating or otherwise treating metal objects, and more particularly, to a method and apparatus for inductively heating or otherwise treating metal can lids (closures, ends) or can bodies for drying, curing or other 20 purposes, for maintaining a spacing between them, and for motivating them along a path.2. Description of Related Art Closures for metal beverage containers are generally25 of a circular shape with a flanged perimeter called a curl. The closures are usually made of aluminum or steel, and the curl is used in attaching the closure to a can body through a seaming operation. To aid the integrity of the seal thus formed between the can body1*ι . 30 and the closure, it is a common practice to apply a bead/' of sealant or adhesive ("compound") within the curl« during manufacture of the closure. Different types of coatings are also selectively or generally applied to can closures and can bodies for various other purposes35 as well, for example, to repair damaged coatings. For 

the purposes of the present description, coatings, sealants and adhesives are all considered to be "liquids" applied to a workpiece.One problem which arises in this manufacturing operation is the curing or drying of such liquids. Recently there has been increased interest in the use of water-based sealants in the container industry, which may take 3-4 days to dry to an acceptable state for application of the closure to a can body. This was not a severe problem for solven -based liquids, because the volatile solvent quickly evaporates and is acceptably dry for application of the closure to a can body typically within 48 hours.In the past, can closures were heated to aid the drying or curing process typically either by infrared radiation or convection heating. These systems, especially the convection heating systems, tended to be large, bulky and expensive to operate due to inefficient energy usage. Attempts have also been made to heat can ends inductively. Induction heating of electrically conductive articles involves passing an oscillating current through a work coil to create an oscillating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Apparatus for heating an electrically conductive workpiece being moved along a path of travel, comprising: an induction coil at least partly enclosing a longitudinal segment of said path of travel; and a source of moderate frequency oscillating electrical current coupled to said induction coil.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said induction coil comprises at least one wire wrapped entirely around said longitudinal segment of said path of travel.
3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said induction coil comprises a pancake coil wrapped at least partly around said longitudinal segment of said path of travel.
4. Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said pancake coil wraps at least 3/4 of the way around said longitudinal segment of said path of travel.
5. Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said pancake coil comprises a plurality of separately wound pancake sub-coils which are edge-adjacent around said longitudinal segment of said path of travel.
6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said induction coil is convection cooled.
7. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus lacks any cores for focusing energy from said induction coil into said workpiece.
8. Apparatus according to claim 1, further for heating a plurality of said electrically conductive workpieces, wherein said workpieces comprise plate-like objects in face-to-face contact with each other, and wherein said objects are being moved in-stick along said path of travel. 


 9. Apparatus for heating a plurality of electrically conductive can ends, each of said can ends being disk-like and having a curl around its circumference, comprising: an induction coil at least partially enclosing a longitudinal segment of a path of travel; and means for moving said can ends, in-stick, along said longitudinal segment of said path of travel.
10. Apparatus for heating an electrically conductive workpiece being moved along a path of travel, comprising: a pancake coil at least partly enclosing a longitudinal segment of said path of travel, said pancake coil including at least one pancake sub-coil; and a source of varying electrical current coupled to said at least one pancake coil.
11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said pancake coil includes a plurality of separately wound pancake sub-coils which are edge-adjacent around said longitudinal segment of said path of travel.
12. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said pancake coil is convection cooled.
13. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said apparatus lacks any cores for focusing energy from said pancake coil into said workpiece.
14. Apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising a tube having a circumference enclosing said longitudinal segment of said path of travel, wherein said pancake coil subtends substantially completely around said circumference of said tube.
15. Apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising: 


 a tube having a tube wall and having a circumference enclosing said longitudinal segment of said path of travel; and a magnet occupying a portion of arc of said circumference of said tube, wherein said pancake coil subtends substantially completely around said circumference of said tube except for said portion of arc occupied by said magnet.
16. Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said magnet is a permanent channel magnet extending longitudinally along said tube.
17. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said pancake coil is disposed on at least two opposite and below said path of travel.
18. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said pancake coil is disposed on at least two opposite sides and above said path of travel.
19. Apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising motivating means disposed below said path of travel for moving said workpiece along said path of travel.
20. Apparatus according to claim 10, for use with a plurality of said workpieces, wherein said pancake coil is disposed on two opposite sides of said path of travel, further comprising motivating means disposed below said path of travel for moving said workpieces along said path of travel, and magnetic separating means disposed above said path of travel for separating said workpieces along said path of travel.
21. Induction heating apparatus for curing a liquid applied to an electrically conductive workpiece, comprising: an induction coil at least partially enclosing said workpiece; and 


 power supply means for generating in said induction coil a current having an oscillation frequency between approximately 6 kHz and approximately 18 kHz.
22. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said power supply draws energy to generate said current, and wherein said induction coil couples energy into said workpiece, and wherein the ratio of the energy coupl-ed into said workpiece to the energy drawn by said power supply is at least 70%.
23. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said power supply draws energy to generate said current, and wherein said induction coil couples energy into said workpiece, and wherein the ratio of the energy coupled into said workpiece to the energy drawn by said power supply is at least 90%.
24. Inductive heating apparatus for curing a coating on an electrically conductive can end having a surface and an interior, comprising: inducing means for inducing eddy currents in said interior of said can end which are strong enough to produce a desired rate of heating and deep enough to produce a desired level of uniformity of heating to avoid localized overheating; and means for moving said can end through said inducing means.
25. Inductive heating apparatus for heating an electrically conductive can body having a substantially cylindrical wall, comprising: inducing means for inducing eddy currents in said can wall which are strong enough to produce a desired rate of heating, and deep enough to produce a desired level of uniformity of heating to avoid localized overheating; and means for moving said can body through said inducing means. 


 26. Apparatus according to claim 25, further comprising means for rotating said can body as it is being moved through said inducing means.
27. Inductive heating apparatus comprising: a tank circuit including a work coil; pump means for coupling current into said tank circuit to compensate for losses; and current limiting means for monitoring the instantaneous current coupled from said pump means into said tank circuit and for shutting down said pump means if said instantaneous current exceeds a predetermined threshold.
28. Apparatus according to claim 27, wherein said pump means comprises: a power supply having first and second power supply terminals; and first switch means for enabling at first desired times a first current path from said first power supply terminal, through said work coil, to said second power supply terminal, said first current path having substantially no inductance apart from that of said work coil.
29. Apparatus according to claim 28, wherein said tank circuit further includes a capacitor coupled across said work coil.
30. Apparatus according to claim 28, wherein said current limiting means comprises: a pickup coil wrapped around said first current path; comparator means for comparing the voltage across said pickup coil to a voltage indicative of said threshold and generating an over-current signal; and shutdown means for shutting down said power supply in response to said over-current signal. 


 31. Apparatus according to claim 27, wherein said pump means includes a power supply having a power supply terminal and a series wire coupled between said power supply terminal and said tank circuit, and wherein said current limiting means comprises: a pickup coil wrapped around said series wire; comparator means for comparing the voltage across said pickup coil to a voltage indicative of said threshold and generating an over-current signal; and shutdown means for shutting down said power supply in response to said over-current signal.
32. Apparatus according to claim 30, further comprising second switch means for enabling at second desired times a second current path from said first power supply terminal, through said work coil in the direction opposite said first current path, to said second power supply terminal, said second current path having substantially no inductance apart from that of said work coil, and wherein said pickup coil is also wrapped around said second current path.
33. Apparatus according to claim 28, wherein said work coil has first and second terminals, and wherein said first switch means comprises a first IGBT having first and second current path terminals and a control terminal, said first current path terminal of said first IGBT being coupled to said first power supply terminal and said second current path terminal of said first IGBT being coupled to said first terminal of said work coil.
34. Apparatus according to claim 32, wherein said work coil has first and second terminals, wherein said first switch means comprises: a first IGBT having first and second current path terminals, said first current path terminal of said first IGBT being coupled to said first power supply terminal and said second current path terminal of said 


first IGBT being coupled to said first terminal of said work coil; and a second IGBT having first and second current path terminals, said first current path terminal of said second IGBT being coupled to said second terminal of said work coil and said second current path terminal of said second IGBT being coupled to said second power supply terminal; and wherein said second switch means comprises: a third IGBT having first and second current path terminals, said first current path terminal of said third IGBT being coupled to said first power supply terminal and said second current path terminal of said third IGBT being coupled to said second terminal of said work coil; and a fourth IGBT having first and second current path terminals, said first current path terminal of said fourth IGBT being coupled to said first terminal of said work coil and second current path terminal of said fourth IGBT being coupled to said second power supply terminal.
35. Inductive heating apparatus, comprising: a tank circuit including a work coil, said tank circuit having first and second terminals; a power supply having first and second terminals; and a first IGBT having first and second current path terminals, said first current path terminal of said first IGBT being coupled to said first terminal of said power supply and said second current path terminal of said first IGBT being coupled to said first terminal of said tank circuit.
36. Apparatus according to claim 35, further comprising second, third and fourth IGBTs, each having 


first and second current path terminals, said first current path terminal of said second IGBT being coupled to said second terminal of said work coil, said second current path terminal of said second IGBT being coupled to said second power supply terminal, said first current path terminal of said third IGBT being coupled to said first power supply terminal, said second current path terminal of said third IGBT being coupled to said second terminal of said work coil, said first current path terminal of said fourth IGBT being coupled to said first terminal of said work coil and second current path terminal of said fourth IGBT being coupled to said second power supply terminal.
37. Apparatus-Ξ.-according to claim 35, further comprising: - ' -' a first current path connecting said first current path terminal of said first IGBT to said first terminal of said power supply; a second current path connecting said second current path terminal of said first IGBT to said first terminal of said tank circuit; and a third current path coupling said second terminal of said tank circuit to said second terminal of said power supply, said first, second and third current paths all having substantially no inductance.
38. Inductive heating apparatus, comprising: a tank circuit including a work coil, said tank circuit having first and second terminals and having an oscillating voltage on said first terminal relative to said second terminal, said oscillating voltage having alternating opposite voltage extremes and a voltage zero between each of said extremes; and pump means for coupling energy into said tank circuit only during coupling times which include at 


least a given one of said voltage extremes but exclude said voltage zeros.
39. Apparatus according to claim 38, wherein said coupling times include at least every second one of said voltage extremes.
40. Apparatus according to claim 38, wherein said coupling times include all of said voltage extremes.
41. Apparatus according to claim 39, wherein said oscillating voltage has a plurality of cycles each having two adjacent ones of said voltage extremes, wherein said pump means comprises: monitoring means for monitoring said oscillating voltage and generating a control signal in response to each of said cycles indicating said coupling times; and coupling means for coupling energy into said tank circuit in response to said control signal.
42. Apparatus according to claim 39, wherein said coupling times include a predetermined period which extends before and after each of said every second one of said voltage extremes, and exclude all other times from the zero prior to each of said every second one of said voltage extremes to the zero after each of said every second one of said voltage extremes.
43. Apparatus according to claim 38, wherein said coupling times are such as to minimize the peak current flow through said pump means for said given one of said voltage extremes while coupling a predetermined amount of total energy for said given one of said voltage extremes. 


 44. Inductive heating apparatus, comprising: a tank circuit including a work coil, said tank circuit having first and second terminals and having an oscillating voltage on said first terminal relative to said second terminal, said oscillating voltage having cycles each having two opposite voltage extremes; a power supply having first and second terminals each having a voltage; first switch means for enabling a first current path from said first power supply terminal through said work coil to said second power supply terminal; and control means for activating said first switch means only during first activation periods during each cycle of said oscillating voltage, said first activation periods including a first one of said voltage extremes in each of said cycles and excluding the other of said voltage extremes in each of said cycles, said first one of said voltage extremes in each of said cycles being the voltage extreme closest to said voltage of said first power supply terminal.
45. Apparatus according to claim 44, wherein said voltage of said first power supply terminal is more positive than said voltage of said second power supply terminal, wherein said first voltage extreme in each of said cycles is the voltage maximum in each of said cycles and wherein said other of said voltage extremes in each of said cycles is the voltage minimum in each of said cycles.
46. Apparatus according to claim 44, wherein said first switch means comprises: a first switch series coupled between said first power supply terminal and said first terminal of said tank circuit; and 


 a second switch series coupled between said second terminal of said tank circuit and said second power supply terminal.
47. Apparatus according to claim 44, wherein said oscillating voltage has a voltage zero between every two of said voltage extremes, and wherein said activation periods in each of said cycles begin after the zero immediately prior to said first one of said voltage extremes and end prior to the zero immediately after said first one of said voltage extremes.
48. Apparatus according to claim 44, wherein said control means comprises means for activating said first switch means at a predetermined first time period prior to each first one of said voltage extremes, and for deactivating said first switch means at a predetermined second time period following each first one of said voltage extremes.
49. Apparatus according to claim 48, wherein said first and second time periods are preset as a function of the phase of said oscillating voltage in each of said cycles.
50. Apparatus according to claim 48, wherein a switch current flows through said first current path while enabled by said first switch means, said switch current having a peak magnitude during said first time period prior to each given one of said first voltage extremes, and wherein said second time period is predetermined to end substantially when the magnitude of said switch current during said second time period reaches said peak magnitude.
51. Apparatus according to claim 50, wherein said first and second time periods are preset as a function of the phase of said oscillating voltage in each of said cycles. 


 52. Apparatus according to claim 50, wherein said control means further comprises a peak detector coupled to detect and hold a signal indicating said peak magnitude, and for deactivating said first switch means in response to said magnitude of said switch current reaching said peak magnitude during said second time period.
53. Apparatus according to claim 50, wherein said first switch means comprises an IGBT.
54. Apparatus for controlling a first switch coupled between the first terminal of a power supply having first and second terminals and the first terminal of a tank circuit having first and second terminals, said first switch having a control input, comprising: voltage detection circuitry coupled across said tank circuit and having an output; a phase locked loop coupled to said output of said voltage detection circuitry and having a first output which monotonically increases while the voltage on said output of said voltage detection circuitry is positive; a first potentiometer coupled to provide a first presetable voltage; a first comparator coupled to said first output of said phase locked loop and to said first potentiometer and having an output which is active when said first output of said phase locked loop has a voltage higher than said first presetable voltage of said first potentiometer; a second potentiometer coupled to provide a second presetable voltage; a second comparator coupled to said first output of said phase locked loop and to said second potentiometer and having an output which is active when said second output of said phase locked loop has a voltage higher 


than said second presetable voltage of said second potentiometer; and means for enabling said first switch in response to said output of said first comparator becoming active and for disabling said first switch in response to said output of said second comparator becoming active.
55. Apparatus according to claim 54, further for controlling a second switch coupled between said first terminal of said power supply and said second terminal of said tank circuit, said second switch having a control input, said phase locked loop further having a second output which monotonically increases while the voltage on said output of said voltage detection circuitry is negative, said apparatus further comprising: a third comparator coupled to said first output of said phase locked loop and to said first potentiometer and having an output which is active when said first output of said phase locked loop has a voltage magnitude higher than said first presetable voltage of said first potentiometer; a fourth comparator coupled to said first output of said phase locked loop and to said second potentiometer and having an output which is active when said second output of said phase locked loop has a voltage magnitude higher than said second presetable voltage of said second potentiometer; and means for enabling said second switch in response to said output of said third comparator becoming active and for disabling said second switch in response to said output of said fourth comparator becoming active.
56. Apparatus for treating a plurality of ferromagnetic can ends, comprising: 


 means for holding said can ends in substantially horizontal relationship; and magnetic means for spacing said can ends apart magnetically.
57. Apparatus according to claim 56, further comprising means for circulating air between said can ends.
58. Apparatus according to claim 56, wherein said magnetic means maintains said can ends in spaced, face- to-face relationship.
59. Apparatus according to claim 56, further comprising: a surface adjacent to said can ends; and means for overcoming friction between said can ends and said surface.
60. Apparatus according to claim 58, wherein said can ends form a column of can ends, and wherein said magnetic means comprises a channel magnet extending longitudinally along said column.
61. Apparatus according to claim 58, wherein said can ends form a column of can ends, and wherein said magnetic means comprises a flexible permanent magnet extending longitudinally along said column.
62. Apparatus according to claim 60, further comprising a surface extending longitudinally along said column, said magnet attracting said can ends to said surface, said apparatus further comprising vibration means for vibrating said can ends off of said surface to facilitate magnetic spacing by said magnet.
63. Apparatus according to claim 56, further comprising motivating means for motivating said can ends along a substantially horizontal path.
64. Apparatus according to claim 63, wherein said path is slanted slightly downward, and wherein said 


motivating means operates at least in part gravitationally.
65. Apparatus according to claim 63, wherein said means for holding has an input end and an exit end, and wherein said motivating means comprises: means for adding can ends to said input end of said means for holding; and means for removing can ends from said exit end of said means for holding.
66. Apparatus according to claim 62, wherein said vibration means is further for motivating said can ends magnetically and longitudinally in the dimension in which they are spaced.
67. Apparatus for treating a plurality of ferromagnetic can ends, comprising: means for holding said can ends in a column slanted downward by a particular angle to the horizontal; magnetic means for spacing said can ends apart magnetically; and means for adding can ends to the higher end of said column, said particular angle being chosen such that one can end drops out the lower end of said column in response to each addition of a can end to the higher end of said column.
68. Apparatus for spacing a plurality of workpieces along a column, comprising: a magnet extending longitudinally along said column; and mounting means for holding said magnet closer to said column at a first longitudinal position along said column, and farther from said column at a second longitudinal position along said column.
69. Apparatus according to claim 68, wherein said workpieces are can ends and wherein said column is held substantially horizontally. 


 70. Apparatus for spacing a plurality of ferromagnetic can ends, comprising: means for holding said can ends in face-to-face relationship along a curved course; and a flexible permanent magnet disposed longitudinally along said curved course.
71. Apparatus for handling a plurality of can ends, comprising: means for treating said can ends; and - magnetic motivating means for magnetically motivating said can ends along a conveyance path.
72. Apparatus according to claim 71, wherein said magnetic motivating means comprises: a plurality of electromagnets disposed longitudinally along said conveyance path; and control means for energizingrrsaid electromagnets sequentially.
73. Apparatus according to claim 72, wherein said control means energizes said electromagnets in at least three phases.
74. Apparatus according to claim 72, wherein said can ends are ferromagnetic, and wherein said control means energizes said electromagnets in a manner which attracts each of said can ends toward each next sequential one of said electromagnets.
75. Apparatus according to claim 72, wherein said can ends are aluminum, and wherein said control means energizes said electromagnets in a manner which repels each of said can ends away from one of said electromagnets toward the next sequential one of said electromagnets.
76. Apparatus according to claim 71, further comprising means for holding said can ends in substantially face-to-face relationship. 


 77. Apparatus according to claim 72, wherein said electromagnets each comprise a pancake coil disposed below and facing said conveyance path, further comprising support means disposed above said electromagnets and along said conveyance path, for supporting said can ends lying flat on said support means.
78. Apparatus according to claim 72, further for inductively heating said can ends, wherein said control means comprises means for energizing said electromagnets sequentially with bursts of AC current.
79. Apparatus according to claim 78, wherein said bursts of AC current have a frequency between about 6 kHz and about 18 kHz.
80. Apparatus for handling a plurality of ferromagnetic can ends, comprising: spacing means for spacing said can ends apart magnetically; and motivating means for motivating said can ends magnetically along a conveyance path.
81. Apparatus according to claim 80, further comprising means for holding said can ends in substantially horizontal relationship while being spaced and motivated.
82. Apparatus according to claim 80, wherein said spacing means comprises a channel magnet extending longitudinally along said conveyance path, said can ends being maintained in face-to-face relationship and spaced along said conveyance path, further comprising a surface extending longitudinally along said conveyance path, said magnet attracting said can ends to said surface, and wherein said motivating means comprises a plurality of sequentially energized electromagnets disposed longitudinally along said conveyance path, each of said 


electromagnets disposed to attract at least one of said can ends away from said surface when energized.
83. Apparatus according to claim 82, wherein said surface comprises a surface of said channel magnet.
8 . Apparatus according to claim 82, wherein said surface comprises a portion of the inner surface of a tube extending longitudinally along and substantially enclosing said conveyance path.
85. A method for drying adhesive in the curl of each of a plurality of can lids, comprising the steps of: heating said can lids in-stick; subsequently spacing said can lids apart; and circulating air between said spaced can lids.
86. A method according to claim 85, wherein said step of heating comprises the step of heating said can lids inductively.
87. A method according to claim 86, wherein said step of spacing comprises the step of spacing said can lids apart magnetically.
88. A method according to claim 85, wherein said step of spacing comprises the step of spacing said can lids apart magnetically.
89. A method according to claim 85, further comprising the step of motivating said spaced can lids along a conveyance path magnetically.
90. A method for treating a plurality of can lids, comprising the steps of: heating said can lids in-stick; and simultaneously motivating said can lids magnetically in-stick.
91. A method for treating a plurality of can lids, comprising the steps of: inductively heating said can lids in face-to-face relationship with each other; and 


 simultaneously spacing said can lids apart magnetically.
92. Apparatus for treating a can body, comprising: a conveyor belt having longitudinally split first and second portions, said first portion moving faster than said second portion, said can body being disposed end-wise against said conveyor belt and contacting both portions of said conveyor belt; and attractive means for attracting said end of said can body toward said first and second portions of said conveyor belt, so that frictional forces between said end of said can and said two portions of said belt moving at different speeds causes said can body to rotate.
93. Apparatus according to claim 92, further comprising inductive heating means for heating said can body as it moves on said conveyor belt.
94. Apparatus according to claim 92, wherein said attractive means comprises suction holes in said conveyor belt.
95. Apparatus according to claim 92, wherein said can body is at least partially ferromagnetic, and wherein said attractive means comprises a magnet.
96. Apparatus for drying a series of can closures, comprising: conveyance means for conveying said closures along a conveyance path; heating means for heating said closures as they move along said conveyance path; and closed-loop temperature control means for controlling said heating means in response to the temperature of said closures.
97. Apparatus according to claim 96, wherein said closed-loop temperature control means comprises means 


for turning off said heating means in response to the temperature of said closures exceeding a predetermined threshold temperature.
98. Apparatus according to Claim 96, wherein said can closures are metal, and wherein said heating means comprises means for inducing an AC current into said can closures as they move along said conveyance path.
99. Apparatus according to Claim 98, wherein said closed-loop temperature control means comprises a temperature sensor coupled to said means for inducing an AC current and disposed so as to sense the temperature of at least one of said metal can closures as it moves along said conveyance path.
100. A method for drying can closures, comprising the steps of: moving said closures along a conveyance path; and heating said closures in a manner responsive to the temperature of said can closures as they move along said conveyance path.
101. Apparatus for heating a plurality of thin electrically conductive workpieces disposed along a path of travel, comprising: a power supply; a tank circuit including a work coil substantially enclosing a longitudinal segment of said path of travel, said tank circuit having a resonant frequency with load between approximately 6 kHz and approximately 18 kHz, said tank circuit having first and second terminals and having a voltage on said first terminal relative to said second terminal which oscillates at said resonant frequency; an IGBT switch coupled between said power supply and said first terminal of said tank circuit, said IGBT switch defining a pump current path; 


 means for activating said IGBT when said oscillating voltage on said first terminal of said tank circuit reaches a first predetermined phase in each cycle; and means for deactivating said IGBT when said oscillating voltage on said first terminal of said tank circuit reaches a second predetermined phase in each cycle.
102. Apparatus according to claim 101, further comprising current limiting means for monitoring the instantaneous current in said pump current path and for shutting down said apparatus if said instantaneous current exceeds a predetermined threshold.
103. Apparatus according to claim 102, wherein said workpieces are ferromagnetic can ends disposed in face- to-face relationship along said path of travel, further comprising: a permanent magnet extending longitudinally along said path of travel; a surface extending longitudinally along said path of travel, said magnet attracting said can ends to said surface; and a plurality of repetitively energized electromagnets disposed longitudinally along said path of travel, each of said electromagnets disposed to attract at least one of said can ends away from said surface when energized.
104. Apparatus according to claim 103, further comprising means for energizing said electromagnets sequentially to motivate said can lids in a predefined direction along said path of travel.
105. Apparatus according to claim 102, further comprising closed-loop temperature control means for monitoring the temperature of at least one of said workpieces and controlling said apparatus in response thereto. 



 106. Apparatus according to claim 28, wherein said current limiting means comprises: a pickup coil wrapped around said first current path; comparator means for comparing the voltage across said pickup coil to a voltage indicative of said threshold and generating an over-current signal; and shutdown means for shutting down said first current path in response to said over-current signal. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
