<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632752</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIERCING MILL FOR SEAMLESS TUBE MANUFACTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21B1900	B21B1904	B21B2500	B21B2504	B21B2506	B21B2706	B21B2708	B21B4500	B21B4500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21B	B21B	B21B	B21B	B21B	B21B	B21B	B21B	B21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21B19	B21B19	B21B25	B21B25	B21B25	B21B27	B21B27	B21B45	B21B45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tube making mill setup includes an induction heater (12) for a billet (17), with means (34) to transfer the heated billet directly to a piercing machine. The piercing machine includes main driving and gripping rolls (31, 32) on skewed axes (28, 29) and which drive the billet onto a piercing point (36). Upper and lower control rolls (46, 47) have axes parallel to the direction (19) of billet drive through the machine. Internal cooling of the control rolls and the piercing point is provided by circulating cooling water through them. The piercing point is at the distal end of a mandrel (37) which is swingable through an arc to place the formed tube on a take-away carriage (41).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOSEY GEORGE N
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOSEY, GEORGE N.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSEY GEORGE N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSEY, GEORGE N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PIERCING MILL FOR SEAMLESS TUBE MANUFACTUREBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention:This invention relates generally to the manufacture of seamless tubing, and more particularly to a small sized rolling and piercing mill- Description of the Prior Art:There is a variety of prior art equipment for making seamless tubing and which includes rotary piercing in a machine which uses rolls to grip the stock and advance it through a piercing machine having a mandrel-mounted point ("plug") to pierce the center of the stock as the stock is driven through the machine. The equipment known to me is typically large and expensive, requires a lot of space, is harsh on the tooling involved, and is not readily adapted to comparatively low volume runs of particular sizes of tubing. Also there are machines shown in some prior art patents known to me as follows: Patent No. Inventor Date IssuedKocks 10/03/72Reiley et al . 5/13/75Yoshiwara et al 10/11/77Bretschseider 7/15/80Yoshiwara et al 3/09,82Yamada 10/18/83Hayashi 9/11/84Moltner et al. 2/25/86Staat 3/25/86 

 Pozsgay et al. 4/01/86It appears that most of these machines employ some processing, typically rolling, for various purposes following 

the piercing station. The additional steps require additional space in the processing plant. Also, some of the patents use "shoes" (shoes 12 and 12 and shoes 70 and 72 in the Hayashi patent, for example) to keep the workpiece properly positioned between the skewed driving rolls as those rolls advance the workpiece through the machine. In addition to the friction of the workpiece against the shoes, and the additional power required to drive the workpiece through the machine, the shoes tend to wear out and burn out, because the workpiece is at forging temperature during the piercing operation. Also, the piercing point is subjected to high loads, wear and temperature and must be taken off the arbor after each tube is pierced. The point must then be cooled externally. In addition, the pierced tube is removed from the mill with the arbor laying inside the tube. The arbor is then removed from the tube and cooled externally. Consequently, the piercing points must be replaced frequently. It is therefore an object of the present invention to overcome some of these problems associated with prior art equipment. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONDescribed briefly, according to a typical embodiment of the present invention, a tube making mill setup includes an induction heater for a billet, with means to transfer the heated billet directly to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A tube making mill comprising: a base; first and second tube drive rolls mounted on the base, the rolls being spaced for passage of bar stock between the rolls, the rolls being sized and having rotational axes oriented in different directions to enable the rolls to grip and drive the stock longitudinally forward in a first plane; a piercing plug disposed in the space between the rolls and having a leading end; top and bottom rolls, the top roll being above the plug and the bottom roll being below the plug, the top and bottom rolls being spaced to admit the bar stock between them as the bar stock passes between the first and second rolls and is driven in a forward direction by the first and second rolls against the leading end of the piercing plug to form a tube around the plug; the top and bottom rolls have entrance ends and exit ends, and the vertical spacing between the top and bottom rolls at the exit ends is such as to establish the outside diameter of the tube formed from the stock which has passed through the first and second rolls.
2. The mill of claim 1 and further comprising: liquid cooling supply conduits from a cooling liquid source to the top and bottom rolls to convey a cooling liquid to the rolls; and return conduits from the top and bottom rolls to convey the cooling liquid back to the source without contacting the stock.
3. The mill of claim 2 and wherein: the top and bottom rolls are coupled to the conduits for 


coπununication of fluid from the supply conduits through the interior of the top and bottom rolls to the return conduits to cool the interior of the rolls and thereby cool the exterior of the rolls.
4. A tube making mill comprising: a base; first and second tube drive rolls mounted on the base, the rolls being spaced for passage of bar stock between the rolls, the rolls being sized and having rotational axes oriented in different directions to enable the rolls to grip and drive the stock longitudinally forward in a first plane; a piercing plug disposed in the space between the rolls arid having a leading end; top and bottom rolls, the top roll being above the plug and the bottom roll being below the plug, the top and bottom rolls being spaced to admit the bar stock between them as the bar stock passes between the first and second rolls and is driven in a forward direction by the first and second rolls against the leading end of the piercing plug to form a tube around the plug; the top roll being mounted to an arm that pivots upward about a horizontal axis to enable lifting the plug from the space between the first and second rolls.
5. The mill of claim 4 and further comprising: a mandrel located in the first plane and located on a line which extends through the space between the first and second rolls, the mandrel having a proximal end mount which is pivotal on a horizontal axis, and the mandrel having a distal end remote from the proximal end mount, the plug being mounted at the distal end of the mandrel, whereby the plug can be swung upward out of the space between the rolls. 


 6. The mill of claim 5 and wherein: the mandrel is arranged to pivot about the horizontal axis through an arc of about 180 degrees to place a tube formed thereon in position for removal axially from the mandrel by pulling the tube from the mandrel in the same forward direction as the stock is advanced through the rolls.
7. The mill of claim 6 and further comprising: a carriage at the removal position for reception of a formed tube thereon, the carriage being drivable in the forward direction to remove a tube from the mandrel.
8. The mill of claim 1 and further comprising: a mandrel having an end remote from the rolls and having an end between portions of the rolls, the plug being mounted to the end between portions of the rolls, and the plug having a hollow interior; and a cooling fluid supply means coupled to the plug; the top and bottom rolls having reduced diameters at portions intermediate their ends to accommodate the contour of the drive rolls.
9. The mill of claim 8 and wherein the mandrel is a tube, the mill further comprising: a fluid supply tube extending longitudinally along the inside of the mandrel and having an exit opening inside the plug adjacent the interior surface of the pointed leading end of the plug and supplying cooling fluid to the interior of the plug.
10. The mill of claim 9 and wherein: the interior of the mandrel tube is in communication with a cooling fluid sump, and all of the cooling fluid supplied to the plug through the supply tube is returned through the 


interior of the mandrel tube to the sump.
11. A tube making mill comprising: a base; first and second tube drive rolls mounted on the base, the rolls being spaced for passage of bar stock between the rolls, the rolls being sized and having rotational axes oriented in different directions to enable the rolls to grip and drive the stock longitudinally forward in a first plane; a piercing plug disposed in the space between the rolls and having a leading end; top and bottom rolls, the top roll being above the plug and the bottom roll being below the plug, the top and bottom rolls being spaced to admit the bar stock between them as the bar stock passes between the first and second rolls and is driven in a forward direction by the first and second rolls against the leading end of the piercing plug to form a tube around the plug; a mandrel extending in the first plane and having an axis located on a line which extends through the space between the first and second rolls, the plug being mounted at one end of the mandrel; and a guide collar slidably received along the mandrel and having a front end normally adjacent the rear end of the piercing plug, the front end having a perimeter centered on the mandrel axis and having its maximum radial dimension from the mandrel axis small enough to be received inside the leading end of the tube to guide and pilot the leading end of the tube onto the collar, the collar having a radially outwardly extending stop located rearward from the front end for engagement with the leading end of the tube whereby the tube drives the collar along the mandrel as the stock is driven against the plug.
12. The mill of claim 11 and wherein: 


 the guide collar has a cylindrical body portion between the front end and the stop and which is of a diameter suited to fit the interior of the tube, the collar having a pilot portion from the front end to the body portion to facilitate 5 reception and centering of the leading end of the tube on the body portion, the body portion being cylindrical about the mandrel axis.
13. The mill of claim 11 and wherein: the collar has a central aperture receiving the 0 mandrel through it; and the collar has an outer surface receiving and supporting the tube leading end on it, the collar being slidable in the forward direction along the mandrel as the tube is advanced in the forward direction 5 to stabilize the forming tube as it is advanced in the forward direction.
14. A method of making a seamless tube comprising the steps of: heating a billet to forging temperature; o driving the billet between rolls inducing a crack in the center of the leading end of the billet; driving the billet against a piercing plug forming a tube around the piercing plug; receiving the tube around a mandrel to which the plug is 5 mounted, as the billet is driven against the plug; and cooling the interior of the plug as the billet is driven against it; removing the tube from the plug and mandrel; driving successive billets against the plug and forming 0 successive tubes thereon without removing the plug from the mandrel; pushing the leading end of the tube into position around the body of a collar centered on the mandrel, and thereby 


supporting the leading end, and sliding the collar along the mandrel and thereby centering the tube on the mandrel as the billet is advanced over the plug forming the tube around the plug.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein: the step of sliding the collar while the collar body is in position in the tube and enabling the collar to guide the tube along the mandrel further comprises the step of rotating the collar on the mandrel to facilitate rotation of the tube around the mandrel while maintaining concentricity of the tube with the mandrel as the tube advances along the mandrel. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
