<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629193</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRODUCING ISOCYANATE TRIMERS USING POLYMER-BOUND CATALYSTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07D25100	C07D25134	C08G1800	C08G1802	C08G1816	C08G1818	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07D	C07D	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07D251	C07D251	C08G18	C08G18	C08G18	C08G18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OLIN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDSTEIN, STEPHEN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, CURTIS, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PRODUCING ISOCYANATE TRI ERS USING POLYMER-BOUND CATALYSTSThis invention relates generally to isocyanurate adducts, and, more specifically, to a process for preparing isocyanate trimers using a polymer-bound catalyst. Polyisocyanurate adducts of polyisocyanates are well-known intermediates used in the preparation of high performance urethane coatings, paints, and films. These adducts provide improved physical properties when used in such applications, as compared to difunctional isocyanates such as toluene diisocyanate. In addition, these adducts provide reduced volatility and an associated reduced toxicity hazard during use, as compared to toluene diisocyanate.Processes for preparing these adducts are well known. Examples illustrative of these processes can be found in U.S. Patents: 4,220,728; 4,265,798; 4,324,879; and 4,412,073. Generally, the prior art processes involve adding a catalyst which promotes the isocyanate to isocyanurate (also known as "trimerization") reaction to the precursor isocyanate, optionally in the presence, but usually in the absence, of a solvent, allowing the reaction to proceed to the desired extent and then stopping the reaction with a suitable quenching agent which destroys the activity of the catalyst. After the residual, unreacted precursor isocyanate is removed, the resulting material, in the 

case where the precursor isocyanate is a diisocyanate, is a mixture of oligomers composed of 3, 5, 7, etc. precursor diisocyanate molecules joined by 1, 2, 3, etc. isocyanurate rings. Usually, this mixture is simply called "trimer".In the case where the precursor isocyanate is polyisocyanate, the reaction is generally stopped well before all the isocyanate groups have been converted to isocyanurate groups because, otherwise, the resulting product would be an unusable polymer having a very high (theoretically infinite) molecular weight and viscosity. However, the cost of equipment and energy to remove residual, unreacted precursor isocyanate dictate that the reaction not be stopped too soon. Generally, the reaction is run to more than 10% conversion but less than 50% conversion. The preferred range is between 20 and 35%. The reaction is typically stopped using a quenching agent. The reaction between conventional trimerization catalysts and quenching agents typically results in the formation of an insoluble product which is typically removed by filtration using a filter aid.Unfortunately, both the quenching agent and the filter aid increase the likelihood of introducing undesirable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A process for preparing a trimer characterized by cyclotrimerizing an isocyanate in a reaction medium in the presence of a polymer-bound trimerization catalyst to form an isocyanurate- containing cyclotrimerized isocyanate, said catalyst consisting essentially of a polymer backbone plus functional groups and said catalyst having a crosslink density of between 1% and 10%, and said catalyst having. between 0.1 and 10 milliequivalent of catalystic sites per gram of said polymer, and said polymer being essentially insoluble in said reaction medium.
2. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst consists essentially of a polymer backbone plus functional groups, wherein said polymer backbone consists essentially of ethylene, propylene, isoprene, styrene, acrylate, and methacrylate moieties, and combinations thereof, and wherein said functional groups consist essentially of polymer bound derivatives of the following: aliphatic tertiary amines; aliphatic quaternary ammonium hydroxides and fluorides; quaternary ammonium, alkali and alkali metal salts of carboxylic acids and alcohols; organo-silyl amines, organo-phosphorous and organo-arsenic sites; and combinations thereof.
3. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst comprises nitrogen containing or arsine oxide containing functional groups, or a combination thereof. 


 4. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst comprises a tertiary amine.
5. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst has a crosslink density of between 1% and 5%.
6. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst is employed in an amount of between 0.01 and 10 parts of catalyst per 100 parts of said isocyanate.
7. The process of claim 1 characterized in that said cyclotrimerizing is effected in the presence of a co-catalyst employed in an amount of between about 1:1 and about 10:1 molar equivalents based upon the amount of polymer-bound catalyst employed. 

8. A process for preparing a trimer characterized by the steps of:
(a) cyclotrimerizing a polyisocyanate in the presence of an essentially insoluble polymer-bound trimerization catalyst by contacting said polyisocyanate with said catalyst at a temperature of between about 20 and about 135°C in a reaction to form an isocyanurate-containing cyclotrimerized isocyanate wherein a portion of the isocyanate moieties comprising said polyisocyanate are converted to isocyanurate groups, and (b). separating said catalyst from said cyclotrimerized isocyanate in order to stop said reaction after a desired amount of isocyanate moieties in said polyisocyanate have been converted to isocyanurate moieties.
9. The process of claim 8 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst consists essentially of a polymer backbone plus functional groups, wherein said polymer backbone consists essentially of ethylene, propylene, isoprene, styrene, acrylate, and methacrylate moieties, and combinations thereof, and wherein said functional groups consist essentially of polymer bound derivatives of the following: aliphatic tertiary amines; aliphatic quaternary ammonium hydroxides and fluorides; quaternary ammonium, alkali and alkali metal salts of carboxylic acids and alcohols; organo-silyl amines, organo-phosphorous and organo-arsenic sites; and combinations thereof. 


 10. The process of claim 8 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst comprises nitrogen containing or arsine oxide containing functional groups, or a combination thereof.
11. The process of claim 8 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst comprises a tertiary amine.
12. The process of claim 8 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst has a crosslink density of between 1% and 10%.
13. The process of claim 8 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst has a crosslink density of between 1% and 5%.
14. The process of claim 8 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst a number of functional groups in an amount of between about 0.01 and about 10 milliequivalents of catalytic sites per gram of polymer.
15. The process of claim 8 characterized in that said polymer-bound trimerization catalyst is employed in an amount of between 0.01 and 10 parts of catalyst per 100 parts of said isocyanate.
16. The process of claim 8 characterized in that said cyclotrimerizing is effected in the presence of a co-catalyst being a primary or secondary alcohol employed in an amount of between about 1:1 and about 10:1 molar equivalents based upon the amount of polymer-bound catalyst employed. 


 17. A process for preparing a trimer characterized by cyclotrimerizing an isocyanate in the presence a polymer-bound trimerization catalyst to form an isocyanurate-containing cyclotrimerized isocyanate wherein the polymer-bound trimerization catalyst consists essentially of a polymer having an alkyene group-containing polymer backbone and having trimerization catalyst moieties chemically bound to said polymer, said catalyst moieties being selected from the group consisting of: aliphatic tertiary amines; aliphatic quaternary ammonium hydroxides and fluorides; quaternary ammonium, alkali and alkali metal salts of carboxylic acids and alcohols; organo-silyl amines; organo-phosphorous and organo-arsenic compounds; and combinations thereof.
18. The process of claim 17 characterized in that said alkene group is selected from the group consisting of ethylene, propylene, isoprene, styrene, acrylates, methacrylates, and combinations thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
