<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650332</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DOWNFLOW HEATER PLANT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23C300	A23L316	A23L324	A23C3037	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23C	A23L	A23L	A23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23C3	A23L3	A23L3	A23C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Plant for briefly heating a free-falling liquid in a pressure chamber (9) by means of steam which is also supplied to the pressure chamber. The liquid is supplied to the pressure chamber through a supply plate (42) provided with channels (44) and the resulting liquid jets are brought into contact with the steam. Over the thickness of the plate a temperature gradient is maintained at the level of the difference between the steam temperature and the supply temperature of the liquid. The flow direction of the steam in the pressure chamber is essentially equal to the flow direction of the liquid jets.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLLANDER ENG BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEN HOLLANDER ENGINEERING B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEN HOLLANDER ADRIAAN GERRIT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEN HOLLANDER, ADRIAAN GERRIT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a device for briefly heating a liquid, 
comprising: a pressure chamber, at least one liquid supply channel, 
opening out into the pressure chamber, for supplying the liquid at a 
first temperature to the pressure chamber at a predetermined first level; 
at least one liquid discharge channel, originating in the pressure 
chamber, for discharging the liquid from the pressure chamber from a 
predetermined second level lying lower than the first level; and at least 
one steam supply channel, opening out into the pressure chamber, for 
supplying steam under pressure to the pressure chamber, the steam 
temperature being higher than the first temperature of the liquid. Such a device is generally known and is used in, for example, the 
food industry for reducing the number of disease germs in liquid foods 
such as milk through brief heating. In this case the liquid is supplied 
under pressure from the liquid supply channel to the pressure chamber, 
where the liquid is brought into contact with the steam. This causes the 
liquid to heat up very quickly during a free fall thereof through the 
pressure chamber to a liquid discharge channel. Prior to the discharge of 
the liquid from the pressure chamber, the liquid is collected for some 
time still in the pressure chamber, in order to ensure that all liquid 
brought into the pressure chamber reaches a certain temperature. The 
liquid is then discharged to a cooling device for cooling down the liquid 
and if necessary evaporating any water absorbed by the liquid as a result 
of the heat treatment by means of steam. In the known devices the liquid to be heated is brought into the 
pressure chamber in the form of films. Although in this case there is a 
relatively large contact face for the exchange of heat between the liquid 
and the steam, uniform distribution of the steam along the films is 
difficult to achieve and maintain. Furthermore, such a device can be used 
only for certain liquids and in a limited working field, because the 
films must be prevented from breaking or, after the liquid has fallen 
over a certain height, from deforming too much, which greatly reduces the 
effectiveness of the heat transfer from the steam to the liquid. Another commonly occurring problem in the known heater devices is 
the soiling gradually occurring therein as a result of the precipitation 
of constituents of the liquid on parts of the pressure chamber heated by 
the steam, in particular where the liquid is brought out of the liquid 
supply channel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device for briefly heating a liquid, comprising: 

a pressure chamber (9); 
at least one liquid supply channel (38), opening out into the pressure 
chamber (9), for supplying the liquid at a first temperature to the pressure 

chamber (9) at a predetermined first level; 
at least one liquid discharge channel, originating in the pressure 
chamber (9), for discharging the liquid from the pressure chamber (9) from a 

predetermined second level lying lower than the first level; 
at least one steam supply channel (36), opening out into the pressure 
chamber (9), for supplying steam under pressure to the pressure chamber (9), the 

steam temperature being higher than the first temperature of the liquid, 

characterised in that
 a supply plate (42) provided with a number of plate 
channels (44) for forming a number of liquid jets in the pressure chamber (9) is 

placed in the mouth of the liquid supply channel (38), while a temperature 
gradient at the level of the difference between the steam temperature and 

the first temperature of the liquid is maintained between the side of the 
supply plate (42) facing the pressure chamber (9) and the side facing the liquid 

supply channel (38), viewed in the direction of the plate channels (44). 
Device according to Claim 1, 
characterised in that
 the liquid jets 
are directed in the same direction as the flow of the steam 

inside the pressure chamber (9). 
Device according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that
 the plate 
channels (44) are fitted in the supply plate along lines directed radially
 
outwards from the centre of the supply plate (42). 
Device according to one of Claims 1 - 3, 
characterised in that
 the 
ratio between the sum of the surface areas of the cross-sections of the 

plate channels (44) and the surface area of the cross-section of the liquid 
supply channel (38) near the supply plate is greater than 0.02 and smaller 

than 0.1. 
Device according to one of Claims 1 - 4, 
characterised in that
 the 
plate channels (44a) have an inflow aperture which tapers in the liquid flow 

direction. 
Device according to one of Claims 1 - 5, 
characterised in that
 the 
plate channels (44a) have an annular outflow aperture which is formed by a 

collar of which the cross-section tapers in the liquid flow direction.  
 
Device according to one of Claims 1 - 6, 
characterised in that
 one 
or more perforated liquid distribution plates (48) are fitted in the liquid 

supply channel (38) upstream relative to the supply plate (42), and at a distance 
therefrom. 
Device according to one of Claims 1 - 7, 
characterised in that
 the 
supply plate (42) is made of a material with a low coefficient of thermal 

conductivity. 
Device according to one of Claims 1 - 7, 
characterised in that
 one 
or more cooling channels, in which a cooling agent can flow, are provided 

in the supply plate (42). 
Device according to one of Claims 1 - 9, 
characterised in that
 the 
pressure chamber (9) is formed by a hollow cylinder (4) with a vertical axis, 

which pressure chamber (9) tapers in a conical shape at the bottom side (6) and 
merges into the liquid discharge channel, while the pressure chamber (9) is 

shut off at its top side by a cover (8) through which a liquid supply pipe (38) is 
conveyed, at one end of an insulated part of which pipe (38) projecting into 

the pressure chamber (9) the supply plate (42) is fitted, and the steam can be 
supplied through a steam supply aperture (36) to the pressure chamber (9) at the 

level of the supply pipe (38). 
Device according to Claim 10, 
characterised in that
 one or more 
perforated steam distribution plates are provided between the inside wall 

of the cylinder (4) and the outside wall of the liquid supply pipe (38), below the 
steam supply aperture (36). 
Plant comprising a number of devices connected in series, according 
to one or more of the preceding claims, for heating a liquid in several 

stages, 
characterised in that
 the liquid supply channel of each device (2) is 
connected to the liquid discharge channel of the device directly 

upstream, in that the liquid discharge channel of the device furthest 
downstream is connected to a supply channel of a cooling device (22) for 

separating liquid and steam, and in that the steam separated off in the 
cooling device (22) is supplied to one or more of the last but one and 

upstream plants through the steam supply channel thereof. 
Plant according to Claim 12, 
characterised in that
 the cooling 
device is made up of a number of partial cooling devices (22a, 22b, 22c) connected in 

series, the steam separated off in the respective first and downstream 
partial cooling devices being supplied to the respective last but one and 

upstream plants (2a).  
 
Method for briefly heating a liquid by steam, wherein the 
liquid is supplied into a pressure chamber (9) at a first temperature at 

a predetermined first level, and the steam is supplied into said 
pressure chamber (9) at a temperature higher than the first temperature 

of the liquid, 
characterised in that
, the liquid is formed into a number 
of free falling jets in the pressure chamber (9). 
Method according to claim 14, wherein the liquid jets are 
flowing in the same direction as the steam. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
