<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0735693</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A voltage controlled oscillator circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03L716	H03L7189	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03L	H03L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03L7	H03L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method for tuning the frequency, particularly the 
medium frequency, of a voltage controlled oscillator (VCO). The medium 

frequency of a VCO is tuned by controlling the voltage by means of a 
microprocessor (2), an analog/digital converter (7) and a digital/analog 

converter (6). By using the invention, it is also possible to compensate for 
frequency drift of the VCO circuit due to the temperature without having to 

measure the temperature separately. The method is applied favourably in 
different types of mobile telephones. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA MOBILE PHONES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA MOBILE PHONES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUKKONEN OSMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUKKONEN, OSMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a circuit and method for controlling the output 
frequency of a voltage controlled oscillator, and particularly but not exclusively 
for use in radio telephones. In generating frequency signals in radio telephones sometimes termed mobile 
telephones, frequency synthesizing in a phase-locked loop is used at present. 
These frequency signals are, for example, the frequencies of the local oscillator 
of the receiver and the transmitter signal. Fig. 1 shows a typical block diagram 
of a frequency synthesizer 10 of a mobile telephone as an example. In the block 
diagram, an integrated synthesizer circuit (Synth. IC) which is marked with the 
reference number 3 includes necessary dividers and a phase comparator to 
allow respective output frequencies to be realised. A temperature compensated crystal-driven oscillator 1 (TCXO) operates as a 
reference oscillator producing a reference frequency fref to which an output of 
a frequency synthesizer, defined as the frequency signal fosc, is locked. A 
microprocessor 2 (µP) which in this case is also controlling other functions of a 
mobile telephone, is responsible for generating respective dividing numbers for 
a desired radio telephone channel, and the microprocessor feeds the dividing 
numbers along a data bus to an IC-circuit 3. A synthesizer circuit, which is a 
comparison circuit, compares the output frequency fosc divided by the first 
dividing number with the reference frequency fref divided by the second 
dividing number and generates a control signal se as a result of the comparison. 
The output of the synthesizer circuit 3, that is the control signal se, is 
conducted via a low pass filter 4 to a voltage controlled oscillator 5 (VCO). The 
output signal of this oscillator constitutes at the same time the output 
frequency fosc of the frequency synthesizer circuit. The output frequency is 
also transferred to the IC-circuit 3 as a feedback signal as shown in Fig. 1.  When fosc ≠ TCXO or  fosc / N2 ≠  TCXO / N1 ie the oscillation frequency output from 
the phase locked loop is not the desired frequency, the phase difference 
between fosc and the desired frequency ( TCXO / N1) will vary with time (Se(t)). The filtered signal S'e(t) having passed through the filter 4 forces the VCO to 
change frequency in the direction that reduces the difference between the 
desired frequency and the divider output frequency. As the two frequencies 
are typically arranged to be close, S'e(t) forces the two frequencies to become 
equal at which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A circuit for controlling the output frequency of a voltage controlled 
oscillator, comprising: 


means for providing a reference frequency; 
means for comparing the output of a voltage controlled oscillator with the 
output of the means for providing a reference frequency and providing a first 

control signal indicative of a difference therebetween; 
a processor operable to provide a second control signal; and 
means for combining the first and second control signals to provide a 
combined control signal, the output frequency of the voltage controlled 

oscillator being responsive to the combined control signal; 
the processor being operable to control the value of the second control 
signal for regulating the value of the first control signal. 
A circuit according to claim 1 wherein the circuit comprises means for 
allowing the first control signal to adopt a range of voltage values between 

upper and lower limits, and wherein the processor is operable to provide a 
second control signal having a value such that the value of the first control 

signal falls substantially mid way between the upper and lower limits under 
predetermined conditions when the output of the voltage controlled oscillator 

has a predetermined frequency. 
A circuit according to any preceding claim wherein the voltage controlled 
oscillator is operable to provide respective predetermined output frequencies 

and the value of the second control signal is variable such that the value of the 
first control signal is maintained within respective limits for each of the 

respective predetermined output frequencies. 
A circuit according to any preceding claim wherein the value of the first 
control signal is monitored by the processor and wherein the second control 

 
signal provided by the processor is responsive to the value of the first control 

signal. 
A circuit according to any preceding claim wherein the processor is 
operable to determine the output frequency of the circuit and wherein the 

second control signal comprises a fixed component for compensating for an 
offset between the desired value of the first control signal for a predetermined 

output frequency and the actual value thereof under predetermined conditions, 
and a variable component dependent on the value of the first control signal and 

the output frequency of the circuit. 
A circuit according to claim 5 wherein the variable component is 
determined as a result of a sequential adjustment to the fixed component until 

the first control signal adopts a predetermined value for each respective 
predetermined output frequency. 
A circuit according to any preceding claim wherein the value of the signal 
is read as an analogue signal which is converted into a digital signal in an 

analogue to digital converter. 
A circuit according to any preceding claim wherein the processor 
provides a digital signal for providing the second control signal which is 

converted to an analogue signal for combining with the first control signal in a 
digital to analogue converter. 
A radio telephone for operation at respective predetermined frequencies 
comprising a circuit according to any preceding claim. 
A radio telephone according to claim 9 wherein the radio telephone is 
digital comprising an analogue to digital converter and a digital to analogue 

converter and wherein and the analogue to digital conversions of the first 
control signal and the digital to analogue conversion of the second control 

 
signal occur respectively in the analogue to digital and digital to analogue 

converters of the radio telephone. 
A method for controlling the frequency of a voltage controlled oscillator 
(5) in a phase-locked loop in which a comparison circuit (3) is fed a reference 

frequency (fref) and an output frequency (fosc) of the voltage controlled 
oscillator (5) and dividing numbers from the control circuit (2) at which the 

comparison circuit (3) compares the output frequency divided by the first 
dividing number to the reference frequency divided by the second dividing 

number and as a result of the comparison forms a control signal (se) which 
through filtering (4) controls the voltage controlled oscillator (5) to form a 

desired output frequency (fosc), characterised in that 

dividing numbers corresponding to a desired output frequency (fosc) are 
fed to a comparison circuit (3), 
the value of the control voltage (s1) is measured to which proportional 
correction data is recorded into the memory of a control circuit (2), 
from the memory, the correction data is read to which a proportional 
correction signal (s2) is used for controlling a voltage controlled oscillator (5) in 

such a way that the control signal (se) settles essentially at a constant value. 
A mobile telephone according to a patent claim 11, characterised in that 
in connection with final testing of the manufacturing, correction data 

corresponding to each channel is recorded into the memory of the control 
circuit (2) of the mobile telephone so that the correction data (s2) can be 

extracted from the memory and corresponds to the selected channel and this 
arranges that the output frequency (fosc) of the voltage controlled oscillator is 

set so that the control signal (se) stays essentially in the middle of the control 

range. 
A method for controlling a circuit for controlling the output frequency of 
a voltage controlled oscillator, comprising the steps of: 


providing a reference frequency; 
comparing the output of a voltage controlled oscillator with the reference 
frequency and providing a first control signal indicative of a difference 

therebetween; 
providing a second control signal; and 
combining the first and second control signals to provide a combined 
control signal, the output frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator being 

responsive to the combined control signal; 
the value of the second control signal being controlled such that the 
value of the first control signal is regulated. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
