<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614443</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONVERSION OF HYDROGEN SULFIDE TO SULFUR AND HYDROGEN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5348	B01D5352	C01B300	C01B304	C01B1700	C01B1704	C01B1705	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	C01B3	C01B3	C01B17	C01B17	C01B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARATHON OIL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARATHON OIL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLUMMER MARK A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLUMMER, MARK, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CONVERSION OF HYDROGEN SULFIDE TO SULFURAND HYDROGENBACKGROUND OF INVENTION c-VField of The Invention 5 The invention relates to a process for converting hydrogen sulfide into sulfur and hydrogen. More specifically, hydrogen sulfide gas is reacted with a quinone dissolved in an aqueous solvent containing a sulfur complexing agent, yielding sulfur and the corresponding hydroquinone which is then converted back to the quinone while 10 releasing hydrogen gas.Description of Related ArtMany processes related to the petroleum industry generate gaseous by-products containing hydrogen sulfide, by itself or in a mixture with other gases, such as carbon dioxide. U.S. Patent 4,581 ,128 to15 Plummer and Zimmerman discloses a process for desulfurizing a hydrocarbon feedstock having a relatively high sulfur content by contacting the feedstock with hydrogen gas in the presence of a catalyst to obtain a hydrocarbon product having a relatively low sulfur content. The hydrogen sulfide gas by-product produced therewith is treated with a20 quinone dissolved in a polar organic solvent to obtain a sulfur product and a hydroquinone. The hydroquinone is regenerated by contacting it with air in the presence of a catalyst. The resulting quinone is recycled back to the absorption reaction while hydrogen peroxide produced as a by-product is reduced to oxygen and water. The oxygen is used to25 partially oxidize a hydrocarbon fuel which generates hydrogen gas and hydrogen gas is recycled to the initial desulfurization step. U.S. Patent 4,592,905 to Plummer and Beazley discloses a process for contacting and reacting hydrogen sulfide gas with an anthraquinone dissolved in a polar organic solvent to yield sulfur and the corresponding30 anthrahydroquinone. Sulfur precipitates from the solution and is recovered as a product. The remaining anthrahydroquinone solution is fed to a dehydrogenation reactor where it is thermally or catalytically regenerated to produce the initial anthraquinone form in solution and hydrogen gas. The anthraquinone solution is recycled back to the35 hydrogen reactor and the hydrogen is recovered as a product. U.S. 

 Patent 3,913,966 to Vaughan discloses a process for reacting hydrogen sulfide with an anthraquinone in an organic solvent in the presence of an organic base catalyst to produce elemental sulfur and an anthrahydroquinone. The sulfur is recovered and the anthrahydroquinone is oxidized to yield the starting anthraquinone and hydrogen peroxide.The above cited patents require the use of polar organic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
I claim: 1. A process for converting hydrogen sulfide gas to sulfur and hydrogen gas comprising the steps of: a) contacting said hydrogen sulfide gas with a quinone dissolved in an aqueous solvent containing a complexing agent; b) reacting said hydrogen sulfide gas with said quinone to produce sulfur and a hydroquinone dissolved in said aqueous solvent and said complexing agent; c) separating said sulfur from said aqueous solvent and said complexing agent; d) dehydrogenating said hydroquinone to produce hydrogen gas and to regenerate said quinone in said aqueous solvent and said complexing agent; and e) recycling said quinone in said aqueous solvent and complexing agent to step a). 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said complexing agent is an amine. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said complexing agent is an amide. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said complexing agent is a urea. 5. The process of claim 2 wherein said complexing agent is selected from the group comprising n-butylamine, diethylamine, diethylmethylamine, pyridine or piperidine. 6. The process of claim 3 wherein said complexing agent is selected from the group comprising n,n-dimethylformamide, n,n- dimethylactamide or 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone. 7. The process of claim 4 wherein said complexing agent is selected from the group comprising 1 ,2-dimethylurea or 1 ,1,2, 2- tetramethylurea. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein said complexing agent is present in said reaction solution in a range of about 1 mole of complexing agent to about 4 moles of quinone to about 1 mole of complexing agent to about 32 moles quinone. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein said complexing agent is present in said reaction solution in a range of about 1 mole of 



complexing agent to about 6 moles of quinone to about 1 mole of complexing to about 16 moles of quinone. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein said complexing agent is present in said reaction solution from of about 1 mole of complexing agent to about 8 moles of quinone. 11. The process of claim 1 wherein the reaction of step b) is reacted at a temperature of from about 35째C to about 98째C. 12. The process of claim 1 wherein the reaction of step b) is reacted at an H2S partial pressure of from 5 kPa to about 1000 kPa. 13. The process of claim 1 wherein the reaction of step b) is reacted for about 5 minutes to about 120 minutes. 14. The process of claim 1 wherein said quinone is an anthraquinone or a napthaquinone. 15. The process of claim 14 wherein said anthraquinone is a monosodium sulfonate salt of an anthraquinone. 16. The process of claim 14 wherein said anthraquinone is a disodium sulfonate salt of an anthraquinone. 17. The process of claim 14 wherein said anthraquinone is 2,7- sodium anthraquinone disulfonate. 18. All inventions claimed herein. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 10 March 1993 (10.03.93); original claims 1-18 replaced by amended claims 1-16 (2 pages)]
1. A process for converting hydrogen sulfide gas to sulfur and hydrogen gas comprising the steps of: a) contacting said hydrogen sulfide gas with a quinone dissolved in an aqueous solvent containing a complexing agent, the complexing agent being an amine, an amide, a urea or mixtures thereof; b) reacting said hydrogen sulfide gas with said quinone to produce sulfur and a hydroquinone dissolved in said aqueous solvent and said complexing agent; c) separating said sulfur from said aqueous solvent and said complexing agent; d) dehydrogenating said hydroquinone to produce hydrogen gas and to regenerate said quinone in said aqueous solvent and said complexing agent; and e) recycling said quinone in said aqueous solvent and complexing agent to step a).
2. The process of claim 1 wherein said complexing agent is selected from the group comprising n-butylamine, diethylamine, diethylmet ylamine, pyridine or piperidine.
3. The process of claim 1 wherein said complexing agent is N.N-dimethylforamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide or 1-methyl-1- pyrrolidone.
4. The process of claim 1 wherein said complexing agent is ,2-dimethylurea or 1 ,1 ,2,2-tetramethylurea.
5. The process of claim 1 wherein said complexing agent is present in said aqueous solvent in a range of about 1 mole of complexing agent to about 4 moles of quinone to about 1 mole of complexing agent to about 32 moles quinone.
6. The process of claim 5 wherein said complexing agent is present in said aqueous solvent in a range of about 1 mole of s.aid complexing agent to about 6 moles of quinone to about 1 mole of said complexing agent to about 16 moles of quinone. 


 7. The process of claim 6 wherein said complexing agent is present in said aqueous solvent in an amount of from of about 1 mole of said complexing agent to about 8 moles of said quinone.
8. The process of claim 1 wherein the reaction of step b) is reacted at a temperature of from about 35째C to about 98째C.
9. The process of claim 1 wherein the reaction of step b) is reacted at an H2S partial pressure of from 5 kPa to about 1000 kPa.
10. The process of claim 1 wherein the reaction of step b) is reacted for about 5 minutes to about 120 minutes.
11. The process of claim 1 wherein said quinone is an anthraquinone or a napthaquinone.
12. The process of claim 11 wherein said anthraquinone is a monosodium sulfonate salt of an antrhraquinone.
13. The process of claim 11 wherein said anthraquinone is a disodium sulfonate salt of an anthraquinone.
14. The process of claim 11 wherein said anthraquinone is 2,7- sodium anthraquinone disulfonate.
15. The process of claim 1 wherein said aqueous solvent is tap water or distilled water.
16. All inventions claimed herein. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
ndependent claim 1 has been amended to specify the complexing agent (as originally presented in dependent claims 2-5 which have been cancelled.) Claims 2-7 have been amended to correct obvious typographical errors and to ensure proper antecedent basis exists throughout the claims. Claim 15 has been added to specify that the aqueous solvent is tap water or distilled water. New matter is not introduced by this amendment. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
