<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616382</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Planar variable power divider
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01P504	H01P128	H01P124	H01P504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01P	H01P	H01P	H01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01P5	H01P1	H01P1	H01P5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Microwave variable power divider, comprising (Fig. 1) a 
3 dB directional coupler (1) (called hybrid circuit), 

followed on one output leg by a variable phase shifter, 
obtained by assemblying a -3dB directional coupler (2) 

with its outlets closed on movable short-circuits (6; 
7) that can ensure its variability, and on the other by 

a 90-degree differential phase shifter (5) and an 
analogous variable phase shifter consisting of 

directional coupler (3) and movable short-circuits (8; 
9), followed by another directional coupler (4). The 

device makes it possible to vary the power on the two 
output legs (12; 13) in a complementary manner by 

regulating the movement of the movable short-circuits. 
The particular solution proposed allows the use of a 
planar-type technology, which can assure considerable 

advantages in terms of construction, dimensions and 
integration in more complex networks. In addition, the 

operating bandwidth (≧ 16%) associated with low losses 
(0.15 dB) and minimal inband variation of amplitude at 

the outputs in relation to any desired power division 
value constitute the peculiar characteristics of this 

device. Lastly, the low level of passive 
intermodulation products allows the device to operate 

in multicarrier systems and the particular movable 
short-circuit solution adopted allows it to be used for 

medium-high powers (300 W in continuous wave 
radiofrequency). 
The technical field in which this invention is situated 
is that of passive microwave components and its 

application field is that of microwave systems in which 
it is necessary to vary the amplitude and phase of the 

output signals. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALENIA SPAZIO SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALENIA SPAZIO S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZZONI ROBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAVANELLI RODOLFO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZZONI, ROBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAVANELLI, RODOLFO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a variable microwave
power divider of an electromechanical type.The technical field in which this invention is situated
is that of passive microwave components and its
application field is that of microwave systems in which
it is necessary to vary the amplitude and phase of the
output signals.At the present state of the art, the solutions employed
for the realisation of a wave-guide variable power
divider were generally based on two possible operation
models:
(A) The first model employed two hybrid circuits and
two complementary variable phase shifters. The
first hybrid circuit, with orthogonal output gates
("T" type), generated from the input signal two
signals of equal amplitude at its outputs, which
were subjected to a relative phase shift by the
variable phase shifters. The second circuit then
recombined these signals, so that one of the two
outputs gave the sum and the other the difference
between the input signals. In this manner two
signals were generated, whose amplitudes depended
on the electric phase-shifting angle introduced by
the variable phase shifters according to two sine
functions in quadrature to each other. The
critical feature of this solution resides in the
fact that the actuating element for power
regulation was the electrical phase-shift angle,
which by nature depends on the frequency, and this
fact inevitably limited the variable power
divider's inband performance.(B) The variable power divider model employed a
variable polarisation rotator between two linear
polarisation separators known as "OMT" (Ortho Mode 
Transducers). Since the output gates were
disaligned, dividers of this type could not be
easily integrated into more complex planar
networks.US-A-3 346 823 discloses a variable power divider comprising two 3-dB hybrid four port
junctions between which are connected two variable phase shifters consisting of a pair of
ganged sliding short circuit devices connected to two of the ports of two further 3-dB
hybrid four port junctions. A reduction in the amplitude of the output signal without a
change in its phase is obtained by reverse ganging of the sliding short circuit devices.The variable power divider that is the subject of the
invention described here can be considered a further
development of those described with reference to model
(A) above. This divider is characterised in that the
variable phase shifters are realised by means of two
hybrid circuits with outputs closed by the movable
short-circuits of a particularly innovative type.
The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Variable power divider circuit for use in microwave systems,
comprising:


a first (22) and a second (23) variable shifter each of which
includes an input port, an output port, a directional coupler

(2, 3) and a pair of movable, non-sliding short circuits (6, 7;
8, 9) for frequency compensation, each of them being coupled to

the directional couplers by means of a H-plane step (26);
waveguide transmission lines (14, 15, 16, 17);
a third (1) and a fourth (4) 3dB directional coupler,
respective outputs of said third directional coupler (1) being

coupled, through the waveguide transmission lines (14, 15), to
corresponding inputs of said first (22) and said second (23)

variable phase shifter, and said fourth directional
coupler (4) being respectively coupled, through said waveguide transmission

lines (16, 17), to corresponding outputs of said first (22) and
second (23) phase shifter;

a 90° cavity phase shifter (5) located in the waveguide
transmission line (15) between two directional couplers (1, 3 or

3, 4).
Variable power divider circuit of claim 1, wherein said
microwave system is an antenna beam forming network.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 1, wherein said
microwave system is a multi-carrier RF channelling network.
Variable power divider circuit of anyone of the preceding
claims, wherein said movable short-circuits are dimensioned and 

arranged for operation in a medium-high power range of 300 W to
600 W.
Variable power divider circuit of anyone of the preceding
claims, wherein each of said movable short-circuits comprises an

empty L-shaped resonant cavity and a step discontinuity.
Variable power divider circuit of anyone of claims 1 to 4,
wherein each of said movable short-circuits comprises an I-shaped

resonant cavity.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 6, wherein at least
one of said I-shaped cavities contains dielectric material.
Variable power divider circuit of anyone of the preceding
claims, further including a 90 degree phase shifter

interconnected between an output of said third directional
coupling means and an input of one of said variable phase

shifting means.
Variable power divider circuit of anyone of the preceding
claims, wherein said variable phase shifting means and

directional coupling means are defined by coupling cavities
disposed between parallel waveguides.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 9, wherein said
variable phase shifting means and directional coupling means are

disposed in coplanar relation.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 9, wherein said
third directional coupling means and said second variable phase

shifting means are disposed parallel to one another and are
disposed opposite said first variable phase shifting means and

said fourth directional coupling means, respectively. 
Variable power divider circuit of claim 9, wherein said
third directional coupling means and said second variable phase

shifting means, and said first variable phase shifting means and
said fourth directional coupling means are connected by first

and second U-shaped waveguide sections, respectively.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 12, wherein each of
said U-shaped waveguide sections defines a step discontinuity.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 12, wherein each of
said short-circuits comprises a metal member having a first

section movable within a leg of respective U-shaped wavelength
section and a second section movable within a corresponding one

of said parallel waveguides.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 12, wherein each of
said short-circuits defines a plurality of resonant cavities

disposed in symmetrical pairs, said resonant cavities being
dispoes in a fundamental mode propagation plane.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 15, wherein said
cavities are filled with a dielectric material.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 15, wherein said
cavities are L-shaped in cross section.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 15, wherein said
cavities are I-shaped in cross section.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 15, wherein a first
short-circuit of each of said variable phase shifting means is

disposed in a corresponding one of said parallel waveguides.
Variable power divider circuit of claim 19, wherein a second
short-circuit of each of said variable phase shifting means is

disposed in a corresponding U-shaped waveguide section.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
