<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615682</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Closed-loop variable rate applicator
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01B7900	A01C1700	A01C1700	A01B7900	G01N3324	G01N3324	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01B	A01C	A01C	A01B	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01B79	A01C17	A01C17	A01B79	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A closed-loop fertilizer application system (10) capable of 
determining a soil prescription in near real-time, and 

dispensing fertilizer to the soil scene as a function of 
the soil prescription. The closed loop application system (10) 

does not require the use of maps or navigation systems, but 
rather, ascertains a soil type and chemical composition on 

the go. In the preferred embodiment, the application 
system implements a spectrograph implementing the 

technology of spectroradiometry to determine soil type and 
present fertilizer composition in near real-time. An 

expert system (30) determines the soil prescription based on the 
soil type and current fertilizer levels, and controls the 

dispensing rate of the fertilizer as a function of the 
vehicle speed. The soil analyzer (28) is disposed a predetermined 

distance forward of the vehicle such that there 
is adequate time to perform soil analysis, determine a soil 

prescription, and then dispense the fertilizer at the rear 
portion of the vehicle (12). The soil analyzer (28) generates a soil 

signature in near real time, which signature is compared to 
a pre-determined reference soil signature stored in memory. 

The spectrograph radiates the soil at various predetermined 
fixed frequencies which causes the various 

elements in the soil to fluoresce. Each fertilizer in the 
soil will fluoresce at one or more known frequencies, the 

amplitude of which is indicative of the percentage of the 
fertilizer present at the soil scene. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AG CHEM EQUIPMENT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AG-CHEM EQUIPMENT CO., INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONSON ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONSON, ROBERT J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to an 
application system for applying fertilizer to agricultural 
land, and more particularly to a method and apparatus for 
ascertaining a current fertilizer content of a soil scene 
in near real-time, and then determining a chemical 
prescription and dispensing fertilizer on the land without 
the need for a navigation system or digital fertilizer 
maps. In the fertilizer industry, there is a growing 
awareness of environmental concerns and the ability of a 
custom applicator to answer those concerns. 
A variable rate technology can be implemented using a 
plurality of maps containing soil-type information, current 
fertilizer levels and desired fertilizer levels, used in 
combination with a navigation system to create a chemical 
prescription. As is well known, the three most common nutrient 
components of soil are nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium. 
Differing soil types, each of which may be categorized 
according to the relative proportions of sand, clay and 
silt, have differing percentages of these nutrients. Even 
like soil types can have differing percentages of these 
nutrients within agricultural land due to drainage 
characteristics, moisture content and erosion. Thus, 
fertilizer application systems need to account for the 
present levels of fertilizers at each location of the 
agricultural field to determine a chemical prescription 
when applying fertilizers to achieve desired fertilizer 
levels. One embodiment of a fertilizer application  
 
systems is discussed in EP-A-576121, which is part of the state of the 
art according to Article 54(3)EPC. The system  
 
includes a plurality of maps storing soil 
types, and present and desired fertilizer levels within a 
field. Using a navigation system and a speed sensor, the 
system coordinates the vehicles location within the field 
to each of the maps to determine the application rate of 
fertilizers to attain the desired levels of fertilizers. While navigation systems currently available are 
becoming increasingly more accurate in resolution, such as 
Global Positioning Systems, there still can be an alignment 
difficulty based on the inherent inaccuracies of the source 
data utilized to create the map. Thus, a closed-loop 
application system which would eliminate the coordination 
of the navigation positioning system to the soil and 
fertilizer maps, would be an advancement over prior art 
systems. Up until now, soil analyzers capable of sampling 
soil for chemical content in near real-time were 
unava
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for treating an area of soil, 
comprising: 


(a) a vehicle (12) capable of traversing a field; 
(b) soil analysis means (28) coupled to said vehicle (12) 
for obtaining a signal indicative of a content of 

at least one element at a soil scene, characterised in that the 
soil analysis means (28) comprises 


(i) signal generating means for generating a first signal at 
a pre-determined fixed frequency and directing said first 

signal upon the soil scene; and 
(ii) detecting means for detecting a returned second 
signal from the soil scene induced by the first signal, 

said second signal composed of a plurality of frequencies 
and defining a soil signature indicative of the content of said 

element; the apparatus further comprising 
(c) dispensing means (30, 22) operatively coupled to the 
detecting means for dispensing 

a quantity of the element as a function of the soil 
signature. 
The apparatus as specified in Claim 1, wherein the apparatus 
comprises means (30) for determining soil type at said soil 

scene, wherein said dispensing means dispenses said element 
as a function of said soil type. 
The apparatus as specified in Claim 1 or 2 further 
comprising a means (32)for sensing vehicle speed operatively coupled to 

the dispensing means (22, 30), wherein said 
dispensing means dispenses said element as a function of 

said vehicle speed. 
The apparatus as specified any preceding in Claim wherein 
said detecting means is operable to perform real-time averaging of 

detected second signals, and dispenses said element as a 
function of said averaged second signals. 
The apparatus as specified in any preceding Claim wherein 
said detected soil signature is indicative of nitrogen, 

phosphorous, and potassium present at the soil 
scene. 
The apparatus as specified in any preceding Claim wherein 
said soil analysis means (28) comprises a spectrograph.  

 
The apparatus as specified in any preceding Claim wherein 
said dispensing means (22, 30) is positioned a pre-determined 

distance behind said soil analysis means (28). 
The apparatus as specified in any preceding Claim wherein 
said soil analysis means (28) further comprises
 
   mean (30) for determining an intensity of 

said returned second signal operatively coupled to
 
   means forming part of said dispensing means 

and operable to determine a percentage of 
the element in the soil scene from said second signal 

intensity. 
The apparatus as specified in any preceding Claim further 
comprising me
ans (26) coupled to said vehicle (12) for preparing said 
soil scene. 
The apparatus as specified in Claim 7 wherein 
said percentage determining means (30)comprises: 


(a) means for storing a pre-determined value 
indicative of a known percentage of said element; and 
(b) means for comparing said pre-determined 
value to the determined intensity of the second signal to 

obtain an output, said output being indicative of the percentage 
of the element in the soil scene. 
The apparatus as specified in any one of Claims 
1 to 5 and 7 to 10 wherein 

said soil analysis means (28) implements ultrasonic waves. 
The apparatus as specified in any one of Claims 1 to 5 
and 7 to 10 wherein 

said soil analysis means (28) implements microwaves.  
 
A method of treating agricultural land comprising 
the steps of: 


(a) ascertaining a current element level of a 
soil scene; 
(b) determining a soil prescription; 
and 
(c) applying the element to said soil scene as 
a function of said determined soil prescription, characterised 

by ascertaining the current element level by  
 


(i) exciting the soil scene with a signal 
of a pre-determined fixed frequency; 
(ii) sensing a second signal induced by said 
first signal from said soil scene, said second signal 

comprising a plurality of frequencies; and 
(iii) comparing said second signal to a 
reference signal to determine the element level of said 

soil scene; and determining the soil prescription based on the soil type and 
the second signal. 
The method of Claim 13 wherein said method is 
performed in near real-time.  

 
The method of Claim 13 or 14 further comprising the 
step of ascertaining a speed of a vehicle 

adapted to apply the element to the soil scene in step (c) and 
applying the element to the soil scene in step (c) as a 

function of said vehicle speed. 
The method of Claim 13, 14 or 15 further comprising the 
step of
 
   ascertaining a soil type of the soil scene 

and applying the element to the soil scene in step (c) as 
a function of said soil type. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
