<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614963</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Low viscosity group II metal overbased sulfurized C16 to C22 alkylphenate compositions.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07F300	C07F304	C10M15900	C10M15922	C10M16300	C10M16300	C10M16700	C10M16700	C10N3002	C10N3004	C10N4025	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07F	C07F	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10N	C10N	C10N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07F3	C07F3	C10M159	C10M159	C10M163	C10M163	C10M167	C10M167	C10N30	C10N30	C10N40	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed are Group II metal overbased 
sulfurized alkylphenate compositions and in 

particular to Group II metal overbased sulfurized 
alkylphenate compositions derived from alkylphenols 

enriched in alkyl substituents attached to the 
phenol ring in a "skewed" position. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEVRON USA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEVRON CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMPBELL CURTIS B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMPBELL, CURTIS B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to Group II 
metal overbased sulfurized alkylphenate compositions 
and, in particular, to Group II metal overbased 
sulfurized alkylphenate compositions derived from 
alkylphenols enriched in substantially straight 
chain C₁₆ to C₂₂ alkyl substituents attached to the 
phenol ring in a "skewed" position. The operation of diesel and spark ignition 
internal combustion engines is typically accompanied 
by the formation of sludge, lacquer and resinous 
deposits which adhere to the moving engine parts and 
thereby reduce engine efficiency. In order to 
prevent or reduce the formation of these deposits, a 
wide variety of chemical additives have been 
developed for incorporation into lubricating oils. 
These additives are commonly referred to as 
detergents and dispersants. Dispersants have the 
ability to keep deposit forming materials suspended 
in the oil so as to retard deposit formation during 
engine operation. Detergents have the ability to  
 
remove preexisting deposits from the engine during 
engine operation. Among the many additives which have been 
developed for this purpose, Group II metal overbased 
sulfurized alkylphenate compositions have been found 
to be highly effective detergent/dispersants for use 
in lubricating oils. Furthermore, these additives 
are excellent oxidation and corrosion inhibitors 
and, by virtue of their alkalinity reserve, have the 
ability to neutralize acidic combustion and 
oxidation products. Such acidic products form 
during engine operation, particularly when operated 
on high sulfur containing fuels, and tend to 
accumulate in the lubricating oil. The ability of 
Group II metal overbased sulfurized alkylphenate 
compositions to neutralize such acidic products can 
be directly measured by determining the total base 
number (TBN) of the composition. Higher TBNs 
reflect a greater capacity for these compositions to 
neutralize acids generated during engine operation. The preparation of Group II metal 
overbased sulfurized alkylphenate compositions is 
well known in the art and is described in detail in, 
for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,178,368; 3,367,867; 
and 4,744,921, each of which is incorporated herein 
by reference in its entirety. Typically, such 
Group II metal overbased sulfurized alkylphenate 
compositions are prepared by treating alkyphenol in 
a suitable diluent (e.g., a lubricating oil) with an 
amount of an alkaline earth metal hydroxide, oxide 
and/or alkoxide in excess of that necessary to 
neutralize the phenol and then
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A Group II metal overbased sulfurized 
alkylphenate composition derived from alkylphenols 

enriched in alkylphenols of formula I: 
 

wherein the -CRR'R'' alkyl substituent is substantially 
straight chain, each of R and R' is independently an 

alkyl group of at least 3 carbon atoms, R'' is 
hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, and wherein the sum of the 

number of carbon atoms in R, R' and R'' is from 15 to 
21 (inclusive) and further wherein the number of carbon 

atoms in R' is at least 4 greater than the number of 
carbon atoms in R; and n is 1 or 2. 
The Group II metal overbased sulfurized 
alkylphenate composition according to claim 1, wherein 

the number of carbon atoms in R, R' and R'' is from 17 
to 21. 
The Group II metal overbased sulfurized 
alkylphenate composition according to claim 1 or 2, 

wherein R'' is hydrogen or methyl. 
The Group II metal overbased sulfurized 
alkylphenate composition according to claim 1, 2 or 3, 

wherein said Group II metal overbased sulfurized 
alkylphenate composition is overbased with carbon 

dioxide and calcium oxide, calcium hydroxide or calcium 
alkoxide having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. 
The Group II metal overbased sulfurized 
alkylphenate composition according to any preceding 

 
claim, wherein n is 1. 
A lubricating oil composition comprising: 

(a) an oil of lubricating viscosity; 
(b) a Group II metal overbased sulfurised 
alkylphenate composition as claimed in any preceding 

claim; and 
(c) optionally, a Group II metal overbased 
sulfurized alkylphenate composition other than that 

specified in (b) above; 
 
   wherein the combined amount of the Group II metal 

overbased sulfurized alkylphenate compositions of (b) 

and (c), when present, is from 0.5 to 40 weight percent 
of the lubricating oil composition. 
A lubricating oil composition according to 
claim 6, which further comprises: 


(a) from about 1 to 20 weight percent, based 
on the weight of the lubricating composition, of an 

alkenyl succinimide or alkenyl succinate or mixtures 
thereof; 
(b) about 0.1 to about 4 weight percent, 
based on the weight of the lubricating composition, of 

a Group II metal salt of a dihydocarbyl 
dithiophosphoric acid; and 
(c) about 0.3 to about 10 weight percent, 
based on the weight of the lubricating composition, of 

a neutral or overbased alkali or alkaline earth metal 
hydrocarbyl sulfonate or mixtures thereof. 
A lubricating oil composition according to 
claim 7, comprising about 1 to about 25 weight percent, 

based on the weight of the lubricating composition, of 
the said Group II metal overbased sulfurized 

alkylphenate composition. 
A method for the preparation of a Group II 
metal overbased, sulfurized alkylphenate composition 

which method comprises reacting, in an inert diluent: 

(a) an alkylphenol; 
(b) sulfur; 
(c) a Group II metal oxide, hydroxide or 
C₁-C₆ alkoxide; 
(d) a C₂-C₄ alkylene glycol; 
(e) an alkanol of at least 8 carbon atoms; 
and 
(f) a compound selected from the group 
consisting of an oil-soluble, Group II 

metal, neutral or overbased, hydrocarbyl 
sulfonate, an alkenyl succinimide and 

mixtures thereof; 
 
followed by reaction with carbon dioxide; 

   wherein said alkylphenol is enriched in 
alkylphenols of formula I as defined in claim 1. 
A method for the preparation of a Group II 
metal overbased sulfurized alkylphenate composition 

according to claim 9 which method comprises: 

(a) combining into an inert hydrocarbon 
diluent: 


(i) an alkylphenol enriched in alkylphenols 
of formula I as defined in claim 1; 
(ii) an alkanol of at least 8 carbon atoms; 
(ii) a compound selected from the group 
consisting of an oil-soluble Group II metal neutral or 

overbased hyrocarbyl sulfonate, an alkenyl succinimide, 
and mixtures thereof; 
 
   wherein the alkenyl succinimide of the oil-soluble 

Group II metal neutral or overbased hydrocarbyl 
sulfonate is employed at from about 1 to 20 weight 

percent to the alkylphenol and the alkanol of at least 
8 carbon atoms is employed at a molar ratio to the 

alkylphenol of from about 0.5 to about 5; 
(b) heating the system to a temperature of 
from about 50°C to about 155°C; 
(c) combining into the reaction system a 
Group II metal oxide, hydroxide or C₁-C₆ alkoxide while 

 
maintaining a temperature of from 50°C to about 185°C 

and them removing at least about 15 percent of the 
theoretical water present in the composition wherein 

the Group II metal oxide, hydroxide or C₁-C₆ alkoxide 
is employed at a molar ratio to the alkylphenol of from 

about 1 to about 4; 
(d) combining into the reaction system 
sulfur at a temperature sufficient to effect 

sulfurization of the alkylphenol followed by addition 
at from about 120°C to about 185°C of a C₂-C₄ alkylene 

glycol; wherein sulfur is employed at a molar ratio to 
the alkylphenol of from about 1 to about 4, and the 

C₂-C₄ alkylene glycol is employed at a molar ratio to 
the alkylphenol of from about 1 to about 4; 
(e) heating at a temperature sufficient to 
effect removal of at least a portion of the water in 

the system; 
(f) heating the system to a temperature of 
from about 150°C to about 195°C; 
(g) combining into the reaction system 
carbon dioxide wherein carbon dioxide is employed at a 

molar charge to the alkylphenol of from about 1 to 3; 
and 
(h) heating the system under reduced 
pressure at a temperaure and pressure sufficient to 

remove at least a portion of the water, C₂-C₄ alkylene 
glycol and the alkanol of at least 8 carbon atoms. 
A method according to claim 10 or 11, wherein 
said alkylphenol of Formula I is derived from a 

substantially straight chain internal olefin or alkanol 
wherein its unsaturation or alcohol substituent is at a 

carbon atom corresponding to a skewed position. 
The method according to claim 11, wherein 
said substantially straight chain internal olefin or 

alkanol is a mixture of olefins and/or alkanols a 
majority of which mixture comprises more than one C₁₆ 

 
to C₂₂ olefins or alkanols. 
The method according to claim 12, wherein 
said mixture is a mixture of C₂₀ to C₂₈ olefins wherein 

the majority of said mixture is comprises of C₂₀ and 
C₂₂ components. 
The method according to any one or more of 
claims 9 to 13 wherein n is one. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
