<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626612</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Camera.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B1312	G03B1312	G03B1912	G03B1912	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B13	G03B13	G03B19	G03B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A single-lens reflex type camera is disclosed, which is 
more compact than the conventional single-lens reflex 

camera, or equal to the COMPACT camera in 
compactness. Two prisms (4) and (5), between which a 

slantingly extending low refractive index layer (15) is 
sandwiched, are positioned between the photographing 

lens (3) and the photosensitive surface (9). A Fresnel 
mirror (6) with a reflecting and/or deflecting function 

is arranged between the prism (5) and the photosensitive 
surface (9). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEKINE JIRO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEKINE, JIRO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKINE JIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKINE, JIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a camera such 
as a still camera used with a loaded roll film and an 
electronic camera with a solid-state image element, and 
more particularly to an improved single-lens reflex 
camera. Conventional still cameras have been widely 
used, each in which a rolled film loaded is wound up 
sequentially to form a camera object image on a 
photosensitive surface being a frame of film. 
Electronic still cameras are well known, each of which 
has a solid-state image element arranged on the 
photosensitive surface to record photoelectrically a 
camera object image. Of the still cameras and electronic still 
cameras, a so-called single-lens reflex camera is known 
where a reflex mirror is arranged in the camera body to 
reflect a camera object image sent via the photographing 
lens to the viewfinder so that the camera object image 
can be visually recognized through the viewfinder. As shown in Fig. 29, the conventional single-lens 
reflex camera includes a mirror 45 arranged 
between the photographing lens 3 and the photosensitive 
surface 9 on which a film is arranged, the mirror 45  
 
being slanted at about 45° with respect to the optical 
axis of the photographing optical system. In an 
observation via the viewfinder, the mirror 45 guides 
the light bundle irradiated from the photographing lens 
3 to the viewfinder optical system formed of a field 
lens 21, a pentagonal Dach (or roof) prism 44, and an 
eyepiece 13. On photographing, the front end 45b is 
sprung up on the axially supported rear end of the 
mirror 45 (in the arrow direction shown in Fig. 29) to 
withdraw from the optical path of the photographing 
optical system so that the light bundle hits the film 
arranged on the photosensitive surface 9. In the conventional single-lens reflex camera, 
the mirror 45 has an area substantially entirely 
covering the photographing surface. The mirror 45 
occupies a large space between the lens 3 and the 
photosensitive surface 9 because the mirror 45 is 
arranged at a slanting angle of 45° and the front end 
of the mirror 45 is sprung up at a photographing time 
to withdraw from the photographing optical system. 
Hence this problem causes a camera body with large 
thickness and a large sized photographing lens. The 
trend toward a large sized lens is remarkable, 
particularly, to the retorofocus-type wide-angle lens, 
and the wide-angle series and standard series zoom 
lenses. The single-lens reflex camera also includes a 
pentagonal roof prism 44 arranged above the mirror 45
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A camera comprising: 
   a photographing lens; 

   a photosensitive surface; 
   a prism body including a first prism and a 

second prism which are arranged between said 
photographing lens and said photosensitive surface and 

in order from said photographing lens, and a low 
refractive index layer sandwiched between said first 

prism and said second prism, said low refractive layer 
spreading slantingly with respect to the photographing 

system optical axis extending from photographing lens 
to said photosensitive surface, said a low refractive 

index layer having a refractive index lower than that 
of said second prism; 

   a viewfinder optical system; and 
   a reflective optical system arranged so as to 

reciprocate freely between a reflective position between 
said prism body and said photosensitive surface and a 

photographing position withdrawn from said reflective 
position, said reflective optical system for 

irradiating a light to said second prism, whereby when 
said reflective optical system is at said reflective 

position, said reflective optical system reflects a 
light advancing from said prism body toward said 

photosensitive surface, and reflects said advancing 
light at an interface of said second prism in contact 

with said low refractive index layer, so that said 
 

reflected light enters said viewfinder optical system 
via an adjacent surface arranged near to said 

viewfinder optical system. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
first prism comprises a transparent container and a 

transparent liquid filled in said transparent container, 
and wherein said second prism comprises a transparent 

container and a transparent liquid filled in said 
transparent container. 
A camera according to claim 1, further 
comprising a sensor for reflecting a light reflected on 

a surface of said first prism facing said low 
refractive index. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
reflective optical system moves between said reflective 

position and said photographing position and along said 
photosensitive surface. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
reflective optical system comprises plural split 

elements each which moves toward a photographing 
position 
A camera according to claim 5, further 
comprising adjusting means for adjusting a moving 

 
stroke of each of said plural split elements. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
reflective optical system acts as a light shielding body 

that shields said irradiated light from irradiating 
said photosensitive surface when said reflective 

optical system is at said reflective position. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein 
reflective optical system acts as an eyepiece shutter 

for shuttering a reversely entered light when said 
reflective optical system is at said photographing 

position, said reversely intruded light entering from 
said viewfinder eyepiece and falling said 

photosensitive surface via said viewfinder optical 
system. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
reflective optical system comprises a Fresnel mirror 

having a light condensing and deflecting function. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
Fresnel mirror has a front surface engraved so as to 

produce a predetermined light condensing function, said 
surface facing said prism body, and a rear surface being 

a mirror surface engraved so as to produce a 
predetermined deflecting function and to reflect a light 

irradiated from said front surface toward said front 
 

surface, said rear surface facing said photosensitive 
surface. 
A camera according to claim 9, wherein said 
Fresnel mirror has a front surface engraved so as to 

produce a predetermined light condensing function, said 
surface facing said prism body, and a rear surface being 

a mirror surface engraved so as to produce a 
predetermined condensing function and a predetermined 

deflecting function and to reflect a light irradiated 
from said front surface to said front surface, said rear 

surface facing said photosensitive surface. 
A camera according to claim 9, wherein said 
Fresnel mirror has a front surface engraved so as to 

form a predetermined cylindrical Fresnel lens, said 
front surface facing said prism body, and a rear surface 

being a mirror surface engraved so as to form a 
predetermined cylindrical Fresnel mirror and to reflect 

a light irradiated from said front surface to said 
front surface, said rear surface facing said 

photosensitive surface, said front surface and said 
rear surface having equal or different focus distances 

in a direction perpendicular to each other. 
A camera according to claim 1, further 

image compensating means for compensating a position of 
a camera object image with said reflective optical 

 
system moving, in such a way that said camera object 

image is formed on a predetermined plane of said 
reflective optical system when said reflective optical 

system is at a predetermined reflective position, and 
said camera object image is formed on said 

photosensitive surface when said reflective optical 
system is at said photographing position. 
A camera according to claim 1, further data 
displaying means for displaying data on said 

photosensitive surface, said data being irradiated from 
said adjacent surface of said second prism to said 

second prism, reflected at said interface of said 
second prism, and projected to said photosensitive 

surface via an optical path. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
viewfinder optical system comprises a relay lens, and a 

light condenser lens arranged adjacently to said 
adjacent surface of said second prism. 
A camera according to claim 15, wherein 
said relay lens comprises a reflection-type lens. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
viewfinder optical system includes a cylindrical lens 

acting as means for reversing said viewfinder image 
from the right side to and the left side. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
viewfinder optical system includes an eyepiece shutter 

for shielding a reversely entering light falling on said 
photosensitive surface from said viewfinder eye piece 

via said viewfinder optical system, in cooperation with 
said reflective optical system moving to said 

photographing position. 
A camera according to claim 1, wherein said 
low refractive index layer on said prism body is formed 

of a combination of plural layers, said plural layers 
splitting and reflecting light in plural different 

directions at said interface of said second prism, said 
light being reflected in said reflective optical system 

positioned at said reflective position to advancing to 
said second prism; and wherein said viewfinder optical 

system synthesizes the light split in plural directions 
and irradiated from said prism body to form a viewfinder 

image. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
