<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652633</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Power conversion system and control device therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M749	H02M748	H02M748	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A control device for a power conversion system with a 
plurality of power converters, each of which is provided 

with a DC power source, a DC reactor and a unit converter 
composed of self-turn-off switching devices with DC 

terminals connected to the DC power source through the DC 
reactor, in which AC terminals of the plurality of unit 

converters are connected in common and is connected to an AC 
load. The control device includes a first unit for 

generating an instruction value vector for an AC output 
current of the power conversion system, a second unit for 

generating a set of actual value vectors showing all of the 
AC output currents that can be generated by the power 

conversion system, a third unit for selecting a closest 
actual value vector that is closest to the instruction value 

vector out of the set of the actual value vectors, and a 
fourth unit for controlling the self-turn-off switching 

devices in the unit converters in response to the closest 
actual value vector. The AC output current of the power 

conversion system is thereby controlled so as to track the 
instruction value vector. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a power conversion system,
and more particularly to a current source power conversion
system.This invention also relates to a control device for a
power conversion system with a plurality of unit converters
whose AC terminals are connected in common, and more
particularly to a control device for a power conversion
system which controls the total AC output current of the
power conversion system to an instruction value.Fig. 3 is a layout diagram of the main circuitry of a
power conversion system in which a prior art example and
this invention are applied in common. In Fig. 3, 1 is an AC
load and 2 to 4 are capacitors. 5 to 8 are unit converters
(hereinbelow simply called converters) that convert DC power
to AC power. Parallel operation of converters 5 to 8 is 
performed by connecting their respective AC terminals in
common to AC load 1. Capacitors 2 to 4 are employed for
absorbing the switching surges of converter 5 to converter
8. 9 to 32 are self-turn-off switching devices that
constitute converter 5 to converter 8. Hereinbelow, the
case will be described in which gate turn-off thyristors
(hereinbelow simply called GTOs) are employed as self-turn-off
switching devices. 33 to 40 are DC reactors for
smoothing the DC current. 41 to 44 are DC power sources.Fig. 13 is a layout diagram of a prior art control
circuit for controlling the power conversion system shown in
Fig. 3. In Fig. 13, 69 is a current instruction value
generating circuit for converter 5 to convertor 8, 70 is a
phase detecting circuit, 71 is a triangular wave generator,
72 is a comparator, and 73 is a logic circuit for generating
output instructions of the AC currents of converter 5 to
converter 8.Fig. 14 is a waveform diagram of the case where the
power conversion system shown in Fig. 3 is controlled by the
prior art control circuit shown in Fig. 13.Hereinbelow, the operation of this prior art control
circuit will be described with reference to Fig. 3, Fig. 13
and Fig. 14.In Fig. 13, current instruction value generating
circuit 69 generates an amplitude instruction value S1 and a
phase angle instruction value of the AC current. Amplitude 
instruction value S1 is supplied to comparator 72. Phase
angle instruction value is supplied to phase detection
circuit 70 and triangular wave generator 71. Signals S2 to
S5 are the output signals of triangular wave generator 71
and are triangular waves whose period is 60° of the phase
angle instruction value. Triangular waves S3 to S5 are
respectively lagging in phase by 15° in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A control device for a power conversion
system with a plurality of power converters, each of which

is provided with a DC power source, an inductor and a unit
converter composed of self-turn-off switching devices with

DC terminals connected to said DC power source through said
DC reactor, in which AC terminals of said plurality of unit

converters are connected in common and connected to an AC
load, characterised in that said control device comprises:


first means for providing an instruction value
vector representing a vector sum of AC output currents of

said power conversion system;
second means for providing a set of actual value
vector sums representing all possible vector sums of said AC

output currents that can be generated by said power
conversion system;
third means for selecting the actual value vector
sum that is closest to said instruction value vector out of

said set of said actual value vectors sums; and
fourth means for controlling said self-turn-off
switching devices in said plurality of said unit converters

in response to said selected actual value vector sum.
The control device according to claim 1, 
wherein:


said first means generates said instruction value
vector within a prescribed range of electrical angle;
said second means generates said set of said actual
value vectors within said prescribed range of said

electrical angle;
said third means selects said closest actual value
vector sum within said prescribed range of said electrical

angle; and
said fourth means controls said self-turn-off
switching devices in response to said closest actual value

vector sum over the complete range of said electrical angle.
The control device according to claim 1 or
2,

   wherein said third means includes:

setting means for setting a set of regions, each of
said regions being closest to one of said set of said actual

value vector sums, respectively;
selecting means for selecting a selected region out
of said set of said regions in which said instruction value

vector sum is; and
determining means for determining said actual value
vector sum included in said selected region as said closest

actual value vector.
The control device according to claim 1 or 
2,

   wherein said third means includes:

detecting means for detecting a set of deviations
between said instruction value vector and one of said set of

said actual value vector sums, respectively;
selecting means for selecting a smallest deviation
that is smallest out of said set of said deviation; and
determining means for determining said actual value
vector having said smallest deviation as said closest actual

value vector.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
