<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653063</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IN VITRO TEST FOR DERMAL CORROSIVE PROPERTIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4900	A61K4900	G01N3122	G01N3122	G01N3315	G01N3315	G01N3348	G01N3348	G01N33483	G01N33483	G01N3350	G01N3350	G01N3368	G01N3368	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K49	A61K49	G01N31	G01N31	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An (in vitro) test kit and an (in vitro) test method which determine dermal corrosion properties of a test substance and/or mixture are disclosed. The test substance is applied directly to a biobarrier designed to give corrosion times comparable to those of the (in vivo) dermal corrosion test. A corrosive test substance destroys and passes through the biobarrier, after which the test substance enters and reacts with the adjacent chemical detection system, where the test substance is detected. The detection time, or the time from application to detection, can be correlated with UN Packing Groups and EEC classes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INVITRO INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INVITRO INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON VIRGINIA C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRHASHEMI SOHEILA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEI ROSALIND W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON, VIRGINIA, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRHASHEMI, SOHEILA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEI, ROSALIND, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IN VITRO TEST FOR DERMAL CORROSIVE PROPERTIESTechnical FieldThis invention relates to the field of testing materials for their ability to be corrosive to human skin. More specifically, the invention relates to a device and a method for an in vitro test which can predict the ability of a material to cause corrosion when placed in contact with the human skin.Background ArtAs the potential for wider varieties of materials to cause cutaneous damage has become recognized, an increasing effort has been made by industry and environment protection groups to characterize this potential. Federal legislative agencies and commercial manufacturers must consider these risks when developing registering, certifying and shipping materials which could produce toxic effects.Acute primary irritation is defined as localized reversible inflammatory response of normal living skin to direct injury and is caused by a single application of a chemical agent. Important manifestations are erythema (redness) and edema (swelling). Draize et al., J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 81:337, 1944. 

 Cu ulativβ irritation is also reversible and consists of primary irritation resulting from repeated exposure of skin to materials that do not cause primary irritation, as reviewed by Guillot et al., Fd. Chem. Toxic 20: 563, 1982.Corrosion is defined as direct chemical action on normal living skin that results in its disintegration and irreversible alteration on site of chemical contact. According to Draize, et al. It is manifested by ulceration or necrosis. (Draize, ibid.)Animals have been used to test for toxic effects. However, the problems inherent in animal testing contribute to variability of all these methods.1. Intra-laboratory variability in scoring and handling2. Individual responses vary considerably3. Application and occlusive seal . Sex and age of animalsTo evaluate dermal corrosivity, a procedure based on the Department of Transportation Method ofTesting Corrosion to skin has been widely used. Code of Federal Regulations, Transportation Title 49, Part 173, Appendix A. Method of Testing Corrosion to the Skin (1983) . Six white New Zealand rabbits are shaved, the test substance and a negative control is applied to the shaved skin of each rabbit. Each substances is held in place with a 1 x 1" square 12-ply surgical gauze pad. Corrosion is found if the test sample caused destruction or irreversible alteration of the tissue on at least two of the six rabbits.In 1977 the United Nations issued special recommendations for class 8 chemicals.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A method for determining the degree of corrosive toxicity of a test substance to human skin or membrane which method comprises:
(a) applying the test substance at a first time to a first face of a biobarrier having a second face, which biobarrier mimics human skin or membrane to be tested, which biobarrier has its second face in contact with a chemical detection system, the chemical detection system comprising at least one indicator;
(b) allowing the test substance to transit the biobarrier to the second face to contact the chemical detection system;
(c) detecting the test substance in the chemical detection system at a second time; and
(d) obtaining the difference in the first and second times, whereby the time difference is roughly inversely proportional to the corrosive toxicity of the test substance.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the biobarrier comprises a base membrane to which is bound at least one protein.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the base membrane is cellulose or nitrocellulose.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein the protein is selected from cross-linked keratin, cross-linked collagen, mixtures of cross-linked keratin and collagen, or synthetic or plant proteins capable of forming gel networks. 


 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the protein is mixed with a diluent before adding the protein to the base membrane.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the diluent comprises a more polar solvent.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the polar solvent consists of water, a salt solution or an alcohol.
8. The method of claim 5 wherein the diluent comprises a less polar solvent.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the less polar solvent is selected from the group consisting of ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, hexylene glycol, polypropylene glycol and mixtures thereof.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the chemical detection system comprises at least one indicator and an aqueous medium of pH and ionic strength compatible with the biobarrier.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the indicator comprises a composition which interacts with the test substance to form a precipitant.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein the indicator comprises a composition which interacts with the test substance to form a colored product.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein the chemical detection system is high pressure liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectroscopy or nuclear magnetic resonance. 


 14. A method to determine the effect of a test substance on the known detection time of a dermal corrosive material, which method comprises:
(a) combining the test substance with the corrosive material to obtain a mixture;
(b) applying the mixture at a first time to a first face of a biobarrier having a second face, which biobarrier mimics human skin or membrane to be tested, the second face of the biobarrier contacting a chemical detection system comprising at least one indicator;
(c) allowing the mixture to transit the biobarrier to the second face to contact the chemical detection system; (d) detecting the mixture in the chemical detection system at a second time;
(e) obtaining the difference in the first and second times to obtain a detection time for the mixture; and (f) comparing the detection time of the mixture with the known detection time of the known corrosive material, wherein a longer detection time for the mixture indicates that the test substance has an anti-corrosive effect.
15. A method for determining the corrosive toxicity of a test substance to human skin or membrane, which method comprises:
(a) applying the test substance at a first time to a first face of a biobarrier having a second face, the biobarrier mimicking human skin or membrane to be tested, the biobarrier comprising at least one component which is broken down by a skin corrosive chemical to form a breakdown product, the bi.obarri.er 


being in contact at its second face with a breakdown product detection system;
(b) allowing the test substance to react in transit with the biobarrier component to produce at least one breakdown product;
(c) allowing the breakdown product to transit to the second face of the biobarrier and to contact the breakdown product detection system;
(d) detecting the breakdown product in the breakdown product detection system at a second time;
(e) obtaining the difference in the first and second times, whereby the time difference is roughly inversely proportional to the corrosive toxicity of the test substance.
16. A method for determining the dermal corrosivity of a test substance to human skin or membrane in sunlight, which method comprises:
(a) applying the test substance at a first time to a first face of a biobarrier having a second face, which biobarrier mimics human skin or membrane to be tested and comprises at least one protein, the second face of the biobarrier being in contact with a protein detection system, the protein detection system comprising at least one indicator;
(b) exposing the treated biobarrier to ultra-violet light;
(c) allowing the test substance to react in transit with the biobarrier protein to release the protein;
(d) allowing the released protein to transit to the second face of the biobarrier and to contact the protein detection system;
(e) detecti.ng the released protei.n i.n the protein detection system at a second time; and 


 (f) obtaining the difference in the first and second times, whereby the time difference is roughly inversely proportional to the corrosive toxicity of the test substance exposed to sunlight.
17. A method of classifying a test substance as nontoxic or in toxic UN Packing Groups, the method comprising
(a) applying the substance at a first time to a first face of a biobarrier having a second face, which biobarrier mimics human skin in speed of response to known corrosive substances, the biobarrier having a second face in contact with a chemical detection system, the chemical detection system comprising at least one indicator;
(b) allowing the test substance to transit the biobarrier to the second face to contact the chemical detection system;
(c) detecting the substance in the chemical detection system at a second time;
. (d) obtaining the difference in the first and second times; and
(e) correlating the time difference with the times stated in the UN Packing Group designations, and thereby assigning the designations.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein if the difference of (d) is less than 3 minutes, the UN Packing Group is group 1.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein if the difference of (d) is more than 3 minutes but less than 60 minutes, the UN Packing Group is group 2. 


 20. The method of claim 17 wherein if the difference of (d) is greater than 60 minutes but not more than four hours, the UN Packing Group is group 3.
21. A device for performing an in vitro test to determine the corrosiveness of a test substance to human skin or membrane, comprising
(a) a biobarrier having a first face and a second face, the biobarrier mimicking human skin or membrane, the biobarrier having characteristics so as to permit measurement of time for a test substance to traverse therein;
(b) a chemical detection system comprising at least one indicator, the chemical detection system contacting the second face of the biobarrier; and
(c) a means for recording a first time when the test substance is applied to the first face of the biobarrier and for recording a second time when the test substance has traversed the biobarrier and is detected by the chemical detection system; and
(d) a means for reporting the difference between the first and the second times.
22. The device of claim 21 wherein the characteristics of the biobarrier comprise thickness.
23. A method of classifying a test substance as nontoxic or in toxic EEC R34 and R35 classes, the method comprising (a) applying the substance at a first time to a first face of a biobarrier having a second face, which biobarrier mimics human skin in speed of response to known corrosive substances, the biobarrier having the second face in contact with a chemi■cal detecti■on system, 


the chemical detection system comprising at least one indicator;
(b) allowing the test substance to transit the biobarrier to the second face to contact the chemical detection system;
(c) detecting the substance in the chemical detection system at a second time;
(d) obtaining the difference in the first and second times; (e) correlating the time difference with the times stated for the EEC R34 and R35 classes; and (f) assigning the EEC class.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein if the time difference of (d) is less than three minutes, the EEC designation is class R35.
25. The method of claim 23 wherein if the time difference of (d) between three minutes and four hours, the EEC designation is class R34.
26. A method for determining the degree of corrosive toxicity of a test substance to human skin or membrane which method comprises: (a) applying the test substance at a first time to a first face of a biobarrier having a second face, which biobarrier mimics human skin or membrane to be tested, which biobarrier has its second face in contact with an electronic detection system, the electronic detection system comprising at least one indicator;
(b) allowing the test substance to transit the biobarrier to the second face to contact the electronic detection system and affect an i.ndicator; 


 (c) detecting the change in the indicator with the electronic detection system at a second time; and
(d) obtaining the difference in the first and second times, whereby the time difference is roughly inversely proportional to the corrosive toxicity of the test substance.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the electronic detection system comprises a dosimeter, which dosimeter is affected by the test substance or material liberated from the biobarrier by the test substance, the effect on the dosimeter being capable of correlation with the degree of toxicity.
28. The method of claim 26 wherein the electronic detection system comprises a liquid with two electrodes, the potential between which changes when sufficient test substance and/or biobarrier enters the liquid, at which the second time is recorded.
29. The method of claim 26 wherein the electronic detection system comprises a screen on which a constant electrical potential is maintained, until sufficient test substance and/or biobarrier contacts the screen to change the electrical potential, at which the second time is recorded.
30. A method for determining the degree of corrosive toxicity of a test substance to human skin or membrane which method comprises:
(a) applying the test substance at a first time to a first face of a biobarrier having a second face, which biobarrier mimics human skin or membrane to . . . be tested, which biobarrier has its second face in contact with a mechanical detection system, the 


mechanical detection system comprising at least one indicator;
(b) allowing the test substance to transit the biobarrier to the second face to contact the mechanical detection system;
(c) detecting the test substance in the mechanical detection system at a second time; and
(d) obtaining the difference in the first and second times, whereby the time difference is inversely proportional to the corrosive toxicity of the test substance.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein the mechanical detection system comprises a surface which is immediately under the biobarrier wherein the surface is part of a sensitive weight balance, which registers a weight change when sufficient test substance and/or biobarrier contacts the surface.
32. The method of claim 30 wherein the mechanical detection system indicator comprises a light beam which is immediately under the biobarrier, wherein the light beam is broken when sufficient test substance and/or biobarrier transits the biobarrier.
33. The method of claim 30 wherein the mechanical detection system comprises a lever system, the lever system in contact with the second face of the biobarrier, the lever system shifting in response to contact with the test substance transiting the biobarrier, the shifting of the lever system being correlated with the degree of corrosive toxicity of the test substance. 



 34. A method for determining the degree of corrosive toxicity of a test substance to human skin or memorane, which method comprises:
(a) applying the test substance to test microspheres, the microspheres having been prepared by applying a layer of corrosion-resistant material of one color to an underlying particle of a second color, such that if the microspheres are exposed to a sufficiently corrosive substance, the second color is exposed; (b) leaving the test substance in contact with the microspheres for a time greater than 1 second; and
(c) observing the color of the contacted microspheres; whereby the test substance is determined to be corrosive if it exposes the second color.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein step (c) is preceded by the step of removing the test substance from the microspheres.
36. The method of claim 34, wherein the microspheres have been prepared with two or more different standard thicknesses of corrosion-resistant material and the underlying particles are two or more different colors, whereby the corrosivity of the test substance is correlated with the number of colors exposed.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the test substance exposes only one color under the corrosion- resistant material, whereby the test substance is determined to be less corrosive. 


 38. A method for determining the degree of corrosive toxicity of a test substance to human skin or membrane which method comprises:
(a) applying the test substance to a test stick which comprises one color, the stick having been prepared by applying the test microspheres to the stick, the microspheres having been prepared by applying a layer of corrosion-resistant material of one color to an underlying particle of a second color, such that if the microspheres are exposed to a sufficiently corrosive substance, the second color is exposed;
(b) leaving the test substance in contact with the test stick for more than 1 seconds; and
(c) observing the color of the microspheres on the test stick where the test substance had been applied.
39. The method of claim 38 wherein step (c) is preceded by the additional step of removing the test substance from the test stick.
40. The method of claim 38 wherein the test microspheres of step (a) have at least two standard thickness of corrosion-resistant material overlying particles having at least two different colors, such that the degree of corrosivity correlates with the number of colors which are exposed.
41. A method for determining the penetration of a test substance, the method comprising the steps of (a) applying the test substance at a first time to a penetration barrier, the penetration barrier having a first and a second face, which penetration barrier mimics human skin or membrane to be tested, which . . penetration barrier has its second face in contact with a detection system; 


 (b) allowing the test substance to transit the penetration barrier to the second face to contact the detection system;
(c) detecting the test substance with the detection system at a second time, to obtain a detection time; and
(d) correlating the detection time with in vivo penetration times.
42. The method of claim 41 wherein the test substance which transits the penetration barrier to the second face is removed at timed intervals for detection and quantitation, and wherein the quantities of test substance per time are correlated with in vivo penetration.
43. A method of classifying the corrosiveness of a test substance according to UN Packing Groups, the method comprising (a) providing a dry chemical indicator which registers a change in response to exposure to a corrosive test substance, the change varying with the UN Packing Group;
(b) exposing the test substance to the dry chemical indicator;
(c) observing the change in the chemical indicator; and
(d) correlating the change with the UN Packing Group.
44. The method of claim 43 wherein the dry chemical indicator registers changes in color which correlate with different UN Packing Groups. 


 45. The method of claim 43 wherein the dry chemical indicator registers a change in curvature which is correlated with the UN Packing Group.
46. The method of claim 43 wherein the dry chemical indicator registers a change in curvature correlated with the EEC class.
47. A method of classifying the corrosiveness of a test substance according to EEC R34 and R35 classes, the method comprising
(a) providing a dry chemical indicator which registers a change in response to a corrosive test substance, the change varying with the EEC class; (b) exposing the test substance to the dry chemical indicator;
(c) observing the change in the dry chemical indicator; and
(d) correlating the change with EEC R34 or R35 class.
48. The method of claim 47 wherein the dry chemical indicator registers changes in color corresponding to different EEC classes.
49. A method for determining the degree of corrosive toxicity of a test substance to human skin or membrane which method comprises the steps of
(a) applying the test substance to a test stick, the stick having been prepared by applying a series of layers to an underlying material, the layers comprising both corrosive- resistant materials and dyes interspersed, the surface of the test stick comprising a fi.rst layer, the fi.rst layer comprising a modestly corrosive-resistant material such 


that a second layer comprising a first dye immediately under the first layer is exposed by virtually all corrosive substances, a third layer underlying the second layer and comprising a more corrosive-resistant material than the first layer, such that a fourth layer, comprising a second dye immediately under the third layer is exposed by only more corrosive substances, a fifth layer underlying the fourth layer and comprising the most corrosive resistant substance of the three corrosive- resistant layers, such that a sixth layer, comprising a third dye immediately under the fifth layer is exposed by highly corrosive substances;
(b) leaving the test substance in contact with the test stick for more than 1 second; (c) observing the color of the test stick where the test substance was applied; and
(d) correlating the color of the test stick with the degree of corrosivity of the test substance.
50. The method of claim 49, wherein the test substance is removed from the test stick before the color of the test stick is observed.
51. The method of claim 49, wherein the dye layers and corrosive-resistant layers are combined, such that the first dye is incorporated into the third layer, the second dye is incorporated into the fifth layer and the third dye is incorporated into the underlying material of the test stick.
52. A method for determining the degree of corrosive toxicity of a test substance to human skin or membrane, which method comprises the steps of 


 (a) applying the test substance to test microspheres, the microspheres having been prepared by applying a series of layers to underlying particles, the layers comprising both corrosive- resistant materials and dyes interspersed such that a first layer, or surface layer comprises a modestly corrosive-resistant material such that the second layer comprising a first dye immediately underlying the first layer is exposed by virtually all corrosive substances, the third layer underlying the second layer and comprising a more corrosive-resistant material than the first layer, such that the fourth layer, comprising a second dye immediately under the third layer is exposed by only more corrosive substances, the fifth layer underlying the fourth layer and comprising the most corrosive-resistant material of the three corrosive- resistant layers, such that the sixth layer, comprising a third dye immediately under the fifth layer, is exposed only by highly corrosive substances; (b) letting the test substance contact the microspheres for more than 1 second; and
(c) observing the color of the microspheres.
53. The method of claim 52, wherein the test substance is removed from the microspheres before the color of the microspheres is observed.
54. The method of claim 52, wherein the dye layers and corrosive-resistant layers are combined, such that the first dye is incorporated into the third layer, the second dye is incorporated into the fifth layer and the third dye is incorporated into the underlying material of the microspheres. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
