<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626333</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Recalibrating an elevator load measuring system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B66B134	B66B134	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B66B	B66B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B66B1	B66B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Elevator load is computed from sensors. These sensors 
provide load signals. The load, defined by a stored load 

equation, is the product of those signals with a gain 
signal, summed with an offset signal (S20). Load 

computation using those signals is improved by a 
recalibration routine. The routine to adjust the offset 

(S2-S10) is initiated when the car transits floors in an 
empty car condition (S2). Current equation offset and the 

latest empty car signal levels are compared (S6). If the 
difference is less than a reference (STEP) the last levels 

become the offset (S9); if not, the equation offset is 
changed (S7). Load computation is further improved by 

sensing car rollback, to correct the gain signal. Rollback 
may occur after the brake holding the car in position is 

released but before a speed dictation signal is given to the 
motor, causing the car to move if motor torque is not 

matched to the load as computed from the load equation. 
Depending on the magnitude of the rollback, the gain is 

increased or decreased in increments (S23-S41) through 
successive elevator stops at floors provided there is 

sufficient passenger (cab) load. Rollback not caused by 
incorrect motor pretorquing when the brake is released is 

discarded (S21) by comparing the actual change in position 
of the car with the change in motor shaft or sheave 

position. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTIS ELEVATOR CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVID GEORGE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SORENSON DAVID H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVID, GEORGE A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SORENSON, DAVID H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns elevators, in particular, 
recalibrating an elevator load measuring system. U.S. Patent 4,330,836 to Donofrio, et al, assigned 
to Otis Elevator Company, explores techniques for 
measuring passenger load in an elevator. The patent 
comments that elevator cab load measurement is prone to 
inaccuracies from a number of factors, for instance, 
friction in devices that measure cab displacement under 
load and changes in the flexibility of the connecting 
pads that are typically positioned between the cab and 
load sensors (e.g. force transducers). It also focuses 
on variations in load measuring accuracy produced by 
passenger location (i.e. load distribution) in the 
elevator cab. The patent discloses a technique for 
locating force transducers strategically below the cab 
floor. The transducers measure cab load in a way that 
has been found to provide improved load weighing 
accuracy. A load line equation defines the cab load as 
a function of the aggregate of the transducer output 
signals. Passenger load, i.e. cab load, is then 
computed in a signal processor from the product of the 
aggregate and a gain coefficient; the product is then 
summed with an offset. The gain represents the slope of 
the line equation, the offset the value of the 
aggregate, theoretically zero, when the cab is empty. A manual adjustment or calibration procedure to 
set the correct offset and gain is also explained in  
 
that patent. Potentiometers are adjusted to scale the 
aggregate of the transducer output signals to the actual 
load in the cab, ideally canceling out mechanically 
produced errors causing incorrect cab load measurement. Another patent, also assigned to Otis Elevator 
Company, U.S. patent 4,305,495 to Bittar, et al, 
explores controlling the dispatching interval between 
cars to satisfy hall calls and car call demands. The 
patent explains, among other things, a way to use the 
cab load as determined in U.S. patent 4,330,836 in a 
computer-based dispatching system - an elevator in which 
a high-speed signal processor, such as a microprocessor, 
rapidly performs a wide variety of computations based on 
the condition of the elevator cars, cab load being one 
condition. The processor produces signals manifesting 
those conditions and the signals are then used by the 
processor to control dispatching of each car from a 
landing. In this manner, the elevator performance is 
regulated and controlled in a scheme that provides 
optimal overall system performance. Among uses made of 
cab load
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of load weighing in an elevator wherein a 
signal (LWINPUT) produced by a load in an elevator cab 

is multiplied by a stored signal manifesting a 
coefficient (LWGAIN) and summed with a stored signal 

manifesting a value (LWOFFSET) to provide a cab load 
signal that is used to control the torque of a motor, 

connected to a car containing the cab, after a brake, 
connected to the car, is lifted, the elevator having 

means for providing a position signal (PPT) manifesting 
a change in car position and means (T) for producing a 

machine velocity signal manifesting a change in motor 
position, said method being characterized by an 

automatic calibration routine comprising the steps of: 

a) providing a rollback signal in response to a 
change in motor position as manifested by the machine 

velocity signal (SP) after a brake (BR) is lifted, said 
rollback signal manifesting the direction of motor 

motion; 
b) storing a rollback position signal that 
manifests the change in car position after the brake 

(BR) is lifted, said rollback position signal being  
 

stored if said change in position and the machine 
velocity manifest the same car velocity direction, said 

rollback position signal being produced from a detected 
change in the position of the car; 
c) repeating steps a) and b) until a motor drive 
signal is provided: 
d) increasing or decreasing the coefficient 
(LWGAIN) in relation to the magnitude of said rollback 

position signal to change motor torque whereby said 
change in position following the next lifting of said 

brake for said load is reduced. 
The method according to claim 1, characterized by 
the additional steps: 


e) storing a first signal manifesting a first 
value for LWOFFSET at a first determination of an empty 

cab condition; 
f) producing LWINPUT at a second subsequent 
determination of an empty car condition; 
g) storing said second value as LWOFFSET if the 
difference between the first value and LWINPUT is less 

than or equal to a stored third value; and  
 
h) if said difference is greater than said third 
value, summing a stored value with said first value to 

produce a fifth value and storing said fifth value as 
LWOFFSET. 
A method according to claim 2 or 3, characterized 
in that LWGAIN is increased or decreased by a first 

increment if said change in car position is less than or 
equal to a first stored value and greater than a second 

stored gain level and is increased or decreased by a 
second increment larger than said first increment if 

said change in car position is greater than said first 
stored gain level. 
An elevator comprising a car (3,4), a motor, a 
motor controller (15,16) for controlling the torque of 

the motor, and providing a motor dictation signal, a 
brake (BR) lifted by a signal from the controller when 

the car departs a landing, a position transducer (PPT) 
connected to the car for providing a position signal 

manifesting car location and a transducer (T) connected 
to the motor for providing a motor velocity signal, load 

sensing means (TR) for providing a first load signal  
 

(LWINPUT) manifesting the magnitude of load in a car 
connected to the car and signal processing means for 

receiving the first load signal and computing there from 
a second signal manifesting the cab load according to a 

formula wherein the cab load equals the product of a 
stored gain signal (LWGAIN) and the load signal summed 

with a load offset signal (LWOFFSET) representing the 
empty cab load, said elevator being characterized by 

said signal processing means comprising: 

means for providing a first signal that manifests a 
change in motor position after the brake (BR) is lifted; 

means for successively providing a second signal that 
manifests the magnitude of said change in car position 

after the brake is lifted at a first floor stop until 
the motor dictation signal is provided; 
means for storing said second signal if the 
direction of motor position change and the direction of 

the change in car position is the same and said second 
signal is greater than a stored value representing the 

magnitude of said second signal as previously provided 
since the brake was lifted; 
means for increasing and decreasing a stored 
magnitude LWGAIN in relation to the magnitude of said  

 
stored second signal at the time said motor dictation 

signal is provided to adjust the magnitude of LWINPUT so 
that subsequent motor torque when the brake at a 

subsequent floor stop lifted will cause the magnitude of 
said stored second signal, for the same load signal, to 

be smaller. 
An elevator according to claim 4, characterized by:
 
   said means for providing LWGAIN comprising means 

for adjusting said magnitude of LWGAIN by a first 
incremental value if said stored second signal is less 

than or equal to a first stored value and greater than a 
second stored minimum value and for adjusting said 

LWGAIN magnitude by a second increment, greater than 
said first increment, when said stored second signal is 

greater than said first stored value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
