<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640042</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF FORMING AN ORIFICE ARRAY FOR A HIGH DENSITY INK JET PRINTHEAD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K2638	B41J216	B41J216	B23K2600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B41J	B41J	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K26	B41J2	B41J2	B23K26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method of forming an orifice array for an ink jet printhead (29). Excimer laser radiation is used to ablate an orifice array in a cover plate (10) having a removable backing (16), a front side layer (12) formed from either an ablatable inactive material such as polyimide, a non-wettable material doped to absorb excimer radiation, or an ablatable inactive material such as polyimide with a very thin surface layer of a non-wettable material, and an intermediate layer (14) formed from an adhesive material. First, a series of generally square indentations (26) approximately 80  mu m on each side and which extends through the removable backing (16) and the intermediate layer (14) and partially through the front side layer (12) exposing an interior surface (27) of the front side is formed at spaced locations along the back side surface of the cover plate (10). Next, a corresponding series of generally circular apertures (28) approximately 40  mu m in diameter, each positioned in the general center of the corresponding indentation (26) and extending through the front side layer (12) is formed in the cover plate (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMPAQ COMPUTER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COX W ROYALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYES DONALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COX, W. ROYALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYES, DONALD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method of forming an 
orifice array for a high density ink jet printhead and, 
more particularly, to a method of forming an orifice 
array for an ink jet printhead using a two-step laser 
ablation technique. A popular form of non-impact printing is generally 
referred to as ink jet printing. Ink jet printing systems 
use the ejection of tiny droplets of ink to produce an 
image. The devices produce highly reproducible and 
controllable droplets, so that a droplet may be printed 
at a location specified by digitally stored image data. 
Most ink jet printing systems commercially available may 
be generally classified as either a "continuous jet" type 
ink jet printing system where droplets are continuously  
 
ejected from the printhead and either directed to or away 
from the paper depending on the desired image to be 
produced or as a "drop on demand" type ink jet printing 
system where droplets are ejected from the printhead in 
response to a specific command related to the image to be 
produced. Continuous jet type ink jet printing systems are 
based upon the phenomena of uniform droplet formation 
from a stream of liquid issuing from an orifice. It had 
been previously observed that fluid ejected under 
pressure from an orifice about 50 to 80 microns in 
diameter tends to break up into uniform droplets upon the 
amplification of capillary waves induced onto the jet, 
for example, by an electromechanical device that causes 
pressure oscillations to propagate through the fluid. In 
this manner, ink is forced through the orifice where it 
forms a droplet. The droplet is electrostatically 
charged and then attracted towards an oppositely charged 
platen located behind a sheet of paper. Using electrically 
controlled deflection plates similar to those in a CRT, 
the trajectory of the droplet can be controlled to hit a 
desired spot on the paper. Unused drops are deflected 
away from the paper into a reservoir for recycling of the 
ink. Due to the small size of the droplet and the 
precise trajectory control, ink jet printing quality can 
approach that of formed-character impact printing. One 
drawback to continuous jet type ink jet printing systems 
is that fluid must be jetting even when little or no 
printing is required. This requirement degrades the ink 
and decreases reliability of the printing system.  
 Due to this drawback, there has been increased 
interest in the production of droplets by 
electromechanically induced pressure waves. In this type 
of system, a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming an orifice in a cover plate (10) 
for an ink jet printhead, comprising the steps of:
 
   providing a cover plate (10) having a removable 

backing (16), a front side layer (12) formed from an 
ablatable inactive material, and an intermediate layer (14) 

formed from an adhesive material;
 
   forming an indentation (26) in said cover plate, said 

indentation extending through said removable backing and 
said intermediate layer and partially through said front 

side layer, said indentation exposing an interior surface 
of said front side layer; and,
 
   forming an aperture (28) in said cover plate, said 

aperture extending from a portion of said exposed interior 
surface of said front side layer therethrough. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein said 
indentation (26) is formed in a generally rectangular 

shape. 
A method according to claim 2, wherein said aperture 
(28) is formed in a generally circular shape. 
A method according to claim 3, wherein said generally 
circular aperture is formed in the general center of said 

generally rectangular indentation. 
A method according to claim 4, wherein said generally 
circular aperture is formed having a diameter of 

approximately 40 µm and said generally rectangular 
indentation is a square approximately 80 µm along each 

side. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the steps of 
forming an indentation and an aperture in said cover plate  

 
further comprises the step of ablating said cover plate 

using excimer laser radiation. 
A method according to claim 6, wherein said front side 
layer of said cover plate is formed of polyimide. 
A method according to claim 6 and further comprising 
the steps of: providing a support structure (23) having a 

support surface (20) formed from an ablatable material; and 
supporting said cover plate on said support surface of said 

support structure before forming said indentation in said 
cover plate. 
A method according to claim 8, wherein the step of 
providing a support structure having a support surface 

formed from an ablatable material further comprises the 
steps of: providing a base support (23) having an aperture 

(25) with a specified diameter formed therein; providing a 
support layer (20) formed from an ablatable material; 

forming at least one aperture (21) in said support layer 
having a diameter less than said specified diameter; 

positioning said support layer on said base support such 
that said apertures are in communication with one another; 

drawing air through said aperture to secure said support 
layer on said base support; and positioning said cover 

plate on said support layer such that air drawn through 
said support layer aperture secures said cover plate on 

said support layer. 
A method according to claim 9, wherein the steps of 
forming an indentation and aperture in said cover plate 

further comprises the steps of forming said indentation and 
aperture at a location positioned above said ablatable 

material of said support layer. 
A method according to claim 10, wherein said support 
layer is formed of polyimide.  

 
A method according to claim 1, wherein said front side 
layer of said cover plate is formed from a non-wettable 

material doped to absorb excimer radiation. 
A method according to any of claims 1 to 12, 
comprising the steps of:
 
   forming a series of indentations at spaced locations 

in said cover plate to expose an interior surface of said 
cover plate; and,
 
   forming an aperture in each of said series of 

indentations, each of said apertures extending from a 
portion of said exposed interior surface of said front side 

layer therethrough. 
A method according to claim 13, wherein each of said 
indentations is formed in a generally rectangular shape. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein each of said 
apertures is formed in a generally circular shape. 
A method according to claim 15, wherein each of said 
generally circular apertures is formed in the general 

center of said corresponding generally rectangular 
indentation. 
A method according to claim 13, wherein the step of 
forming an orifice in said cover plate further comprises 

the step of ablating, using excimer laser radiation, said 
front side layer at each of said spaced locations. 
A method of forming an ink jet printhead, comprising 
the steps of:
 
   providing a main body portion having a front end and 

at least one ink-carrying channel axially extending through 
said main body portion and in communication with said front 

end;
  
 

   providing a cover plate having front and back 
surfaces;
 
   forming, by a method according to any of claims 1 to 

17, an ink-ejecting orifice in said cover plate for each of 
said at least one ink-carrying channels; and,
 
   mounting said cover plate to said main body portion 

such that each of said at least one ink-carrying channel is 
in communication with said corresponding ink-ejecting 

orifice. 
A method according to claim 18, further comprising the 
steps of: removing said removable backing; and, forming a 

thermal bond between said layer of adhesive material and 
said front end of said main body portion to mount said 

cover plate to said main body portion; said indentation 
collecting excess adhesive produced during said bonding 

step. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
