<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619252</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Conveyor system with article diverting mechanism
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G4784	B65G4784	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G47	B65G47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A conveying system comprises a transport 
conveyor (12) and a diverter mechanism (52) disposed thereabove for 

pushing articles transversely off the transport conveyor (12). 
The diverter mechanism (52) comprises a belt (18) having paddles (54) 

projecting therefrom. The belt (18) is periodically driven to 
cause a paddle (54) to transverse the main conveyor (12) to displace 

an article. Each paddle (54) is formed by two plates (56A,56B) connected 
at their inner ends to the belt (18) by means of hinges (70,72), with 

the hinge (70) of one plate (56A) being spaced from the hinge (72) of the 
other plate (56B) in the direction of belt travel. The outer 

ends (60) of the plates (56A,56B) are fixed together and sandwich a 
flexible wiper (64) therebetween. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANTRADE LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANTRADE LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YDOATE EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YDOATE, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an endless belt
and in particular to a belt having paddles projecting
therefrom for pushing objects off a transport conveyor.Depicted in FIG. 1 is a conventional conveying
system 10 which comprises a main transport conveyor 12
for conveying articles A therealong in a selected path of
travel. Disposed at various locations along the transport
conveyor 12 are chutes 14 onto which selected ones of the
articles are to be diverted. For example, the articles
could comprise thin envelopes or larger packages which are
being sorted according to destination.The articles can contain codes which are scanned
by sensors (not shown) to provide a signal indicating
which chute is to receive each particular article.In order to direct the article onto the chute,
a diverter mechanism 16 is arranged above the transport
conveyor 12. That diverter mechanism 16 comprises a belt
in the form of two spaced apart, narrow belt segments
18A, 18B. Alternatively, a single wide belt could be
used. The belt segments are mounted on two pairs of
pulleys 20, 22, each pair of pulleys being affixed to a
common axle 24, 26. The axles are mutually parallel, and
one of the axles is driven intermittently by a motor 28 by
means of a drive belt 30.Mounted to the belt segments is a plurality of
paddles 32, 34 (e.g., two or more). Upon receipt of a
signal, a motor 28 drives the belt segments by a selected
distance in either direction to cause one of the paddles
32, 34 to pass across the conveyor 12 and displace an
article A onto a respective chute 14. The paddles are attached to each belt segment in
a fixed manner, e.g., by being bolted to tabs 36 that are,
in turn, fixed to the belt segments. For instance, the
belt segments and tabs could be formed of urethane, with
the tabs being fused to the belt segments.It will be appreciated that as a paddle contacts
a package, the paddle tends to be bent backwards, whereby
forces will be transmitted by the paddle to its mounting
tabs 36. Consequently, the tabs are stressed in a manner
that can eventually produce a failure of their fused
connections with the belt segments.Moreover, in the event that the articles are thin
and tend to lie flat against the transport conveyor (e.g.,
envelopes), it may be necessary to compensate for the
tendency for a paddle to bend backwardly, and consequently
pass over the article. Such compensation may be
accomplished by arranging the paddle to have a length
greater than the vertical distance from the belt to the
transport conveyor. As a result,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A belt mechanism for pushing articles disposed on
a supporting surface comprising a belt (18), and at least one

paddle (54) mounted with an inner end on said belt, said
paddle projecting outwardly therefrom such that the outer end of

said paddle constitutes a free end thereof, characterized in
that said paddle includes first and second plates (56A, 56B),

each plate having inner and outer portions (58, 60), said outer
portions being interconnected, and said inner portions being

connected individually to said belt at first and second
locations (70, 72), respectively, spaced apart in a direction

of belt travel, each of said inner portions being connected to
said belt for individual swinging movement relative thereto

about an axis (78) oriented transversely relative to the
direction of belt travel.
A belt mechanism according to claim 1, wherein
each of said inner portions is connected to said belt by a

hinge (70 or 72) having a hinge pin (78).
A belt mechanism according to claim 2, wherein
said belt carries a plurality of tabs (36) projecting laterally

from said belt, said hinges being attached to respective ones
of said tabs.
A belt mechanism according to claim 3, wherein
said tabs are fused to said belt. 
A belt mechanism according to claim 2, wherein
said inner portions are inclined so as to extend from said belt

in an oblique direction.
A belt mechanism according to claim 5, wherein
said paddle includes an elastically flexible wiper (64)

projecting outwardly beyond said outer portions of said plates.
A belt mechanism according to claim 1, wherein
said inner portions of said plates of each paddle are inclined

so as to extend from said belt in a mutually converging manner.
A belt mechanism according to claim 7, wherein
each of said plates includes an intermediate portion (62)

extending outwardly from a respective inner portion, said
intermediate portions of each paddle being oriented

substantially parallel to one another.
A belt mechanism according to claim 8 including an
elastically flexible wiper (64) sandwiched between said outer

portions of said plates, said wiper projecting outwardly beyond
said plates.
A belt mechanism according to claim 1, wherein
said paddle incudes an elastically flexible wiper (64)

projecting outwardly beyond said outer portions of said plates. 
A belt mechanism according to claim 1, wherein
each of said plates is formed of spring steel so as to be able

to flex elastically.
A conveying system comprising a transport conveyor
(12) for transporting articles along a path of travel, and

a diverter mechanism (52) positioned above said transport
conveyor for pushing selected articles transversely off said

conveyor, said diverter mechanism comprising an endless belt
(18) mounted on a plurality of pulleys (24, 26) rotatable about

parallel horizontal axes such that said belt
forms a lower flight extending laterally across said transport

conveyor, a plurality of paddles (54) each including an inner
end mounted on said belt, each paddle projecting outwardly

therefrom such that the outer end of said paddle constitutes a
free end thereof, and drive means for intermittently rotating

said belt such that a paddle passes across said transport
conveyor for pushing an article therefrom, characterized in

that each paddle includes first and second plates (56A, 56B)
having inner portions (58) connected to said belt at first and

second locations (70, 72), respectively, which are spaced part
in a direction of belt travel, each of said inner portions

being individually connected to said belt for individual
swinging movement relative thereto about an axis (78) oriented

parallel to said pulley axes, said first and second plates
including outer portions (60) connected together to enable said

inner portions to move toward and away from one another as its
respective paddle traverses a pulley. 
A conveyor system according to claim 12, wherein
each of said inner portions is connected to said belt by a

hinge (70 or 72) having a hinge pin (78).
A conveyor system according to claim 13, wherein
said belt carries a plurality of tabs (36) proj
ecting laterally
from said belt, said hinges being attached to respective ones

of said tabs.
A conveyor system according to claim 14, wherein
said tabs are fused to said belt.
A conveyor system according to claim 13, wherein
said inner portions are inclined so as to extend from said belt

in an oblique direction.
A conveyor system according to claim 16, wherein
said paddle includes an elastically flexible wiper (64)

projecting outwardly beyond said outer portions of said plates.
A conveyor system according to claim 12, wherein
said inner portions of said plates of each paddle are inclined

so as to extend from said belt in a mutually converging manner.
A conveyor system according to claim 18, wherein
each plate includes an intermediate portion (62) extending

outwardly from a respective inner portion, said intermediate
portions being oriented substantially parallel to one another. 
A conveyor system according to claim 19 including
an elastically flexible wiper (64) sandwiched between said

outer portions of said plates of each paddle, said wiper
projecting outwardly beyond said outer portions.
A belt mechanism according to claim 12, wherein
each paddle comprises an elastically flexible wiper (64)

projecting outwardly beyond said outer portions of said plates.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
