<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617453</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Charged particle analyser
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J4948	H01J37252	H01J37285	H01J37252	H01J4900	H01J3726	H01J3706	H01J3706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J49	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	H01J49	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides apparatus and methods for 
investigating a small selected area of the surface of a 

specimen (10). The specimen (10) is irradiated by a 
primary beam of X-rays or electrons to cause it to emit 

electrons. These are collected by a novel electron-optical 
arrangement (25,30,34,37-40) and are used to 

create an image of the selected area of the surface 
using only those electrons emitted with energies lying 

in a specified range. Apparatus according to the 
invention has greater sensitivity and spatial resolution 

than previously known apparatus. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMO INSTR SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMO INSTRUMENT SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COXON PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COXON, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to charged-particle analysers and in particular to 
energy spectrometers, microscopes and spectromicroscopes. Primarily, 
the invention provides means for investigating the surface properties of a 
specimen. The use of charged-particle analysers for surface analysis is a well-established 
practice and an introduction to this subject may be found in 
many texts, such as for example, 'Surface physics' by M. Prutton (Oxford 
University Press) and 'Modern techniques of surface science' by D. P. 
Woodruff and T. A. Delchar (Cambridge University Press). The charged 
particles emitted from the specimen surface may take the form of positive 
ions, negative ions or most commonly electrons. An energy spectrum of the sample may be obtained by means of a 
suitable energy analyser, typically of the electrostatic toroidal capacitor 
type. Alternatively, an image of the specimen may be formed by detecting 
the change in intensity of the emitted particles across the surface. Such 
techniques are commonly referred to as spectroscopy and microscopy 
respectively and provide complementary information relating to the 
specimen surface. Photoelectron spectroscopy is often used to study the surface of a 
specimen. In this technique, the specimen is irradiated by means of an X-ray 
or ultraviolet source that causes electrons in the energy range from 
zero to several thousand electron Volts (eV) to be emitted from the 
surface. It is usual because of differences in the photon source to refer to 
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and ultraviolet photoelectron 
spectroscopy (UPS). The emitted electrons may be focused by an electron 
lens and separated in energy by an analysing device. Electrons of a 
particular energy may then be selected by an apertured plate and detected 
by means such as channel multiplier and electronically recorded. The success of XPS in determining the electronic structure of surfaces 
has led to the requirement for an imaging capability from electron 
spectrometers. This may be achieved in two ways, firstly by restricting 
the area of the sample irradiated by the X-ray source and secondly by  
 
detecting electrons emitted from only a part of the specimen surface. The 
difficulty of obtaining a finely focused X-ray beam has concentrated 
development in the second of these categories. Developments in selected area XPS have led to a number of devices 
capable of use as both a photoelectron spectrometer and a photoelectron 
microscope. With suitable magnetic or electrostatic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for investigating a selected area of the 
surface region of a specimen comprising:- 


(a) a specimen holder (20); 
(b) at least one source of radiation (24,51) placed 
so as to cause the emission of charged particles from a 

specimen placed on said specimen holder (20); 
(c) a charged particle lens system for receiving at 
least some of said charged particles emitted from said 

specimen, and 
(d) analysing means (41) for analysing the energy 
of the charged particles transmitted by said charged 

particle lens system;
 
   wherein said charged particle lens system comprises: 
(e) an objective lens (25,30) which receives at 
least some of the charged particles emitted from the 

specimen and generates a field and which images said 
charged particles in an image plane (15); 
(f) a first diaphragm (32) located proximate said 
image plane, said first diaphragm having an aperture 

(33) therein which defines a selected area of the 
specimen which is to be investigated; 
(g) a second lens (34) located downstream of said 
first diaphragm (32), said second lens being arranged to 

re-focus the charged particles which pass through the 
aperture (33) in said first diaphragm (32); and 
(h) a second diaphragm (35) located between said 
second lens and said analysing means, said second 

diaphragm having an aperture (36) therein to define the 
collection angle of the charged-particles from the 

specimen. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said 
objective lens comprises a magnetic lens (25).  

 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said 
objective lens comprises an electrostatic lens (30). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said 
objective lens comprises both magnetic (25) and 

electrostatic lenses (30) which can be used 
independently or in combination. 
Apparatus as claimed in any previous claim wherein 
said second diaphragm (35) is located proximate the 

diffraction plane of said second lens (34). 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1-4 wherein 
said second diaphragm (35) is located between the 

diffraction and image planes of said second lens (34). 
Apparatus as claimed in 6 wherein said second 
diaphragm (35) is located between the diffraction plane 

of said second lens (34) and a point not greater than 
the focal length of said second lens (34) from said 

diffraction plane. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
a third lens is provided between said second lens and 

said analysing means to re-focus the image produced by 
said second lens at the entrance of said analysing means 

(41). 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1-7 wherein a 
third lens (37-40) is provided between said second lens 

(34) and said analysing means (41) to produce at the 
entrance of said analysing means a Fourier transform of 

the image produced by said second lens. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
said at least one source of radiation comprises an X-ray 

source (24).  
 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
said at least one source of radiation comprises an 

electron source (51). 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
said first (32) and said second (35) diaphragms are 

provided with means for adjusting the sizes of the 
apertures therein. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
means are provided for changing the overall 

magnification of said first and second lenses to change 
the area of the specimen imaged by said objective lens. 
A method of investigating a selected area of the 
surface of a specimen (10), said method comprising: 


(a) irradiating said specimen (10) to cause the 
emission of charged particles therefrom; 
(b) transmitting at least some of the charged 
particles emitted from said specimen (10) to a charged 

particle energy analyzer (41);
 
   wherein step (b) further comprises the steps of: 
(c) using an objective lens (25,30), focusing at 
least some of the charged particles emitted from said 

specimen (10) to form a charged-particle image of said 
specimen (10) in an image plane; 
(d) selecting a portion of said charged-particle 
image by passing said charged particles through an 

aperture (33) in a first diaphragm (32) disposed 
proximate said image plane; 
(e) using a second lens (34), re-focusing the 
charged particles passing though the aperture (33) in 

said first diaphragm (32), and; 
(f) defining the collection angle of said charged 
particles emitted from said specimen by passing the 

charged particles leaving said second lens through an 
aperture (36) in a second diaphragm (35) and  

 
subsequently into said charged particle energy analyzer 

(41). 
A method as claimed in claim 14 wherein said 
objective lens (25) comprises a magnetic field. 
A method as claimed in claim 14 wherein said 
objective lens (30) comprises an electrostatic field. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 14, 15 or 16 
wherein said second diaphragm (35) is located between 

the diffraction plane of said second lens (34) and a 
point not greater than the focal length of said second 

lens from said diffraction plane. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 14-17 wherein 
the area of said specimen (10) from which charged 

particles are emitted and pass into said energy analyser 
(41) is selected by changing the overall magnification 

of said objective (25,30) and said second (34) lenses. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
