<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637182</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A self-routing optical communication node using Sagnac gates.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F300	G02F300	H04B1002	H04B1002	H04L1256	H04L1256	H04Q352	H04Q352	H04Q1100	H04Q1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F3	G02F3	H04B10	H04B10	H04L12	H04L12	H04Q3	H04Q3	H04Q11	H04Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A Sagnac gate-based self-routing optical signal switching node (130) 
demultiplexes each channel of data bits of an N channel multiplexed optical data 

signal to one of a plurality of output terminals in accordance with the routing bit(s) 
of each data channel received in the N channel multiplexed optical data signal. In 

one embodiment, each data channel includes multiple routing bits enabling greater 
demultiplexer selectivity. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUANG ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITAKER JR NORMAN ASHTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUANG, ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITAKER JR., NORMAN ASHTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optical communication circuits and, more 
particularly, to a self-routing optical communication node implemented using 
Sagnac optical fiber logic gates. The speed of present-day electronics is limited by the mobility of 
electrons and holes in a semi-conductor to around five pico seconds (ps). 
Capacitance and inductance considerations add additional limits. The Sagnac optical 
fiber logic gate was developed as part of an effort to achieve an optical digital 
technology which is capable of clock rates much faster than electronics. In Sagnac gates, while the issues of contrast, cascadability, logical 
completeness, temperature sensitivity, energy pulse reshaping, and mechanical 
stability were of initial concern, they have now been overcome. However, the 
latency exhibited by Sagnac gates has been a "mixed blessing". On one hand, the 
long latency has enabled Sagnac gates to reduce jitter tolerance. On the other hand, 
the long latency has complicated the design of combinatoric circuits requiring 
feedback. Sagnac gates have been used in a variety of circuit applications including, 
for example, those described in U. S. patents 5,144,375; 5,155,779; and 5,208,705 as 
well as those described in EP-A-0593206, EP-A-0589617 and EP-A-0593208. Notwithstanding, the above described design successes, the long latency 
of the Sagnac gates continue to present problems in circuits requiring the use of 
feedback or the storing of logic state information. In accordance with the present invention, Sagnac gates are utilized to 
implement self-routing optical signal switching nodes for demultiplexing an N 
channel multiplexed optical data signal including a frame header and N channels of 
multiplexed routing and data bits. The self-routing node detects the start of a data 
frame using the header bits. The routing bits are used to control an optical 
demultiplexer circuit to route each of the N channels of data bits to one of a plurality 
of optical data output terminals.  More particularly, the self-routing node includes a frame header detector 
means for detecting frame header bits and generating a routing bit select signal 
which is used to control the storing of routing bits in a routing bit storage circuit. 
The routing bit storage circuit generates a channel data routing signal which controls 
a demultiplexer to route data bits of each channel to an output data terminal specified 
by the routing bits of that channel. In the drawings: 
FIG. 1 shows an illustrative self-routing optical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A self-routing optical signal switching node (130) apparatus 
   CHARACTERIZED BY 

   means for receiving (121) an N channel multiplexed optical data signal 
including frame header bits, N channel multiplexed routing bits, and N channel 

multiplexed data bits, 
   frame header detector means (140 or 180), including Sagnac switch 

means, for detecting said frame header bits and for generating a routing bit select 
signal, 

   routing bit storage circuit (160), including Sagnac switch means, for 
storing said routing bits in response to said routing bit select signal and for 

generating a channel data routing signal and 
   optical demultiplexer circuit (170), including Sagnac switch means, 

responsive to said channel data routing signal, for demultiplexing each channel of 
said received N channel multiplexed data bits onto one of a plurality of o
ptical data 
output terminals. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said frame header detector includes 
one Sagnac switch means for each of said frame header bits. 
The apparatus of claim 2 wherein a clock signal of said received N 
channel multiplexed optical data signal is used as a control signal of at least one of 

said Sagnac switch means. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said frame header detector generates 
said routing bit select signal when it detects a unique bit pattern in said header bits. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said frame header detector generates 
said routing bit select signal when it detects a predetermined time spacing between at 

least two header bits. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said routing bit storage circuit 
includes 

   first Sagnac switch means for writing said routing bits into said routing 
bit storage circuit in response to said received routing bit select signal and

 
   second Sagnac switch means for clearing previously-stored routing bits 

from said routing bit storage circuit in response to said received routing bit select 
signal. 
The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said routing bit storage circuit 
includes a fiber loop memory connected between an output (X) and input (I) of said 

second Sagnac switch means, said fiber loop memory and said second Sagnac switch 
means storing N routing bits. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said optical demultiplexer circuit 
includes a Sagnac switch means including 


1) two inputs I, J connected to said received N channel multiplexed 
optical data signal; 
2) two outputs X, Y each providing one of said optical data output 
terminals; 
3) one control signal CI, derived from said channel data routing signal; 
and 
 
   wherein when said control signal is absent an input I creates an output X 

and an input J creates an output Y, and, wherein, when said control signal is present 
an input I creates an output Y and an input J creates an output X. 
The apparatus of claim 1 
   wherein each channel includes two or more routing bits and 

   wherein said apparatus demultiplexes said received N channel 
multiplexed data bits into 2R different outputs, where R equals the number of 

routing bits and where N may be less than, equal to or greater than 2R. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein multiple routing bits are used for 
each of the N data channels and wherein the time between adjacent routing bits, for a 

particular data channel, is equal to or greater than the latency of said Sagnac switch 
means. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein for each data channel, the time 
between the last routing bit and the first data bit is equal to or greater than the 

latency of said Sagnac switch means. 
A self-routing optical signal switching node (130) apparatus 
   CHARACTERIZED BY 

   means for receiving (121) an N channel multiplexed optical data signal, 
each channel including at least one routing bit, and a plurality of data bits, 

   routing bit storage circuit (160), including Sagnac switch means, for 
detecting and storing said routing bits of said N channels and for generating a 

cyclically recurring channel data routing signal and 
   optical demultiplexer circuit (150), including Sagnac switch means, 

responsive to said channel data routing signal, for demultiplexing each channel of 
said received N channel multiplexed data bits onto one of a plurality of optical data 

output terminals. 
A communication system 
   CHARACTERIZED BY 

   optical signal multiplexer (100) including 
   means for receiving N optical data signals (TA, TB, TC, TD), each 

including at least one routing bit and a plurality of data bits and 
   means, including Sagnac switch means, for multiplexing (103-106) each 

of said N optical data signals into an N channel multiplexed optical data signal and 
   self-routing optical signal switching node (130) apparatus including 

   means for receiving (121) said N channel multiplexed optical data 
signal, 

   routing bit storage circuit (160), including Sagnac switch means,for 
detecting and storing said routing bits and for generating a cyclically recurring 

channel data routing signal and 
   optical demultiplexer circuit (150), including Sagnac switch means, 

responsive to said channel data routing signal, for demultiplexing each channel of 
said received N channel multiplexed data buts onto one of a plurality of optical data 

output terminals. 
A method of operating a self-routing optical signal switching node 
apparatus 

   CHARACTERIZED BY the steps of 
   receiving an N channel multiplexed optical data signal including frame 

header bits, N channel multiplexed routing bits, and N channel multiplexed data bits,
 

   detecting and storing said routing bits using Sagnac switch means, and 
in response thereto generating a channel data routing signal and 

   in response to said channel data routing signal, demultiplexing, using 
Sagnac switch means, each channel of said received N channel multiplexed data bits 

onto one of a plurality of optical data output terminals. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
