<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654203</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH FREQUENCY ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT FOR LOAD BALLASTING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01F3800	H01F3808	H05B4100	H05B4102	H05B4124	H05B4124	H05B4128	H05B41282	H05B41292	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01F	H01F	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01F38	H01F38	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	H05B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high frequency electronic ballast (128) having a transformer (104) in which the transformer (104) has a primary winding (106) which is coupled to a secondary winding (108) via a primary flux path (1) from which flux can be diverted by a secondary flux path (2) including an air gap (114) which can be adjustable. Use of the transformer (104) permits load operation from a rectified alternating current power source which can be compensated by a high frequency power supply (192) to present a favorable power factor to the alternating current supply.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DELTA COVENTRY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEASLEY, DENNY, DEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HIGH FREQUENCY ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT FOR LOAD BALLASTINGBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to energy management systems for electric loads. Utility of the invention is found in power supplies and in lamp ballasts, such as used in the operation of discharge lamps, such as high intensity discharge (HID) lamps. More particularly, a high frequency electronic ballast circuit responsive to a highly dynamic load is described. The ballast circuit includes a transformer having primary and secondary flux paths to vary the flux, linking a secondary winding coupling the ballast to a load; and, due to the varying flux linkage, the transformer also isolates the ballast-circuit from the operating dynamics of the load.Discharge lamps such as fluorescent, mercury, metal halide and high pressure sodium lamps are popular sources of light because of their high efficiency in converting electrical energy into light. For the high efficiency operation of such lamps, a high efficiency ballast circuit must be provided. Likewise, there are many applications in which a power supply responsive to a highly dynamic load is required.Due to the highly dynamic characteristics of operation of certain loads, which may change from an effective open circuit to a very low impedance close to zero in a matter of nanoseconds, for example, upon ignition of a HID lamp, high efficiency ballast circuits have been very 

expensive. The high costs of prior art high efficiency ballast circuits are due to the requirements of expensive circuitry for high speed current limiting with high power ratings, which are necessary to construct ballast circuits in accordance with conventional circuit designs.Accordingly, there is a need for an improved ballast circuit which can survive the hostile conditions imposed by starting and running dynamic loads at high efficiencies, yet which utilizes low cost components, such that the cost of the improved ballast circuit is substantially reduced in comparison to currently available ballast circuits.Power supplies in many applications also experience highly dynamic behaviour that requires complex control mechanisms to prevent variations in output voltages. To provide adequate control, many analog components are added to provide regulation in each needed output. The introduction of these analog regulators also introduces high losses, and therefore, results in low efficiency. The high losses in the output regulators also require large physical size to allow dissipation of the heat generated in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
- 33 -
What is claimed is:
1. A high frequency electronic ballast circuit for driving load comprising: a transformer having a primary winding and a variable flux linked secondary winding for connection to a load; and driver means connected to said primary winding for driving said transformer to operate a load connected to said secondary winding.
2. The circuit of claim 1 wherein said transformer comprises a primary flux path coupling said secondary winding to said primary winding and a secondary flux path having a higher magnetomotive force drop than said primary flux path.
3. The circuit of claim 2 wherein said secondary winding comprises first and second winding portions interconnected in series to one another at a common secondary winding intermediate tap, said ballast circuit further comprising flux sensor means coupled to said secondary flux path, switch means for selectively connecting said driver means across said secondary winding or only across one of said first and second winding portions, and switch control means being connected to said flux sensor means for operating said switch means as a function of the flux passing through said secondary flux path.
4. The circuit of claim 2 wherein said secondary flux path includes an air gap to define said higher magnetomotive force drop. 


 - 34 -
5. The circuit of claim 4 wherein said air gap is adjustable to enable selection of said higher magnetomotive force drop in said secondary flux path.
6. The circuit of claim 4 further comprising an auxiliary air gap adjacent at least a portion of said primary winding.
7. The circuit of claim 1 further comprising resonance means connected to said secondary winding for defining resonance for the circuit including said secondary winding, said resonance means, and a load.
8. The circuit of claim 7 wherein said resonance means comprises a series resonant capacitor connected in series with said secondary winding and a load for defining a series resonance frequency during operation of a connected load.
9. The circuit of claim 8 wherein said resonance means further comprises a shunt resonant capacitor connected in shunt across a connected load for defining a shunt resonance frequency while a connected load is extinguished.
10. The circuit of claim 8 wherein said driver means comprises oscillator means for setting an operating frequency for said driver means.
11. A high frequency electronic ballast circuit for driving a load as claimed in claim 10 wherein said oscillator means is operated at a substantially fixed frequency. 


 - 35 -
12. A high frequency electronic ballast circuit for driving a load as claimed in claim 10 further comprising frequency control means for setting an operating frequency for said oscillator means.
13. A high frequency electronic ballast circuit for driving a load as claimed in claim 12 in which the load is a lamp, wherein said frequency control means comprises a frequency control signal source generating a frequency control signal to vary said operating frequency for said oscillator means about a given operating frequency, whereby a stable lamp arc is ensured at said given operating frequency.
14. The circuit of claim 12 wherein said frequency control means comprises manually adjustable circuitry connected to said oscillator means.
15. The circuit of claim 12 further comprising alternating current to high voltage direct current converter means for generating high voltage direct current power for said driver means, and wherein said frequency control means comprises a feedback loop from said converter means for varying said frequency of operation of said oscillator means as a function of variations in said high voltage direct current power.
16. The circuit of claim 15 in which the driven load is a lamp and wherein said frequency control means further comprises a frequency control signal source generating a frequency control 


 - 36 -
signal to vary said operating frequency for said oscillator means about a given operating frequency whereby a stable lamp arc is ensured at said given operating frequency.
17. An electronic circuit comprising a high frequency circuit including: responsive to a highly dynamic load; a transformer having a primary winding and a variable flux linked secondary winding for connection to a load; driver means connected to said primary winding for driving said transformer to operate a load connected to said secondary winding; and power supply means for generating full-wave rectified power from a supply of alternating current power, said full-wave rectified power being used by said driver means for driving said transformer to operate a connected to said secondary winding.
18. The high frequency circuit of claim 17 wherein said transformer further comprises an auxiliary winding and said ballast circuit further comprises: a power storage capacitor; first rectifier means connected between said auxiliary winding of said transformer and said power storage capacitor; and second rectifier means connected between said power storage capacitor and said power supply means for conducting power from said power storage capacitor to said power supply means. 


 - 37 -
19. The circuit of claim 18 for operating a load wherein said first rectifier means comprises a half-wave rectifier circuit.
20. The circuit of claim 18 for operating a discharge lamp as load wherein said first rectifier means comprises a full-wave rectifier circuit.
21. The circuit of claim 18 wherein said auxiliary winding is selected to generate a voltage on said power storage capacitor which is a fraction of a peak voltage of said supply of alternating current power.
22. The circuit of claim 21 wherein said fraction of said peak voltage of said supply of alternating current power is approximately one-half.
23. The circuit of claim 17 wherein said power supply means comprises catastrophic transient protection means for protecting said power supply from one catastrophic power surge over the lifetime of said ballast circuit.
24. The circuit of claim 23 wherein said catastrophic transient protection comprises: a first varistor designed to protect against voltage surges exceeding a first defined voltage level; fusible circuit means for opening at current levels above a first current level, said first varistor and said fusible circuit means being connected in series with the series 


 - 38 -
combination being connected in shunt across an input for said supply of alternating current power; and a second varistor designed to protect against voltage surges exceeding a second defined voltage level greater than said first defined voltage level, said second varistor being connected in shunt across said input for said supply of alternating current power.
25. The circuit of claim 24 wherein said fusible circuit means comprises a section of electrically conductive foil on a printed circuit board.
26. The circuit claim 25 wherein said electrically conductive foil is formed in a zig-zag pattern.
27. The circuit of claim 1 or claim 7 including means for providing a regulated output voltage comprising at least one additional tap in the secondary winding of the transformer to provide a predetermined voltage output after rectification.
28. The circuit of claim 27 including multiple taps on the secondary winding to provide a plurality of predetermined voltage outputs.
29. The circuit of claim 1 or claim 7 including a start-up section comprising a transistor in series with the primary winding of the transform which is biased by the current drawn into the circuit at load start-up. 


 - 39 -
30. The circuit of claim 1 or claim 7 including a dynamic harmonic canceller comprising a band pass filter means for blocking harmonics of an alternating current line input.
31. The circuit of claim 1 or claim 7 including amplifier means for generating a square wave for shifting a frequency of the circuit to minimize ripple in the secondary output.
32. The circuit of claim 1 or claim 7 in combination with a lamp as a load and further including a boost-topology power factor correction circuit.
33. The circuit of any of claims 1-13, 14, 15, 17 and 18-26 in combination with a lamp as a load. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
