<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623192</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BLIND FASTENER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16B1904	B21K100	F16B1904	F16B1910	B21K160	B21J1536	B21J1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16B	B21K	F16B	F16B	B21K	B21J	B21J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16B19	B21K1	F16B19	F16B19	B21K1	B21J15	B21J15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fastener mandrel (20) has formed on one end a shoulder (42) and a twisted, generally rectangular shaped head (40) adjoining the shoulder. In setting the fastener in a workpiece, the shoulder enlarges the end of a tubular rivet (22) and clamps workpieces together in combination with a preformed head (26) on the other end of the rivet (22). The mandrel head (40) deforms the rivet tail (28) into a twisted appearing shape with a somewhat elliptical cross section that partially encloses the mandrel head (40) to provide good stem retention and prevent axial looseness. A plurality of axial ribs (48) on the mandrel stem (38) are drawn into a reduced diameter section of the rivet head end when the rivet is set, thereby providing additional stem retention and torsional interference.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXTRON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXTRON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESHRAGHI SOHEIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESHRAGHI, SOHEIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to mechanical fasteners, such as 
blind rivets, wherein fastener installation is only accessible 
on one side, although the invention may be useful in non-blind 
situations as well. More particularly, the invention relates 
to an improved means for retaining a fastener 
stem head in an installed fastener body. In the installation of a blind rivet, the combination of 
a tubular fastener body or sleeve with a cylindrical stem 
therein -is inserted through aligned holes in two or more 
stacked workpieces. The sleeve typically has a preformed head 
on one end which engages one side of the combined workpiece 
and has a plain tubular configuration on its tail end 
protruding from the opposite side of the workpiece. The stem 
usually has an enlarged head which engages the tail end of the 
fastener sleeve and has an elongated portion protruding beyond 
the head end of the sleeve to be gripped by an installation 
tool. The stem is pulled by the tool so that its enlarged 
head deforms the tail of the sleeve. When the sleeve is thus 
set, further pulling on the stem causes it to break flush with 
the exterior of the sleeve head. It is desirable that the portion of the stem extending 
through the sleeve remains captured in the sleeve in that the 
stem provides additional shear strength to the fastener, and 
in many installations it is not acceptable to have loose rivet 
stems confined within an inaccessible portion of the 
structure. In a three-piece blind fastener, a locking ring 
fits into a mating annular groove between the stem and the 
sleeve to lock the stem in the sleeve. Such a fastener is 
widely used and has many advantages, one advantage being that 
a given fastener can accommodate workpieces within a range of 
workpiece thicknesses in that the stem is wire drawn until a 
positive stop is reached. However, a two-piece fastener, which is naturally less 
expensive, and which provides good stem retention without  
 
looseness, is needed. Various attempts have been made at 
attaining these goals, but only partial success has been 
obtained. U.S. Patent 5,102,274 - Norton, et al. discloses a blind 
fastener having a pull stem with an enlarged head and shoulder 
on one end to provide good stem retention characteristics. 
The enlarged shoulder on the stem has an outwardly flaring, 
preferably spherically curved forward surface that initially 
engages and enlarges the tail of the sleeve. A pair of sleeve 
expanding lips or protrusions that are diametrically spaced 
and protrude beyond the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fastener including a tubular rivet body (22) 
having a shank (24) for extending through a workpiece (64, 

66) with a tail (28) protruding beyond the workpiece, and 
a stem (38) extending through said rivet body having a 

head (40) on one end which protrudes beyond the rivet body 
and is adapted to engage and enlarge said tail and draw 

workpiece components together as the stem is drawn towards 
the workpiece during a fastener setting operation, 

characterised in that said head (40) is twisted in 
appearance about a longitudinal axis of said stem (38) in 

a manner that causes said tail (28) to conform to the 
shape of the stem head and capture the stem head to 

restrict it from moving axially relative to the rivet 
body. 
A fastener according to Claim 1, characterised 
in that said stem head (40) is formed to produce a 

generally elliptical cross-section at any one axial 
position along said tail (28), with the smaller diameter 

of such cross-section being sufficiently small to resist 
axial movement of the stem after the rivet is set. 
A fastener according to Claim 1, or 2, 
characterised in that said stem head (40) has a forward 

facing shoulder (42) which engages and enlarges said tail. 
A fastener according to Claim 3, characterised 
in that said shoulder has a convex configuration. 
A fastener according to Claim 3, or 4, 
characterised in that said head (40) has spaced deforming  

 
edges (54) to the rear of said shoulder (42) which define 

a diameter larger than said shoulder so that when said 
edges engage the rivet tail (28), they further enlarge 

this tail in the area of engagement, said edges extending 
circumferentially about only a portion of said stem head 

and being positioned to cause said tail to enlarge in 
diameter in one transverse direction. 
A fastener according to any one of Claims 1, 3, 
4, 5 or 6, characterised in that said stem head (40) has 

an elongated generally rectangular cross-section with 
rounded edges (54). 
A fastener according to Claim 6, characterised 
in that the cross-sectional shape of the ends of the stem 

head (40) are similar to each other but are 
circumferentially offset about 60 degrees with respect to 

each other. 
A fastener according to any preceding Claim, 
characterised in that the axial length of said stem head 

(40) is about equal to the diameter of the stem (38). 
A fastener according to any preceding Claim, 
characterised in that said stem head (40) has 

diametrically spaced recesses (58) that permit the tail 
(28) to deform inwardly to a reduced diameter. 
A fastener according to any preceding Claim, 
characterised in that said stem (38) has a diameter 

including portions within the rivet body (22) which are 
slightly larger than the interior diameter of said rivet 

body so that friction between the two components is  
 

maintained and must be overcome to separate the 
components. 
A fastener according to Claim 10, characterised 
in that the rivet body (22) inner diameter in the area of 

a head (26) on said rivet body is reduced relative to the 
area between the reduced area and the rivet tail (28) so 

that the frictional interference between the components is 
increased as the rivet is set in a workpiece. 
A fastener according to Claim 1, characterised 
in that said stem head (40) includes a forward facing 

shoulder (42) with a generally flat but twisted appearing 
shape adjacent the shoulder having two opposite broad 

faces (52) joined by two opposite smaller edges (54), the 
diametric dimension of said broad faces tapering smoothly 

from said shoulder and outwardly to a generally constant 
diameter which is larger than the diameter of said 

shoulder so that the rivet tail (28) is deformed outwardly 
by engagement with said edges (54), the thickness of the 

head between said broad faces being appreciably less than 
the diameter of said shoulder such that ledges (50) having 

somewhat the shape of circular segments are formed on the 
back side of said shoulder adjacent said broad faces, the 

axial ends of said head (40) being circumferentially 
offset with respect to each other in an amount which will 

cause said rivet tail to conform to the exterior shape of 
said head and will prevent said stem from being axially 

pushed out of said tail without relative rotation between 
the stem head and said tail.  

 
A method of fastening pieces together with a 
fastener according to any one of the preceding Claims, 

including the steps of aligning apertures in two or more 
pieces to be joined, inserting the sleeve (22) of said 

fastener from a first side of said pieces through said 
aperture, and passing the stem (38) through said sleeve 

from a second side of said pieces so that said stem head 
(40) and said rivet tail (28) project beyond said second 

side; characterised by pulling said stem (38) from said 
first side so that said stem head (40) deforms the rivet 

tail into a spiral somewhat ellipsoid configuration until 
said tail breaks off, leaving the remaining portion of 

said stem axiially held within said sleeve (22). 
A method of creating a stem head (40) on a 
fastener according to any one of Claims 1 to 12,
 
characterised by
 
   compressing the sides of an end of a stem rod (70) 

between mating die faces (82, 84) to flatten said rod 
end to cause shorter side edges of the flattened end 

to deform outwardly, the die faces being formed to 
create a spiral like configuration on the flattened 

rod end with the cross-section shape of one axial end 
of the rod being offset circumferentially with a 

crosssectional shape at the opposite axial end of the 
flattened end. 
A method according to Claim 14, characterised by 
the step of limiting the outward deforming of said shorter 

edges by engaging within opposed walls of a slot (82).  
 
A method according to Claim 14, including the 
step of inserting the stem rod (70) into a hole (78) 

within a die housing (80) with an enlarged end of the stem 
rod being positioned in a slot (82) extending through the 

die housing, transverse to the housing hole, the slot 
being slightly larger than the diameter of the enlarged 

end of the stem rod, the outward deforming of the shorter 
edges being limited by engaging said slot walls. 
A method according to Claim 14, 15, or 16, 
characterised in that the flattened rod end is compressed 

by said dies (82, 84) in a manner to circumferentially 
offset the ends of said head (40) in an amount sufficient 

to cause said head to deform a fastener rivet tail (28) 
and cause the tail to conform generally to the exterior 

shape of the head when the head is drawn into said tail, 
the deforming being sufficient to lock the stem head 

within the sleeve tail. 
A method according to Claim 17, characterised in 
that the ends of said tail are offset circumferentially 

with respect to each other about 60 degrees. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
