<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619912</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DECORATIVE DISPLAY AND ORNAMENT THEREFOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10F100	G10F110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10F	G10F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10F1	G10F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A display, such as a Christmas display, comprises a plurality of ornaments (14), each including a striker (18), a pair of bells (26, 27) disposed in spaced relation from the striker (18) and a means (46) responsive to an electrical signal from a control unit (12) for moving the striker into contact with one or the other of the bells (26, 27), at least some of the bells on the ornaments having different frequencies such that sequentially striking the bells (26, 27) plays a tune, such as a Christmas carol. The ornaments are preferably distributed about a Christmas tree, though alternatively they may be placed on a flat surface.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEGAN M H LP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
M.H. SEGAN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWSOME MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEGAN MARC H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWSOME, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEGAN, MARC, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE OF INVENTION: DECORATIVE DISPLAY AND ORNAMENT THEREFOR BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention This invention pertains to decorative displays, and more specifically to electronic decorative displays incorporating ornaments for generating music and/or a light effect. Most particularly, the present invention pertains to decorative displays of the aforementioned type particularly suited for use as a Christmas display.Prior Art A wide variety of Christmas ornaments exist. While some such ornaments incorporate music and/or light effects, a substantial market is perceived for a Christmas ornament wherein mechanical movement produces a musical effect optionally combined with a light effect. It is accordingly an object of the present invention to provide a novel Christmas display incorporating one or more ornaments wherein mechanical movement in the ornament causes a musical effect. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a Christmas ornament of the aforementioned type wherein the mechanical movement comprises movement of a figurine supporting a striker, and wherein the musical effect results from the striker striking a bell positioned on one side of the figurine. It is still another object of the invention to provide a Christmas ornament of the aforementioned type wherein the striker strikes one of two bells on 

 either side of the figurine. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a Christmas display incorporating a plurality of Christmas ornaments of the aforementioned type, wherein the bells on the ornaments are struck in a predetermined sequence determined by a control unit for producing a musical tune, such as a Christmas carol. It is yet a further object of the present invention to provide a Christmas display of the aforementioned type which can be either supported on a Christmas tree or disposed on a flat surface. Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a Christmas display of the aforementioned type wherein each ornament incorporates a light which is lighted with each mechanical movement of its figurine. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONBroadly speaking, the present invention is a display, such as a Christmas display, comprising: a plurality of ornaments, each including a striker, a pair of bells disposed in spaced relation from the striker, and a means responsive to an electrical signal from a control unit for moving the striker from a rest position to one of two second positions, said striker being in contact with one of said two bells
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A display comprising: a plurality of ornaments, each including a striker, first and second tone generating means for respectively generating first and second tones when struck, each of said first and second tone generating means being disposed in spaced relation from said striker, and moving means responsive to an electrical signal for moving said striker from a first rest position to either of two second positions for striking said first tone generating means in one of said second positions and said second tone generating means in the other of said second positions, at least some of said first tone generating means on said plurality of ornaments having different frequencies from said respective second tone generating means for accommodating playing of a tune by sequentially striking said tone generating means; a control unit including means for sequentially generating electrical signals for transmission to said moving means for moving said striker in each of said plurality of ornaments to said second positions for striking said first and 


 second tone generating means in a predetermined sequence for playing said tune; and transmitting means for transmitting said electrical signals from said control unit to said moving means for moving said striker in each of said plurality of ornaments. 2. The display of claim 1, wherein said striker in at least one of said plurality of ornaments rotates relative to its respective first and second tone generating means, and wherein said moving means comprises rotating means for rotating said striker. 3. The display of claim 2, wherein said rotating means comprises a motor. 4. The display of claim 3, wherein each of said plurality of ornaments includes a base having a casing defining a chamber and a platform rotatable relative to said casing, wherein said striker is secured to said platform for rotation therewith, and wherein said motor is disposed in said chamber and has a shaft connected to said platform for rotating same in response to an electrical signal from said control unit for rotating said striker from said rest position to one of said second positions in contact with said respective first and second tone 


generating means dependent on the direction of rotation of said motor. 5. The display of claim 4, further comprising returning means for returning said striker to said rest position after striking said respective first and second tone generating means. 6. The display of claim 5, wherein said casing includes a wall in said chamber, wherein said platform includes a stop movable therewith relative to said wall, wherein said stop is in a first position in spaced relation from said wall when said is in said rest position and wherein said second positions of said striker are defined by contact between said stop and said wall. 7. The display of claim 6, wherein said striker comprises a flexible, resilient shaft having a contacting member at one end thereof, and wherein said striker is in close spaced relation from said respective tone generating means in each of said second positions whereupon inertia moves said contacting member into contact with said respective first and second tone generating means, such movement being accommodated by said flexible, resilient shaft. 8. The display of claim 6, wherein said 



 returning means for returning said striker to its rest position comprises a return spring having a portion abutting said stop for movement therewith upon rotation of said platform, movement of said portion of said return spring biasing same for returning said stop to said rest position upon termination of said electrical signal from said control unit to said motor. 9. The display of claim 4 , wherein said ornament comprising said at least one striker includes a figurine secured to said platform for rotation therewith, and wherein said at least one striker is secured to said figurine. 10. The display of claim 9, further comprising a light secured to said figurine, and wherein said means for transmitting said electrical signal from said control unit to said motor further comprises means for transmitting said electrical signal to said light, whereby said light is lighted each time said motor is activated. 11. The display of claim 1, wherein at least one of said plurality of ornaments comprises a light, and wherein said transmitting means for transmitting said electrical signal from said control unit to said moving means for moving said 


striker in said at least one ornament comprises means for transmitting said electrical signal to said light, whereby said light is lighted each time said striker is moved. 12. The display of claim 1, wherein said at least one of said plurality of ornaments includes a hanger having two arms, wherein one of said first and second tone generating means is secured to each of said two arms, and wherein said hanger includes means for securing said ornament to a Christmas tree. 13. The display of claim 12, further comprising supporting means for supporting said ornaments on a flat surface. 14. The display of claim 1, wherein said means for sequentially generating said electrical signals comprises a microprocessor. 15. The display of claim 14, wherein said transmitting means comprises plural electrical conductors connecting said control unit to said ornaments. 16. The display of claim 4, wherein said means for sequentially generating said electrical signals comprises a microprocessor. 17. The display of claim 16, wherein said 


 transmitting means comprises plural electrical conductors connecting said control unit to said ornaments. 18. The display of claim 1, wherein said striker is supported on a decorative portion of said ornament whereby the striking of one of said first and second tone generating means is accompanied by a pleasing visual effect comprising movement of said decorative portion. 19. The display of claim 1, wherein each of said first and second tone generating means comprises a bell. 20. The display of claim 1, wherein at least one of said ornaments has a percussion member, and wherein said moving means for moving said striker comprises means for moving said striker on said at least one ornament into contact with said percussion member. 21. An ornament for inclusion in a display comprising: a striker movable in first and second directions, first and second tone generating means for generating corresponding first and second tones when struck, said first tone being different from said second tone, said striker being disposed 


between said first and second tone generating means, and moving means responsive to an electrical signal for moving said striker from a rest position to strike either of said first and second tone generating means, said striker striking said first tone generating means when moved in said first direction and said striker striking said second tone generating means when moved in said second direction, and said striker coming to rest in said rest position after striking one of said first and second tone generating means 22. The ornament of claim 21, wherein said striker rotates relative to said first and second tone generating means, and wherein said moving means for moving said striker comprises rotating means for rotating said striker. 23. The ornament of claim 22, wherein said rotating means for rotating said striker comprises a motor. 24. The ornament of claim 23, wherein said ornament includes a base having a casing defining a chamber and a platform rotatable relative to said casing, wherein said striker is secured to • said platform for rotation therewith, and wherein said motor is disposed in said chamber and has a shaft 


 connected to said platform for rotating same in response to said electrical signal for rotating said striker from said rest position to one of said first and second directions in contact with the respective first and second tone generating means dependent upon the direction of rotation of said motor. 25. The ornament of claim 24, further comprising returning means for returning said striker to said rest position after striking said respective tone generating means. 26. The ornament of claim 25, wherein said casing for said ornament includes a wall in said chamber, wherein said platform includes a stop movable therewith relative to said wall, wherein said stop is in a first position in spaced relation from said wall when said striker is in said rest position and wherein first and second positions of said striker are defined by contact between said stop and said wall. 27. The ornament of claim 26, wherein said striker comprises a flexible, resilient shaft having a contacting member at one end thereof, and wherein said striker striking in said first and second directions is in close spaced relation from said respective first and second tone generating means 


whereupon inertia moves said contacting member into contact with said respective tone generating means, such movement being accommodated by said flexible, resilient shaft of said striker. 28. The ornament of claim 27, wherein said returning means for returning said striker to its rest position comprises a return spring having a portion abutting said stop for movement therewith upon rotation of said platform, movement of said portion of said return spring biasing same for returning said stop to said first position upon termination of said electrical signal to said motor. 29. The ornament of claim 24, further comprising a figurine secured to said platform for rotation therewith, and wherein said striker is secured to said figurine. 30. The ornament of claim 29, further comprising a light secured to said figurine and wherein said light is responsive to said electrical signal whereby said light is lighted each time said motor is activated. 31. The ornament of claim 21, further comprising a light responsive to said electrical signal whereby said light is lighted each time said striker is moved. 


 32. The ornament of claim 21, wherein said ornament includes a hanger having two arms, wherein one of said two tone generating means is secured to each of said two arms, and wherein said hanger includes means for securing said ornament to a Christmas tree. 33. The ornament of claim 32, further comprising means for supporting said ornament on a flat surface. 34. The ornament of claim 21, wherein said striker is supported on a decorative portion of said ornament whereby the striking of at least one of said first and second tone generating means is accompanied by a pleasing visual effect comprising movement of said decorative portion. 35. The display of claim 21, wherein each of said first and second tone generating means comprises a bell. 36. The display of claim 21, wherein said ornament has a percussion member, and wherein said moving means for moving said striker comprises means for moving said striker on said ornament into contact with said percussion member. 37. A display comprising: a plurality of ornaments, each 



 including a striker, first and second tone generating means for respectively generating first and second tones when struck, said striker being disposed between said first and second tone generating means, and moving means responsive to an electrical signal for moving said striker from a first, rest position to either of two second positions for striking said first tone generating means in one of said second positions and said second tone generating means in the other of said second positions, said striker coming to rest in said rest position after striking one of said first and second tone generating means, at least some of said first tone generating means on said plurality of ornaments having different frequencies from said respective second tone generating means for accommodating playing of a tune by sequentially striking said first and second tone generating means; a control unit including means for sequentially generating electrical signals for transmission to said moving means for moving said striker in each of said plurality of ornaments to said second positions for striking said respective first and second tone generating means in a 


predetermined sequence for playing said tune; and transmitting means for transmitting said electrical signals from said control unit to said moving means for moving said striker in each of said plurality of ornaments. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
