<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625022</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR EYE TRACKING FOR CONVERGENCE AND STRABISMUS MEASUREMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B302	A61B308	A61B3113	A61B3113	A61B504	A61B504	A61B50496	A61B50496	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B3	A61B3	A61B3	A61B3	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOCONTROL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOCONTROL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAKE LISA E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNAPP R BENJAMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUSTED HUGH S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAKE, LISA, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNAPP, R., BENJAMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUSTED, HUGH, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AMD APPARATUS FOR EYE TRACKING FOR CONVERGENCE AND STRABISMUS MEASUREMENTBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates generally to techniques and devices for tracking eye movement, and more specifically to a method and apparatus for sensing electro-oculogram (EOG) signals produced by eye movement and processing those signals to determine the horizontal and vertical position of each eye as well to determine convergence or divergence of the eyes. The signals representing eye position are interfaced to an output device for strabismus measurement or for controlling a video game or other electronic device. 2. Description of the Background ArtOver the past several years interactive video games have gained widespread popularity. Stand-alone game units have been installed in arcades, restaurants, movie theaters, and other publicly accessible facilities. Additionally, video game units have entered the home entertainment market in the form of adapters for standard television sets. As technology has progressed, there has been interest in "virtual reality" where video games take on a three-dimensional character. These games, however, require the use of the hands in their operation thereby making hand/eye coordination essential to successful play. By using movement of the eyes alone to play the game, a higher degree of realism can be achieved.Several types of systems have been developed over the years to permit computers or machinery to be controlled by eye movement. For example, U.S. Patent No. 3,462,604 issued to Mason on August 19, 1969, discloses an oculometer for determining eye orientation based on light reflected from the retina of the eye relative to light reflected from the front surface of the eye. Light is directed to the eyeball where it is reflected by both the front surface and the retina at the back of the eye. A detecting system views the reflected images and determines eye position from the relative 

positions of the reflected images.U.S. Patent No. 4,109,145 issued to Graf on August 22, 1978, discloses an apparatus for "line of sight" detection of eye orientation. Using an oculometer or other line of sight determining device to monitor the orientation of the eye, the apparatus measures the length of time that the operator's eye remains in the line of sight position relative to a particular control function. If the line of sight position is maintained longer than a predetermined time, the apparatus produces a control output.U.S. Patent No. 3,986,030 issued to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
on the amount of drift from the sensors coupled to the input channel. The threshold value must be great enough to remove all drift, but small enough to permit measurement of all eye movement. If the derivative is not greater than the threshold value, step 166 causes the retention of the original output value and returns this value to step 162. If the derivative is greater than the threshold value, the original value and its derivative are numerically summed at step 168 and the summation is returned to step 162. This process is performed by digital signal processor 60.
Accordingly, it will be seen that this invention can accurately determine the horizontal and vertical position of each eye using EOG signals and use eye position to control and output device such as a video game or a computer to measure strabismus. Although the description above contains many specificities, these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments of this invention. Thus the scope of this invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents. 

CLAIMS
I claim:
1. A method for determining eye position in relation to a reference point, comprising the steps of: (a) sensing electro-oculogram voltage signals produced by movement of at least one eye;
(b) calibrating said electro-oculogram voltage signals to zero amplitude while focusing said eye on a reference point; (c) monitoring said electro-oculogram signals for a change in amplitude; and (d) converting said change in amplitude to a positional signal representing the position of said eye in relation to said reference point.
2. The method recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of compensating for electro-oculogram voltage signal drift when said eye is fixed in position.
3. The method recited in claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
(a) measuring the change in amplitude of each said electro-oculogram voltage signal over a fixed time interval; (b) comparing said change in amplitude with a reference voltage signal;
(c) numerically summing said electro-oculogram voltage signal and said change in amplitude when said change in amplitude exceeds said reference voltage signal; and
(d) repeating steps (a) through (c) .
4. The method recited in claim 1, wherein said step of sensing electro-oculogram voltage signals produced by movement of at least one eye is preceded by the steps comprising: 


 (a) positioning a first sensor on the forehead of a person in proximity to the vertical center point between the eyes of said person;
(b) positioning a second sensor on the forehead of said person in proximity to the vertical center point of said eye; and
(c) positioning a third sensor on the forehead of said person laterally in relation to said second sensor.
5. The method recited in claim 4, further comprising the steps of:
(a) sensing electro-oculogram voltage signals between said third sensor and said first sensor;
(b) sensing electro-oculogram signals between said second sensor and said first sensor; and
(c) determining the numerical difference between the electro-oculogram voltage signal derived in step (a) and the electro-oculogram voltage signal derived in step (b) ; and (d) converting the polarity and amplitude of the electro-oculogram voltage signal derived in step (c) into a positional signal representing the horizontal position of said eye in relation to said reference point.
6. The method recited in claim 5, further comprising the step of positioning a fourth sensor below said eye.
7. The method recited in claim 6, further comprising the steps of:
(a) sensing electro-oculogram voltage signals between said fourth sensor and said first sensor;
(b) sensing electro-oculogram signals between said third sensor and said first sensor; and (c) determining the numerical difference between the electro-oculogram voltage signal derived in step (a) the electro-oculogram voltage signal derived in 


 step (b) ; and (d) converting the polarity and amplitude of the electro-oculogram voltage signal derived in step (c) into a positional signal representing the vertical position of said eye in relation to said reference point.
8. A method for determining the degree of convergence and divergence of the eyes, comprising the steps of: (a) sensing electro-oculogram voltage signals representing the horizontal position of a right eye in relation to a first reference point;
(b) sensing electro-oculogram voltage signals representing the horizontal position of a left eye in relation to said first reference point;
(c) calibrating said electro-oculogram voltage signals representing the horizontal position of said right eye to zero amplitude while focusing said right eye on said first reference point with said left eye closed;
(d) calibrating said electro-oculogram voltage signals representing the horizontal position of said left eye to zero amplitude while focusing said left eye on said first reference point with said right eye closed;
(e) simultaneously focusing said eyes on a second reference point;
(f) determining the numerical difference between the electro-oculogram voltage signals representing the horizontal position of said right eye and the electro-oculogram signals representing the horizontal position of said left eye; and
(g) converting the polarity and amplitude of the electro-oculogram voltage signal derived in step (f) into a positional signal representing the degree of convergence or divergence of said eyes. 


 9. The method recited in claim 8, further comprising the step of compensating for changes in amplitude of said electro-oculogram signals when said eyes are fixed in position.
10. The method recited in claim 8, further comprising the steps of:
(a) measuring the change in amplitude of each said electro-oculogram voltage signal over a fixed time interval;
(b) comparing said change in amplitude with a reference voltage signal;
(c) numerically summing said electro-oculogram voltage signal and said change in amplitude when said change in amplitude exceeds said reference voltage signal; and
(d) repeating steps (a) through (c) .
11. A method for controlling the position of an image on a video display, comprising the steps of:
(a) sensing electro-oculogram voltage signals representing the horizontal position of a right eye in relation to a first reference point;
(b) sensing electro-oculogram voltage signals representing the horizontal position of a left eye in relation to said first reference point;
(c) determining the numerical difference between said electro-oculogram voltage signals representing the horizontal position of said right eye and said electro-oculogram signals representing the horizontal position of said left eye;
(d) successively repeating step (c) ;
(e) controlling the position of an image on a video display based on a change in the amplitude of the electro-oculogram signals derived in step (d) .
12. The method recited in claim 11, further comprising 


the step of compensating for changes in amplitude of said electro-oculogram signals when said eyes are fixed in position.
13. The method recited in claim 11, further comprising the steps of:
(a) measuring the change in amplitude of each said electro-oculogram voltage signal over a fixed time interval; (b) comparing said change in amplitude with a reference voltage signal;
(c) numerically summing said electro-oculogram voltage signal and said change in amplitude when said change in amplitude exceeds said reference voltage signal; and
(d) repeating steps (a) through (c) .
14. An apparatus for determining the position of an eye in relation to a reference point, comprising: (a) sensing means for sensing electro-oculogram voltage signals produced by movement of at least one eye;
(b) means for calibrating said electro-oculogram voltage signals to zero amplitude while focusing said eye on a reference point; (c) means for sensing a change in amplitude of said electro-oculogram signals; and (d) processing means for converting said change in amplitude to a positional signal representing the position of said eye in relation to said reference point.
15. The apparatus recited in claim 14, further comprising means for compensating for electro-oculogram voltage signal drift when said eye is fixed in position.
16. The apparatus recited in claim 14, wherein said sensing means comprises a plurality of sensors adapted for 


electrical coupling to the skin of a human operator.
17. The apparatus recited in claim 14, wherein said processing means comprises a digital signal processor.
18. An apparatus for controlling the position of an image on a video display, comprising:
(a) right horizontal sensing means for sensing electro- oculogram voltage signals produced by horizontal movement of a right eye;
(b) left horizontal sensing means for sensing electro- oculogram voltage signals produced by horizontal movement of a left eye;
(c) means for compensating for electro-oculogram voltage signal drift when said eyes are fixed in position; and
(d) processing means for processing said electro- oculogram signals to determine changes in degree of convergence between said eyes and controlling the position of an image on a video display based said changes in degree of convergence.
19. The apparatus recited in claim 18, further comprising vertical sensing means for sensing electro- oculogram voltage signals produced by vertical movement of said eyes.
20. The apparatus recited in claim 19, wherein said processing means includes means for controlling the horizontal position of said image on said video display based on horizontal movement of said eyes and means for controlling the vertical position of said image on said video display based on vertical movement of said eyes, said degree of convergence controlling the position of said image in a third dimension. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
