<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610253</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LINEAR BRAKING MEANS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F501	A61F501	F16G1100	F16G1110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	F16G	F16G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	F16G11	F16G11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A brake is provided to resist linear movement of a rope, rod or similar elongate article. The brake consists of two abutments joined by a sleeve having two sets of helical threads wound in opposite directions so as to interweave. When the abutments are moved apart (e.g. by a lever pivoted on a supporting body) the sleeve both lengthens and contracts diametrically to grip an elongate article disposed therein. The article may only project into one end of the sleeve or may extend completely through the sleeve and abutments. The article is threaded through the brake or alternatively the brake may be openable along its length so that the elongate article may be placed therein. In a particular use, a pair of brakes (78) controls pivoting of knee hinge (72) of a leg brace. When a wearer's weight is placed on heel member (95), tape (94) is pulled and levers (87) are pivoted thus causing sleeves inside tubes (79) to elongate and contract about rigid pins (77).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLACE JOHN RUSSELL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLACE JOHN RUSSELL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLACE JOHN RUSSELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLACE JOHN RUSSELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LINEAR BRAKING MEANS TECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates generally to linear braking means for ropes, rods, wires and the like. Linear braking means of the type according to the present invention find particular application, by way of example, in orthopaedic braces. BACKGROUND ARTMany substantially linear articles require the controlled application of a braking force in their use. While a very large range of brakes suitable for use on circular devices such as wheels are in existence, the range of satisfactory linear brakes is comparatively limited. In particular brakes for use on ropes tend either to require the coiling of an intermediate portion of such rope about a drum, the drum then being acted on by a suitable rotary brake, or, the rope is led through a cam or wedging cleat which apply very high stress and local abrasion to the rope. Also, such cleats tend to be very abrupt in releasing their holding effect and must be backed-up to be released. Clearly advantages can be obtained if a feasible linear brake can be developed for use on ropes, rods, wires and other substantially linear articles. There are various handicaps which may affect the use of one's legs. To a degree some of these handicaps may be offset by use of an orthopaedic brace which is firmly attached to the respective upper and lower leg limbs and hinged proximate the knee. The hinge can be manually locked, such as in Australian Patent 480049 so as to provide the necessary rigidity in the legs for supporting the body weight, or unlocked to allow the leg to be bent, for example while seated. While it has long been acknowledged that an automatic one-way braked hinge, such as in US Patent 3826251, would be desirable, such attempts 

 in the prior art have tended to function only to a limited degree. Also, rotary brakes have been incorporated in the hinge proximate the knee, but such brakes have generally- required very close tolerances and construction accuracy, and have been susceptible to adverse wear. Further, previous braked caliper devices have needed to be larger and heavier than ideal in order to provide good braking effect.DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION According to one form of the invention there is provided a linear braking means comprising a first end abutment, a second end abutment spaced apart from the first end abutment, a diametrically contractable sleeve joining the first and second abutments, the abutments and the sleeve defining a path along which a linear article may pass into the sleeve, and extension means adapted to move
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS : -
1. A linear braking means comprising a first end abutment, a second end abutment spaced apart from the first end abutment, a diametrically contractable sleeve joining the first and second abutments, the abutments and the sleeve defining a path along which a linear article may pass into the sleeve, and extension means adapted to move the abutments relative to one another between a first position in which they are spaced apart a minimum distance and a second position in which they are spaced apart by greater than the minimum distance to lengthen the sleeve and thereby cause it to diametrically contract about the path along at least a part of the length of the sleeve.
2. A linear braking means as claimed in claim 1 in which the diametrically contractable sleeve comprises two helical arrays of threads, wires or the like which are wound in opposite directions and are interwoven with one another.
3. A linear braking means as claimed in Claim 1 the diametrically contractable sleeve is openable along its length when the abutments are in their first positions so that a linear article may be laid into the sleeve.
4. A linear braking means as claimed in Claim 3 in which the diametrically contractable sleeve comprises an array of diagonally oriented threads slidably joined to the free edges of a pair of hemicylindrical shells which are hingedly connected together along their other free edge, the hemicylindrical shells together forming one of the abutments, means being provided to force the free edges of the shells to which the threads are joined together as the abutments are moved into their second positions. 


5. A linear braking means as claimed in claim 1 in which biasing means are provided in the linear braking means to bias the abutments into either their first or second positions. 6. A linear braking means as claimed in claim 5 in which the biasing means comprise a spring biasing the abutments into their first positions.
7. A linear braking means as claimed in claim 1 in which the abutments are mounted on the linear braking means in such a way that as a force is applied to a linear article in the linear braking means to urge it into, or withdraw it from, the sleeve so one abutment is caused to move away from the other abutment so as to cause the sleeve to more tightly grip the linear article. 8. A linear braking means as claimed in claim 7 in which the linear braking means is adapted to brake a rope, wire or other flexible linear article and in which the one abutment is mounted on a lever pivotally connected to a body of the linear braking member, the lever projecting into the direct path of the linear article from the braking means to the source of a load on the linear article such that as the load on the linear article increases straightening of the linear article will apply pressure to the lever causing it to move pivotally relative to the body and to move the one abutment away from the other abutment.
9. A linear braking means as claimed in claim 7 in which the linear braking means is adapted to brake a rod or other non-flexible linear article and in which the one abutment is pivotally connected to one end of a lever which is pivotally connected at its other end to the body of the linear braking means or to some other support, the other abutment being movable relative to the body or other support and pivotally connected to the lever intermediate its ends so that additional inward force applied to a 


 linear article gripped by the sleeve will move the other abutment but will move the other abutment more thereby increasing the braking force on the linear article. 10. An orthopaedic brace having a first brace member adapted to be firmly secured to an upper part of a person's leg, a second brace member adapted to be firmly secured to a lower part of that leg, a hinge member connecting a lower end of the first brace member with an upper end of the second brace member and adapted to be positioned in axial alignment with the knee joint of that person's leg, the first and second brace member being interconnected by a linear brake, the linear brake comprising an elongate rod pivotally connected to one of the brace members and extending through the path of a linear braking means as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, which is pivotally attached to the other brace member, the extension means of the linear braking means serving to move the abutments thereof into the second position and cause the sleeve to firmly grip the rod and thereby prevent relative rotation of the first and second brace members about the hinge when a user applies a downwardly directed load to the extension means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
