<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625872</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LAWN MOWER ACTIVATION SWITCH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01D3463	A01D3467	A01D3468	A01D3476	A01D3478	H01H302	H01H320	H01H902	H01H906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01D	A01D	A01D	A01D	A01D	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01D34	A01D34	A01D34	A01D34	A01D34	H01H3	H01H3	H01H9	H01H9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RYOBI MOTOR PRODUCTS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RYOBI MOTOR PRODUCTS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONG CHARLES KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LONG CHARLES KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LAWN MOWER ACTIVATION SWITCHTechnical FieldThis invention relates to an activation switch, and more particularly to an activation switch 5 for use with an electric lawn mower.Background ArtTraditionally, electric lawn mower construc¬ tion has consisted of a single switch to activate the lawn mower. Accordingly, it was possible to activate 10 the lawn mower with one hand. Examples of such a configuration may be seen in U.S. Patent No. 3,500,620 to Duran et al. and U.S. Patent No. 3,298,163 to Ottosen et al.Lawn mowers then provided a remote control 15 lever for operating the on/off switch with a motor for an electric mower to enable the operator to stand a distance from the housing when engaging the motor. An example of such a configuration is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,564,186 to Mittelstadt. Subsequently, 20 handles or control bars were utilized which were spring- biased to an OFF position which required that both switches be placed to an ON position to start the electric motor as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,230,695 to West.jfe 25 Eventually, the dual control switches were incorporated into a generally U-shaped, one-piece handle commonly referred to as a bail bar to provide improved operator control and minimize fatigue associated with holding onto two separate switches. Such a configura- 

tion is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,476,643 to Hilchey et al.In 1984, in response to existing and proposed standards for lawn mowers, U.S. Patent No. 4,466,308 to Kester et al. disclosed a control assembly for lawn mowers including a dead-man function requiring two distinct steps for starting of the lawn mower engine.On December 8, 1989, Underwriters Laboratory, Inc. published a revised standard for electric lawn mowers under UL 1447, 2nd Edition, Section 26, which required that:the lawn mower be provided with a means that must be manually actuated before the blade or blades can be restarted such that the means may be either a control that is separate from the blade control or it may be incorporated into the blade control's double action device that requires two separate actions to restart the blade or blades.Underwriters Laboratory 1447, 2nd Edition, Section 26 is incorporated herein by reference.The present invention is directed to improving known activation switches for electric lawn mowers while adopting Underwriters Laboratories 1447, 2nd Edition, Section 26 requirements. 

 Summary Of The InventionAn object of the present invention is to provide an electric lawn mower with an activator button for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. An electric lawn mower comprising: an electric motor for driving a cutting blade;
a mower deck having a plurality of wheels for movably supporting said cutting blade relative to a lawn to be cut; a handle having a first end affixed to said mower deck and a second end adapted to cooperate with an operator using said mower; a bail bar shiftable with respect to said handle between an ON position and an OFF position;. an activator button movable with respect to said handle in a first degree of freedom between an ACTIVE position and a STOP position, said activator button movable with respect to said handle when said activator button is in said ACTIVE position for movement in a second degree of freedom between a READY orienta¬ tion and a RUN orientation in response to movement of said bail bar from said OFF position to said ON posi- tion; biasing means cooperating with said handle and said activator button for biasing said activator button toward said READY orientation and for biasing said activator button toward said STOP position; a normally open electrical switch for activat¬ ing said electric motor, said switch being closeable only when said activator button is moved to said RUN orientation and said bail bar is shifted to said ON position; and a detent cooperating with said switch and said activator button when said activator button is in said RUN orientation to prevent said biasing means from biasing said activator button to said STOP position. 



 2. The mower of claim 1 including another detent fixed with respect to said handle and cooperating with said activator button only in said STOP position and cooperating with said bail bar only in said ACTIVE position to maintain said activator button in said READY orientation.
3. The mower of claim 1 including a housing mountable on said handle for enclosing said activator button and said biasing means, said housing having a first aperture for guiding movement of said activator button in said first degree of freedom and second degree of freedom and a second aperture for facilitating movement of said bail bar between said ON position and said OFF position, and said housing having a first retaining means cooperating with said biasing means for retaining said biasing means.
4. The mower of claim 3 wherein said first retaining means comprises a retaining pin affixed to said housing for retaining engagement with said biasing means.
5. The mower of claim 3 wherein said housing further includes limiting means cooperating with said bail bar for limiting movement of said bail bar in said ON position and said OFF position.
6. The mower of claim 5 wherein said limit¬ ing means comprises surfaces on said housing
5
 against which said bail bar abuts in said ON position and said OFF position to limit movement of said bail bar.
7. The mower of claim 1 wherein said biasing means comprises a torsion spring for biasing said 


activator button toward said READY orientation and for biasing said activator button toward said STOP position.
8. The mower of claim 1 wherein said bail bar is pivotally mounted about an axis fixed with respect to said handle for enabling pivotal movement between said ON position and said OFF position.
9. The mower of claim 1 wherein said activa¬ tor button further comprises: a first member slidably and pivotally cooper- ating with a guide pin affixed with respect to said handle along a central axis enabling said activator button to move axially along said central axis in said first degree of freedom between said ACTIVE position and said STOP position and enabling said activator button to pivot about said central axis in said second degree of freedom between said READY orientation and said RUN orientation; a body affixed to said first member, said body having a first arm cooperating with said bail bar enabling movement of said body and said first member in said second degree of freedom between a READY orienta¬ tion and a RUN orientation in response to movement of said bail bar to said ON position when said activator button is located in said ACTIVE position, said body having a second arm cooperatively engaging said electri¬ cal switch when said body and said second member move toward said RUN orientation in response to movement of said bail bar to said ON position, and said body having a second retaining means cooperating with said first retaining means for retaining said biasing means; and said activator button having a surface on said second member against which the operator can exert 


pressure to move said activator button to said ACTIVE position.
10. The mower button of claim 9 wherein said second retaining means comprises a retaining pin affixed to said body.
11. The mower of claim 1 wherein said activa¬ tor button and said bail bar are pivotally mounted about generally parallel axes.
12. The mower of claim 9 wherein said biasing means comprises a spring cooperating with said guide pin and said first member to bias said activator button in said STOP position when pressure is not exerted by the operator on said surface and when said activator button is not enabled by said bail bar for movement to said RUN orientation, said spring surrounding said guide pin and said first member and retained between said first retaining means and said second retaining means.
13. The mower of claim 1 wherein said elec¬ trical switch comprises: a switch housing affixed with respect to said handle; a contact button biased normally open, said contact button being engaged when said activator button is moved to said RUN orientation by said bail bar to close said electrical circuit activating said electric motor to drive said cutting blade.
14. A method of activating an electric lawn mower having an electric motor driving a cutting blade, the cutting blade located below a mower deck having a plurality of wheels for movably supporting said cutting 


blade relative to a lawn to be cut, the method compris¬ ing: providing an elongated handle having a first end affixed to said mower deck and a second end cooper- ating with an operator using said mower; depressing an activator button cooperating with said handle to an ACTIVE position, said activator button movable in a first degree of freedom between said ACTIVE position and a STOP position, said activator button movable in a second degree of freedom between a READY orientation and a RUN orientation; shifting a bail bar to an ON position while maintaining said activator button in said READY orienta¬ tion against a biasing means biasing said activator button in said STOP position in said first degree of freedom relative to said handle and biasing said activa¬ tor button in said READY orientation in said second degree of freedom relative to said handle, said bail bar being shiftable between said ON position and an OFF position; activating said lawn mower by engaging a normally open electrical switch with said activator button while said activator button is in said RUN orientation in response to movement of said bail bar to said ON position; and preventing said biasing means from biasing said activator button to said STOP position by providing a detent allowing the operator to release said activator button when said activator button is in said RUN posi- tion enabling operation of said mower with one hand.
15. A motor starting device for use with an electric lawn mower, comprising: 


 a housing adapted to receive a lever shiftable relative said housing between an ON position and a STOP position for activating said starting device; means for shiftably fastening said lever for movement between said ON position and said OFF position;
an activator button movably affixed to said housing, said activator button movable in a first degree of freedom relative to said housing between an ACTIVE position and a STOP position and movable in a second degree of freedom relative said housing between a READY orientation and a RUN orientation in response to move¬ ment of said lever to said ON position; biasing means cooperating with said housing and said activator button for biasing said activator button toward said STOP position and said READY orienta¬ tion; a normally open electrical switch on said housing for starting said electric lawn mower, said switch being closeable only when said activator button is moved to said RUN orientation; and a. detent cooperating with said housing and said activator button when said activator button is in said RUN orientation to prevent said biasing means from biasing said activator button to said STOP position.
16. A method of closing a switch to start an electric motor at a handle having a bail on a lawn mower having a cutting blade driven by said motor; an actuator axially moving against a bias into alignment with said switch and said bail; rotating said actuator with said bail while both are in alignment to close said switch; and 


 preventing said actuator from axially moving out of such alignment in response to said bias only so long as said actuator is rotated by said bail. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
