<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640772</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Clutch release assembly for a friction clutch
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16D1371	F16D1348	F16D1358	F16D1346	F16D1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16D	F16D	F16D	F16D	F16D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16D13	F16D13	F16D13	F16D13	F16D13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A clutch engaging assembly includes a sleeve member (28) 
positioned circumferentially about a drive shaft (34), 

wherein the sleeve 
member (28) includes a radially outwardly extending 

circumferential flange (44). 
A spring collector (32) is positioned circumferentially about 

the sleeve 
member (28) by a plurality of radially extending and angled coil 

springs (64,70) 
positioned between the spring collector (32) and the clutch cover (24). 

The angled springs (64,70), along with a plurality of axially 
extending spring 

members (76), urge the spring collector (32) towards the flange 
(44) of the sleeve 

member (28). A clearance (52) is maintained between the sleeve member 
(28) and the spring collector (32). The spring collector (32) is 

not fixed to any member of 
the clutch, and is permitted limited radial movement about the sleeve 

member (28). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AREND MATTHEW R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOCHENOUR DANIEL V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TARLTON SR JAMES K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AREND, MATTHEW R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOCHENOUR, DANIEL V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TARLTON, SR., JAMES K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to a pull-type clutch and, 
more particularly, to a release assembly used to engage and disengage a 
clutch. Pull-type clutches that utilize multi-piece release assemblies to 
provide mechanical linkage for engagement and disengagement of driven 
discs and pressure plates are well-known. Examples of such clutches are as disclosed e.g. in document FR-A-2 594 506 or DE-B-1 575 830. Such a release assembly 
typically includes a sleeve member extending along an input drive shaft, 
and a retainer member positioned circumferentially about the sleeve 
member. A clutch engaging member, typically a lever, cooperates with 
the retainer member to apply force to a pressure plate. A spring urges 
the retainer member along the axial direction of the sleeve member to 
move the pressure plate to a clutch-engaged position. The retainer 
member is pulled against the force of the spring to disengage the 
pressure plate from the driven disc. In a prior art design, the retainer member is rotatably 
mounted to another clutch member, typically a clutch cover or a sleeve 
member. Due to the large contact area existing between the retainer and 
the sleeve members, the members are subject to wear. This in time 
results in undesirable operation of the clutch. Furthermore, due to the 
large contact area, the components of the release assembly must be 
manufactured to tight tolerances.  
 The present invention seeks to provide a release assembly in which wear 
is reduced on the release assembly members by providing a clearance between the 
retainer and the sleeve members. In accordance with the present invention, an improved 
release assembly for a pull-type clutch is provided. The clutch release 
assembly includes a sleeve which extends along and about an output drive 
shaft. The sleeve includes a radially outwardly extending 
circumferential flange at one end. Adjacent to the flange, a spring 
collector is positioned circumferentially about the sleeve and 
dimensioned to provide a radial clearance from the sleeve. A thrust 
ring is positioned between the flange and the spring collector. A 
clutch engagement spring system is provided between a clutch cover and 
the spring collector to position the spring collector tightly against 
the circumferential flange of the sleeve. The spring system allows for 
limited radial movement of the spring collector in between the sleeve 
and the clutch cover. Levers extend into a peripheral groove on the 
spring collector which pivot against an annular shoulder on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A clutch release assembly (22) for a friction clutch equipped with a 
drive shaft (34) and a clutch cover (24), said assembly comprising: 


a sleeve member (28) adapted to be positioned circumferentially about 
the drive shaft, said sleeve member including a flange (44) extending radially 

outwardly therefrom; 
a spring collector member (32) positioned circumferentially about 
said sleeve member, said spring collector being movable axially and 

rotationally with respect to said sleeve member; 
spring means (64) adapted to be interposed between the clutch cover 
and said spring collector member, said spring collector member adapted to have 

limited radial movement with respect to the clutch cover and said sleeve 
member, said spring means urging said spring collector member axially towards 

said flange of said sleeve member; 
a clutch engaging means (86) carried by said spring collector member; 
and 
said spring collector member having an inner diameter (50) greater 
than the outer diameter of said sleeve member such that a radial clearance (52) is 

maintained between said spring collector member and said sleeve member, 
wherein said spring collector is movable radially with respect to said sleeve 

member. 
The assembly of claim 1, wherein a thrust ring (30) is disposed 
between said spring collector member (32) and said flange (44) of said sleeve member.  

 
The assembly of claim 1, wherein a positioning spring member (76) 
extends along the axial direction of said sleeve member (28), said positioning 

spring member being interposed between said spring collector (32) and a release 
mechanism (46) for said sleeve member, said positioning spring urging said spring 

collector member towards said flange (44) of said sleeve member. 
The assembly of claim 1, wherein said spring means (64) is a 
plurality of coil springs disposed at an oblique angle relative to a 

rotational axis of said sleeve member (28). 
The assembly of claim 1, wherein said clutch engaging means is a 
plurality of rigid levers (86), and a first radial clearance is provided between 

said plurality of rigid levers and said spring collector member (32), and a second 
radial clearance (52) is provided between said spring collector member and said 

sleeve member (28), said first radial clearance being less than said second radial 
clearance such that said spring collector member is prevented from contacting 

said sleeve member. 
The assembly of claim 2, wherein said thrust ring (30) and said 
flange (44) of said sleeve member (28) each having a corresponding contact surface (54,56), said 

contact surfaces being curved.  
 
A clutch transmitting rotation to an output drive shaft (34), said 
clutch comprising: 


a driven disc (102) received on said output drive shaft; 
a pressure plate (100) adjacent said driven disc; 
a clutch cover (24, 26) extending about said output drive shaft; 
a sleeve member (28) positioned circumferentially about said output 
drive shaft, said sleeve member having first and second ends, said first end 

operatively engaging a pull assembly (46), said second end including a radially 
outwardly extending circumferential flange (44); 
a plurality of coil springs (64, 70), said clutch cover (24) having a 
plurality of coil spring seats (72); 
a spring collector member (32) positioned circumferentially about 
said sleeve member, said sleeve member having an outer diameter of a first 

dimension, said spring collector member having an inner diameter (50) of a second 
dimension, said second dimension being greater that said first dimension, said 

spring collector member having a plurality of coil spring seats (74), said 
plurality of coil springs extending radially between said spring collector 

member and said clutch cover, each of said plurality of coil springs being 
seated upon corresponding seats of said clutch cover and said spring collector 

member, said plurality of coil springs maintaining a radial clearance (52) between 
said spring collector member and said sleeve member such that said spring 

collector member is provided with limited radial movement with respect to said 
sleeve member, at least some of said coil springs (64) being angled to urge said 

spring collector member towards said circumferential flange of said sleeve 
member, said spring collector member being further provided with limited axial 

and limited rotational movement with respect to said sleeve member;  
 
a positioning spring (76) extending axially along and 
circumferentially over said sleeve member, said positioning spring urging said 

spring collector member towards said flange of said sleeve member; and 
a plurality of levers (86) cooperating with said spring collector 
member providing axial movement of said pressure plate, said pressure plate 

engaging and disengaging said driven disc. 
The clutch of claim 7, wherein a thrust ring (30) is disposed 
between said spring collector member (32) and said flange (44) of said sleeve member. 
The clutch of claim 7 wherein said plurality of levers (86) are 
rigid, and a first radial clearance is provided between said levers and said 

spring collector member (32), and a second radial clearance (52) is provided between 
said spring collector member and said sleeve member (28), said first radial 

clearance being less than said second radial clearance such that said spring 
collector member is prevented from contacting said sleeve member. 
The clutch of claim 8, wherein said thrust ring (30) and said flange (44) 

of said sleeve member (28) each having a corresponding contact surface (54,56), said 
contact surfaces being curved. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
