<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638213</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DATA SIGNAL DECODING DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2732	G11B2014	H03M500	G11B2014	G11B2732	H03M512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	H03M	G11B	G11B	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B27	G11B20	H03M5	G11B20	G11B27	H03M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit for decoding a bi-phase mark signal comprises a circuit (2, 3) for detecting transitions in the signal, a counter (4) for producing an output signal proportional to the period between consecutive transitions in the signal, and a comparator (5) for comparing the value provided by the counter (4) with a reference value that is the mean between short and long periods of the incoming bi-phase signal. The mean value is derived by scaling the output of the counter (4) in a scaler (9) by a value determined in accordance with the output from the comparator (5) and by filtering the output of the scaler (9) in a recursive loop that is returned to an input (6) of the comparator (5). A data extractor circuit (14) coupled to outputs of the transition detector (3) and the comparator (5) serves to decode the bi-phase signal in an arrangement which compensates for variation in the overall repetition rate of the incoming bi-phase signal, for example due to variations in the speed of a video tape.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUESTECH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUESTECH LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIES TREVOR IMPERIAL COURT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIES, TREVOR 23 IMPERIAL COURT STATION APPROACH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a device for decoding a data signal 
and, more especially, to a device for use in decoding a so-called 
bi-phase mark encoded serial data signal at a varying 
repetition rate of the signal. A so-called bi-phase mark signal is a signal that switches 
between two states at intervals which may define short or long 
time periods. For decoding of the signal means is required for 
distinguishing short or long periods between transitions of the 
signal. The two states of the signal are usually determined as 
the two possible polarities of a balanced pair of lines with 
respect to each other. The coded signal may, for example, be 
divided into regular intervals called cells, each cell carrying 
one bit of data. Data are encoded by the presence or absence of 
a transition in the signal within each cell. Thus, each data 
cell may comprise a long period between two transitions of the 
signal, representing a cell containing no transition, or two 
short periods in a row which represent the two parts of a cell 
with a transition in the middle. The first case represents a 
zero and the second a one. A bi-phase mark encoded serial data signal is used, for example, 
for the provision of linear time code (ltc) from a video tape 
recorder. Thus, the repetition rate of the cells of the linear 
time code will vary when the video tape recorder is operated at 
different speeds and an appropriate decoding means must 
therefore adapt to different speeds of the video tape recorder, 
even when the tape is speeding up or slowing down. Hitherto 
known circuits for performing this function are relatively 
expensive. FR-A-2 635 606 discloses a device for decoding a bi-phase mark 
encoded serial data signal in which sampling pulses occurring 
between subsequent signal transitions are counted to obtain a 
count value proportional to the period between consecutive 
signal transitions. This proportional value is then compared 
against a reference value representing a mean count value of 
short and long periods. It is an object of the present invention to provide a device 
for use in decoding a bi-phase mark  
 
encoded signal that will meet existing requirements while 
being of relatively inexpensive construction. In accordance with the present invention there is provided a 
device for use in decoding a data signal of the kind which is 
divided into short and long periods between distinct 
transitions in state of the signal, comprising means for 
detecting transitions in the signal state, means coupled to 
said
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for use in decoding a data signal of the kind 
which is divided into short and long periods between distinct 

transitions in state of the signal, comprising means (2,3) for 
detecting transitions in the signal state, means (4) coupled 

to said detecting means (2,3) for providing an output signal 
having a value proportional to the period between consecutive 

signal transitions, means (6) for providing a reference value 
representing the mean of a short and a long period of said 

signal, means (5) for comparing the value of said proportional 
output signal with said reference value and for scaling (9) 

the proportional value by a factor determined in accordance 
with the relationship between the said proportional and 

reference values, in order to increase the value of a said 
proportional signal corresponding to a short period and to 

reduce the value of a said proportional signal corresponding 
to a long period, in each case to a value corresponding to the 

mean of a short and a long period and means (13) for 
processing the said scaled values to derive said reference 

value. 
A device as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said processing 
means comprises a low pass filter (13) for filtering said 

scaled values to remove short term variations therein and to 
provide an average of the filtered signals. 
A device as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein an output of 
said comparing means (5) is coupled to a data extracting 

circuit (14) arranged to recognise a long period of said data 
signal as a first logic value and two consecutive short 

periods of said data signal as a second logic value. 
A device as claimed in Claim 3 wherein said data 
extracting circuit comprises a first input (I1) coupled to an  

 
output of said transition detecting means (2,3), a second 

input (I2) coupled to said output to said comparing means (5), 
and a logic circuit (31-39) providing a data output (36) at 

which are presented data values determined by the relative 
timing of signal pulses applied at said first and second 

inputs. 
A device according to Claim 4, wherein said data 
extracting circuit further comprises a clock output (33) for 

signalling the presence of valid data at said data output 
(36). 
A device according to Claim 5, wherein said data 
extracting circuit further comprises a pair of flip flops 

(34,35) having clock inputs coupled to said first input (I1) 
of the data circuit and having data inputs coupled to said 

second input (I2) of the data circuit via an array of logic 

gates (37-39) of which inputs are connected respectively to 
said second input (I2) of the data circuit and to logic 

outputs of said flip flops (34,25). 
A device according to Claim 6, wherein said clock output 
(33) of said data extracting circuit is coupled via a logic 

gate (32) to a logic output of one flip flop (34) and to said 
first input (I1) of the data extracting circuit. 
A device according to any one of Claims 1-7, wherein said 
means (4) for providing a proportional signal comprises a 

digital counter having a clock input and having a reset input 
coupled to an output of said transition detecting means. 
A device according to any one of Claims 1-8, wherein said 
transition detecting means comprises a voltage comparator 

having respective signal inputs (1) for coupling to a source 
of a balanced signal and having an output coupled to a pair of 

cascaded flip flips (22-23) of which respective outputs are  
 

coupled to inputs of an exclusive OR gate (24). 
A device according to Claim 2 or any one of Claims 3-9 as 
appended thereto wherein said low pass filter comprises an 

adder (29) having a first input, a second input and an output 
coupled in a loop to said second input; a shifter (28) having 

an input and an output coupled to the first input of the adder 
(29); and a subtracter (27) having a first input coupled to an 

output of said scaling means (9), a second input coupled to 
the output of said adder (29) and an output coupled to the 

input of said shifter (28) 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
