<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643742</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PAINTABLE POLYETHYLENES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B2708	B32B2708	C08L2300	C08L2308	C08L2326	C08L2900	C08L2904	C08L3300	C08L3304	C08L5100	C08L5100	C08L5106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	B32B	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B27	B32B27	C08L23	C08L23	C08L23	C08L29	C08L29	C08L33	C08L33	C08L51	C08L51	C08L51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Paintable, thermoplastic polymer blends are prepared from (A) at least about 50 weight percent polyethylene, for example, high density polyethylene (HDPE), grafted with at least about 0.01 weight percent of an unsaturated organic compound, for example, maleic anhydride, and (B) a thermoplastic polymer containing polar groups, for example, a polyurethane or a polyester. Optionally, the grafted polyethylene of (A) can be diluted with an ungrated polyethylene, for example, ungrafted HDPE. These blends can be molded into various structural components, for example, automobile parts, and can be painted without the use of either a primer or a preliminary surface treatment, for example, chemical etching. The polyethylene blends also demonstrate excellent adhesion to various rigid polyurethane foams.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HWANG YUH-CHIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HWANG, YUH-CHIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PAINTABLE POLYETHYLENESThis invention relates to functionalized polyethylenes. In one aspect, the invention relates to polyethylenes grafted with an unsaturated organic compound containing at least one double bond and at least one functional acid group, for example, maleic anhydride, while in another aspect, the invention relates to the high compatibility of these functionalized polyethylenes with various thermoplastic polymers containing a polar group. In one embodiment, the invention relates to articles molded from blends of functionalized polyethylenes and such polymers that can be painted without a surface pretreatment or a special primer while in another embodiment, the invention relates to laminates of functionalized polyethylenes and certain polyurethane foams that demonstrate near perfect adhesion to one another.Because of their light weight, durability, low cost and other desirable properties, thermoplastic polyolefins (TPO's) have steadily grown in use as a material of construction for a large array of consumer goods. For example, the automotive industry uses these materials in a variety of interior and exterior parts, while household appliance manufacturers employ TPO's in everything from support structures to decorative facia.While TPO's have many desirable properties, they also have certain undesirable properties not the least of which is their reluctance to accept a paint or decorative print. TPO's are, by definition, hydrocarbon polymers, typically a polyethylene, polypropylene or an ethylene-propylene rubber, and as such, are nonpolar. Most paints are polar, and thus require a surface with some degree of polarity before they can adhere to it with any degree of desirable fastness. This problem has been addressed, with varying degrees of success, in a number of different ways.One relatively common solution is to apply a primer to the TPO.Primers are, typically compositions containing a halogenated polyolefin and an aromatic solvent, for example, a chlorinated polypropylene and toluene. hile primers are generally recognized as effective, they are expensive 

and their application is an extra step in the finishing of the TPO article.Another method of enhancing the paintability of a TPO surface is to subject the surface to a physical or chemical etching, or irradiating the surface with a plasma. While generally effective, these methods are more complex in nature than the application of a primer, and thus more difficult to control in terms of quality and consistency from part to part. In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS 1. A paintable, thermoplastic composition comprising:
A. at least about 50 weight percent of a polyethylene polymer grafted with at least about 0.01 weight percent, based on the weight of the polyethylene of an unsaturated organic compound containing at least one
'
 double bond and at least one functional acid group; and
^
α B. at least one thermoplastic polymer containing polar groups.
2. The composition of Claim 1 in which the unsaturated organic compound is maleic anhydride.
3. The composition of Claim 2 in which the polyethylene polymer i-s high density polyethylene.
4. The composition of Claim 3 in which the polyethylene polymer comprises at least about 70 weight percent by weight of the composition.
5. The composition of Claim 4 in which the polyethylene polymer is grafted with at least about 0,.1 weight percent of maleic anhydride.
6. The composition of Claim 5 in which the thermoplastic polymer is at least one of a polyurethane, polyester, epoxy, polyamide, and a polyolefin containing polar groups.
7. A paintable, thermoplastic composition comprising:
A. At least about 50 weight percent of a polyethylene blend consisting essentially of (1) at least about 10 weight percent of a polyethylene polymer grafted with at least about 0.01 weight percent of an unsaturated organic compound containing at least one double bond and at least one functional acid group, and (2) an ungrafted polyethylene polymer; and
-20- 


 B. At least one thermoplastic polymer containing polar groups .
8. The composition of Claim 7 in which the unsaturated organic compound is maleic anhydride.
9. The composition of Claim 8 in which the polyethylene polymer grafted with the unsaturated organic compound is high density polyethylene.
10. The composition of Claim 9 in which the ungrafted polyethylene polymer is high density polyethylene.
11. The composition of Claim 10 in which the polyethylene blend is prepared by a process comprising:
A. melting an ethylene polymer by heating and shearing the polymer in an extruder;
B. injecting the maleic anhydride and a free radical initiator into a chamber of the extruder filled with the ethylene polymer;
C. mixing the ethylene polymer and maleic anhydride in the extruder for sufficient time to graft the maleic anhydride to the polymer;
D. extruding and collecting the product of step (C) ;
E. blending the collected product of step (C) with additional ethylene polymer by shearing a mixture of both in an extruder; and
F. extruding and collecting the blend of step (E) .
-21- 


 12. An article molded from the paintable, thermoplastic composition of Claim 1.
13. An article molded from the paintable, thermoplastic composition of Claim 7.
14. An automobile part made from the paintable, thermoplastic composition of Claim 1.
15. An automobile part made from the paintable, thermoplastic composition of Claim 7.
16. A process of making a paintable, thermoplastic, compression molded article from a thermoplastic composition comprising:
A. at least about 50 weight percent of a polyethylene blend consisting essentially of (1) at least about 10 weight percent of a polyethylene polymer grafted with at least about 0.01 weight percent of an unsaturated organic compound containing at least one double bond and at least one functional acid group, and (2) an ungrafted polyethylene polymer; and
B. at least one thermoplastic polymer containing polar groups;
the process comprising:
a. contacting the thermoplastic composition with a polyester mold surface;
b. applying heat and pressure to the thermoplastic composition such that it takes the shape of the mold surface;
c . removing the heat and pressure of Step (b) from the thermoplastic composition; and
-22- 


 d. removing the shaped thermoplastic composition of Step (c) from the mold surface.
17. The process of Claim 16 in which the unsaturated organic compound is maleic anhydride.
18. The process of Claim 17 in which the polyethylene polymer grafted with the unsaturated organic compound is high density polyethylene.
19. The process of Claim 18 in which the ungrafted polyethylene polymer is high density polyethylene.
20. The process of Claim 19 in which the polyester mold surface is polyethylene terephthalate.
21. A laminate comprising a first layer comprising a polyethylene blend consisting essentially of (i) at least about 15 percent of a polyethylene polymer grafted with at least about 0.01 weight percent of an unsaturated organic compound containing at least one double bond and at least one functional acid group, and (ii) an ungrafted polyethylene polymer, the first layer joined to a second layer comprising a polyurethane foam.
22. The laminate of Claim 21 in which the polyethylene polymer grafted with the unsaturated organic compound is high density polyethylene, and the unsaturated organic compound is maleic anhydride.
23. The laminate of Claim 22 in which the ungrafted polyethylene polymer is linear low density polyethylene.
24. The laminate of Claim 23 in which the polyethylene blend of the first layer is admixed with ABS rubber.
-23- 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
