<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610373</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTINUOUS PREBAKED ANODE CELL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C25C320	C25C312	C25C310	C25C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C25C	C25C	C25C	C25C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C25C3	C25C3	C25C3	C25C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A support structure for supporting continuous prebaked anodes in an aluminium smelting cell comprises a pair of side plates (3) and a pair of end plates (4) connected together to form an enclosed superstructure. The supporting structure includes at least one pair of spaced cross-plates (8, 9) that are configured to provide wedging surfaces which act to support an anode (14) therebetween. Electrical current is fed to the anodes via the cross-plates. Respective pairs of cross-plates supporting adjacent anodes may be spaced to define heat exchange passages which can be used to control the temperature of the support structure. A method for operating an aluminium smelting cell at variable amperage by positive and controlled extraction of heat from the cell is also described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMALCO ALU
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMALCO ALUMINIUM, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JURIC DRAGO D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JURIC, DRAGO D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to aluminium smelting cell
improvements aimed at facilitating the use of continuous
prebaked anodes, and more particularly relates to improved
anode support structures as well as preferred support
structure arrangements which enable associated improvements
in cell efficiency. The present invention also relates to
a method of operating an aluminium electrolysis cell.The conventional aluminium smelting technology which
uses discontinuous prebaked anodes has major limitations in
the areas of electrical energy efficiency, environmental
pollution and worker health. Replacement of anodes
contributes to low power efficiency and high fluoride
emissions from pots, potrooms, butts processing areas and
baking furnaces. Anode replacement involves a number of
activities which are necessitated by the need to access the
pots, remove spent anodes, add new anodes, cover these up,
recover anode rods, cast iron and carbon from spent anodes,
clean, crush and reprocess butts, return butt bath to the
pots etc. All this adds to the cost of production and to
environmental and health problems.The conventional strategy used to deal with problems
emanating from anode replacement has been to learn to live
with them by alleviating their impact on worker health and
safety and to reduce their cost through better economies of
scale and increased mechanisation. The aluminium industry
has in the past developed butts cleaning technology and
currently is looking for better ways of handling anodes,
butts and bath and reducing pot emissions in potrooms.
The underlying problem with this strategy is that no matter
what is done with anode replacement and how this is done,
no value is being added to the metal produced, or to any of
the by-products of the process.The discontinuous anode technology has impacted on the
smelting technology in a number of ways. Cell design and 
construction, plant design, layout and capital
infrastructure have all been affected. Apart from these,
there are a number of jobs and operations which stem from
anode replacement, all of which add to the cost, but not to
the value of metal produced. These are: anode setting,
butts handling, cleaning, crushing and grinding, bath
crushing and handling, oreing-up of pots, anode rodding,
fume treatment and others. Each of these steps and
processes require significant capital investment and incur
substantial operating costs.The need to access the pots to replace anodes has
meant that pots could not be adequately sealed. Excessive
air flow rates are used to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for operating an electrolysis cell (C) used
in the production of aluminium, said cell including:


a shell having a bottom and side walls;
a cathode;
an anode support structure (1,2) supporting one or more
continuous pre-baked anodes (14,29,30) above said cathode;

said anode support structure (1,2) including heat
exchange means to enable positive and controlled heat

extraction from said anode support structure (1,2),

characterized in that said method comprises providing
a contact resistance reducing aluminium layer between the

anode support structure (1,2) and the one or more anodes
(14,29,30), and controlling a rate of heat extraction from

said anode support structure (1,2) such that temperatures in
the anode support structure (1,2) remain below a set

temperature, said set temperature being chosen to avoid
melting or degradation of said contact resistance reducing

aluminium layer.
A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of
providing a contact resistance reducing aluminium layer

comprises applying an aluminium spray to said one or more
anodes (14,29,30) prior to placing said one or more anodes

in the said anode support structure (1,2).
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of
providing said contact resistance reducing aluminium layer

between said anode support structure (1,2) and said one or
more anodes (14,29,30) comprises packing aluminium cement or

aluminium powder between said anode support structure (1,2)
and said one or more continuous pre-baked anodes (14,29,30).
A method according to any preceding claim wherein said
anode support structure (1,2) comprises a pair of rigid side

plates (3,4) and a pair of rigid end plates (5) rigidly
connected to define an enclosed supporting superstructure 

at least one pair of spaced rigid electrically conductive
cross plates (8,9) configured to provide wedging surfaces

against which correspondingly shaped side surfaces of said
one or more continuous pre-baked anodes (14) are held by

clamping means (15) supported by one of said side plates
(3), means for introducing electrical current into said

cross plates (8,9), elevating and lowering means (7) carried
by said supporting superstructure to facilitate proper

positioning of the anodes (14) and feeding of the anodes
with respect to the supporting structure, wherein said

support structure (1,2) supports multiple anodes (14) and
the cross plates (8,9) supporting adjacent anodes (14) are

spaced to define a heat exchange path therebetween, said
method including passing a heat exchange medium along said

heat exchange path to maintain said temperature in said
anode support structure (1,2) below said set temperature.
A method according to claim 4 wherein said heat
exchange path includes one or more baffles (16) and the step

of passing said heat exchange medium along said heat
exchange path causes a flow of said heat transfer medium to

pass over substantially an entire surface of the cross
plates (8,9) supporting adjacent anodes.
A method according to claim 4 or 5, further comprising
the step of applying a coating of an electrically conductive

material which is wetted by and resistant to molten
aluminium to the surface of the cross plates (8,9).
A method according to claim 6 wherein said coating is
selected from the group consisting of molybdenum, copper,

chromium, a refractory hard metal boride, a refractory hard
metal carbide and mixtures thereof.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein said
rate of heat extraction is controlled to permit operation of

the cell at varying amperage. 
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein said cell is
operated at high amperage during periods when off-peak

electricity is available and operated at low amperage during
peak periods.
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the temperature
of the anode support structure (1,2) is allowed to rise

during high amperage operation to thereby store heat in said
anode support structure (1,2) and said stored heat is

recovered during subsequent low amperage operation.
A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein the recovered
heat is used to co-generate electricity.
An electrolysis cell (C) for the production of
aluminium, said cell including:


a shell having a bottom and side walls;
a cathode;
an anode support structure (1,2) supporting one or more
continuous pre-baked anodes (14,29,30) above said cathode;

characterized in that said anode support structure
(1,2) includes heat exchange means to enable positive and

controlled heat extraction from said anode support structure
(1,2), and further characterized in that a contact

resistance reducing aluminium layer is provided between the
anode support structure (1,2) and the one or more anodes

(14,29,30), said heat exchange means being controllable to
maintain the temperature of the anode support structure

(1,2) below the melting or degradation temperature of said
contact resistance reducing aluminium layer.
An electrolysis cell according to claim 12, wherein
said contact resistance reducing aluminium layer comprises

a spray coated aluminium layer on said one or more anodes
(14,29,30).
An electrolysis cell according to claim 12, wherein
said contact resistance reducing aluminium layer comprises 

aluminium powder or aluminium cement packed between said
anode support st
ructure (1,2) and said one or more
continuous pre-baked anodes (14,29,30).
An electrolysis cell according to any of claims 12 to
15, wherein said anode support structure (1,2) comprises a

pair of rigid side plates (3,4) and a pair of rigid end
plates (5) rigidly connected to define an enclosed

supporting superstructure, at least one pair of spaced rigid
electrically conductive cross plates (8,9) configured to

provide wedging surfaces against which correspondingly
shaped side surfaces of said one or more continuous pre-baked

anodes (14) are held by clamping means (15) supported
by one of said side plates (3), means for introducing

electrical current into said cross plates (8,9), elevating
and lowering means (7) carried by said supporting

superstructure to facilitate proper positioning of the
anodes (14) and feeding of the anodes with respect to the

supporting structure, and said supporting structure (1,2)
supports multiple anodes (14) and the cross plates (8,9)

supporting adjacent anodes (14) are spaced to define a heat
exchange path therebetween, whereby a heat exchange medium

can be passed along said heat exchange path to achieve said
controlled heat extraction from said anode support structure

(1,2).
An electrolysis cell according to claim 15, wherein
said heat exchange path includes one or more baffles (16) to

cause said heat exchange medium to pass over substantially
an entire surface of the cross plates (8,9) supporting

adjacent anodes (14).
An electrolysis cell according to claim 15 or 16,
wherein the cell further comprises a coating of an

electrically conductive material which is wetted by and
resistant to molten aluminium on the surface of the cross

plates (8,9). 
An electrolysis cell according to claim 15, wherein
said electrically conductive material is selected from the

group consisting of molybdenum, copper, chromium, a
refractory hard metal boride, a refractory hard metal

carbide, and mixtures thereof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
