<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652392</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Valve with backflow preventer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03C110	E03C110	F16K500	F16K504	F16K1110	F16K1110	F16K1502	F16K1504	F16K2400	F16K2402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03C	E03C	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03C1	E03C1	F16K5	F16K5	F16K11	F16K11	F16K15	F16K15	F16K24	F16K24	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A valve with a backflow preventer has a valve housing (12) with 
a fluid 

inlet (14), a main flow channel (18), and a fluid outlet (16) 
formed therein. A valve element 

is provided in the valve housing to selectively actuate the valve. 
The valve 

element (40) is rotatable between an open position in which a fluid 
flow path exists 

between the fluid inlet and the fluid outlet along the main 
flow channel and 

a closed position in which no fluid flow path exists between 
the fluid inlet and 

the fluid outlet. A chamber (82) is formed in the valve housing in 
a position which 

is offset from the main flow channel. The chamber has an opening (88) 
in fluid 

communication with the atmosphere, and a ball (86) is provided in 
the interior of 

the chamber. The ball is movable between a first position in 
which the ball 

prevents fluid backflow from the fluid outlet to the fluid inlet 
and a second 

position in which the ball substantially blocks the opening in 
the chamber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHOP VAC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHOP-VAC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERFIELD ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERFIELD, ROBERT C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to a valve with a backflow preventer 
to prevent liquid backflow from the valve outlet to the valve inlet. In some types of valves, it is desirable to provide means for preventing 
liquid backflow through the valve. One example of such a valve is one that 
is connected between a source of fresh water and a device for utilizing the 
water which may contaminate the water as it passes through the device. To 
prevent contamination of the source of fresh water due to backflow, a 
backflow preventer may be incorporated in the valve to prevent liquid from 
flowing from the valve outlet to the valve inlet. One example of a valve with a backflow preventer is disclosed in U.S. 
Patent No. 3,424,184 to Brimley, et al. That valve incorporates a backflow 
preventer in the form of a movable ball which may seat on a pair of spaced-apart 
O-rings provided in the main flow channel of the valve. In normal 
operation, the fluid pressure at the fluid inlet forces the ball to seat on the O-ring 
closest to the fluid outlet. In that position, the ball allows fluid flow  
 
through the valve. To prevent fluid backflow through the valve, the ball seats 
on the O-ring closest to the fluid inlet. Another valve with a backflow preventer is disclosed in U.S. Patent 
No. 4,287,905 to Iglesias. That valve, which is for a water faucet, 
incorporates a check valve to prevent water backflow. The check valve is 
provided in the form of a hinged flap disposed in the main flow channel. The 
flap is provided with a gasket that is positioned next to a fluid opening near 
the fluid inlet. To prevent fluid backflow through the valve, the hinged flap 
moves so that the gasket is forced against the fluid opening, thus sealing the 
opening. One disadvantage of the valves disclosed in the Brimley, et al. and 
Iglesias patents is that the means for preventing fluid backflow is provided in 
the main flow channel of the valve, thus obstructing the fluid flow through the 
valve during normal operation. The present invention is directed to a valve with a backflow preventer. 
The valve has a valve housing with a fluid inlet, a main flow channel, and a 
fluid outlet formed therein. A valve element is provided in the valve housing  
 
and is rotatable between an open position in which a fluid flow path exists 
between the fluid inlet and the fluid outlet along the main flow channel and 
a closed position in which no fluid flow path exists between the fluid inlet and 
the fluid outlet. The valve has a check valve for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A valve comprising: 
   a valve housing having a fluid inlet, a main flow channel, and 

a fluid outlet formed therein; 
   a valve element operatively coupled to said valve housing, said 

valve element movable between an open position in which a fluid flow 
path exists between said fluid inlet and said fluid outlet along said 

main flow channel and a closed position in which no fluid flow path 
exists between said fluid inlet and said fluid outlet; 

   a chamber formed in said valve housing offset from said main 
flow channel, said chamber having an opening in fluid communication 

with the atmosphere; and 
   a ball provided in said chamber, said ball being movable 

between a first position in which said ball prevents liquid backflow 
from said fluid outlet to said fluid inlet and a second position in which 

said ball substantially blocks said opening in said chamber. 
A valve as defined in claim 1 wherein said valve element is 
rotatable between said open position and said closed position. 
A valve as defined in claim 1 wherein said valve element is 
cylindrical in shape. 
A valve as defined in claim 3 wherein said valve element has 
a hollow interior portion enclosed by a circumferential side wall. 
A valve as defined in claim 4 wherein said circumferential side 
wall has a slot formed therein, said slot being aligned with said fluid outlet 

when said valve element is in said open position. 
A valve as defined in claim 1 wherein said valve housing has 
a circular bore formed therein, said circular bore being in fluid 

communication with said fluid inlet, said ball being adjacent said circular bore 
when said ball occupies said first position. 
A valve as defined in claim 1 wherein said opening comprises 
a circular bore. 
A valve as defined in claim 1 additionally comprising locking 
means for rotatably fixing said valve element with respect to said valve 

housing. 
A valve as defined in claim 8 wherein said locking means 
comprises a pin. 
A valve as defined in claim 1 additionally comprising means for 
manually actuating said valve element. 
A valve as defined in claim 10 wherein said actuating means 
comprises a knob fixed to said valve element. 
A valve comprising: 
   a valve housing having a fluid inlet, a main flow channel, and 

a fluid outlet formed therein; 
   a valve element operatively coupled to said valve housing, said 

valve element movable between an open position in which a fluid flow 
path exists between said fluid inlet and said fluid outlet along said 

main flow channel and a closed position in which no fluid flow path 
exists between said fluid inlet and said fluid outlet; and 

   check valve means for preventing liquid backflow from said 
fluid outlet to said fluid inlet when said valve element is in said open 

position, said check valve means being provided at a position offset 
from said main flow channel so that said check valve means does not 

substantially impede the flow through said main flow channel when 
said valve element is in said open position. 
A valve as defined in claim 12 wherein said valve element is 
rotatable between said open position and said closed position. 
A valve as defined in claim 12 wherein said valve element is 
cylindrical in shape. 
A valve as defined in claim 14 wherein said valve element has 
a hollow interior portion enclosed by a circumferential side wall. 
A valve as defined in claim 15 wherein said circumferential side 
wall has a slot formed therein, said slot being aligned with said fluid outlet 

when said valve element is in said open position. 
A valve as defined in claim 12 additionally comprising locking 
means for rotatably fixing said valve element with respect to said valve 

housing. 
A valve as defined in claim 17 wherein said locking means 
comprises a pin. 
A valve as defined in claim 12 additionally comprising means 

for manually actuating said valve element. 
A valve as defined in claim 12 wherein said check valve means 
comprises means for preventing backflow when the pressure at said fluid inlet 

becomes less than atmospheric pressure. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
