<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630062</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Battery gang vent system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M212	H01M212	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M2	H01M2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiple vent plug assembly for vent ports of an 
electrical storage battery, the assembly includes a gang 

vent insert (12) having a base wall and an upstanding 
peripheral rim defining a pair of side walls and a pair of 

end walls; an overcap (14) including an inner rib (18') adapted for 
engagement with the upstanding peripheral rim (18) of the gang 

vent insert; the insert including first and second 
parallel partitions (28,30) extending between the pair of side 

walls (20,22) to thereby divide the insert into three vent 
chambers (32,34,36) including end chambers on either side of a center 

chamber, each chamber having a hollow vent barrel (44,44',56) 
extending downwardly from the base wall and terminating at 

a drain hole (38,40,42). Third and fourth partitions (72,74) extend 
partially between the pair of side walls and a fifth 

partition (80) extends between and perpendicular to the third 
and fourth partitions to create, in cooperation with a 

portion of one of the side walls, a frit area (82) for 
supporting a flame arrestor of glass frit material, the 

frit area having a slot (96) therein which, when the assembly 
is in place on the storage battery, opens to atmosphere. 

The first, second, third and fourth partitions (28,30,72,74) are formed 
with passageway openings (76,77,78,79) arranged to permit air at 

atmospheric pressure to enter the center chamber from the 
end chambers and from the frit area, to thereby create an 

air lock preventing battery electrolyte from escaping 
through the drain holes and the frit area vent aperture in 

the event the battery is tilted to a position where 
battery electrolyte is at a level above the battery vent 

ports. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXIDE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXIDE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERES FRED F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUDACK GERALD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERES, FRED F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUDACK, GERALD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to venting systems used in low 
maintenance batteries, and in maintenance-free batteries 
where the need to periodically replenish the loss of water 
is not required. The invention relates specifically to a 
vent system which provides the absolute minimum loss of 
electrolyte under a wide range of conditions (including a 
severely tilted condition) to enhance the life and 
operation of the battery. Maintenance-free batteries have been known for some 
time. The term "maintenance-free" denotes a battery in 
which there is no need for the addition of water 
throughout the useful life of the battery. Thus, venting 
systems for maintenance-free batteries do not require the 
removal of the vent system for access to each cell. 
Because of the diversity of applications, however, low 
maintenance batteries (requiring minimal periodic addition 
of water) are still widely in use, and are well known for 
reliability under a wide range of conditions of abusive 
over-discharge, temperature variations, etc. In all cases, the vent system must provide the 
absolute minimum loss of electrolyte under a wide range of 
conditions to enhance the life and operation of the 
battery. Even during the normal operation of a battery, 
water is electrolyzed into hydrogen and oxygen while 
temperature excursions produce water vapor, both of which 
will tend to be lost through the venting system. A well 
designed vent network must prevent this loss by capturing, 
condensing and draining all fluids back into the cells. A 
battery designed for starting, lighting, and ignition 
(SLI) will experience a variety of rough handling during  
 
its manufacture, storage and distribution including an 
occasional accidental tilting of the battery on its side, 
a variety of angled inclines once the battery is in 
vehicle, as well as normal vibrations. A well designed 
vent system must prevent or minimize spilling, and also 
safeguard the battery against external ignition sources. Traditionally, vents have been designed for the most 
common location of vent ports, i.e., centered on the 
battery cover. Gang vents designed to fit on batteries of 
this design seldom experience pressurized electrolyte 
reaching the openings on each gang vent barrel while 
tilting, e.g., 45% to either side (as opposed to either 
end) of the battery. Recently, however, requirements to 
move the cell ports asymmetrically on the battery casing 
has demanded a different approach to the vent design. Where the cell ports are located relatively close to 
o
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multiple vent plug assembly for a corresponding 
number of vent ports in a vehicle electrical storage 

battery, the vent plug assembly comprising: 
   a gang vent insert formed with three chambers, each 

chamber having substantially aligned vent barrels and 
associated drain holes; 

   a frit area enclosing porous frit material, said frit 
area open to atmosphere; 

   an overcap secured to said gang vent insert; and 
   means provided in said gang vent insert and said 

overcap for creating an air lock within said multiple vent 
plug assembly and for thus preventing spillage of battery 

electrolyte to atmosphere through said frit area. 
The multiple vent plug assembly of claim 1 
wherein said means includes air passageways linking said 

three chambers, said passageways defining a path located 
to one side of a centerline extending through said drain 

holes, and said frit area located to an opposite side of 
said centerline. 
The multiple vent plug assembly of claim 2 
wherein said means includes additional air passageways 

linking said frit area with said three chambers. 
The multiple vent plug assembly of claim 3 
wherein said three chambers include a pair of end chambers 

on either side of a center chamber and wherein the drain 
holes in the end chambers have diameters larger than the 

diameter of the drain hole in the center chamber. 
The multiple vent plug assembly of claim 3 
wherein said three chambers are substantially defined by a 

pair of partitions extending substantially perpendicular 
to said centerline. 
The multiple vent plug assembly of claim 5 
wherein said air passageways include first and second air 

passageways extending substantially parallel to said 
partitions. 
The multiple vent plug assembly of claim 1 
wherein said overcap is formed with three depending 

tubular projections substantially vertically aligned with, 
and partially received in, respective ones of said vent 

barrels. 
A multiple vent plug assembly for vent ports of 
an electrical storage battery, the assembly comprising: 

   a gang vent insert having a base wall and an 
upstanding peripheral rim defining a pair of side walls 

and a pair of end walls; 
   an overcap including an inner rib adapted for 

engagement with said upstanding peripheral rim of said 
gang vent insert; 

   said insert including first and second parallel 
partitions extending between said pair of side walls to 

thereby divide said insert into three vent chambers 
including end chambers on either side of a center chamber, 

each chamber having a hollow vent barrel extending 
downwardly from said base wall and terminating at a drain 

hole; 
   third and fourth partitions extending partially 

between said pair of side walls and a fifth partition 
extending between and perpendicular to said third and 

fourth partitions to create, in cooperation with a portion 
of one of said side walls, a frit area for supporting a 

flame arrestor comprising a glass frit composition; said 
frit area having a slot therein which, when said assembly 

is in place on said storage battery, opens to atmosphere; 
and wherein said first, second, third and fourth 

partitions are formed with passageway openings arranged to 
permit air to enter said center chamber from said end 

chamber and from said frit area, to thereby create an air 
 

lock preventing battery electrolyte from escaping through 
said drain holes and said frit area vent aperture in the 

event the battery is tilted to a position where battery 
electrolyte is at a level above said battery vent ports. 
The assembly of claim 8 wherein the drain hole in 
said center chamber has a diameter less than corresponding 

diameters of the drain holes in said end chambers. 
The assembly of claim 8 wherein a centerline 
extends through each of said drain holes, and wherein said 

frit area lies on one side of said axis and wherein the 
passageway openings in said first and second partitions 

lie on the other side of said axis, and offset from said 
drain holes. 
The assembly of claim 8 wherein, in each of said 
end and center chambers, said base wall is inclined 

towards the respective vent barrel. 
The assembly of claim 8 wherein each drain 
barrel is formed with a cylindrical portion and a funnel 

portion, the drain hole located at a lowermost end of said 
funnel portion. 
The assembly of claim 12 wherein said lowermost 
end of said funnel portion is formed with a cylindrical 

extension, the free edge of which is bevelled and defines 
said drain hole. 
The assembly of claim 8 wherein said overcap is 
sealed to said insert. 
The assembly of claim 14 wherein said overcap 
has a peripheral depending skirt, and wherein said 

depending skirt is formed with a cut-out in substantial 
alignment with said frit area slot. 
A gang vent insert for a multiple vent plug 
assembly utilized to cover a plurality of vent ports in a 

vehicle electrical storage battery cover, the gang vent 
insert comprising: 

   a substantially rectangular member having a base and 
an upstanding peripheral edge including a pair of opposed 

side edges and a pair of opposed end edges, and a pair of 
laterally spaced first and second partitions extending 

between said opposite side edges of said upstanding 
peripheral edge to thereby divide the insert into three 

chambers including a pair of end chambers on either side 
of a center chamber; each chamber provided with a 

substantially cylindrical vent barrel extending downwardly 
from said base, said vent barrel including a funnel 

portion terminating at a drain hole, the drain holes in 
said end chambers having first diameters larger than a 

second diameter of the drain hole in said center chamber, 
all of said drain holes having a common centerline 

extending perpendicular to said laterally spaced first and 
second partitions; and 

   wherein each of said first and second partitions is 
formed with a notch located on the other side of the 

centerline, and offset from said drain holes. 
The gang vent insert of claim 16 and further 
comprising third and fourth partitions extending parallel 

to said first and second partitions and located between 
said first and second partitions, respectively, and said 

center chamber; and 
   a fifth partition extending between said third and 

fourth partition, substantially parallel to but spaced 
from said centerline such that a frit area is defined on 

one side of said centerline by said fifth partition, 
portions of said third and fourth partitions and a portion 

of one of said side edges. 
The gang vent insert of claim 17 wherein each of 
said third and fourth partitions is formed to provide an 

 
opening on said other side of the centerline and offset 

from said drain holes. 
The gang vent insert of claim 18 wherein each of 
said third and fourth partitions is formed with a notch on 

said one side of the centerline, between the fifth 
partition and said one of said side edges. 
The gang vent insert of claim 19 wherein said 
frit area is provided with a slot extending through the 

base of the insert. 
The gang vent insert of claim 20 wherein said 
frit area is formed with a substantially rectangular 

recess formed in said base, and said slot is formed in a 
lower portion of said recess. 
The gang vent insert of claim 21 wherein porous 
frit material is supported within said recess but spaced 

from said slot. 
The gang vent insert of claim 22 wherein said 
frit area is provided with sixth and seventh partitions 

located on either side of said recess, between said recess 
and said third and fourth partitions, and extending from 

said one of said side edges toward said fifth partition, 
but terminating short of said fifth partition. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
