<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656552</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compact, folded wide-angle large reflective unobscured optical system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B1700	G02B1700	G02B1706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B17	G02B17	G02B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wide-angle optical imaging system (10) employs three 
mirrors (20, 22, 24) to reflect and propagate beams of 

electromagnetic energy (16, 17, 18) from four reflecting 
surfaces. A convex mirror (20) is the primary mirror/reflector. 

A concave mirror (22) is both the secondary and quaternary 
mirror/reflector for the system. A folding mirror (24) which is 

essentially flat mirror is the tertiary mirror/reflector for the 
system. The optical axis (36) of the system (10) is normal to 

the center of the folding mirror (24). The vertex of the convex 
mirror (20) and the vertex of the concave mirror (22) lie along 

the optical axis (36). A distortion corrector (32) and filter 
(34) are positioned in front of the image plane (30) of the 

system (10). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG YAUJEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, YAUJEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to multiple-mirror optical 
imaging systems, and more particularly to a three-mirror optical 
imaging system which provides the advantages of a four-mirror 
system and which produces an enhanced image. Optical systems employing multiple mirrors to successively 
reflect beams of light are used to produce images of distant 
objects. Examples of such optical systems are telescopes and 
telescopic cameras. The mirrors in an optical system are 
typically a combination of curved and essentially flat mirrors. A multiple-mirror optical system which works particularly 
well is a four-mirror system such as the four-mirror system 11 
illustrated in Fig. 1. A four-mirror system is capable of 
producing an enhanced image because the four reflecting surfaces 
of such a system enable projection and formation of the image to 
be substantially controlled. A four-mirror system is thus more 
advantageous than a three- or two-mirror system. To reflect and 
propagate the beams 16, 17, 18 the four-mirror system 11 employs 
a primary mirror 12 which is a convex mirror, a secondary mirror 
13 which is a concave mirror, a tertiary mirror 14 which is 
substantially flat, and a quaternary mirror 15 which is a concave 
mirror. After the beams 16, 17, 18 are reflected upon the 
mirrors 12, 13, 14, 15 the system produces an image of a desired 
object at a position of image production 19. An objective in using a multiple-mirror optical system is  
 
to produce readily-perceivable images of distant objects from a 
large field of view. Often, large mirrors are used to attain a 
wide field of view. However, the greater the size of mirrors 
used, the more likely that the mirrors will obscure the beam 
pathway between mirrors. Thus, a problem in using multiple-mirror 
optical systems is that it is difficult to maintain proper 
alignment of the multiple mirrors so as to provide an unobscured 
pathway for reflected beams while also producing an image which 
is optimally focused. In the case of a four-mirror system 11 as 
illustrated, optimum imaging may be achieved but production and 
operation of the system is inhibited by the difficulty in 
maintaining an unobscured optical path when it is necessary to 
position four distinct mirrors. If an unobscured pathway is not 
maintained the ability of the optical system to produce an image 
will be adversely affected and the quality of the image produced 
will be adversely affected. A similar problem in using multiple-mirror optical systems 
is that the quality of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A wide-angle optical imaging system comprising: 
   primary reflecting means comprising a segment of a convex mirror 

having high-order aspheric coefficients, positioned and 
adapted for receiving and reflecting beams of 

electromagnetic energy from a remote source; 
   secondary and quaternary reflecting means comprising a segment 

of a concave mirror having high-order aspheric coefficients 
and having a first reflecting area as said secondary 

reflecting means and a second reflecting area adjacent said 
first reflecting area as said quaternary reflecting means, 

positioned and adapted such that the beams of 
electromagnetic energy reflected by said primary reflecting 

surface are received by said first reflecting area and said 
second reflecting area reflects the beams of 

electromagnetic energy received to an image plane whereat 
an image produced by the reflected beams of electromagnetic 

energy is perceivable; and 
   tertiary reflecting means comprising a substantially flat mirror 

pivotable with respect to said convex mirror positioned and 
adapted for receiving the beams of electromagnetic energy 

reflected from said first reflecting area of said concave 
mirror and reflecting the beams of electromagnetic energy 

toward said second reflecting area of said concave mirror; 
and

 
wherein a vertex of said convex mirror and a vertex of said 

concave mirror are coincident with a common optical axis which 
is perpendicular to a center of said substantially flat mirror. 
The system of claim 1, wherein each said convex mirror, said 
concave mirror and said substantially flat mirror has high-order 

aspheric coefficients. 
The system of claim 1, further comprising a lens for 
correcting optical distortion caused by said convex mirror, said 

concave mirror, and said substantially flat mirror. 
The system of claim 1, further comprising means for 
modulating predetermined wavelengths of the reflected beams of 

electromagnetic energy. 
The system of claim 4, said means for modulating 
predetermined wavelengths of the reflected beams of 

electromagnetic energy comprising a filter. 
The system of claim 4, said means for modulating 
predetermined wavelengths of beams of electromagnetic energy 

comprising a chopper. 
A wide-angle optical imaging system comprising: 
   primary reflecting means comprising a segment of a convex mirror 

having high-order aspheric coefficients, positioned and 
 

adapted for receiving and reflecting beams of 
electromagnetic energy from a remote source; 

   secondary and quaternary reflecting means comprising a segment 
of a concave mirror having high-order aspheric coefficients 

and having a first reflecting area as said secondary 
reflecting means and a second reflecting area adjacent said 

first reflecting area as said quaternary reflecting means, 
positioned and adapted such that the beams of 

electromagnetic energy reflected by said primary reflecting 
surface are receivable by said first reflecting area and 

said second reflecting area of said concave mirror reflects 
the beams of electromagnetic energy received to an image 

plane whereat an image produced by the reflected beams of 
electromagnetic energy is perceivable; 

   tertiary reflecting means comprising a substantially flat mirror 
having high-order aspheric coefficients pivotable with 

respect to said convex mirror positioned and adapted for 
receiving the beams of electromagnetic energy reflected 

from said first reflecting area of said concave mirror and 
reflecting the beams of electromagnetic energy toward said 

second reflecting area of said concave mirror; and 
   a lens positioned in front of said image plane adapted for 

correcting optical distortion caused by said convex mirror, 
said concave mirror, and said substantially flat mirror; 

and
 

wherein a vertex of said convex mirror and a vertex of said 
concave error are coincident with a common optical axis which 

is perpendicular to a center of said substantially flat mirror. 
The system of claim 7, further comprising means for 
modulating predetermined wavelengths of the reflected beams of 

electromagnetic energy. 
The system of claim 8, said means for modulating 
predetermined wavelengths of the reflected beams of 

electromagnetic energy comprising a filter. 
The system of claim 8, said means for modulating 
predetermined wavelengths of beams of electromagnetic energy 

comprising a chopper. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
