<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetron plasma sputter deposition apparatus and method of sputter coating onto a substrate
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J3734	C23C1435	H01L21203	H01J3732	H01L2102	C23C1435	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	C23C	H01L	H01J	H01L	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J37	C23C14	H01L21	H01J37	H01L21	C23C14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Described is a sputtering apparatus and a method employing an 
auxiliary magnetic structure (11) situated between a substrate 

holder (5) and a target (4) of a plasma sputtering chamber (20) 
to control the lateral extent of the plasma. The auxiliary 

magnetic structure (11), possessing a lower field strength in 
the plasma region than a principal magnet (14) or magnets, is 

situated immediately outside of and around a circumference of 
the chamber's anode shield (10). The principal magnets (14) 

maintain the plasma in a ring adjacent to the sputtering 
target. The auxiliary magnet structure (11) causes the plasma 

ring to expand toward the edge of the target (4) or contract 
away from the edge depending on the magnetic strength and 

polarity of the structure and its position relative to the 
target (4). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILL MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUELLER MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILL, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUELLER, MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a magnetron plasma sputter
deposition apparatus and to a method for sputtering of material
from a target onto a substrate.Sputtering is a thin film coating process using a
plasma discharge in a sputtering gas to produce ion bombardment
of a target of the material to be coated onto a substrate.
Because of the ion bombardment, neutral atoms of the target
material are ejected from the target surface toward the substrate
and form a thin film coating. Magnetic fields have been used in
sputtering devices for a variety of reasons. For example, U.S.
Patent No. 4,046,660, issued Sept. 6, 1977 discloses use of a
magnetic field of a particular geometry to permit plasma
operation at lower gas pressures, and magnetic control of the
plasma to control the charged particle flux on the substrate. A
class of sputtering devices has been developed that use an array
of magnets to increase sputtering efficiency by confining the
plasma to the vicinity of the target. The magnets are rotated
concentrically with the target in an attempt to even out the
erosion of the target. However, as sputtering progresses, a 
groove forms in the target and deepens, shortening target life,
changing the distribution of sputtered material on the substrate
and permitting redeposition of target material as particulates on
the target outside of the groove.Document EP-A-0 275 021 discloses a sputtering process
and apparatus. A high-density plasma is produced by a cusp
field between the target and the substrate. The cusp field
is produced by magnetic devices respectively provided on
the side of the target and on the side of the substrate to
confine the plasma between the target electrode and the
substrate electrode.It is therefore the object of the present invention to
provide a magnetron plasma sputter deposition apparatus as
well as a method for sputter coating which avoids the above
mentioned drawbacks. This object is solved by the
apparatus according to independent claim 1 and the method
according to independent claim 20. Further advantageous
features, aspects and details of the invention are evident
from the dependent claims, the description and the
drawings. The claims are to be understood as a first non-limiting
approach to define the invention in general terms.In the invention disclosed and claimed herein, the problems
met in the prior art apparatus are alleviated by adjusting the
lateral position of the plasma with respect to the target edge.
Thus, for example, if a groove starts to form at one position in
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A magnetron plasma sputter deposition apparatus comprising
an evacuable chamber (20), a substrate holder (5) within

the chamber for supporting a substrate (6) and defining a
substrate plane, a target electrode (4) for supplying a

deposition material and having an inner surface (7)
defining a target plane, a principal magnetic structure

(14) adjacent to an outer surface of the target electrode
(4) for producing a primarily radial magnetic field within

the chamber (20) adjacent to the inner surface (7) of the
target electrode (4) so as to confine a plasma adjacent to

the inner surface (7) of the target electrode (4),

characterized in that

the apparatus also includes an auxiliary magnetic structure
(11;17) situated between the target plane and the substrate

plane and outside of a plasma region disposed between the
target electrode (4) and the substrate holder (5), to

adjust the lateral position of the plasma.
The apparatus of claim 1, in which the magnetic polarity of
the auxiliary magnet structure (11;17) is field-aiding with

respect to the magnetic polarity of the principal magnetic
structure (14) at the inner surface (7) of the target

electrode (4).
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, in which the magnetic
polarity of the auxiliary magnetic structure (11;17) is

radial with respect to the chamber (20). 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, in which the magnetic
polarity of the auxiliary magnetic structure (11;17) is at

least partially axial with respect to the chamber (20).
The apparatus of one of the preceding claims further
including a translating means (18) for moving the auxiliary

magnetic structure (11;17) axially in the chamber (20).
The apparatus of one of the preceding claims, in which the
auxiliary magnetic structure (11;17) comprises a circular

band of soft magnetic material (13;22;25) and an array of
permanent magnets (12;21) affixed thereto.
The apparatus of claim 6, in which the permanent magnets
(12;21) are radially magnetized with respect to the chamber

(20).
The apparatus of claim 7, in which all permanent magnets
(12;21) are magnetized inward along a radial line.
The apparatus of claim 7, in which all permanent magnets
(12;21) are magnetized outward along a radial line.
The apparatus of one of the preceding claims, in which the
auxiliary magnetic field is formed by a structure

comprising a ring of high coercivity, radially magnetized
magnetic material (27,28).
The apparatus of one of the preceding claims, further
comprising an anode shield (10) radially surrounding said

plasma region wherein said auxiliary magnetic structure
(11;17) is disposed radially outside of said anode shield

(10). 
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said auxiliary magnetic
structure (11;17) comprises a plurality of magnets affixed

to said anode shield (10).
The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said auxiliary magnetic
structure (11;17) further comprises a band of soft magnetic

material (13;22;25) affixed to said anode shield (10) to
which are affixed said magnets.
The apparatus of one of the preceding claims, in which the
auxiliary magnetic structure (11;17) surrounds a planar

region disposed between the target electrode (4) and the
substrate holder (5).
The apparatus of one of the preceding claims, wherein the
target electrode (4) comprises a target material to be

sputtered and is disposed away from said substrate holder
(5) along an axis;

and wherein the apparatus further comprises an electrical
source (8) biasing said target electrode (4) with respect

to said substrate holder (5) and creating a plasma within a
plasma region adjacent to said inner surface (7) of said

target electrode (4) for sputtering said deposition
material from said target electrode (4) onto said substrate

(6).
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein a second magnetic field
created by the auxiliary magnetic structure (11;17)

substantially overlaps the primarily radial first magnetic
field created by the principal magnetic structure (14).
The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said first and second
magnetic fields are substantially parallel. 
The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said first and second
magnetic fields are substantially anti-parallel.
The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said second magnetic
field is substantially parallel to said axis.
A method of sputter coating a thin film of material from a
target onto a substrate comprising, electrically biasing

the target with respect to the substrate sufficient to
produce a plasma discharge, confining the plasma adjacent

to the target by means of a primarily radial magnetic field
from a principal magnetic structure adjacent to the outer

surface of the target,

characterized in that

the method further comprises applying an auxiliary magnetic
field from a structure surrounding the sputtering region

between the target and the substrate and situated between
the planes of the target and the substrate, to adjust the

lateral position of the plasma.
The method of claim 20 including axially moving the
auxiliary magnetic structure from a first axial position

to a second axial position whereby the plasma is moved to a
second predetermined radial position.
The method of claim 20 or 21, wherein the auxiliary
magnetic field is applied from a structure surrounding a

planar region between the target and the substrate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
