<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643822</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR MEASURING THE DEFORMATION OF DAMAGED VEHICLES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B520	G01B520	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B5	G01B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for measuring on the site of an accident the three-dimensional deformation of a damaged vehicle comprises a reference frame and a distance measuring device. The reference frame comprises a first straight frame portion installed in front of the vehicle parallel to the transversal axis thereof, a second elongated straight frame portion installed on the side of the vehicle parallel to this vehicle's longitudinal axis, and a third elongated straight frame portion installed at the rear of the vehicle parallel to the transversal axis. When the deformation is situated in front of the damaged vehicle, the first frame portion defines a first axis of a three-dimensional coordinate system, the second axis of this coordinate system being located in a vertical plane in which the first elongated frame portion is lying. The distance measuring device measures distances between the first frame portion and the body of the damaged vehicle in the region of the three-dimensional deformation, by measuring distances along the second and a third axis of the three-dimensional coordinate system. The distance measurements along with knowledge of the spatial relationship between the first frame portion and the non deformed part of the vehicle body give very accurate information about the three-dimensional deformation of the vehicle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHARTRAND INNOVATION LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
F. CHARTRAND INNOVATION LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHARTRAND FRANCOIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHARTRAND, FRANCOIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS FOR MEASURING THEDEFORMATION OF DAMAGED VEHICLESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the invention;The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for carrying out easy, fast and accurate three-dimensional measurement of the deformation of damaged vehicles.2. Brief description of the prior art;Reconstruction is often required to evaluate the causes and circumstances of an accident involving one or many vehicles.The deformation of the damaged vehicles is one parameter that is scrutinized in this process. The amount of deformation can be one way of assessing severity of the accident but can also be used to calculate velocity change and mean acceleration. Also, the location of the deformation is indicative of, for example, the trajectory of the vehicles upon impact.Three-dimensional deformation of the damaged vehicles are measured and these data are 

entered into a computer. The program compares these measurement data to corresponding data of the same non damaged vehicles to reconstruct the accident.The collection of field data concerning vehicle deformation is, however, time consuming. The deformation measurement is normally taken manually with a low precision and few measurements taken. Need has therefore arisen for less time consuming manual deformation measurement techniques with higher precision.OBJECT OF THE INVENTIONAn object of the present invention is therefore to propose a technique for easily, rapidly and precisely measuring on the site of the accident the deformation of the damaged vehicle(s) .SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONMore specifically, in accordance with the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for measuring on the site of an accident a three- dimensional deformation of the body of a damaged vehicle, comprising:a reference frame comprising a first elongated straight frame portion to be installed in 

the proximity of the deformation of the damaged vehicle, with a known spatial relationship between this first frame portion and a non deformed part of the vehicle body, the first frame portion defining a first axis of a first three-dimensional coordinate system; anda device for measuring distances between the first frame portion and the body of the damaged vehicle in the region of the three-dimensional deformation, by measuring distances along second and third axes of the first three-dimensional coordinate system.In accordance with preferred embodiments of the apparatus according to the present invention, (a) the body of the damaged vehicle defining a second
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. An apparatus for measuring on the site of an accident a three-dimensional deformation of the body of a damaged vehicle, comprising: a reference frame comprising a first elongated straight frame portion to be installed in the proximity of the deformation of the damaged vehicle, with a known spatial relationship between said first frame portion and a non deformed part of said vehicle body, said first frame portion defining a first axis of a first three-dimensional coordinate system; and a device for measuring distances between said first frame portion and the body of the damaged vehicle in the region of said three-dimensional deformation, by measuring distances along second and third axes of said first three-dimensional coordinate system.
2. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said body of the damaged vehicle defines a second three-dimensional coordinate system, and wherein said first straight frame portion is to be installed parallel to a first axis of said second coordinate system.
3. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said reference frame comprises a second elongated straight frame portion to be installed parallel to a second axis of the second coordinate system. 


 4. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein said reference frame further comprises a third elongated straight frame portion to be installed parallel to one of said first and second axes of the second coordinate system whereby said third frame portion is parallel to one of said' first and second frame portions, said vehicle being situated between the two parallel straight frame portions.
5. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein the first, second and third elongated straight frame portions are to be installed coplanar to each other.
6. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 1, comprising means for supporting the reference frame above the ground and means for adjusting the height of said reference frame above the ground.
7. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 3, comprising a plurality of tripods for supporting said first and second frame portions, each of said tripods comprising a plurality of telescopic legs resting on the ground and a telescopic central column attachable to the reference frame, said telescopic legs and central column being variable in length to adjust the height of said first and second frame portions above the ground.
8. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein at least one of said first and second elongated frame portions comprises a plurality of tube sections that can be assembled end to end. 


 9. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 1, comprising means for measuring the position of said first elongated straight frame portion with respect to a non deformed reference point of the body of said damaged vehicle.
10. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 3, comprising means for measuring a slope of said second elongated straight frame portion.
11. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said distance measuring device comprises an elongated measuring member for measuring distances along said second axis of the first coordinate system, and means for mounting said elongated measuring member perpendicular to said first straight frame portion while enabling (a) displacement of the elongated measuring member along the first elongated frame portion and (b) rotation of said elongated measuring member about said first frame portion.
12. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 11, in which said distance measuring device comprises a rule member for measuring distances along said third axis of the first coordinate system, and means for mounting said rule member perpendicular to both the elongated measuring member and the first frame portion while enabling displacement of the rule member along the elongated measuring member and longitudinal sliding of said rule member on said elongated measuring member.
13. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 11, comprising a level for positioning said elongated measuring member in a 


vertical plane in which said first frame portion is lying by rotating said elongated measuring member about the first straight frame portion prior to measuring distances between the first frame portion and the vehicle's body.
14. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 11, comprising means for measuring the position of said elongated measuring member along said first straight frame portion.
15. A deformation measuring apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein said rule member comprises a free end, and wherein an angle measuring device is mounted on the free end of said rule member to measure the angular orientation of a bullet hole in the vehicle body to thereby determine the trajectory, and origin of the bullet.
16. A method of measuring on the site of an accident a three-dimensional deformation of the body of a damaged vehicle, comprising the steps of: installing a first elongated straight frame portion of a reference frame in the proximity of the deformation of the damaged vehicle, with a known spatial relationship between said first frame portion and a non deformed part of said vehicle body, said straight frame portion defining a first axis of a first three-dimensional coordinate system; and measuring distances between said first frame portion and the body of said vehicle in the region of said three-dimensional deformation, by measuring distances along second and third axes of said first coordinate system. 


 17. A method as recited in claim 16, in which the body of said damaged vehicle defines a second three-dimensional coordinate system, and wherein said first elongated straight frame portion is to be installed parallel to a first axis of said second coordinate system.
18. A method as recited in claim 17, further comprising the step of installing a second elongated straight frame portion of said reference frame parallel to a second axis of the second coordinate system, and measuring a slope of said second frame portion.
19. A method as recited in claim 16, further comprising the step of measuring the position of said first elongated straight frame portion with respect to a non deformed reference point of the vehicle's body. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
