<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644912</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ALKENYL AROMATIC POLYMER FOAMS AND PROCESSES FOR PREPARING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08L2504	C08J914	C08J912	C08L2500	C08J900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08L	C08J	C08J	C08L	C08J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08L25	C08J9	C08J9	C08L25	C08J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is an insulative, bimodal alkenyl aromatic polymer foam structure having microscopic pinholes in the cell walls to enhance the flexibility of the foam structure. Further disclosed is an insulative, bimodal alkenyl aromatic polymer foam structure containing carbon black. Further disclosed is a process for making low density alkenyl aromatic polymer foams prepared with a halogen-free blowing agent of carbon dioxide, lower alcohol and water. The cell size can be effectively controlled by controlling the amount of water in the blowing agent.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a bimodal alkenyl
aromatic polymer foam structure having enhanced flexural
characteristics and/or enhanced thermally insulative
properties. The present invention further relates to
alkenyl aromatic polymer foam structures prepared using
a halogen-free blowing agent comprising carbon dioxide,
a C1-C6 alcohol, and water.A bimodal foam structure is one with a bimodal
cell size distribution of relatively larger primary
cells and relatively smaller secondary cells. Most
conventional foam structures have a unimodal cell size
distribution only. A unimodal distribution has a
uniform or only primary cell size distribution. Various
bimodal foam structures are disclosed in US-A-4,455,272
and US-A-4,559,367 and in EP-A-0,353,701 (EPO Application
No. 89114160.8).US-A-4,559,367 relates a process for making a
bimodal foam structure by incorporating finely-divided,
water-containing organic vegetable matter into a polymer
feedstock, melting the resulting solid mixture 
, incorporating a volatile foaming agent into the solid
mixture melt to form a foamable mixture, and extruding
the foamable mixture through a die to form the foam
structure.US-A-4,455,272 relates a process for making a
bimodal foam structure by injecting water and a physical
blowing agent into a polymer melt and extruding the
resulting mixture through a die to form the structure.EP-A-0353701 relates a process for making a
bimodal foam structure by incorporating into the polymer
feedstock a fine, water-absorbing mineral powder,
melting the resulting solid mixture, incorporating a
volatile foaming agent into the solid mixture melt to
form a foamable mixture, and extruding the foamable
mixture through a die to form the foam structure.Bimodal foam structures offer advantages over
conventional unimodal foam structures. The advantages
include greater toughness and enhanced thermally
insulating capability. Further, bimodal structures are
typically made using water as a blowing agent component
and unimodal structures typically are not. Since use of
water as a blowing agent component is desirable for
environmental reasons, the manufacture of bimodal
structures is similarly desirable.It would be desirable to further enhance the
thermally insulating capability of the bimodal foam
structures. It would be further desirable to increase
such insulating capability without detrimentally
affecting the physical properties of the foam structure
or detrimentally affecting its manufacture or
processing. For environmental reasons, it would be
desirable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for making a closed-cell , bimodal alkenyl

aromatic polymer foam structure comprising a foam having
relatively larger primary cells with an average cell

size range of 0.05 to 1.2 millimeters and relatively
smaller secondary cells ranging in cell size from 5

percent to 50 percent of the average cell size of the
primary cells, the primary and secondary cells

constituting at least 90 percent of the total volume of
the foam structure,

said
process comprising:


a) heating a thermoplastic polymer material
comprising greater than 50 percent by weight of alkenyl

aromatic polymer to form a melt polymer material;
b) incorporating into the melt polymer
material at an elevated pressure a blowing agent to form

a foamable gel;
c) cooling the foamable gel to a selected
foaming temperature; and
d) expanding the foamable gel at a reduced
pressure to form the foam structure, the process being

characterized in that the blowing agent is incorporated
in a liquid or gaseous form and comprises water in an

amount of at least 1 weight percent water based upon the
total weight of the blowing agent,

the process being further characterized in that carbon black is incorporated into the polymer melt in
an amount sufficient to reduce the thermal conductivity of the foam structure.
A thermally insulative, closed-cell alkenyl
aromatic polymer foam structure comprising a foam of a

thermoplastic polymer material of greater than 50
percent by weight of alkenyl aromatic polymer, the foam

having relatively larger primary cells with an average cell size
range of 0.05 to 1.2 millimeters and relatively smaller 

secondary cells ranging in cell size from 5 percent to
50 percent of the average cell size of the primary

cells, the primary and secondary cells constituting at
least 90 percent of the total cell volume within the

foam structure, the foam structure being characterized
in that the foam has an amount of carbon black

sufficient to reduce the thermal conductivity of the
foam below that of a corresponding bimodal foam without carbon

black.
A process according to Claim 1,

wherein the polymer material contains
greater than 70 percent by weight of an alkenyl aromatic

polymer. 
A process according to any one of Claims
1 or 3, wherein the alkenyl aromatic

polymer is polystyrene.
A process according to any one of Claims
1 or 3-4 wherein the blowing agent

comprises water and carbon dioxide.
A process according to any of Claims 1 or 3-5, wherein the carbon black is incorporated at from
2 to 10 weight percent based upon the weight of polymer material. 
A foam structure according to
Claim 2, wherein the polymer material contains

greater than 70 percent by weight of an
alkenyl aromatic polymer. 
A foam structure according to
Claim 2 or 7, wherein the alkenyl

aromatic polymer is polystyrene.
A foam structure according to any of
Claims 2 or 7 to 8, wherein the foam structure

has a generally heterogeneous dispersion of the two cell
types throughout.
A foam structure according to any of Claims 2 or 7-9
wherein the carbon black is present at between 2 and 10

weight percent based upon the weight of polymer
material.
A process according to any of claims 1 or 3-6 wherein pinholes are
formed in the primary and secondary cells in an amount of between 1 and 30

percent by number of the total number of primary and secondary cells.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
