<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615283</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Interconnection structure of electronic parts comprising solder bumps with metal core members
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H05K334	H01L2160	H01L2348	H05K334	H01L23485	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H05K	H01L	H01L	H05K	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H05K3	H01L21	H01L23	H05K3	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An interconnection structure is provided which is 
simple in structure and is easily manufactured and in which 

stress generated in solder bumps is minimized. Pads 5 of 
a semiconductor chip 1 and pads 6 of a substrate 2 are 

connected to each other by solder bumps 3. The solder 
bumps are hourglass-shaped. Metal core members 4 are 

provided in the solder bumps 3, respectively. The core 
member 4 is constituted with a circular bottom portion 41 

and a circular pin portion 42. The core member 4 is 
soldered to the pad 5 of the semiconductor
 chip 1 by 
solder 7. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUKAMOTO KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUKAMOTO, KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an interconnection
structure of electronic parts and, particularly, to
an interconnection structure of electronic parts using
solder bumps. In Patent Abstract of Japan JP-A-60-057957 an interconnection structure for
electronic parts with solder bumps and connecting pads, which have the form of
needles is disclosed, whereby when stress is generated, the solder bumps broke
and the connection is secured by the connecting.FR-A-262 2741 corresponding to the preamble of claims 1 and 12
discloses a further method for interconnecting electronic parts with
connecting poles and solder bumps, whereby the shape of the connection poles
corresponds to pads on the electronic parts.In EP-A-480 754 an example of interconnecting electronic parts by the process of
surface mounting technology is disclosed. By using an interconnection technology using
solder bumps, a number of connection terminals can be
interconnected at once. Therefore, such technology is
suitable for interconnecting electronic parts each having
a number of connection terminals and has been used widely
in interconnecting LSI chips having, for example, several
hundreds of connecting terminals.It has been known that, in a case where a bare-chip
is connected to a substrate by using solder bumps, fault
of connecting portions occurs frequently. Bare-chip is
an LSI chip not covered with insulating material. The
reason for such fault is a difference in thermal expansion
coefficient between the LSI chip and the substrate on
which the LSI chip is mounted. The LSI chip generates
heat during its operation with which the LSI chip and the
substrate mounting the chip are expanded. Since thermal
expansion coefficients of them are different, stress is
generated in the solder bumps interconnecting the LSI
chip and the substrate. This stress is generated during 
operation of the LSI chip and disappears when the chip
is inoperative. Therefore, generation of stress in the
solder bumps is repeated, with which fatigue of the solder
bumps occurs, leading to destruction thereof. As a result,
the connecting portion or portions between the LSI chip
and the substrate shall be broken.An example of technique for preventing such fault of
the interconnection structure is disclosed in N. Matsui,
et al. "VLSI CHIP INTERCONNECTION TECHNOLOGY USING STACKED
SOLDER BUMPS", pp. 573 to 578, Proc. IEEE 37th Electronic
Components Conf. In the technique disclosed in this
article, stress in the solder bumps is reduced by stacking
a plurality of solder bumps.In this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An interconnection structure for electronic parts comprising solder bumps (3)
for connecting a first electronic part to a second electronic part, comprising:


a core member (4) provided in each of said solder bumps (3) constituting
the interconnection structure;
a plurality of first (5) and second (6) pads being arranged in a matrix
respectively on said first and second electronic parts, the first pads (5) on the

first electronic part corresponding in position to the second pads (6) on the
second electronic part,
said solder bumps interconnecting the first pads (5) of said first electronic part
and said second pads (6) of said second electronic part via said core members (4),
said core members (4) being constituted with a pin portion (42) and a
circular bottom portion (41) which is provided on each one of said either, first pads (5) or

second pads (6), said circular bottom portion (41) of said core members being mounted
on said each one of said first pads (5) or second pads (6) by a solder layer (7) having a melting point

higher than the melting point of the solder forming the solder bump (3),
a distance (L7) existing between the lower end of said pin portion of each of said core members and the corresponding
upper surface of the other of said first pads (5) or second pads (6);
characterized in that
each of said solder bumps is hourglass-shaped;
said core members (4) consist of a material with a thermal expansion
coefficient smaller than the thermal expansion coefficient of said solder (10)

forming said solder bumps.
An interconnection structure as set forth in claim 1, wherein the solder bumps (3) interconnect
the first pads (5) of the first electronic part (1) electrically, and

the second pads (6) of the second electronic part (2) mechanically.
An interconnection structure as set forth in claim 1, wherein the solder bumps (3) interconnect
the first pads (5) of the first electronic part (1) mechanically, and

the second pads (6) of the second electronic part (2) electrically. 
The interconnection structure as set forth in one of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein

the height (L3) of said pin portion (42) is in the range of 0.05 mm to 0.1 mm,
the diameter (L4) of said pin portion (42) is in the range of 0.02 mm to 0.08

mm, said distance (L7) is in the range of 0.01 mm to 0.02 mm, the diameter
(L1) of said bottom portion (41) is about 0.1 mm, and the thickness (L2) of said

bottom portion is about 0.015 mm.
The interconnection structure as set forth in one of the above claims,

wherein

said first electronic part comprises an LSI bare-chip (1) and said second
electronic part comprises a substrate (2).
The interconnection structure as set forth in claims 2 and 5,

wherein

said core members (4) are provided on said LSI bare-chip (1).
The interconnection structure as set forth in claims 3 and 5,

wherein

said core members (4) are provided on said substrate (2).
The interconnection structure as set forth in claim 5,

wherein said pin portions (42) of said core members (4) are pin-pointed.
The interconnection structure as set forth in claim 5,

wherein

said pin portions (42) of said core members (4) have elliptic cross sections.
The interconnection structure as set forth in claim 5,

wherein

said pin portions (42) of said core members (4) have center holes extending
from top ends of said pin portions 42.
The interconnection structure as set forth in claim 5,

wherein

each of said core members (4) has a plurality of pin portions (42). 
Method for interconnecting a first and second electronic part comprising
steps of


(a) arranging a plurality of first (5) and second (6) pads in a matrix
respectively on said first and second electronic parts, the first

pads (5) on the first electronic part corresponding in position
to the second pads (6) on the second electronic part,
(b) painting each one of said either first pads (5) or second pads (6) arranged in a matrix on one of said first or second electronic
part, with a predetermined amount of solder paste (10),
(c) selecting core members (4) having a pin portion (42) and a circular bottom
portions (41),
(d) mounting the bottom portion (41) of said core members (4) on each of
respective pads or the other of said first or second electronic part, said pads being arranged

in correspondence to said painted pads said
circular bottom portion (41) of said core members being mounted on each of

said pads by a solder layer (7) having a melting point higher than the
melting point of the solder (10) forming the solder bump (3);
(e) inserting said core members (4) into said solder pastes (10) painted on said pads of said first or
second electronic part while regulating the position of said first electronic

part with respect to said second electronic part so as to provide a
predetermined distance (L7) between the lower ends of said pin portions

(42) and the upper surfaces of said pads of said one of said first or second electronic part;
(f) heating and melting said solder pastes (10) and then cooling said solder

pastes (10) thereby forming solder bumps (3);
characterized in that

in step (b), a predetermined amount of a solder paste (10) is selected
such that each of the solder bumps (3) forming in step (f) forms in an

hourglass-shape through surface tension of said solder paste (10),
and 
in that
 core members consisting of a material with a thermal expansion coefficient
smaller than the thermal expansion coefficient of said solder in said solder

paste (10); are selected in step (c).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
