<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649232</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Switching control for multiple optical-fiber-guided missile systems.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04J1400	H04J1400	H04J1402	H04J1402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04J14	H04J14	H04J14	H04J14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fast and reliable switch (50) for multi-channel, bi-directional 
fiber optics data link (FODL) systems. The 

FODL channel switching is accomplished through a software 
command on the subcarrier frequency (SCF) code without 

using any moving components or wavelength sensitive optical 
devices. A fiber star coupler (92) and in-line erbium 

doped fiber amplifiers (94A-94Q) transform the FODL system 
into an electrically switchable, fiber star network with 

low optical power loss penalty. The switch can be used in 
multiple fiber optics guided missile launch systems and 

fiber optics based surveillance systems with multiple 
outposts. The switching scheme allows the launcher/controller 

(60) to perform a time-sharing control on multiple 
missiles (or outposts) (80-80P) by switching the SCF code 

sent to the programmable SCF generator of the OE unit in 
the controller (launcher). The scheme can also easily be 

extended to operate in a multiple control station mode that 
uses multiple control station at the launcher/controller 

(60) to control multiple missiles or outposts (80A-80P). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU HUI-PIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU, HUI-PIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to multi-channel, bi-directional 
fiber optics data link "(FODL") systems, and 
more particularly to an improved switch for such systems. Conventional optical fiber switches rely on electro-mechanical 
switches to physically align different input and 
output fiber pairs for signal transmission. The small 
fiber core size makes precision alignment of these fiber 
pairs a challenge. The use of moving parts in the conventional 
fiber switch also raises reliability concerns 
especially under severe operation conditions, such as 
missile launch. Furthermore, a missile launcher (or 
surveillance system) with more than two missiles (or 
outposts) requires several 1x2 switches in cascade to cover 
all possible channel connections. This results in a 
complicated switch control and longer switch time. Although an integrated optics, channel waveguide, 
electro-optic (EO) switch requires no moveable parts, its 
performance is sensitive to the optical wavelength and the 
insertion loss of fiber-to-ohannel-waveguide coupling. It 
is also difficult to provide switching for a bi-directional 
FODL system that uses two optical wavelengths for two-way 
transmission. Another optical switch design uses acoustic-optics 
(AO) beam deflection to steer the connecting fiber channels.  
 
This scheme again is sensitive to the signal optical 
wavelength and suffers high loss due to poor fiber-AO 
device-fiber coupling. "Modulation and switching of light 
in dielectric waveguides," J.M. Hammer, p. 139, "Integrated 
Optics" edited by T. Tamir, Springer-Verlag, Berlin and New 
York, 1975. It would therefore be advantageous to provide a multi-channel, 
bi-directional fiber optic data link system which 
does not require the use of electro-mechanical, electro-optic 
or acoustic-optics switches for switching light 
signals. This invention presents a faster and more reliable 
switch for multi-channel, bi-directional fiber optics data 
link (FODL) systems. The FODL channel switching is accomplished 
through a software command on the subcarrier 
frequency (SCF) code without using any moving components or 
wavelength sensitive optical devices. A fiber star coupler 
and in-line erbium doped fiber amplifiers (EDFA) transform 
the FODL system into an electrically switchable, fiber star 
network with low optical power loss penalty. The switch is applicable, for example, to multiple 
fiber optics guided missile launch systems and fiber optics 
based surveillance systems with multiple outposts. The 
switching concept
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-channel, bi-directional fiber optic data 
link (FODL) system, comprising Q uplink fiber optic channels, 

P downlink fiber optic channels, a fiber optic star 
coupler for coupling said Q uplink fiber optic channels and 

said P downlink channels, P remote platform opto-electronic 
(OE) units respectively connected to said P downlink fiber 

optic channels, Q control station OE units respectively 
connected to said Q uplink channels; and a controller for 

providing remote platform commands addressed to said remote 
platform OE units for communication over said uplink 

channels in a time division multiplexed (TDM) scheme, said 
commands comprising a subcarrier frequency (SCF) code 

specifying a subcarrier frequency to be utilized by a 
particular remote platform OE unit to which said command is 

addressed, said remote platform OE units comprising means 
for generating an upconversion subcarrier signal at a 

frequency determined by said SCF code to up-convert remote 
platform data for downlink transmission to said controller. 
The FODL system of Claim 1 wherein said uplink 
channels have an uplink data rate, said downlink channels 

have a downlink data rate, and wherein said downlink data 
rate is substantially higher than said uplink data rate. 
The FODL system of Claim 1 wherein each of said 
Q control station OE units respectively comprises a downlink 

receiver responsive to downlink signals received from 
said star coupler for providing receiver signals, means for 

generating a local oscillator (LO) signal, said means 
responsive to a corresponding SCF code to select said LO 

signal in dependence on said SCF code from said controller, 
 

and mixing means for mixing said receiver signals with said 

LO signal to down-convert said receiver signals. 
The FODL system of Claim 3 wherein each said 
control station OE units has associated therewith a different 

SCF code. 
The FODL system of Claim 3 wherein said means for 
generating said LO signal comprises a programmable SCF 

generator comprising an oscillator driving a phase locked 
loop comprising a phase comparator, a divide-by-N circuit 

whose value of N is set by said SCF code, and a voltage 
controlled oscillator whose output is said LO signal. 
The FODL system of Claim 1 wherein said star 
coupler comprises signal amplification means for optically 

amplifying said uplink and downlink signals. 
The FODL system of Claim 6 wherein said amplification 
means comprises a diode laser pump which injects its 

power through an auxiliary input port of said fiber star 
coupler, and a plurality of optical fiber amplifiers 

sharing said laser pump. 
The FODL system of Claim 1 wherein each of said 
remote platform OE units comprises an uplink receiver for 

recovering said time division multiplexed commands and SCF 
codes, and means for providing said recovered SCF codes to 

said means for generating said upconversion subcarrier 
signal. 
The FODL system of Claim 8 wherein said means for 
generating said upconversion subcarrier signal comprises a 

programmable SCF generator comprising an oscillator driving 
a phase locked loop comprising a phase comparator, a 

divide-by-N circuit whose value of N is set by said SCF 
code, and a voltage controlled oscillator whose output is 

said upconversion subcarrier signal. 
The FODL system of Claim 1 wherein said remote 
platform unit further comprises means for mixing said 

upconversion subcarrier signal with said platform data to 
provide a subcarrier modulated signal. 
The FODL system of Claim 10 wherein said remote 
platform unit further comprises a downlink transmitter 

responsive to said subcarrier modulated signal. 
The FODL system of Claim 1 further comprising a 
data multiplexer for combining signals from a plurality of 

platform data sources to form a serial digital data stream. 
The FODL system of Claim 1 wherein said platform 
data comprises global position system data signals. 
The FODL system of Claim 1 wherein said platform 
data comprises digitized video data. 
The FODL system of Claim 1 wherein said platform 
data comprises telemetry data. 
A missile system comprising: 
   P fiber guided missiles; 

   a missile launcher controller for controlling said 
missiles; and 

   a multi-channel, bi-directional fiber optic data link 
(FODL) system in accordance with anyone of claims 1 to 15. 
The missile system according to claim 16, wherein said 
multi-channel, bi-directional fiber optic data link (FODL) 

system comprises: 
   Q uplink fiber optic channels; 

   P downlink fiber optic channels; 
   a fiber optic star coupler for coupling said Q uplink 

fiber optic channels and said P downlink channels; 
   P missile opto-electronic (OE) units respectively 

connected to said P downlink fiber optic channels; 
   Q launcher control station OE units respectively 

connected to said Q uplink channels; and 
   a controller for providing remote platform commands 

addressed to said remote platform OE units for communication 
over said uplink channels in a time division multiplexed 

scheme, said commands comprising a subcarrier frequency 
(SCF) code specifying a subcarrier frequency to be 

utilized by a particular missile OE unit to which said 
command is addressed, said missile OE units comprising 

means for generating an upconversion subcarrier signal at a 
frequency determined by said SCF code to upconvert remote 

platform data for downlink transmission to said launcher 
controller. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
