<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613013</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Self leveling membrane test probe.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R1073	G01R1073	G01R3126	G01R3126	H01L2166	H01L2166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R1	G01R1	G01R31	G01R31	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A test probe including a flexible membrane (12) having 
an array of test probe contacts (14) capable of softly and 

gently contacting pads on a device under test is provided 
with a structure that effectively applies tension to the 

membrane while at the same time automatically leveling the 
membrane and removing distortions. A small pressure plate 

(30) is bonded to the inner surface of the membrane behind 
the test probe contacts. A pressure post (58) having a 

pointed or rounded end (64) is pressed against the pressure 
plate (30a) and makes pivotal contact with the plate. A 

spring (50) including an adjustment screw (56) that axially 
adjusts the compression of the spring, applies pressure 

through the pivot point to the pressure plate and thus to 
the membrane at its test probe contacts. When the probe 

contacts (14) are pressed against a device to be tested, 
the probe contacts and pressure plate (30) rotate about the 

pivot point (64) of the pressure post (58), and thereby 
both planarize the test probe contact array (14) and level 

the test contact array while appropriately tensioning the 
membrane. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SZALAY JOHN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOITH BLAKE F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SZALAY, JOHN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOITH, BLAKE F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the testing of 
integrated circuit chips and wafers and more particularly 
concerns a test probe that is self-leveling and 
appropriately tensioned. Integrated circuit chips are manufactured with large 
numbers of identical circuits on a single wafer which 
ultimately are separately cut from the wafer for use. It 
is desirable to test each circuit individually to determine 
whether or not it functions as intended before separating 
it from the wafer. Additional testing of separated 
circuits may be desired at various stages in assembly of 
the circuit in the finished apparatus. Further testing may 
be accomplished after packaging a circuit, after placing it 
in a multi-chip module and after disassembly of a 
multi-chip module to identify inoperable circuits. Conventional testing employs a probe card that is 
provided with a large number of small tungsten blades or 
needles that are mechanically and electrically connected to 
a circuit board and act as test probe contacts. Electrical 
leads extend from the contacts to the outer edge of the  
 
board for connecting the probe card to test circuitry. In 
use the blades or needles are moved into engagement with 
the pads of an integrated circuit. The motion has to be 
such that there is a slight scrubbing action that is 
required for breaking through oxidation coating that often 
covers an aluminum integrated circuit chip pad. Thus, 
blades or needles are frequently positioned at an angle so 
that they will effectively slide along or scrub a surface 
of the pad to break the oxide coating. This provides an 
electrical connection so that signals can be read to 
determine integrity of the circuit on the chip. Ends of the test needles or blades must all fall in 
the same plane in order to assure that each one makes 
electrical contact with a pad of the integrated circuit. 
This is accomplished by bending the blades or needles after 
they are mounted on the probe card, which is laborious, 
time consuming and expensive. Even after such adjustment, 
the blades or needles tend to creep back toward their 
original position so that their adjusted locations are 
lost. This loss of adjustment also comes about from the 
pressure of the needles against the chips, aggravated by 
the scrubbing action used to assure penetration of an oxide 
coating. As a result, constant maintenance is necessary or 
the probe cards will not perform their intended function. 
Even when in proper adjustment the needles cannot 
compensate for significant
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A test probe comprising: 
   a membrane support frame, 

   a flexible membrane fixed to the support frame 
and having inner and outer surfaces, 

   a plurality of test probe contacts on an 
intermediate area of said outer surface, said test probe 

contacts being configured and arranged to be pressed 
against contact pads of a device to be tested, 

   a plurality of conductive traces on said membrane 
connected to respective ones of said probe test contacts 

and configured and arranged for connection to test 
circuitry, and 

   means for automatically rotating said membrane 
intermediate area as the probe test contacts are pressed 

against contact pads of a device to be tested. 
The probe of Claim 1 wherein said means for 
rotating comprises means for tensioning said membrane. 
The probe of Claim 1 wherein said means for 
automatically rotating comprise a pressure plate secured to 

said membrane inner surface at said intermediate area, and 
means for pivotally pressing against said pressure plate at 

a pivot area located substantially centrally of said 
pressure plate. 
The probe of Claim 3 wherein said means for 
pivotally pressing against said pressure plate comprise a 

pressure element in pivotal connection with said pressure 
plate. 
The probe of Claim 3 wherein said means for 
pivotally pressing against said pressure plate comprises a 

center post having an end that pivotally contacts said 
pressure plate pivot area. 
The probe of Claim 4 wherein said pressure 
element comprises a center post having a free end forming 

a pivot point in contact with said pressure plate, and 
means for axially urging the center post free end against 

the pressure plate. 
The probe of Claim 6 wherein said means for 
axially urging the center post comprises a compression 

spring. 
The probe of Claim 7 including means for axially 
adjusting said spring. 
The probe of Claim 7 including adjustment means 
for adjustably compressing said spring. 
The probe of Claim 1 wherein said means for 
rotating said membrane comprises a pressure plate secured 

to the membrane inner surface at said membrane intermediate 
area, a support block mounted to said membrane support 

frame and extending over said membrane area at a distance 
from said pressure plate, said support block having a bore, 

a compression element in said bore and having an outer end, 
and a post interposed between said compression element and 

said pressure plate, said post having a free end in pivotal 
contact with said pressure plate. 
The test probe of Claim 10 wherein said 
compression element is a spring, wherein said post includes 

a shank received in said spring, and wherein said post free 
end comprises a head having a curved outer surface that 

 
pivotally contacts said pressure plate at a pivot area on 

a central portion of said pressure plate. 
The test probe of Claim 11 wherein said bore 
includes an internally threaded portion remote from said 

spring, an adjustment member threaded in said bore, and a 
force transfer member in said bore between said threaded 

member and said spring. 
The test probe of Claim 1 wherein said 
intermediate area is very small compared to the entire area 

of the membrane. 
The test probe of Claim 11 including means for 
restraining relative sliding motion of said post head and 

said pressure plate. 
The test probe of Claim 14 wherein said means for 
restraining comprise a small hole in said pressure plate 

receiving part of said curved outer surface. 
A membrane test probe comprising: 
   a thin flexible membrane having a group of probe 

test contacts in a test area of a first side of the 
membrane, 

   a pressure plate secured to said membrane at a 
second side opposite said first side and behind said probe 

test contacts and said test area, and 
   means for pressing against said pressure plate at 

a pivot area thereof whereby pressure of said probe test 
contacts against contact pads of a device to be tested 

cause said probe test contacts and pressure plate to rotate 
around said pivot area to obtain alignment of the plane of 

said test probe contacts with the plane of said device 
contact pads. 
The test probe of Claim 16 wherein said means for 
pressing comprises a pivot post having a pointed free end 

in pivotal contact with a central point of said pressure 
plate. 
The test probe of Claim 17 including a central 
aperture formed in said pressure plate and wherein said 

pivot post includes a hemispherical head having an end 
portion partially received in said aperture. 
The test probe of Claim 17 including spring means 
for resiliently and axially urging said pivot post against 

said pressure plate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
