<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634513</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Yarn dyeing apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06B100	D06B114	D06B1100	D06B1100	D06P500	D06P500	D06P700	D06P700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06B	D06B	D06B	D06B	D06P	D06P	D06P	D06P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06B1	D06B1	D06B11	D06B11	D06P5	D06P5	D06P7	D06P7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for space dyeing a plurality 
of strands of yarns (Y) which are fed over a series of 

dye applicator rolls (56). Each roll is rotated in a 
partly submerged condition in a dye pan (58) containing 

a different color. Above and offset relative to each 
dye applicator roll is a yarn pattern roll (82) which 

carries a number of slats (100) in a circumferential 
array extending beyond the periphery of the pattern rolls 

for contacting the yarn strands. The slats sequentially 
engage and deflect the yarn strands onto the surface 

of the respective dye applicator rolls. The slats may 
be positioned in selected slots (98) in the pattern rolls 

to determine the pattern of color applied to the yarn. 
Variable speed drives (66, 92) rotate the dye applicator 

rolls and the pattern rolls independently of each other 
to effect the spacing of the colors and the amount of 

dye received by the yarn strands. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MANUFACTURING DESIGNS AND SOLU
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MANUFACTURING DESIGNS AND SOLUTIONS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASELWANDER JACK G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASELWANDER, JACK G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to space dyeing apparatus 
and more particularly to apparatus for applying dye to 
a plurality of yarn strands in a preselected array or 
pattern of color, spacing and length in a continuous 
manner and for selectively controlling the array, spacing 
and amount of dye applied to the yarn. In some fabrics, such as carpets, it is desirable 
to provide yarns which have a color pattern varying along 
their lengths. Such yarns have come to be known as space-dyed 
yarns, and apparatus and processes for coloring 
such yarn are known as space-dyeing apparatus and 
processes. Carpet fabrics made from yarns of this type 
generally have a multicolor effect with no visible 
pattern. Various space-dyeing methods and apparatus 
have been known in the prior for some period of time. 
See for example, Epstein U.S. Patent No. 2,573,097. 
Such methods and apparatus include systems where a number 
of yarns pass over a series of dye applicator rollers 
or drums which are charged with dyes of various colors. 
The yarns generally are controlled during passage over 
the drums so as to maintain clearance with the surfaces 
except when it is desired to color a portion of the yarn. 
When a portion of the yarn is to be colored the yarn 
is depressed by a presser member to cause the yarn to 
be pressed against the surface of the selected dye 
applicator roller. The presser member may be a piston 
or plunger reciprocating above the dye applicator roller 
for forcing the yarn directly against the periphery of  
 
the dye applicator roller as disclosed in Farrer et al 
U.S. Patent No. 3,503,232 and Worth et al U.S. Patent 
No. 3,879,966, or may be a series of pads mounted on 
a rotating drum, the pads forcing the yarn against the 
dye applicator roller as in Keown U.S. Patent No. 
3,541,958. Thus, in the prior art the yarn is stamped, 
impacted or hammered against the dye applicator roller. 
If the plunger or pad is held against the yarn for too 
long a time, the feeding of the yarn may be impaired. 
Thus, the amount of dye applied to the yarn during each 
impact is limited. In Farrer et al and Worth et al the speed of the 
dyeing is limited because of the limitations on the 
reciprocating elements including the cycling and the 
acceleration forces involved. In the Keown and Worth et al patents the yarn is 
precolored with a base color and the stamping effectively 
results in the dye applicator rollers applying spots 
of secondary color on the precolored yarn. Complicated 
control systems, both mechanical and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for space dyeing yarns comprising 
yarn support means (76) over which a plurality of yarn 

strands (Y) may be fed in a horizontal path in a feed 
direction from a first end to a second end of said 

apparatus, a plurality of spaced apart dye applicator 
rolls (56) each having a peripheral surface, means (50,64) 

for rotatably mounting each roll about an axis of rotation 
with at least a portion of the peripheral surface in 

a dye pan (58) containing a liquid dye and with the 
peripheral surface disposed relative to said support 

means for contacting yarn fed over said support means, 
characterized by yarn deflecting means (82,100) for 

deflecting selected portions of said yarn strands from 
said horizontal path for forcibly engaging said selected 

portions with the peripheral surface of selected dye 
applicator rolls to transfer dye to said selected 

portions, said yarn deflector means comprising a pattern 
roll (82) corresponding to each applicator roll, means 

(78,96) for rotatably mounting each pattern roll for 
rotation about an axis of rotation above and offset in 

the feed direction toward said first end relative to 
the axis of rotation of the corresponding applicator 

roll, drive means (66,68,70,54,52 and 92,90,88,84,80) 
for rotating said dye applicator rolls and said pattern 

rolls at selected speeds, a plurality of elongated yarn 
deflecting members (100) associated with each pattern 

roll, and mounting means (98,104) for mounting said yarn 
deflecting members at selected spaced apart 

circumferential dispositions on respective pattern rolls. 
Apparatus as recited in claim 1, characterized 
by said drive means comprising means for varying the 

 
speed of said pattern rolls independently of the speed 

of said dye applicator rolls. 
Apparatus as recited in claim 1, characterized 
by said drive means comprising means for varying the 

speed of said applicator rolls independently of the speed 
of said pattern rolls. 
Apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein each 
pattern roll includes a pair of spaced apart ends, said 

mounting means including securing means (104) at each 
end for securing each deflecting member (100) to the 

respective pattern roll, said securing means comprising 
a cap (104) removably connected to each end, for clamping 

said deflecting members to said pattern roll when said 
caps are connected to the respective ends. 
Apparatus as recited in claim 1, characterized 
by said yarn deflecting members (100) being disposed 

substantially parallel to the axis of the respective 
pattern roll. 
Apparatus as recited in claim 4, characterized 
by each pattern roll including a plurality of 

circumferentially spaced apart slots (98) extending 
substantially parallel to its axis, and said yarn 

deflecting members comprising slats (100) secured within 
selected slots in said pattern rolls. 
A method of space dyeing yarn comprising feeding 
strands of yarn from an upstream station to a downstream 

station in a horizontal path above the surfaces of a 
plurality of spaced apart dye applicator rolls, rotating 

each roll through a dye pan to apply a selected dye to 
the surface of each roll, disposing a selected number 

 
of paddles on a drum disposed above and upstream of each 

dye applicator roll, rotating each drum to sequentially 
move each paddle into and out of said path while upstream 

of each corresponding roll for contacting and deflecting 
the strands of yarn into frictional engagement with the 

surface of the corresponding dye applicator roll to 
transfer dye from the surface of said roll to said yarn 

strands. 
In the method as recited in claim 7, 
characterized by rotating said dye applicator rolls at 

variable selected speeds, and rotating said drum at 
variable selected speeds independently of the speeds 

of said rolls. 
In the method as recited in claim 7, 
characterized by rotating said drums and said rolls 

in the same direction, and said paddles while contacting 
said yarn strands move in the direction in which the 

yarn strands are being fed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
