<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612232</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OCCLUSIVE WOUND DRESSING AND APPLICATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1300	A61F1302	A61F1300	A61F1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thin film wound dressing that is particularly easy to position accurately and apply smoothly to form an occlusive seal comprises three layers: a first wound covering layer (21) being permeable to gases and water vapor while being impermeable to microbes and liquids; a second adhesive layer (23) intimately disposed on the first layer for use in occlusively attaching the invention to skin or wound surfaces; and a third release backing layer (27) disposed on the second adhesive layer. The release backing layer has a functionally contiguous or integral pull-tab (25) attached in a manner that creates a substantially U-shaped release backing/pull-tab assembly. The release backing (27) and pull-tab portions (25) of the assembly are highly flexible while also being highly resistant to elongation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIODERM INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIODERM, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAY DENNIS M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAY, DENNIS, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to thin film wound
dressings and, more particularly, to means and
methodology for the application of such dressings to
skin surfaces to provide a sterile mechanical barrier to
all types of infectious agents.Wound healing assistance and wound dressing
technology have changed substantially in the last
fifteen years due to a recognition of the fact that
wound healing is aided by the provision of a more
physiologic environment for the wound, especially with
respect to gasses such as water vapor and carbon
dioxide. The development of wound dressing technology
has also been aided by recent advances in biocompatible
synthetic materials, including thin films and adhesives
that are permeable to gasses, including water vapor.Improved wound care has been achieved via more
effective wound dressings that are occlusive and protect
the wound from the external environment.More specifically, it has been shown that providing
a sterile wound covering that is permeable to gasses
including water vapor and impermeable to liquids and
microbes is an aid to healing. Films of less than 76.2
µm (3 mils) in thickness are commonly employed in such
dressings because thicker films are much less permeable
to gas and water vapor. Several polyurethane films have
been specifically adapted for wound dressings and other
medical uses. These films are typically used in
thicknesses of less than 50.8 µm (2 mils) and allow the
free diffusion of oxygen, water vapor and other gasses
through their molecular matrices. In addition, these
films are impermeable to both liquids and to all known
microbial disease vectors.The use of vapor permeable membranes that remain 
effective as microbial barriers has been beset with
problems because of the handling characteristics of thin
films. A persistent problem in thin film dressing
technology arises from an inherent cohesion between film
surfaces. When such films are applied to wounds,
wrinkles or tunnels result that can be infiltrated
easily and quickly by disease vectors. The wrinkling
associated with self-clinging characteristics is similar
to the wrinkling that often occurs with plastic food
wrap. This wrinkling completely eliminates the desired
occlusive properties of a thin film wound dressing.The problem of wrinkled dressing application is
further exacerbated by the use of adhesives on thin film
wound dressings. The adhesives on thin films increase
cohesion and lead to the irreversible formation of
wrinkles during application of the wound dressing. When
wrinkles are formed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A wound dressing comprising

(A) a thin film first layer (21) that is
impermeable to liquids and microbes but permeable to

gasses and water vapor;
(B) an adhesive second layer (23) that is provided
on said first layer, said adhesive layer being permeable

to gasses and water vapor; and
(C) a highly flexible release backing layer (27),
which resists elongation and is releasably adhered to

said adhesive second layer, wherein

(i) said release backing layer is divided into at
least two pieces and each of said pieces is provided

with a pull-tab (25);
(ii) said pull-tabs resist elongation and are
disposed such that pulling a said pull-tab away from

said adhesive second layer in a direction substantially
parallel to said second layer causes the piece of

release backing layer provided with that pull-tab to
detach progressively and ultimately completely from said

second layer; characterised in that
(iii) the flexibility of said release backing layer
is such that the unattached thin film layer is not

caused to rotate away from the application surface
thereby permitting wrinkle-free application of said

first and said second layers to a skin or wound surface
to form a microbe-impermeable physical barrier

thereover.
The dressing of claim l, wherein said adhesive
second layer (23) is disposed only on the periphery of

said first layer (21).
The dressing of claim l, wherein said thin film
first layer (21) comprises one or more materials

selected from polyurethane, polyethylene, acrylic and
silicone. 
The dressing of claim l, wherein said thin film
first layer (21) comprises polyurethane.
The dressing of claim l, wherein said thin film
first layer (21) is from 12.7 to 50.8 µm thick.
The dressing of claim l, wherein said thin film
first layer (21) is from 10.2 to 15.2 µm thick.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein said thin film
first layer (21) is from 15.2 to 27.9 µm thick.
The dressing of claim l, wherein said adhesive
second layer (23) comprises a medical grade acrylic

adhesive compound.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein said release
backing layer (27) comprises one or more materials

selected from silicone coated paper, plastic film,
plastic coated paper, low density polyethylene, metal

foil and polypropylene.
The dressing of claim l, wherein said release
backing layer (27) comprises silicone coated paper.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein said first and
second layers (21,23) are transparent to light.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein said dressing is
elongate having a long axis and said release backing

layer (27) is divided into two portions along an
approximately transverse midline perpendicular to said

long axis.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein the central
portions of said release backing layer (27) abut at a

line substantially centrally located on said first layer
(21). 
The dressing of claim 1, wherein the central
portions of said release backing layer (27) overlap at a

line substantially centrally located on said first layer
(21).
The dressing of claim 1, wherein all of said layers
(21,23,27) are transparent to light.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein said adhesive
second layer (23) is impregnated with an antiseptic.
The dressing of claim 16, wherein said antiseptic
comprises povidone iodine.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein said adhesive

second layer (23) is impregnated with an antimicrobial
substance.
The dressing of claim 18, wherein said
antimicrobial substance comprises neosporin.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein said adhesive
second layer (23) is provided discontinuously in a

pattern.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein said adhesive
second layer (23) is provided continuously.
The dressing of claim 20, wherein (i) said pattern
defines a regular grid of adhesive material and (ii) a

medically active substance is provided on said thin film
first layer (21) in the interstices of said grid.
The dressing of claim 22, wherein said medically
active substance is one or more substance selected from

antimicrobials and antiseptics. 
The dressing of claim 22, wherein said medically
active substance is one or more substance selected from

povidone iodine and neosporin.
The dressing of claim 22, wherein said medically
active substance is a material which aids healing.
The dressing of claim 22, wherein said medically
active substance is epidermal growth factor.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein the perimeter of
said dressing is shaped to fit anatomical surfaces.
The dressing of claim 27, wherein said perimeter of
said dressing has an absence of discontinuous

intersections.
The dressing of claim 27, wherein said wound
dressing is substantially elliptical in shape.
The dressing of claim 27, wherein said wound
dressing is substantially circular in shape.
The dressing of claim 1, wherein each said piece of
said release backing layer (27) is continuous with a

said pull-tab (25).
The device of claim 1 wherein said release backing
layer (27) extends to lie within the periphery of said

pull-tabs (25).
The device of claim 1 wherein said release backing
layer (27) extends to the periphery of said pull-tabs

(25).
The device of claim 1 wherein said release backing
layer (27) extends to beyond the periphery of said pull-tabs 

(25).
A wound dressing comprising

(A) a thin film first layer (1) that is
impermeable to liquids and microbes but permeable to

gasses and water vapor, said first layer having a
bonding surface and an external surface;
(B) an adhesive second layer (73) that is provided
on said bonding surface of said first layer, said

adhesive layer being permeable to gasses and water
vapor;
(C) a highly flexible release backing layer (78),
which resists elongation and is releasably adhered to

said adhesive second layer, said release backing layer
being adapted such that when said release backing layer

is pulled in a direction substantially parallel to said
second layer, said release backing layer is caused to

detach progressively and ultimately completely from said
second layer; characterised in that

the flexibility of said release backing layer is
such that the unattached thin film layer is not caused

to rotate away from the application surface;
(D) a pull-tab (76) is provided on said release
backing layer wherein

said pull-tab resists elongation and is disposed
such that pulling said pull-tab away from said adhesive

second layer in a direction substantially parallel to
said second layer causes said release backing layer to

detach progressively and ultimately completely from said
second layer thereby permitting wrinkle-free application

of said first and said second layers to a skin or wound
surface to form a microbe-impermeable physical barrier

thereover; and
(E) an affixation tab (77) is disposed on said
external surface of said first layer for affixing said

dressing to a skin surface and for opposing the pulling
force applied to said pull tab as said release backing

layer is being removed and said first and second layers 
are being applied to said skin or wound surface.
The dressing of claim 35, wherein said affixation
tab (77) is removable from said first layer (1).
The dressing of claim 35, wherein said release
backing layer (78) and said pull-tab (77) comprise a

contiguous assembly of one material.
The dressing of claim 37, wherein said contiguous
assembly is folded back upon itself.
The dressing of claim 35, wherein said release
backing layer (78) extends to lie within the periphery

of said pull-tab (77).
The dressing of claim 35, wherein said release
backing layer (78) extends to the periphery of said

pull-tab (77).
The dressing of claim 35, wherein said release
backing layer (78) extends beyond the periphery of said

pull-tab (77).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
