<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639122</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INK RECEPTIVE DAMPENING SYSTEM FOR LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING PRESS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41F700	B41F726	B41N300	B41N308	B41N700	B41N700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41F	B41F	B41N	B41N	B41N	B41N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41F7	B41F7	B41N3	B41N3	B41N7	B41N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for continuously providing dampening fluid to a plate cylinder (12) of a lithographic printing press includes a frame (82) operatively connected to the printing press. A dampening fluid reservoir (16) is attached. A pan roller (22) is rotatably  mounted in the frame and is disposed in contact with dampening fluid in the dampening fluid reservoir (16). A transfer roller (26) set tangentially contacts and is parallel to the pan roller (22). An ink receptive oscillating roller (34) having a porous and compressible surface is tangentially contacting and parallel to the transfer roller (26). The oscillating roller is gear driven at a rotational speed proportional to the speed of the plate cylinder (12). A water form roller (38) is rotatably mounted in the frame contacting and in parallel relation to both the plate cylinder (12) and the ink receptive oscillating roller (34).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KELLER JAMES J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KELLER JAMES J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLER JAMES J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLER JAMES J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INK RECEPTIVE DAMPENING SYSTEM FOR LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING PRESSCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This is a continuation-in-part application of co- pending U. S. Patent Application Serial No. 08/020,675, filed on February 22, 1993.TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION The invention is directed to dampening roller systems for lithographic printing presses and in particular, to a dampening system having a gear driven intermediate oscillating roller and an ink receptive surface, which system is easily adapted for retrofitting existing lithographic presses. 
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION High speed rotary lithographic printing plates require ink to be continuously applied to a rotating plate cylinder carrying a printing plate having an ink receptive image chemically formed thereon. The image is transferred from the plate cylinder onto a blanket cylinder which rolls against paper to be printed and impresses the image onto the paper. In order to maintain even pressure between the plate cylinder and the blanket cylinder and to provide a clear, crisp image without smearing, the areas of the printing plate which do not receive ink are appropriately treated to receive a thin coating of water or another dampening fluid. An appropriate thickness of dampening fluid, corresponding to the thickness of ink, is desired so that even hydraulic pressure results upon rolling contact between the plate cylinder and the blanket cylinder. The plate cylinder is supplied with both ink and water during printing operations. The ink is supplied through a series of ink transfer rollers and the dampening fluid, which is usually water, with or without a small quantity of additives to adjust surface tension or other characteristics, is supplied through a series of dampening rollers. In the past, the dampening roller systems have been two basic types. One type meters the amount of water using a ducting roller which periodically contacts a form roller which rotates in a pan of dampening fluid to carry fluid to the ducting roller. The ducting roller then moves out of contact with the pan roller and contacts one of the transfer rollers for a period of time. The speed of the pan and ducting rollers and the dwell time determines the quantity of water transferred to the plate cylinder. Another type of dampening system is a continuous 

supply dampening system in which the transfer rollers continuously and simultaneously communicate with both a pan roller and a transfer roller. The quantity of dampening fluid is metered by (1) setting the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An apparatus for continuously providing dampening fluid to a rotating plate cylinder of a lithographic printing press comprising:
(a) a frame operatively connected to said printing press;
(b) a dampening fluid reservoir;
(c) a pan roller rotatably mounted in said frame and disposed in contact with dampening fluid in said dampening fluid reservoir; (d) a transfer roller means tangentially contacting and parallel to said pan roller;
(e) an ink receptive oscillating roller tangentially contacting and parallel to said transfer roller means, said oscillating roller gear driven in rotation at a surface speed proportional to a surface speed of said rotating plate cylinder and having a porous surface; and
(f) a water form roller rotatably mounted in said frame tangentially contacting and in a parallel relation to both said plate cylinder and said ink receptive oscillating roller for carrying an even metered layer of water from said oscillating roller to said plate cylinder. 

2. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said ink receptive oscillating roller further comprises a polymeric surface capable of absorbing ink and water mixture to a depth of about 1-5 mm and having a hardness measuring between about 95-100 durometer on a shore a scale.
3. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein each of said pan roller and transfer roller and water form roller have ink receptive polymeric surfaces.
4. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said transfer roller means comprises:
(a) a transfer roller contacting said pan roller; and (b) a reverse direction roller contacting said transfer roller and said oscillating roller.
5. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said pan roller further comprises a roller which is gear driven in rotation at a surface speed proportional to said surface speed of said rotating plate cylinder. 

6. An improved oscillating roller for use in a fluid dampening system of a lithographic press comprising:
(a) a rotatable ink receptive porous and compressible exterior cylindrical surface;
(b) a drive gear operatively connected to said oscillating roller for directly driving said rotatable exterior cylindrical surface at a rotation speed proportional to a surface speed of a rotating plate cylinder of said lithographic press; and
(c) an external oscillating mechanism operatively connected to said oscillating roller for driving said rotatable ink receptive exterior surface thereof with oscillating axially linear motion while said ink receptive exterior cylindrical surface is also being rotated by said drive gear. 

7. An improved gear driven continuous fluid dampening system of the type having tangentially contacting and parallel cylindrical rotatable rollers held in a frame and having a dampening fluid pan, a pan roller positioned for receiving dampening fluid from said fluid pan, a transfer roller positioned for receiving dampening fluid from said pan roller, a reverse direction roller for receiving dampening fluid from said transfer roller an oscillating roller positioned for receiving dampening fluid from said reverse direction transfer roller, and a form roller for receiving dampening fluid from said oscillating roller and for providing said dampening fluid to a rotating plate cylinder of a lithographic printing press, the improvement comprising: (a) an ink receptive porous and compressible surface on said oscillating roller;
(b) a gear train driving said oscillating roller for rotation thereof at speeds directly proportional to said rotation of said plate cylinder; and (c) means for selectively applying desired rolling contact forces between both said oscillating roller and said transfer roller and between said oscillating roller and said form roller. 

8. An improved fluid dampening system as in claim
7 wherein said ink receptive surface of said oscillating roller comprises a smooth polymeric material with substantially uniform porosity.
9. An improved fluid dampening system as in claim
8 wherein said smooth polymeric material is rubber with substantially uniform porosity.
10. A kit for retrofitting an existing Lithographic printing press with a dampening system which continuously provides dampening fluid with improved metering capabilities, said retrofitting kit comprising:
(a) a replacement gear driven oscillating roller with an ink receptive porous cylindrical surface; and
(b) a replacement pan roller, transfer roller, and reverse direction roller set including means for adjusting contact pressure between said pan roller and said transfer roller of said set and between said reverse direction roller of said set and said oscillating roller. 

11. A method of retrofitting an existing lithographic printing press with a dampening system which continuously provides dampening fluid with improved metering capabilities, comprising the steps of: (a) replacing an existing metallic or chrome plated gear driven oscillating roller with an ink receptive gear driven oscillating roller having porous surface; and
(b) replacing existing pan and transfer rollers with a pan and transfer roller set including means for adjusting contact pressure between a pan roller and a transfer roller of said replaced set and between a reverse direction roller of said replacement set and said ink receptive gear driven oscillating roller. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
