<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618822</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPLANTABLE LEAD SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N105	A61N1375	A61N105	A61N1362	A61N1372	A61N1362	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANKENAU PAUL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JULA JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYDEN JOHAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UPTON JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS TERRELL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANKENAU, PAUL, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JULA, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYDEN, JOHAN, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UPTON, JAMES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS, TERRELL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to implantable 
cardiac leads, and more particularly to an active fixation 
lead system having a small diameter lead body and an 
introducer for improved maneuverability during implantation. An implantable intravascular lead assembly is oftentimes 
implanted for cardiac pacing, and comprises an electrical 
conductor which is adapted to be suitably connected to a 
source of electrical energy. The electrical conductor, in 
turn, includes an electrode tip which engages the endocardial 
tissue for stimulation and sensing. The lead assembly is 
intravenously inserted through a body vessel, such as a vein, 
into one or more cardiac chambers. The conductor is sealed 
from body fluids by a bio-compatible and bio-stable insulating 
material. A sheath is provided for improving the 
maneuverability of the conductor when inserted into, and 
guided through the veins for positioning in the heart chamber. In a typical lead assembly, the electrode tip is firmly 
lodged in, and permanently secured to the endothelial lining 
of the heart. This lead assembly is referred to as an 
endocardial lead. Some examples of conventional endocardial 
leads may be found in the following publications: U.S. Patent 
No. 3,348,548 to Chardack; U.S. Patent No. 3,754,555 to 
Schmitt; U.S. Patent No. 3,814,104 to Irnich et al.; U.S. 
Patent No. 3,844,292 to Bolduc; and U.S. Patent No. 3,974,834 
to Kane. The teachings of these patents relate to various 
endocardial leads which are purportedly simple to manufacture 
and relatively easy to use by the operating physician.  
 The most desirable attributes of an endocardial lead are: 
(1) lead diameter and secure fixation of the electrode to the 
cardiac tissue to prevent electrode tip dislodgement; (2) 
implantation control with minimal damage to the vein, heart 
valve, cardiac tissue or other tissue that comes in contact 
with the lead, and for providing protections from over-perforation 
of the electrode through the cardiac tissue; and 
(3) removability. With increased patient's longevity, it has become common 
to replace the existing leads or to add new leads. The finite 
size of the vascular vessel through which the leads are passed 
cause a significant limitation to the number of leads that can 
be implanted in the same vessel. As a result, the dimensions 
of the lead body constitute a crucial factor in the success of 
the implantation procedure. In addition, when several 
conventional leads are implanted in the same vessel, they tend 
to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A lead system (30) for connecting a source of 
electrical energy to a human or animal body tissue, the 

system comprising: a lead (10) having a proximal end and a 
distal end, said distal end including fixation means for 

engaging the body tissue, said lead further having a lead 
body (11) extending between said proximal end and said distal end; 

characterized in that: said lead body (11) includes a conductor 
(60) formed of a plurality of infinitesimal, bio-compatible 

electrically conductive strands (32-38) tightly bundled in a 
cable-like fashion, said lead body having an overall straight, 

uncoiled configuration; and wherein
 
   said system (30) has introducer means (40) for 

assembly with, and for receiving said lead (10), said 
introducer means (40) having a body member, extending 

between a proximal end and a distal end, for transmitting 
torque from said introducer proximal end to said introducer 

distal end; said introducer means (40) further having 
coupler means (43), secured to said introducer distal end, for 

engaging said fixation means (24) and for controlling its 
engagement to the body tissue; said system also having a 

catheter (50), for telescopically receiving said introducer 
means (40), to impart stiffness and improved steerability to 

said lead. 
The lead system as defined in claim 1, 
wherein said lead body further includes a dielectric bio-compatible 

insulation coating (61) which surrounds said 
conductor (60) to provide an insulation layer between said 

conductor and the body. 
The lead system as defined in claim 1 or 2, 
wherein said conductor (60) includes at least one central 

strand (38) and a plurality of peripheral strands 
surrounding said central strand.  

 
The lead system as defined in claim 3, 
wherein said conductor includes one central strand and six 

peripheral strands (32-37). 
The lead system as defined in claim 3 or 4, 
wherein said central (38) and peripheral strands (32-37) 

have a generally similar circular cross-sectional shape, and 
an outer diameter ranging between 0.0125 mm and 0.075 mm; and 

wherein the overall outer diameter of said conductor (60) 
ranges between 0.075 mm and 0.325 mm. 
The lead system as defined in any preceding claim, 
wherein the overall outer diameter of said conductor (60) is 

around 0.15 mm. 
The lead system as defined in any preceding claim, 
wherein the stranding lay of said conductor (60) varies 

between 0.7620 cm. and 1.5240 cm. (0.30 inch and 0.60 inch.) 
The lead system as defined in claim 3, 
wherein said central strand (38) extends along a central 

axis; and wherein said central axis is generally collinear 
with the geometric axes of said conductor (60) and said 

insulation coating (61) in order to obtain optimal 
insulation around said conductor. 
The lead system as defined in any preceding claim, 
wherein the outer diameter of said lead body (11) ranges 

between 0.254 mm and 0.66 mm. 
The lead system as defined in claim 9, 
wherein the outer diameter of said lead body (11) is about 

0,3 mm (13 mils).  
 
The lead system as defined in any of claims 2 to 10, 
wherein said insulation coating (61) includes a tubing which 

surrounds said conductor in a loose manner, with a spacial 
gap formed therebetween. 
The lead system as defined in claim 11 
wherein said tubing (62) has a thickness which ranges 

between 0.0051 cm. to 0.01 cm. (0.0020 inch to 0.0040 
inch.) 
The lead system as defined in any preceding claim, 
wherein said fixation means (24) includes: a helical tip for 

engaging the body tissue; and means for connecting said tip 
to said lead body. 
The lead system as defined in claim 13, 
wherein said connecting means includes: electrically 

conductive sleeve means for coupling said tip to said 
conductor; and sealant means (76), surrounding at least said 

conductive sleeve means, for insulating it. 
The lead system as defined in claim 14, 
wherein said conductive sleeve includes: an electrically 

conductive adaptor sleeve (72) which is connected to an 
exposed section of said conductor; and an outer sleeve (74) 

for interconnecting said exposed section to said tip. 
The lead system as defined in claim 15, 
wherein said sealant means (76) includes a bio-compatible 

tubing which is heat shrunk around a distal end portion of 
said conductor, said outer sleeve, and a proximal end 

portion of said tip, for providing a fluid tight sealant to 
prevent body fluids from seeping into said lead body.  

 
The lead system as defined in any of claims 3 to 16, 
wherein said tip (24) includes: a proximal end portion which 

extends into a crank portion (80) for engaging said coupler 
means (90) of said introducer means (40); and a coiled 

portion (82) wound around a geometric central axis for 
engaging the body tissue. 
The lead system as defined in claim 17, 
wherein said proximal end portion is generally co-aligned 

with said geometric central axis of said coiled portion 
(82); and wherein said crank portion (80) includes an 

angularly bent section which axially offsets said crank 
portion relative to said proximal end portion of said tip, 

and to said geometric central axis of said coiled portion. 
The lead system as defined in any of claims 13 to 18, 
wherein said tip (24) is electrically conductive and is used 

as a tip electrode. 
The lead system as defined in any preceding claim, 
wherein said coupler means (43) includes an elongated, 

generally cylindrical tip engaging member which is tightly 
connected to a section of said body member (11), such that 

said tip engaging member has a dielectric composition for 
insulating said body member from said fixation means; 

wherein said fixation means includes a tip having: a 
proximal end portion which extends into a crank portion (80) 

for engaging said coupler means (43) of said introducer 
means (40); and a coiled portion wound around a geometric 

central axis for engaging the body tissue; and wherein said 
tip engaging member includes an aperture (92) which acts as 

an entranceway for said tip, and which retains and firmly 
engages said crank portion, for causing it to rotate in a 

first predetermined direction for engagement to the body  
 

tissue, or in a second direction for dislodgement from the 
body tissue. 
The lead system as defined in claim 20, 
wherein said aperture (92) is defined by a retention area 

(98) for engaging said crank portion (80), and a ramp (96) 
which helps to guide said crank portion (80) into said 

retention area (86), to guide said tip out of said aperture, 
and to prevent said tip from over-perforating the body 

tissue. 
The lead system as defined in claim 21, 
further including handle means (45) connected to said 

introducer proximal end, for easier manipulation and 
rotation of said introducer body member. 
The lead system as defined in claim 22, 
wherein said handle means (45) has a generally similar 

construction to said coupler means, such that said handle 
means and coupler means are functionally interchangeable. 
The lead system as defined in claim 23, 
wherein said handle means (45) includes: a tip engaging 

portion (100) for engaging said tip crank potion; and a 
dielectric tubing (104) for connecting said tip engaging 

portion to said introducer body member; and wherein said 
tubing forms a neck portion (102) which separates said body 

member from said handle tip engaging portion, for imparting 
greater movement flexibility to said introducer. 
The lead system as defined in claim 24, 
wherein said tip engaging portion (100) is electrically 

conductive.  
 
The lead system as defined in any of claims 20 to 25, 
wherein said body member includes at least a first 

elongated, closely wound spring coil (44). 
The lead system as defined in claim 26, 
wherein said first coil (44) has an outer diameter of about 

0.0914 cm. (0.0360 inch), and an axial length of 50 cm. to 
120 cm. (19.69 inches to 37.23 inches), shorter than the 

length of said lead body (11), such that when said lead is 
assembled to said introducer excess length of said lead body 

(11) protrudes outside said introducer body member. 
The lead system as defined in claim 27, 
wherein said body member includes a second elongated, 

closely wound spring coil (106) which is formed 
concentrically and coaxially with said first spring coil 

(44), and wherein said second coil spring (106) is wound in 
the opposite direction to the winding direction of said 

first coil spring (44), such that when clockwise torque is 
applied, said first spring coil (44) tends to contract, 

while said second spring coil (106) tends to expands, for 
increasing the torsional stiffness of said introducer. 
The lead system as defined in any preceding claim, 
wherein said catheter (50) has a generally elongated tubular 

for housing said lead and said introducer (40); and wherein 
said catheter (50) is shorter than said introducer (40), 

such that, when said catheter (50) is assembled with said 
introducer (40), said introducer proximal end protrudes 

outside said catheter for manipulation. 
The lead system as defined in any preceding claim, 
wherein the source of electrical energy includes a connector 

means (27) for connection to said lead body; and wherein 
said connector means (27) includes adaptor means, connected  

 
to said lead body, for rendering it useable in standard 

connector blocks. 
The lead system as defined in claim 30, 
wherein said adaptor means includes a helically wound coil 

(114), having an inner lumen for accommodating said proximal 
end of said lead body, and wherein said adaptor means fits 

in standard connector blocks (27). 
The bead system as defined in claim 21 
wherein said coupler includes a second aperture (123) which 

is similar to, and diametrically opposed to said coupler 
aperture (124). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
