<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612423</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELECTIVELY CONFIGURABLE INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DEVICE FOR PERFORMING MULTIPLE DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING FUNCTIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1716	G06F1716	G06T100	G06T100	G06T120	G06T120	G06T500	G06T500	G06T520	G06T520	H03H1702	H03H1702	H04N967	H04N967	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	H03H	H03H	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06T1	G06T1	G06T1	G06T1	G06T5	G06T5	G06T5	G06T5	H03H17	H03H17	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A single integrated circuit device is disclosed that is capable of selectively functioning in real time as either a sequential matrix multiplier, a parallel matrix multiplier, a convolver or a FIR filter in order to process image data. A core group of multipliers is used to provide the basic multiplication operation that is common to each of the desired image processing functions. The input data router unit, coefficient router units and an output data router unit are responsive to mode selection control signals, supplied to a mode selection port, to route the appropriate input data and coefficients to the core group of multipliers and to route the output of the adders to the correct output port(s) for each of the desired processing functions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
D LUNA LIONEL JOSEPH C O EASTM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEY TIMOTHY JOSEPH C O EAST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILCH JAMES ROGER C O EASTMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
D'LUNA, LIONEL JOSEPH, C/O EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEY, TIMOTHY JOSEPH, C/O EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILCH, JAMES ROGER, C/O EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SELECTIVELY CONFIGURABLE INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DEVICEFOR PERFORMING MULTIPLE DIGITALSIGNAL PROCESSING FUNCTIONSField of the InventionThe invention relates in general to the field of digital signal processing. The invention relates specifically to a selectively configurable integrated circuit device that can be controlled to function as a sequential matrix multiplier, a parallel matrix multiplier, a convolver and a finite impulse response filter. The integrated circuit device is particularly useful in processing image data.BackgroundColor atrixing is a common image data processing operation that is used to either improve the color reproduction of images or to perform space transformations. A color space transformation matrix is used, for example, to convert red, green and blue image signals (RGB) into luminance (Y) and chrominance (R-Y, B- Y) image signals. A color correction matrix can also be used to correct the spectral sensitivities of image sensors for the chromaticities of the phosphor set of a particular display device or to correct film colorimetry for video display in film-to-video conversion operations. Most matrixing devices are designed to perform a 3x3 matrixing operation on three parallel input components (RGB) in order to compute three parallel output components (YIQ) . The three components of color image data, however, are sometimes provided sequentially rather than in parallel. Film scanning systems that employ tri- linear electronic sensor devices, for example, often generate sequential red, green and blue output components. The sequential output components require a 1x4 matrix to be performed sequentially three times to achieve a sequential 3x4 matrix operation. 

 In addition to parallel and sequential matrixing operations, other data processing operations, including 2-D convolution operations and filtering with finite impulse response filters (FIR) , are commonly employed on color image data to enhance the sharpness of images reproduced from the image data. In order to reduce costs, conserve space and improve processing efficiency, it is desirable to implement all four of the image data processing operations described above within a single integrated circuit device or chip having the capability of performing the data processing operations in real time. It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a single integrated circuit device that is capable of selectively functioning in real time as either a multiple sequential matrix multiplier, a parallel matrix multiplier, a 2-D
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device comprising: at least three data input ports, a coefficient input port, a mode selection input port, and three data output ports; an input data router unit coupled to the data input ports and the mode selection input port; at least three rows of multipliers, each row having a plurality of multipliers; at least three adder units corresponding to each row of multipliers, wherein inputs of each adder unit are coupled to the outputs of the multipliers within its corresponding multiplier row; an output data router unit coupled to the outputs of the adder units, the three data output ports, and the mode selection input port; at least three coefficient routing units corresponding to the three rows of multipliers, wherein outputs of each coefficient routing unit are coupled to each multiplier within the corresponding multiplier row and to the adder unit coupled to the corresponding multiplier row.
2. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an address generator coupled to the output data router.
3. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the input data router unit is also coupled to the coefficient input port. 


 4. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 3, wherein the coefficient input port and the data input ports are bi-directional.
5. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input data router transfers sequential data received from at least one of the data input ports into parallel data in response to a first operational mode control signal received from the mode selection port, and supplies the parallel data to at least one row of multipliers.
6. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 5, wherein the coefficient routing unit coupled to the row of multipliers that receives the parallel data sequentially supplies multiplier coefficients to each multiplier within the row of multipliers and offset coefficients to the adder unit coupled to the row of multipliers in accordance with a predetermined pattern in response to the first operational mode signal received from the mode selection port.
7. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 6, wherein the output data router unit supplies the output from the adder coupled to the row of multipliers that receive the parallel data to a corresponding one of the data output ports in response to the first operational mode signal received from the mode selection port.
8. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input data router supplies data received from each data input port 


 to all of the multiplier rows in response to a second 5 operational mode control signal received from the mode selection port.
9. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 8, wherein each coefficient routing unit repeatedly supplies fixed multiplier coefficients to each multiplier within the corresponding
5 row of multipliers and fixed offset coefficients to the adder unit coupled to the corresponding row of multipliers in response to the second operational mode signal received from the mode selection port.
10. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 9, wherein the output data router unit supplies the outputs from each of the adder units to a corresponding one of the data output ports in
5 response to the second operational mode signal received from the mode selection port.
11. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input data router transfers sequential data received from each of the data input ports into parallel data in response to a
5 third operational mode control signal received from the mode selection port, and supplies the parallel data from each data input port to a corresponding row of multipliers.
12. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 11, wherein each coefficient routing unit repeatedly supplies fixed multiplier coefficients to each multiplier within the corresponding i row of multipliers and fixed offset coefficients to the adder unit coupled to the corresponding row of 


 multipliers in response to the third operational mode signal received from the mode selection port.
13. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 9, wherein the output data router unit supplies the outputs from each of the adder units to an output adder unit in response to the third operational mode signal received from the mode selection port.
14. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input data router transfers sequential data received from one data input port into parallel data in response to a fourth operational mode control signal received from the mode selection port, and supplies the parallel data from the to the rows of multipliers.
15. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 14, wherein each coefficient routing unit repeatedly supplies fixed multiplier coefficients to each multiplier within the corresponding row of multipliers and fixed offset coefficients to the adder unit coupled to the corresponding row of multipliers in response to the forth operational mode signal received from the mode selection port.
16. A selectively configurable integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 15, wherein the output data router unit supplies the outputs from each of the adder units to an output adder unit in response to the fourth operational mode signal received from the mode selection port. 


 17. A color space conversion system for processing image data, said system comprising: a first look-up- table including an input coupled to an input data line and an output coupled to the input of a first multiplier matrix; a second look-up-table including an input coupled to an output of the first multiplier matrix and an output coupled to the input of a second multiplier matrix; a third look-up-table having input coupled to an output of the second multiplier matrix and an output coupled to the input of a third multiplier matrix.
18. A color space conversion system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the first multiplier matrix, the second multiplier matrix and the third multiplier matrix are located on a single integrated circuit chip.
19. A color space conversion system for processing image data, said system comprising: a selectively configurable integrated circuit device including first, second and third data input ports, a coefficient input port, a mode selection input port, and first, second and third data output ports, an input data router unit coupled to the first, second and third data input ports and the mode selection input port, 
"
at least three rows of multipliers, each row having a plurality of multipliers, at least three adder units corresponding to each row of multipliers, wherein inputs of each adder unit are coupled to the outputs of the multipliers within its corresponding multiplier row, an output data router unit coupled to the outputs of the adder units, the first, second and third data output ports, and the mode selection input port, at least three coefficient routing units corresponding to the three rows of multipliers, wherein outputs of each coefficient routing unit are coupled to each multiplier within the corresponding 


multiplier row and to the adder unit coupled to the corresponding multiplier row; an input multiplexer having a first input coupled to an input data line and a second input coupled to the third data output port; a first look-up-table having an input coupled to an output of the input multiplexer and an output coupled to the first data input port; a second look-up-table having an input coupled to the first data output port and an output coupled to the second data input port; and a third look-up-table having an input coupled to the second data output port and an output coupled to the third data input port. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
