<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612303</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COLLECT TAB STACKING METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B42C100	B42C100	B42C300	B42C300	B42F2100	B42F2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B42C	B42C	B42C	B42C	B42F	B42F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B42C1	B42C1	B42C3	B42C3	B42F21	B42F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEBCRAFT TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEBCRAFT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONAHUE PAT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONAHUE, PAT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COLLECT TAB STACKING METHODField of the Invention This invention relates to a method for in-line production of mass distributable sets of personalized paper inserts and more particularly to a method for producing sets of inserts having indexing means allowing machine separation and collection of individual sets from a stack thereof.Background of the InventionMass distributed advertising pieces have been increasingly used by advertisers to sell their products.The distribution of these pieces, whether by mail or by insertion into newspapers or magazines, has become an effective advertising practice.In many mailings, the advertising material is personalized by adding the name of the person who is to receive the material. For example, mailings to members of associations, or other groups such as credit card holders, or selected types of customer groups, have 

 included personalized solicitational letters. Often, one or more other types of pieces, such as two page advertising inserts, or an order blank, or return envelope, are also included in the mailing. These additional pieces have increased the effectiveness of the promotion. The additional pieces, although adding versatility to the advertiser promotion, frequently require additional manufacturing steps which can add significantly to the cost of producing the advertising item.U.S. Patent 4,939,888 to Katz et al. marked an advancement in the marketing industry by providing an in¬ line method for producing a mass distributable packet comprised of personalized inserts, such as redemption coupons for a relatively low unit cost.Katz et al. teaches printing on a web, a format of successive rectangular pieces in a plurality of side by side lines extending parallel to the web edges, wherein the pieces are part of a common print repeat or a submultiple thereof. After printing, the web is severed along the longitudinal lines to provide individual longitudinally extending ribbons containing successive printed pieces. The ribbons are then superposed and transversely cut to produce sets of pieces, for example, coupons and the like, to be packaged for mass distribu io .In order to allow individual sets of coupons to be taken from a stack of such sets, Katz et al. provides 

individually inserted separators between adjacent sets, the separators being sized so that they extend beyond the set edge. Alternatively, a separate cutter is added into the production assembly in order to cut notches along one longitudinal edge of the web at spaced intervals, thereby providing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS;
1. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts including the steps of: a) printing a web in a repeating mode to form successive groups of printed areas, each group of printed areas corresponding to a particular set of inserts; b) imaging personalized information on at least one printed area of each group; c) longitudinally severing the web into ribbons; d) superposing the ribbons one above another, e) transversely severing the superposed ribbons forming successively severed inserts, at least one of which serves as an indexing insert having a greater length than the remaining inserts in a particular set of inserts, and f) collecting the inserts as complete indexable sets.
2. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 1, including the step of: a) transversely severing the superposed ribbons by removing a width of ribbon material from between selected adjacent inserts of a particular set of inserts. 


 3. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 2, including the step of: a) removing a width of ribbon material from between all but a single pair of adjacent inserts for a particular set of inserts.
4. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 1, including the step of: a) transversely severing the superposed ribbons at irregular intervals.
5. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 1, including the step of: a) printing a web in a repeating mode to form successive groups of printed areas, the printed areas of a particular group having a common printing format.
6. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 1, including the step of: a) printing a web in a repeating mode to form successive groups of printed areas, the printed areas of a particular group having at least two different printing formats.
7. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 1, including the step of: a) longitudinally severing the web into 


 ribbons of a generally common width..
8. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 1, including the steps of: a) longitudinally severing the web into ribbons, at least one of which is of a width substantially greater than the width of the remaining ribbons; and b) folding the greater width ribbon to provide at least one fold line extending in the longitudinal direction of the ribbon.
9. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 1, including the step of: a) collecting the inserts by stacking.
10. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 1, including the steps of: a) transversely severing the superposed ribbons forming spaced apart successively severed inserts of substantially equal length; b) providing at least one additional printed ribbon; c) positioning the additional ribbon beneath the spaced apart severed inserts; d) transversely severing the additional ribbon into additional inserts, at least one of which 


serves as an indexing insert having a greater length than the remaining inserts for a particular set of inserts; and e) collecting the inserts as indexable sets of inserts.
11. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 10, including the steps of: a) transversely severing the superposed ribbons by removing widths of material from between each successive adjacent insert; and b) transversely severing the additional ribbon by removing widths of material from between selected successive additional inserts.
12. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 10, including the step of: a) providing at least one additional printed ribbon having at least one fold line extending longitudinally thereof.
13. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 10, including the step of: a) providing at least two superposed additional printed ribbons.
14. A method for producing indexable sets of 


 inserts as in Claim 10, including the step of: a) providing at least one additional printed ribbon longitudinally severed from the original web of material.
15. A method for producing indexable sets of inserts including the steps of: a) printing a web in a repeating mode to form successive groups of printed areas, each group of printed areas corresponding to a particular set of inserts; b) imaging personalized information on at least one of the printed areas of each group; c) longitudinally severing the web into ribbons; d) superposing the ribbons one above another; e) transversely severing the superposed ribbons forming successively severed inserts, at least one of which serves as a machine-engageable indexing insert having a greater length than the remaining inserts in a given set of inserts; and, f) collecting the inserts by forming a stack of successive individual sets separated by indexing inserts. 


 16. An apparatus for producing indexable sets of inserts comprising: a) printing means for printing a web in a repeating mode to form successive groups of printed areas, each group of said printed areas corresponding to a particular set of inserts; b) imaging means for imaging personalized information on at least one of said printed areas of each of said groups; c) first severing means for longitudinally severing said web into ribbons; d) ribbon superposing means for superposing said ribbons one above another; e) second severing means for transversely severing said superposed ribbons forming successively severed inserts, at least one of which serves as an indexing insert having a length greater than the length of the remaining inserts for a given set of inserts; and, f) collection means for collecting said inserts as complete indexable sets.
17. An apparatus for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 16, wherein: a) said second severing means is a rotary cutter including a single cutting blade for slicing said superposed ribbons and a pair of dual cutting blades for removing chips of material from said ribbons, said single and dual cutting blades being spaced at intervals about 


th.e periphery of said rotary cutter.
18. An apparatus for producing indexable sets of inserts as in Claim 16, wherein: a) said second severing means includes a rotary cutter having irregularly spaced single cutting blades about the periphery thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
