<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622982</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved burn-in socket apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R102	G01R104	G01R1073	G01R1073	G01R3126	G01R3126	H01R3376	H01R3376	H05K710	H05K710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	H01R	H01R	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R1	G01R1	G01R1	G01R1	G01R31	G01R31	H01R33	H01R33	H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A burn-in socket is shown including a latch member (60) 
capable of moving leads (101) of an IC package (100) received on 

a seat (200) on a base member (20), biasing the leads into 
engagement with movable contact arms (212) of contacts (21) 

mounted in the base member. A linking mechanism (50), movable in 
dependence upon the vertical movement of a cover member (30), 

transmits the cover member movement to latch member (60). 
Linking mechanism (50) has an arm (52) pivotably connected at one 

end to the cover member (30) and at an opposite end to a lever 
body (54) intermediate opposite ends thereof. The lever body has 

one end pivotably connected to base member (20) and its opposite 
end connected to latch member (60). A return spring (40) places 

a bias on the cover to maintain it normally separated from the 
base member and provides a selected contact force. The socket 

can be used with a wide variety of IC package types either before 
or after leads extending from the IC package have been formed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUCHIGAMI MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUCHIGAMI, MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to integrated circuit (IC) 
packages and more particularly to a socket for use with testing 
IC packages. In conducting a heat-resistance test of an IC package, 
called a burn-in test, it has been customary to place the IC 
package in a socket, in turn connected to a circuit substrate, 
such as a printed substrate, and then to place the substrate into 
a heating furnace to conduct the test to thereby determine 
whether or not the product is satisfactory. Sockets for use in such IC package tests are known having 
the structures shown in Figs. 1 and 2. The socket shown in Fig. 
1 has a vertically movable cover 3 in which the IC package is 
inserted or removed by pushing down the cover. A plurality of 
contacts 4 having a prescribed pitch are mounted around the 
position of the base block 1 where the IC package is set. A 
connecting terminal 4b extends downwardly from a main body 4a. A 
support spring 4c extends upwardly and outwardly from each main 
body in a curved fashion approximately in the form of a U. One 
leg, attached to each main body, extends toward the base block 
while the other leg extends away from the base block and at its 
free end has a contact arm 4d extending back into the base block 
1 and a lever part 4e which extends upwardly from the free end of 
the support spring 4c.  The distal free end of each lever 4e is pressed against the 
surface of a guide groove 3a which is formed on the lower surface 
of cover 3. When cover 3 is pressed down or push up, the distal 
end of each lever 4e is moved in dependence upon the moving 
inclined surface 3b of guide groove 3a. In the construction shown in Fig. 1, if cover 3 is pressed 
down in opposition to springs 4c, lever parts 4e of contacts 4 
are guided by the inclined surface 3b of guide groove 3a and move 
outwardly with the base part of the respective spring piece 4c as 
the fulcrum. Along with this, contact arms 4d rotate outwardly 
with the respective end of the spring piece 4c as the fulcrum, 
thereby moving away from the seat position of a lead of an IC 
package. Thereafter, the main body 100 of an IC package is placed on 
the seat portion 1a of base block 1 and the downward force on the 
cover 3 is removed. As a result of this, the lever parts 4e of 
contacts 4 move and return inwardly as they are guided by the 
movable inclined surface 3b of the guide groove 3a. 
Concomitantly, the movable contacts 4d rotatably return inwardly, 
with their distal tip parts being biased into engagement with a 
respective
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Socket apparatus for receiving an integrated 
circuit package having a plurality of leads extending 

therefrom comprising a base member having an integrated 
circuit package receiving seat formed thereon, the base 

member mounting a plurality of contact elements arranged in a 
selected array, the contact elements each having a main body 

portion mounted in the base member, a terminal portion 
extending downwardly from the body portion to a point below 

the base member and a movable contact arm extending upwardly 
toward the integrated circuit package receiving seat, 

   a cover member disposed over the base member and being 
movable between a position engaging the base member and a 

position away from the base member, 
   spring means for applying a bias to the cover member 

urging the cover member away from the base member, 
   a latch member and a linking mechanism coupled to the 

cover member, the latch member movable toward and away from 
the movable contact arms, the position of the latch member 

being dependent upon the position of the cover member, the 
linking mechanism comprising arm means having a first end 

pivotably attached to the cover member and a second end, 
lever means having a first end pivotably attached to the base 

member and a second end attached to the latch member, the 
lever means having an intermediate portion attached to the 

second end of the arm means, the lever means pivoting about 
 

the first end of the lever means with the latch member moving 
toward the movable contact arms as the cover member moves 

upwardly. 
A socket apparatus according to claim 1 further 
including means to limit movement of the cover member away 

from the base member. 
A socket apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 in 
which the spring means comprises at least one coil spring 

disposed between the base member and the cover member and at 
least one elongated element having a free distal end 

extending upwardly from the base member, the cover member 
having an aperture therethrough for each elongated element, 

an elongated element received in each aperture and a flange 
formed on the free distal end of each elongated element, the 

flange having an outer periphery larger than the aperture 
receiving the elongated element to form a stop surface 

limiting motion of the cover member away from the base 
member. 
A socket apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3 
in which the movable contact arms have a free distal end 

portion lying in a plane when the cover member is in its 
position engaging the base member against the bias of the 

spring means and the latch member having a lower surface 
which moves below the plane when the cover member is in its 

outer position away from the base member. 
A socket apparatus according to claim 4 in which 
the distance the lower surface of the latch member moves 

 
below the plane is represented by AA' and the distance the 

cover moves causing the movement of the lower surface of the 
latch member AA' is represented by CC' with CC' 
>
>
 AA'. 
A socket apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims in which the integrated circuit package 

receiving seat has first and second opposite sides and a 
separate latch member and linking mechanism is provided for 

each opposite side. 
A socket apparatus according to claim 1 in which 
the integrated package receiving seat has first and second 

opposite sides and front and back opposite sides and a 
separate latch member and linking mechanism is provided for 

each first and second, front and back side. 
A socket apparatus according to claim 1 in which 
the movable contact arms extend generally in a straight line 

upwardly and inwardly from the contact main body portions 
towards the integrated circuit package receiving seat. 
A socket apparatus according to claim 1 in which 
the lever means is generally L-shaped. 
A socket apparatus according to claim 1 in which 
the arm means comprises first and second arms and the lever 

means comprises first and second lever bodies. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
