<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642693</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REPRODUCTION TECHNIQUE FOR SOUNDS, PICTURES OR BOTH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B3100	G03B3104	G03B3106	G11B700	G11B70037	G11B2010	G11B2010	G11B2700	G11B2700	G11B2710	G11B2710	H04N544	H04N544	H04N5782	H04N5782	H04N593	H04N593	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B31	G03B31	G03B31	G11B7	G11B7	G11B20	G11B20	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reproduction technique for devices reproducing sounds, pictures or sounds and pictures is claimed. The data of the item is stored on a storage device (S) before sending to loudspeaker(s) and/or screen(s) (L) and after recording or after playing the object prepared with the original (O) on a playing device (P) such that an item can be started more than once in a relative short time without the time limitations of recording or playing device. The transmission of mutually related data by electromagnetic waves using more than one carrier frequency and three-dimensional integrated circuits are mentioned as especially suitable.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RABEN HENRICUS BERNARDUS MARIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RABEN, HENRICUS BERNARDUS MARIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RABEN HENRICUS BERNARDUS MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RABEN, HENRICUS BERNARDUS MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Reproduction technique for sounds, pictures or bothTechnical FieldThe reproduction technique concerns the reproduction of sounds and/or pictures in audio, visual or audio-visual devices like radio, television and the accompanying broadcasting, playing or recording device, compact-disc player, record player, cassette deck, tape recorder, video disc, video recorder, slide projector, film projector, film camera and computer.Background ArtThe main purpose of the reproduction technique is to enable the observer to start an item at any time within a particular period without having the time limitations of the playing or recording device. The reproduction technique in the television set and the accompanying playing device at the broadcasting station are a good example to illustrate this. The broadcasting of a regular program, i.e. a program that shows real-live events with the same speed as the real event, is started at a specific time. The receiver has to tune the television to the broadcasting station at that specific time to receive the start of the program. The reproduction technique enables the receiver to start the program more than once without affecting the regular broadcasting and the possible reception of the same program when it is started at a different time. The minimum time between two successive starts will be much smaller than the duration of the program or even imperceptible to a human.Modes for Carrying Out the InventionThe reproduction technique can be attained by changing the electronics in the contemporary television set or in the 

broadcasting device and television set. A storage device for the program is needed if only the electronics in the television set is changed. The advantages for the sender and the receiver would be restricted, i.e. nothing changes for the sender and the television set needs power before the receiver views the program when the program is not viewed at the time it is broadcasted. The largest number of advantages can be attained when the electronics of the broadcasting device and television set are changed. Then the television set does not have to store the data of the program, if the broadcasting station transmits the program more than once. The number of advantages is larger when the interval between two successive transmissions of the start of the program is smaller.This reproduction technique necessitates electronics that can process large amounts of data in a short period which can be attained by: a) processing the data in digital code, b) using a large
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A reproduction technique for audio, visual or audio-visual devices and their accompanying broadcasting, playing or recording device which is characterized by: a) during a specific period the listener and/or viewer can start the reproduction of an item with regular speed more than once. The interval between two successive starts can be smaller than the duration of the item or the time that the object prepared with the original can be searched for the item. b) the data of an item is stored on a storage device before sending to the loudspeaker(s) and/or screen(s) and after recording or after playing the object prepared with the original on a playing device. c) the data of an item are split up into parts such that every part can be used as the first part for the reproduction of the following parts.
2. A reproduction technique for radio sets and sets containing radio as well as the accompanying broadcasting, playing or recording device(s) which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraph a) of claim 1.
3. A reproduction technique for radio sets and sets containing radio as well as the accompanying broadcasting, playing or recording device(s) which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraph b) of claim 1.
4. A reproduction technique for television sets and sets containing television as well as the accompanying broadcasting, playing or recording device(s) which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraph a) of claim 1.
5. A reproduction technique for television sets and sets containing television as well as the accompanying broadcasting, playing or recording device(s) which is 


characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraph b) of claim 1.
6. A reproduction technique for a compact-disc player or sets containing a compact-disc player which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraphs a) and b) of claim one.
7. A reproduction technique for a record player or sets containing a record player which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraphs a) and b) of claim 1.
8. A reproduction technique for a cassette deck or sets containing a cassette deck which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraphs a) and b) of claim 1.
9. A reproduction technique for a tape recorder or sets containing a tape recorder which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraphs a) and b) of claim 1.
10. A reproduction technique for a video disc or sets containing a video disc which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraphs a) and b) of claim 1.
11. A reproduction technique for a video recorder or sets containing a video recorder which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraphs a) and b) of claim 1.
12. A reproduction technique for a slide projector or sets containing a slide projector which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraph b) of claim 1.
13. A reproduction technique for a film projector or sets containing a film projector which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraphs a) and b) of claim 1.
14. A reproduction technique for a film camera if it can be used to reproduce the items or sets containing a film camera which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraphs a) and b) of claim 1. 


15. A reproduction technique for a computer or devices containing a computer which is characterized by the properties mentioned in the paragraphs b) and c) of claim 1.
16. The transmission of mutually related data by electromagnetic waves when more than one carrier frequency is used. The data of a separate item is distributed over more than one carrier frequency or a technical detail that is transmitted on one frequency refers to an item on another frequency.
17. Two-dimensional integrated circuits piled up such that they constitute a whole, called a three-dimensional integrated circuit. The two-dimensional integrated circuits are separated by a layer, preferably an insulating layer. The two- dimensional integrated circuits can also be linked by conducting material even when an insulating layer separates them. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
