<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622753</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Architecture for communication of writing and erasing signals from a remote stylus to a digitizing display
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3033	G06F3048	G06F3041	G06F3048	G06F3033	G06F3041	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An architecture is disclosed for communication of remote devices 
to a digitizing display (22). The architecture includes a contact 

sensing erasure mechanism and a position sensing erasure 
mechanism whose outputs are multiplexed for transmission from 

the stylus (20) to an antenna located proximate to the digitizing 
display (22). The digitizing display (22) will erase text or graphics 

data in a pen-based computer system (74) in response to the stylus (20). 
A calibration method provides improved accuracy for the erasure 

function. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERRIER GUY F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZETTS JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERRIER, GUY F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZETTS, JOHN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention disclosed broadly relates to data processing
systems and more particularly relates to improvements in
input/output devices for pen-based computer systems.The following patents and patent applications are assigned to
the IBM Corporation.USP 4,686,332 entitled "Combined Finger Touch and Stylus
Detection System for Use on the Viewing Surface on a Visual
Display Device," by Evon C. Greanias, et al.USP 5,007,085 entitled "Remotely Sensed Personal Stylus," by
Evon C. Greanias, et al.USP 5,117,071 entitled "Stylus Sensing System," by Evon C.
Greanias, et al.Copending U. S. patent application serial number 07/778,431 (US-A-5 386 219),
filed October 16, 1991 entitled "Touch Overlay for Improved
Touch Sensitivity," by Evon C. Greanias, et al.Copending U.S. patent application serial number 07/351,227 (∧EP-A-0 398 055),
filed May 15, 1989 entitled "Flat Touch Screen Workpad for a
Data Processing System," by Gordon W. Arbeitman, et al. 
Copending U. S. patent application serial number 07/969,864 (US-A-5 349 139),
filed October 30, 1992 entitled "Architecture for Communication
of Remote Devices to a Digitizing Display," by Guy F. Verrier,
et al.Pen-based computer systems have been described in the prior art,
for example in the above referenced USP 4,686,332 by Greanias,
et al. In that system, a touch overlay membrane is positioned
over the viewing surface of a display device such as a computer
monitor, for interacting with a pickup stylus. The pickup stylus
described in the '332 patent is connected by means of a wire to
the pen-based computer system. The pen-based computer system
generates a radiative signal in the touch overlay. The radiative
signal is picked up by the stylus and sent back over the wire to
the pen-based computer. The computer then calculates the
relative X-Y position of the stylus with respect to the overlay.
The relative proximity Z of the stylus to the overlay is
determined by the signal amplitude picked up by the stylus from
the electromagnetic energy radiated from the overlay. An
improvement in the stylus pickup antenna is described in the
above cited USP 5,117,071 by Greanias, et al. In the '071
patent, the antenna configuration in the tip of the stylus is a
small sphere, whose shape enables a uniform signal strength to
be picked up without regard for the relative orientation of the
stylus with respect to the planar surface of the overlay. A
further improvement has been made to the stylus by eliminating
the cable connection between the stylus and the pen-based
computer system, as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pen-based computing system having a real time erase
feature, comprising:


a stylus device (20) which includes a first end (4)
having a first pressure sensing transducer (10) and a

first X-Y position sensing transducer (29, 32) for
writing data and having a second end (4') which includes

a second X-Y position sensing transducer (29', 32') for
erasing data;

said first pressure sensing transducer (10) being coupled
to a multiplexer (36'), said first X-Y position sensing

transducer (29, 32) being connected to said multiplexer
(36') and said second X-Y position sensing transducer

(29', 32') being connected to said multiplexer (36');
a transmitter (46) in said stylus having an input
connected to said multiplexer for transmitting a

multiplexed data stream of information coming from said
first pressure sensing transducer and said first X-Y

position sensing transducer and representing the position
of the stylus (20) for writing data;

said transmitter (46) further transmitting a multiplexed
data stream of information coming from said second X-Y

position sensing transducer and representing the position
of said stylus (20) for erasing data;

said system further comprising a digitizing display (22)
which includes an electrostatic tablet (54) which

radiates electromagnetic radiation which is detected by 
said first X-Y position sensing transducer in said stylus

(20) when said stylus is oriented with its first end
proximate to said tablet (54);

said electromagnetic radiation radiating from said
electrostatic tablet (54) being detected by said second

X-Y position sensing transducer in said stylus (20) when
said stylus is oriented with its second end proximate to

said tablet (54);
a receiver (66) coupled to said electrostatic tablet (54)
for receiving said multiplexed data stream transmitted

from said stylus; and
calibration means for using first end calibration data
derived from an event of contacting said first pressure

sensing transducer on the surface of said electrostatic
tablet at a 
predetermined location and sensing an X-Y
position of said first X-Y position sensing transducer

with respect to said tablet, to calibrate said second end
for erasing data, by combining said first end calibration

data with the sensed X-Y position of said second X-Y
position sensing transducer when said second end of the

stylus contacts the surface of said tablet at said
predetermined location.
A pen-based computing system, having a real time erase
feature, comprising:


a stylus device (20) which includes a first end (4)
having a first pressure sensing transducer (10) and a

first X-Y position sensing transducer (29, 32) for
writing data and having a second end (4') which includes

a second pressure sensing transducer (10') and a second 
X-Y position sensing transducer (29', 32') for erasing

data;

said first pressure sensing transducer (10) being coupled
to a multiplexer (36') and said first X-Y position

sensing transducer also being connected to said
multiplexer;

said second pressure sensing transducer (10') being
coupled to said multiplexer and said second X-Y position

sensing transducer also being connected to said
multiplexer;
a transmitter (46) in said stylus (20) for transmitting a
multiplexed data stream of information coming from said

first pressure sensing transducer (10) and said first X-Y
position sensing transducer and representing the position

of the stylus (20) for writing data;

said transmitter (46) further transmitting a multiplexed
data stream of information coming from said second

pressure sensing transducer (10') and said second X-Y
position sensing transducer and representing the position

of said stylus (20) for erasing data;

said system further comprising a digitizing display (22)
which includes an electrostatic tablet (54) which

radiates electromagnetic radiation which is detected by
said first X-Y position sensing transducer in said stylus

(20) when said stylus is oriented with its first end
proximate to said tablet;

said electromagnetic radiation radiating from said 
electrostatic tablet (54) being detected by said second

X-Y position sensing transducer in said stylus (20) when
said stylus is oriented with its second end proximate to

said tablet;
a receiver (66) coupled to said electrostatic tablet (54)
for receiving said multiplexed data stream transmitted

from said stylus (20);

whereby an event of contacting said first pressure
sensing transducer (10) on the surface of said

electrostatic tablet (54) and sensing an X-Y position of
said first X-Y position sensing transducer with respect

to said tablet, are transmitted from said stylus (20), to
said receiver (66), for writing data thereto and an event

of contacting said second pressure sensing transducer
(10') on the surface of said electrostatic tablet (54)

and sensing an X-Y position of said second X-Y position
sensing transducer with respect to said tablet are

transmitted from said stylus (20) to said receiver (66),
for erasing data in said pen-based computer system.
The system of claim 1 where said first X-Y position
sensing transducer is used to generate a measurement

compensation table which is used by said second X-Y
position sensing transducer to correct measurements

generated therefrom.
The system of claim 2 which further comprises said second
pressure sensing transducer (10') providing variable

pressure sensing signals in response to varying detected
pressures, for producing variable quantities of erasure

of data in said pen-based computer system.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
