<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615192</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for object traversing suitable for structured memory formed by linked objects
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F2100	G06F100	G06F100	G06F944	G06F2100	G06F944	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F21	G06F1	G06F1	G06F9	G06F21	G06F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An object traversing scheme in which the traverse 
procedure and the traverse rights can be specified 

flexibly. In this scheme, the object is stored with an 
assignment of a traverse right for each sub-object 

indicating who is allowed to traverse each sub-object; at 
least one traverse IDs for identifying a user making a 

request to make an access to the object are specified; the 
sub-objects to be traversed at a time of traversing the 

object in response to the request from the user identified 
by the traverse IDs are selected according to the traverse 

right assigned to the user identified by the traverse IDs 
in the object; and the selected sub-objects are outputted 

as a result of the access to the object. The traverse IDs 
for identifying the user can be changed according to the 

traverse rights of the sub-objects and the selection of the 
sub-objects. This scheme can be utilized very beneficially 

in conjunction with an electronic mail tool. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an object traversing 
apparatus for traversing an object in a computer over a 
structured memory formed by linked objects such as a data file 
system, a virtual memory space, and a database system utilized 
in computers. Moreover, the present invention relates to a 
method of object traversing for traversing an object in a 
computer. Here, it is to be noted first that the term "object" 
used in this specification represents any collection of 
data, including not just data files and programs but also 
various structures for operations to be temporarily 
utilized in a course of executing programs. Also, a plurality of objects may be related with each 
other by links, and can be treated together as another 
object. In a case of regarding a plurality of objects 
together as a single object, each object constituting that 
single object may be referred as sub-objects. Conventionally known schemes for the object traversing 
over a plurality of linked objects include a scheme for 
sequentially tracing the links as in a hyper-text system, 
and a scheme for retrieving and presenting a relevant 
object group for a specified name as in a data file system 
for a computer. In addition, a scheme for limiting 
accessible objects depending on users and a scheme for 
temporarily changing an access right are also known. Furthermore, it is also known to be possible to 
generally represent accessible objects and to read out a 
plurality of linked objects as a continuous data, by 
combining these schemes.  
 On the other hand, there is a recent attempt to 
combine these conventionally known schemes in which, at a 
time of constructing a large object by hierarchically 
combining a plurality of objects, an access right data is 
given to each sub-object and a procedure for making an 
access is changed by varying parameters, in order to 
represent a single combined object to appear as a number of 
different types of combined objects. This idea will now be 
described in further detail. Here, an exemplary situation in which Mr. Takahashi is 
producing a directory file for members belonging to a 
certain group A will be considered as an illustrative 
example. Fig. 1 shows a state in which the directory is 
produced by Mr. Takahashi as an object 121. In this Fig. 1, 
no file name is assigned to this directory file, but the 
file name may be assigned at this point if desired. In this object 121 of Fig. 1, a field 1211 indicates 
an owner ID for an owner of this object 121, where a number 
"128"
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An object traversing apparatus for traversing an object in 
a computer, comprising: 


means for storing the object formed by a plurality 
of sub-objects; and 
traverse means for traversing the object stored in the 
means for storing in response to a request to make an access to 

the object from a user; 
characterized in that
the means for storing is also adapted to store an assignment of a traverse 
right for each sub-object indicating who is allowed to 

traverse each sub-object of the object, along with the 
object; and 
the traverse means includes: 
traverse ID list means for specifying at least one 
traverse IDs for identifying the user making the request 

to make an access to the object; 
traverse object selection means for selecting the sub-objects 
to be traversed at a time of traversing the object 

according to the traverse right assigned to the user 
identified by the traverse IDs; and  

 
output means for outputting the sub-objects selected by 
the traverse object selection means as a result of the 

access to the object. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for storing is adapted to 
store the object with an assignment of an access right for 

the object indicating who is allowed to make an access to 
the object, and the traverse object selection means is adapted to select 

the sub-objects only when the access right is assigned to 
the user identified by the traverse IDs. 
The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising:
 
   processor means for executing a program to operate on 

the object by making an access to the object under the 
access right of the user and using the sub-objects 

outputted by the output means as the result of the access 
to the object. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for storing is adapted to 
stores the object with an assignment of an access right for  

 
the object indicating who is allowed to make an access to 

the object, and the apparatus further comprises access 
right verification means for verifying the assignment of 

the access right to the user identified by the traverse IDs 
only for the sub-objects selected by the traverse object 

selection means. 
The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising:
 
   processor means for executing a program to operate on 

the object by making an access to the object under the 
access right of the user and for using the sub-objects 

outputted by the output means as the result of the access 
to the object. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for storing is adapted to 
stores the object as a linked object formed by a plurality 

of the sub-objects which are related by links. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for storing is also adapted to 
store a traverse information indicating a procedure for 

traversing the sub-objects of the object along with the 
object. 
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising traverse 
ID list changing means for changing the traverse IDs 

specified by the traverse ID list means. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the traverse ID list 
changing means is adapted to delete those traverse IDs specified by the 

traverse ID list means to which the traverse right of none 

of the sub-objects is assigned. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein: 

one of the sub-objects selected by the traverse object 
selection means contains at least one further sub-objects, 

wherein the means for storing is adapted to store said one of the sub-object  
 

with an assignment of a traverse right for each further 
sub-object indicating who is allowed to traverse each 

further sub-object; and 
the traverse ID list changing means is adapted to delete those 
traverse IDs specified by the traverse ID list means to 

which the traverse right of none of the further sub-objects 
is assigned at a time of traversing said one of the sub-objects. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the traverse right 
for each sub-object also indicates a type of an access to 

each sub-object in response to which the traversing of each 
sub-object is allowed to one who is indicated to be allowed 

to traverse each sub-object. 
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a mail 
tool including: 


mail producing means for producing the object as a 
mail by specifying the assignment of the traverse right for 

each sub-object, and transmitting the produced mail by 
specifying a mail address; and 
mail receiving means for receiving the mail 
transmitted from the mail producing means according to the 

mail address specified by the mail producing means, and 
retrieving the sub-objects outputted by the output means as 

a content of a received mail. 
A method of object traversing for traversing an object in 
a computer, comprising the steps of: 


storing the object formed by a plurality of sub-objects; 
and 
traversing the object stored at the storing step in 
response to a request to make an access to the object from 

a user; 
characterized in that
the storing step also comprises a step of storing an assignment of a traverse 
right for each sub-object indicating who is allowed to 

traverse each sub-object of the object, along with the 
object; and 
the traverse step traverses the object by: 
specifying at least one traverse IDs for identifying the 
user making a request to make an access to the object; 
selecting the sub-objects to be traversed at a time of 
traversing the object according to the traverse right 

assigned to the user identified by the traverse IDs; and 
outputting the sub-objects selected at the selecting step 
as a result of the access to the object. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the storing step comprises a step of storing the object 
with an assignment of an access right 

for the object indicating who is allowed to make an access 
to the object, and the sub-objects are selected at the 

selecting step only when the access right is assigned to 
the user identified by the traverse IDs. 
The method of claim 14, further comprising the step 
of:
 
   executing a program to operate on the object by making 

an access to the object under the access right of the user 
and using the sub-objects outputted at the outputting step 

as the result of the access to the object. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the storing step comprises a step of storing the object 
with an assignment of an access right 

for the object indicating who is allowed to make an access 
to the object, and the method further comprising the step 

of verifying the assignment of the access right to the user 
identified by the traverse IDs only for the sub-objects 

selected at the selecting step. 
The method of claim 16, further comprising the step 
of:
 
   executing a program to operate on the object by making 

an access to the object under the access right of the user 
and using the sub-objects outputted at the outputting step  

 
as the result of the access to the object. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the storing step comprises a step of storing the object 
as a linked object formed by a 

plurality of the sub-objects which are related by links. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the storing step also comprises a step of 
storing a traverse information indicating a procedure for 

traversing the sub-objects of the object along with the 
object. 
The method of claim 13, further comprising the step 
of:
 
   changing the traverse IDs specified at the specifying 

step. 
The method of claim 20, wherein the changing step comprises a step of 
deleting those traverse IDs specified at the specifying step 

to which the traverse right of none of the sub-objects is 
assigned. 
The method of claim 20, wherein: 

one of the sub-objects selected at the selecting step 
contains at least one further sub-objects, where said one 

of the sub-object is stored with an assignment of a 
traverse right for each further sub-object indicating who 

is allowed to traverse each further sub-object; and 
the changing step comprises a step of deleting those traverse IDs specified 
at the specifying step to which the traverse right of none 

of the further sub-objects is assigned at a time of 
traversing said one of the sub-objects. 
The method of claim 13, wherein at the storing step, 
the traverse right for each sub-object also indicates a 

type of an access to each sub-object in response to which 
the traversing of each sub-object is allowed to one who is  

 
indicated to be allowed to traverse each sub-object. 
The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps 
of: 


producing the object as a mail by specifying the 
assignment of the traverse right for each sub-object, and 

transmitting the produced mail by specifying a mail 
address; and 
receiving the mail transmitted at the producing step 
according to the mail address specified at the producing 

step, and retrieving the sub-objects outputted at the 
outputting step as a content of a received mail. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
