<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658093</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND KIT FOR DYEING HAIR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K819	A61K800	A61K	A61K833	A61K844	A61K830	A61K824	A61Q510	A61K800	A61K849	A61Q510	A61K820	A61K841	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61Q	A61K	A61K	A61Q	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K8	A61K8	A61K	A61K8	A61K8	A61K8	A61K8	A61Q5	A61K8	A61K8	A61Q5	A61K8	A61K8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the use of dopa and/or select
substituted dopa compounds to generate melanin to dye hair
permanently. More specifically, the present invention relates to a
hair dyeing process wherein the dopa species and an oxidant react
in an aqueous environment to provide unexpectedly high
concentrations of a nitrogenous phenolic, especially indolic,
melanin precursor in the aqueous environment, the melanin precursor
formed during the reaction being effective to dye hair permanently
upon its coincident conversion to melanin while in the hair. The
present invention further relates to the formation of such melanin
precursors by reaction(s) with the dopa species, the oxidant and
one or more hair dye compounds selected from primary intermediates
and couplers. In addition, the present invention concerns a method
of dyeing hair wherein the melanin is generated by the user from
separately packaged reactants sold in the form of a kit.As reported, for example, in Prota, Progress in the Chemistry
of Melanins and Related Metabolites, Med. Res. Reviews, 8:525-56
(1988), melanins are naturally occurring pigments present in hair
and skin. In humans biosynthesis takes place in tyrosinase
containing melanocytes. The tyrosinase enzyme catalyzes the
hydroxylation of tyrosine to dopa and its subsequent oxidation to
dopachrome. Once formed, dopachrome undergoes a series of complex
reactions in the formation of eumelanins and phaeomelanins. Melanins provide black and deep brown pigments, and are formed
by oxidative polymerization of 5,6-dihydroxyindole derived
biogenetically during the melanogenesis. On the other hand,
phaeomelanins provide yellow to reddish brown pigmentation to hair,
and are formed by oxidative polymerization of cystein-S-yl-dopas
via 1,4-benzothiazine intermediates.Synthetic 5,6-dihydroxyindole (DHI) has been disclosed in the
prior art for use in hair and skin dyeing. For example, U.S.
2,934,396 to Charle discloses a process for dyeing hair by
contacting hair with an aqueous solution of DHI having a pH of at
most 7 for 5 to 60 minutes, followed by an application of an
aqueous solution capable of inducing oxidation and/or polymerization
of DHI.Dopa and dopamine are disclosed as hair dyeing precursors in
the process of Herlihy, U.S. Patent 4,746,322, wherein the aqueous
hair dyeing composition comprises said precursor, an organic
compound to assist dye dispersion and an iodate or periodate. The
dopa or dopamine dye precursor is present in the aqueous hair dye
composition in an amount of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for permanently dyeing hair with melanin comprising the steps of:

(a) forming an indolic melanin precursor by reacting at least one dopa
species selected from the group consisting of dopa, α-alkyl dopa having 1 to 4

carbon atoms in the alkyl group and dopa alkyl esters having 1-6 carbon atoms in
the alkyl group, or an acid or basic salt thereof, with an oxidant selected from

soluble ammonium, alkali metal or alkaline earth metal ferricyanide or
permanganate salt in an aqueous reaction medium containing a buffering agent; the

dopa species and the oxidant being provided in amounts to provide a stoichiometric
equivalent ratio of said dopa species to said oxidant in the initial reaction mixture

in the range 2:1 to 0.95:1 and said buffering agent being present in the reaction
medium in an amount sufficient to maintain the pH between about 6 to about 10;
(b) contacting the hair with the aqueous reaction medium and allowing
the melanin precursor to diffuse into the hair in an amount sufficient to generate

a hair colouring amount of melanin; and
(c) permanently colouring the hair by allowing the melanin precursor
present in the hair to form melanin.
A method as claimed in Claim 1 characterised in that the dopa species is present
in the reaction medium initially at a concentration of from about 2 to about 15 mg/ml.
A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 further comprising the step of
removing excess aqueous reaction medium from the hair within about one hour of onset

of the reaction of the dopa species with the oxidant.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3 characterised in that the
buffering agent is selected from ammonium, sodium and potassium salts of phosphates,

carbonates, bicarbonates and borates, and aminic buffers.
A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 4 characterised in that the buffering
agent is present in an amount of from about 2 to about 20 times that needed to maintain 

the pH of the reaction medium between about 6 to about 10, and wherein the dopa species
is present in the reaction medium initially at a concentration of about 5 to about 15

mg/ml.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the dopa species
is selected from dopa, α-methyl dopa, dopa methyl ester and mixtures thereof.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim further comprising the step of

applying to the hair an effective amount of an agent to promote melanin formation.
A method as claimed in Claim 7 characterised in that the agent is selected from

(a) a 0.001 to about 1 % solution of metal ion selected from the group
consisting of copper, zinc, nickel and iron;
(b) an iodide salt solution, said solution being applied to the hair in advance
of treatment with a hydrogen peroxide solution; and
(c) an oxidizing solution applied to the hair as a post-treatment.
A method as claimed in Claim 8 characterised in that the metal ion is Cu
+2
.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 9 characterised in that the oxidant
is an alkali metal ferricyanide salt.
A method as claimed in any one of Claim 1 to 10 characterised in that the dopa
species to oxidant stoichiometric equivalent ratio is from about 1.25:1 to about 0.95:1.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 11 characterised in that the
aqueous hair dye composition additionally contains at least one hair dyeing agent selected

from the group consisting of primary intermediates and couplers. 
A method as claimed in Claim 12 characterised in that the additional hair dyeing
agent is a primary intermediate and is selected from p-phenylenediamine, p-aminophenol,

o-aminophenol, N,N-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 2.5-diaminopyridine and
p-toluenediamine.
A method as claimed in Claim 12 characterised in that the additional hair dyeing
agent is a coupler and is selected from resorcinol, m-aminophenol, 1-naphthol, 5-amino-o-cresol,

2-methylresorcinol, N-acetyldopa,4,6-di(hydroxyethoxy)-m-phenylenediamine and
m-phenylenediamine.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 12 to 14 characterised in that the dopa
species to oxidant stoichiometric equivalent ratio in the initial reaction medium is from

about 2:1 to about 1:1.
A method as claimed in Claim 15 characterised in that the melanin precursor is a
mixture of the reaction product of (i) the dopa species and the oxidant and (ii) the dopa

species, the hair dye component and the oxidant.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 12 to 16 characterised in that the dopa
to oxidant stoichiometric equivalent ratio in the initial reaction medium is from about

1.8:1 to about 1.2:1.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the
dopa species is contacted with the oxidant on the hair.
A hair dyeing kit for permanently dyeing hair with melanin formed from an indolic
melanin intermediate which includes in a single package a plurality of containers, the kit

comprising (a) a first container containing an aqueous solution of a dopa species selected
from dopa, α-alkyl dopa having 1 to 4 carbon atoms in the alkyl group, and dopa alkyl

esters having 1 to 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl group, or an acid or alkaline salt thereof;
(b) a second container containing a water-soluble oxidant selected from the group

consisting of ammonium, alkali metal or alkaline earth metal ferricyanide and
permanganate salts, the amount of the dopa species contained in the first container relative 

to the oxidant contained in said second container being such as to give a stoichiometric
equivalent ratio of said dopa species to said oxidant in the range of 2:1 to 0.95:1 and

being effective to provide a hair colouring concentrate of the indolic melanin precursor
in the reaction medium when the contents of the plurality of containers are combined; and

(c) a buffering agent selected from the group consisting of ammonium and alkali metal
salts of phosphates, carbonates, bicarbonates and borates, and aminic buffers, the amount

of buffering agent contained in the kit being sufficient to provide a pH of from about 6
to about 10 when admixed with the contents of the first and the second containers.
A hair dyeing kit as claimed in Claim 19 characterised in that the buffering agent
is present in an amount of from 2 to 20 times that needed to maintain the pH of the

reaction medium between about 6 to about 10.
A hair dyeing kit as claimed in Claim 19 or Claim 20 characterised in that the kit
further contains an agent to promote melanin formation.
A hair dyeing kit as claimed in any one of Claims 19 to 21 characterised in that
the oxidant is an alkali metal ferricyanide salt.
A hair dyeing kit as claimed in any one of Claims 19 to 22 characterised in that
the dopa species and oxidant components in the kit are present in the stoichiometric

equivalent ratio of from about 1.25:1 to about 0.95:1.
A hair dyeing kit as claimed in any one of Claims 20 to 23 further comprising (d)
at least one hair dyeing agent selected from hair dye primary intermediates and hair dye

couplers, the dopa species and oxidant components in the kit being present in a
stoichiometric equivalent ratio of from about 2:1 to about 1:1 dopa species to oxidant.
A method of permanently dyeing hair using the kit of any one of Claims 19 to 24
comprising forming with the buffer an admixture of the dopa species and oxidant solutions

to obtain a hair dye composition, applying said composition to hair, and allowing said
composition to colour the hair permanently. 
A method as claimed in Claim 25 characterised in that the buffer is present in the
admixture in an amount of at least twice that needed to maintain the pH between about

6 to about 10.
A method as claimed in Claim 25 or Claim 26 further comprising the step of
applying to the hair an alkaline solution containing an agent to promote melanin

formation.
A method of permanently dyeing hair using the kit of Claim 24 comprising
forming with the buffer and the at least one hair dyeing agent an admixture of the dopa

species and oxidant solutions to obtain a hair dye composition that contains a mixture of
a dopa species/oxidant reaction product and a dopa species/hair dye agent/oxidant reaction

product, applying said composition to hair, and allowing said composition to colour the
hair permanently.
A method as claimed in Claim 28 characterised in that the dopa species and
oxidant components are present in the kit in a stoichiometric equivalent ratio of 1.8:1 to

1.2:1 dopa species to oxidant, the oxidant being an alkali metal ferricyanide salt.
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 25 to 29 characterised in that the hair
is rinsed with water within one hour following application of the composition to the hair.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
