<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610962</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and device for operating an automatic data carrier archive
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K1700	G11B1568	G06K1700	G11B1568	G11B2700	G11B2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G11B	G06K	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K17	G11B15	G06K17	G11B15	G11B27	G11B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a process for operating an automatic data carrier archive assigned to a computing installation as a data store, data carriers being transported to and fro between various stations of the data carrier archive by transport sequences, carried out by a control device of the data carrier archive, of a handling device for the data carriers, the stations of the data carrier archive comprising at least one data carrier store and one write/read station for the data carriers, in order to improve the availability of the data carriers, it is proposed that each transport sequence is carried out by means of at least one transport function, that each transport function has a priority assigned to it, that a transport function having a higher priority is carried out in preference to a transport function with a lower priority, and that, when the computing installation addresses a data carrier in the write/read station, at least the direct transport between the write/read station and another of the stations is carried out with a transport function having the highest priority. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAU GMBH 
&
 CO HOLDINGGES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAU STORAGE SYSTEMS GMBH 
&
 CO. KG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUR ROLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRAYER WERNER FRIEDRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUR, ROLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRAYER, WERNER FRIEDRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Process for operating an automatic data carrier archive 
associated as data storage means with a computer, data 

carriers being transported back and forth between various 
stations of the data carrier archive by optionally 

selectable transportation functions for the data carriers 
in the form of transportation procedures, the stations of 

the data carrier archive comprising at least one data 
carrier storage means and one read/write station for the 

data carriers, characterized in that frequently required 
transportation procedures of a data carrier between a 

first station and a read/write station are divided into 
two transportation functions, in that the first 

transportation function relates to the transportation of 
the data carriers between the first station and an 

intermediate storage means arranged adjacent to and in 
the immediate proximity of the respective read/write 

station, and the second transportation function relates 
to the transportation of the data carriers between the 

intermediate storage means and the read/write station. 
Process as defined in claim 1, characterized in that the 
intermediate storage means is arranged above the 

read/write station.  
 
Process as defined in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the intermediate storage means is arranged immediately 

adjacent to the opening for insertion of the data 
carriers into the read/write station. 
Process as defined in claim 3, characterized in that the 
intermediate storage means is arranged above the insert 

opening. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the data carrier is positioned in 

the intermediate storage means in a position which is 
essentially parallel to its position in the read/write 

station. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that first transportation functions are 

carried out at times when the utilization is low. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the first transportation function 

is used for storing recordable data carriers in the 
intermediate storage means. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the second transportation function 

is carried out immediately upon request by the computer. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that each transportation procedure is 

carried out by at least one transportation function, in 
that a priority is allocated to each transportation 

function, in that a transportation function with higher 
priority is carried out with precedence over a  

 
transportation function with low priority, and in that 

when a data carrier is requested in the read/write 
station by the computer, at least the direct 

transportation between the read/write station and the 
intermediate storage means is carried out with a 

transportation function with highest priority. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that a low priority is allocated to the 

first transportation function, in that the frequently 
required transportation procedures are prepared or 

completed by the first transportation function before or 
after their request by the computer, and in that upon 

request of a selected transportation procedure by the 
computer, only the second transportation function is 

carried out with highest priority. 
Process as defined in claim 10, characterized in that the 
selected transportation procedure is a predictable 

transportation procedure of a data carrier from or to the 
read/write station. 
Process as defined in claim 10 or 11, characterized in 
that a data carrier for which it is predictable that it 

will be requested by the computer in the near future is 
placed in advance without time limitation in the 

intermediate storage means with the first transportation 
function, and in that this data carrier is transported in 

the form of the second transportation function from the 
intermediate storage means to the read/write station when 

the request is received from the computer.  
 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that empty or rerecordable data carriers 

are transported to the intermediate storage means 
directly adjacent to the read/write station in 

preparation for the data saving phase. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that in the case of a data carrier 

located in a read/write station, prior to transportation 
of a further data carrier to this read/write station, the 

data carrier located therein is removed prior to 
transportation of the further data carrier. 
Process as defined in one of claims 11 or 12, 
characterized in that the removal of the data carrier 

from the read/write station is carried out in the form of 
a further transportation function to an intermediate 

storage means. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that an input/output station is provided 

as further station. 
Process as defined in claim 16, characterized in that the 
transportation procedures involving the read/write 

station are carried out in accordance with the 
transportation procedures carried out in the case of the 

data carrier storage means. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the intermediate storage means is 

arranged within the gripping range of a handling device 
located in an access position in relation to the 

read/write station.  
 
Process as defined in claim 18, characterized in that the 
handling device is moved along a track extending 

alongside the read/write station and the data carrier 
storage means for carrying out transportation procedures. 
Process as defined in claim 19, characterized in that the 
handling device is moved along the track for carrying out 

the first transportation function. 
Process as defined in claim 9, characterized in that the 
control device automatically selects the transportation 

function with low priority, in particular, the first 
transportation function, at regular intervals, as 

required. 
Process as defined in claim 9, characterized in that a 
low priority is allocated to a transportation function 

for checking the availability of individual data carriers 
in the data carrier storage means. 
Process as defined in claim 9, characterized in that a 
low priority is allocated to a transportation function 

for rearranging the data carriers within the data carrier 
storage means. 
Process as defined in claim 9, characterized in that a 
cleaning data carrier is inserted with a transportation 

function having a priority lower than the highest 
priority.  

 
Process as defined in any one of claims 20 to 24, 
characterized in that the transportation function with 

lowest priority is carried out in continuous operation, 
if necessary, interrupted by transportation functions of 

higher priority. 
Process as defined in claim 25, characterized in that 
apart from the transportation function with lowest 

priority, a further function with next higher priority is 
provided for continuous operation, as required. 
Process as defined in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the allocation of the priorities to 

the individual transportation functions is altered during 
the operation of the archive. 
Process as defined in any one or several of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the data carriers to be 

transported are identified prior to removal from the data 
carrier storage means via a marking which can be sensed 

from outside. 
Process as defined in claim 28, characterized in that 
optical and/or magnetic identification carriers are used 

as markings. 
Process as defined in any one or several of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the handling device 

determines the exact position of the data carrier in the 
respective station prior to removal of the data carriers 

from the storage means.  
 
Process as defined in any one or several of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that after the data carrier is 

inserted into the read/write station, an identification 
applied to the data carrier itself is first ascertained 

and compared with the identification ascertained by the 
handling device. 
Process as defined in any one or several of the preceding 
claims, character
ized in that the positions of the data 
carriers are stored in an archive directory of the 

control means and/or of the computer requesting the data 
carriers. 
Process as defined in claim 32, characterized in that 
when the connection of the computer to the control means 

is interrupted, the positions of the data carriers are 
updated separately in the memory of the control means and 

of the requesting computer. 
Process as defined in claim 33, characterized in that 
after the connection between computer and control means 

has been re-established, a collation of the data carrier 
positions stored in the control means and the computer 

is carried out and, if necessary, a request list for 
transportation functions is compiled by the computer, 

and identity is established between the data carrier 
positions stored in the control means and the computer by 

the processing of the request list. 
Automatic data carrier archive comprising a data carrier 
storage means, a read/write station and a handling device 

for transporting the data carriers between the data 
carrier storage means and the read/write station, 

characterized in that an intermediate storage means (22)  
 

for frequently required, empty or rerecordable data 
carriers (24) is arranged adjacent to and in the 

immediate proximity of the read/write station (18, 18a, 
18b). 
Data carrier archive as defined in claim 35, 
characterized in that the data carriers (24) are 

positionable in the intermediate storage means (22) such 
that in the intermediate storage means (22) they take up 

a position essentially parallel to that in the read/write 
device (18). 
Data carrier archive as defined in claim 35 or 36, 
characterized in that the intermediate storage means (22) 

is arranged above the read/write station (18). 
Data carrier archive as defined in any one of claims 35 
to 37, characterized in that the intermediate storage 

means (22) is arranged immediately adjacent to the 
opening (30) for insertion of the data carriers (24) into 

the read/write station (18). 
Data carrier archive as defined in claim 38, 
characterized in that the intermediate storage means (22) 

is arranged above the opening (30) for insertion of the 
data carriers (24) into the read/write station (18). 
Data carrier archive as defined in any one of claims 35 
to 39, characterized in that the handling device (16) is 

movable along a track (14).  
 
Data carrier archive as defined in claim 40, 
characterized in that the track (14) extends along the 

read/write station (18) and along the data carrier 
storage means (12). 
Data carrier archive as defined in any one of claims 35 
to 41, characterized in that an input/output station (36) 

is provided for data carriers (24). 
Data carrier archive as defined in claim 42, 
characterized in that the input/output station (36) is 

arranged at one end of the track (14). 
Data carrier archive as defined in any one of claims 35 
to 43, characterized in that the handling device (16) 

comprises a gripper means (28) with a sensor (29) for 
identifying markings on the data carriers (24). 
Data carrier archive as defined in any one of claims 35 
to 44, characterized in that the data carrier archive 

(10) can be closed off hermetically. 
Data carrier archive as defined in claim 35, comprising 
a control means for automatically carrying out 

transportation of the data carriers, characterized in 
that the control means is designed and prepared such that 

it controls the data carrier archive in accordance with 
the process defined in any one of claims 1 to 34. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
