<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656463</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hot gas manifold system for a dual topping combustor gas turbine system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02C326	F02C700	F01D902	F01D900	F02C700	F02C320	F01D906	F01D902	F02C328	F02C320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02C	F02C	F01D	F01D	F02C	F02C	F01D	F01D	F02C	F02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02C3	F02C7	F01D9	F01D9	F02C7	F02C3	F01D9	F01D9	F02C3	F02C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hot gas manifold system for a gas turbine power 
plant utilizing a pressurized fluidized bed combustor 

producing gas that is heated in two topping combustors. 
Each topping combustor is connected to a separate manifold. 

The manifolds (52,54), which are adjacent each other in a forward 
and aft arrangement, are disposed in the turbine shell (40) 

between the compressor and turbine sections of the gas 
turbine and each forms a toroidal chamber that encloses the 

rotor. A plurality of ducts (48,50) extend downstream from each 
manifold, with the ducts of the forward manifold extending 

through the aft manifold. Each of the ducts has an arcuate 
outlet that together form an annular hot gas path that 

matches the annular inlet to the turbine section. The 
ducts from each manifold form an alternating array so the 

hot gas from each of the individual topping combustors is 
symmetrically distributed around the turbine inlet. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGUIGAN ARTHUR WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIANT BENJAMIN CRAIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGUIGAN, ARTHUR WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WIANT, BENJAMIN CRAIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a gas turbine
system for generating shaft power. More specifically, the
present invention relates to a hot gas manifold for a gas
turbine system having a plurality of external topping
combustors for heating gas from a pressurized fluidized bed
combustor ("PFBC").The high efficiency, low capital cost and short
lead time of gas turbine based systems make them particularly
attractive to electric utilities as a means for
producing electrical power. However, traditionally, gas
turbine operation has been limited to expensive, sometimes
scare, fuels - chiefly distillate oil and natural gas. As
a result of the ready availability and low cost of coal,
considerable effort has been expended toward developing a
gas turbine system for generating electrical power that can
utilize coal as its primary fuel. One area in which these
efforts have focused concerns systems in which the combustion
of coal is carried out in a pressurized fluidized bed
combustor "PFBC."In one of the simplest gas turbine/PFBC power
plant arrangements, ambient air, compressed in the compressor
section of the gas turbine, serves to fluidize the bed
and provides combustion air for the PFBC. After combustion
in the PFBC, the air, now at a high temperature and vitiated
by the products of combustion and entrained particulate
matter, is exhausted from the PFBC. The air then flows
through a cyclone separator wherein much of the particulate 
matter is removed. The air is then directed to the turbine
section of the gas turbine where it is expanded, thereby
producing useful shaft power. After expansion, the vitiated
air exhausted from the turbine is vented to atmosphere.The thermodynamic efficiency of such a system is
poor, however, due to the need to limit the bed temperature,
and hence the temperature of the air entering the
turbine section, in order to optimize capture of the sulfur
in the coal and avoid carryover of harmful alkali vapors
into the turbine section. This is in contrast to modern
conventional gas or liquid fuel fired gas turbines, which
can operate with turbine inlet gas temperatures as high as
1425°C (2600°F). As is well known in the art, increasing
the temperature of the gas entering the turbine section
increases the power output and efficiency of the gas
turbine.Hence, to achieve maximum efficiency, it has been
proposed to employ a separate topping combustor -- that is,
a combustor external to the gas turbine and the PFBC -- to
raise the temperature of the air leaving the PFBC to the
temperature
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gas turbine system (1), comprising a first combustor (14)
for burning a fuel (29) in a compressed gas (33) so as to

produce a first hot gas flow (35), a second combustor (15)
for buring a fuel (30) in a compressed 
gas (34) so as to
produce a second hot gas flow (36), a turbine (4) having an

inlet (95) for receiving said first and second hot gas
flows for expansion therein, a first manifold (52) having

(i) means (56) for receiving said first hot gas flow from
said first combustor and (ii) means for directing (50) said

first hot gas flow to first and second outlet ports (74',
74"), said first and second outlet ports in flow communication

with first and second portions of said turbine inlet,
and a second manifold (54) having (i) means (58) for receiving

said second hot gas flow from said second combustor
and (ii) means (48) for directing first and second portions

of said second hot gas flow to third and fourth outlet
ports (72', 72"), said third and fourth outlet ports in

flow communication with third and fourth portions of said
turbine inlet

said third outlet port
being disposed between said first and second outlet ports,

characterised in that
each of said manifolds (52, 54) forms a toroidal chamber

(60, 62), said means for directing first and second portions
of said second hot gas flow of said first manifold

comprises first and second ducts (50) connected to said
toroidal chamber of said first manifold, and means for

directing first and second portions of said second hot gas
flow of said second manifold comprises third and fourth

ducts (48) connected to said toroidal chamber of said
second manifold.
The gas turbine system according to claim 1, wherein
said gas turbine is further characterized by a centrally

disposed rotor (12), and wherein said first and second
manifolds (52, 54) encircle said rotor. 
The gas turbine system according to claim 2, wherein
said gas turbine further comprises a shell (40) enclosing

said rotor (12), said first and second manifolds (52, 54)
being disposed within said shell.
The gas turbine system according to claim 3, wherein
said first and second combustors (14, 15) are disposed

outside of said shell (40).
The gas turbine system according to claim 1, further
characterized in that said turbine inlet (95) is substantially

annular, said first, second, third and fourth outlet
ports (74', 74", 72', 72") are arranged in a circumferential

array and lie in a common radially extending plane,
and said second outlet port (74") is disposed between said

third (72') and fourth (72") outlet ports.
The gas turbine system according to claim 5, further
characterized in that said hot gas directing means (50) of

said first manifold (52) has means for directing a third
portion of said first hot gas flow to a fifth outlet port

(74"') in flow communication with a fifth portion of said
turbine inlet (95), said hot gas directing means (48) of

said second manifold (54) has means for directing a third
portion of said second hot gas flow to a sixth outlet port

(72"') in flow communication with a sixth portion of said
turbine inlet, said fifth outlet port is dispose between

said fourth and sixth outlet ports, and said sixth outlet
port is dispose between said first and fifth outlet ports.
The gas turbine system according to claim 1, further
characterized in that said hot gas directing means of said

first manifold comprises first and second ducts (50) for
directing said first and second portions of said first hot

gas flow to said first and second outlet ports (74', 74"),
and said hot gas directing means of said second manifold 

comprises third and fourth ducts (48) for directing said
first and second portions of said second hot gas flow to

said third and fourth outlet ports (72', 72").
The gas turbine system according to claim 7, wherein
said first and second ducts (50) extend in the axial direction

from said first manifold (52), and wherein said third
and fourth ducts (48) extend in the axial direction from

said second manifold (54).
The gas turbine system according to claim 8, wherein
said first manifold (52) is disposed axially upstream from

said second manifold (54).
The gas turbine system according to claim 9, wherein
said first and second ducts (50) extend through said second

manifold (54).
The gas turbine system according to claim 7, wherein
said first, second, third and fourth ducts (46, 50) are

arranged in a circumferential array.
The gas turbine system according to claim 7, wherein
each of said outlet ports (72, 74) is formed in one of said

ducts (48, 50), each of said outlet ports being arcuate.
The gas turbine system according to claim 7, wherein
said first manifold (52) comprises a first toroidal chamber

(60) in flow communication with said first and second ducts
(50), and wherein said second manifold (54) comprises a

second toroidal chamber (62) in flow communication with
said third and fourth ducts (48).
The gas turbine system according to claim 1, further
characterized by a third combustor (8) having a pressured 

fluidized bed for burning a sold fuel (18) so as to produce
a compressed gas (32), and means for directing said compressed

gas from said third combustor to said first and
second combustors (14, 15).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
