<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653983</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND DEVICE FOR MAKING SUBSTANTIALLY CYLINDRICAL CARDBOARD TUBES CLOSED AT ONE END
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31C700	B31C708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31C	B31C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31C7	B31C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a process and device for making substantially cylindrical cardboard tubes, especially of wound cardboard, closed at one end. A revolving transfer machine (40) used to make these cardboard tubes has a rotary conveyor plate (41) and ten processing positions (I-X). Around, above and partly beneath the rotary conveyor (41) there are processing devices, e.g. a prepressing and presealing device (2), a sealing and rounding device (3), a smoothing device (4), a printer (5), a turning device (6), a gluing device (7) and a pre-bordering and post-bordering device (8 and 9) at distances corresponding to the angular distances between the stations (I-X). The cardboard tubes are vertically fed to the revolving transfer machine (40) in predetermined lengths and diameters via a supply device (1). The finished cardboard tubes are removed from the revolving tranfer machine by an ejector device (10). A stored-program control device (11) controls the entire production cycle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EGER ALBERT GMBH 
&
 CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALBERT EGER GMBH 
&
 CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAHL GEBHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAHL, GEBHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Method for the production of a largely cylindrical 
cardboard tube which is closed at one end and, in 

particular, made from wound cardboard, characterized by 
the following steps: 


a) producing cylindrical tubes having a predetermined 
diameter and predetermined length, 
b) conically pressing together the wall of the tube at 
one end of the tube and 
c) sealing the pressed end of the tube and rounding, 
in a conical fashion, the sealed tip of the tube so 

that the latter forms a cone having a stable shape. 
Method according to claim 1, characterized in that step 
b comprises an additional step b1 with which a 

presealing of the cardboard material is effected during 
the conical pressing together of the tube wall and 

further comprising an additional step of 

d) smoothing the inner and outer wall in the vicinity 
of the sealed tube end. 
Method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the cardboard material is pressed and sealed in the 

steps b, b1, c and d, in each case, between an axially 
movable printing stamp inside the tube and an outer 

bell acting in opposition to the pressing force of the 
stamp, whereby the printing stamp and the bell have an 

outer and inner contour corresponding to the respective  
 

intended pressing or sealing. 
Method according to claim 3, characterized in that the 
path of the printing stamp is predetermined in an 

adjustable fashion and the bell is mounted in an 
axially resilient fashion, whereby the spring path 

determines the pressing force. 
Method according to claim 3 or 4, characterized in that 
the conical rounding in step c is carried out by an 

anvil arranged axially within the bell in a stationary 
fashion against the concave anvil surface of which a 

convex outer surface of the stamp presses the sealed 
tube end. 
Method according to one or more of the preceeding 
claims, characterized in that an additional printing 

step e is provided for by means of which ink is applied 
to the outer side of the smoothed tube tip. 
Method according to one or more of the preceeding 
claims, characterized in that an additional gluing step 

f is provided for introducing glue into the tube in the 
vicinity of the tube tip. 
Method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that an additional bordering 

step g is provided for inwardly bordering the edge at 
the open side of the tube. 
Method according to claim 8, characterized in that the 
bordering step g includes a prebordering step g1 and a 

postbordering step g2, whereby the edge is simply  
 

folded over in the inward direction during prebordering 
step g1 and is folded further in the inward direction 

in a spiraling manner during postbordering step g2. 
Method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the production steps a 

through e are carried out with the tube placed upright 
upon the stamp, that is to say with the tip of the tube 

pointing upwardly, and steps f and g or g1 and g2 
respectively are carried out with the tube turned 

around, whereby a tube turning step is provided for 
between the steps e and f. 
Method for the production of substantially cylindrical 
cardboard tubes (12) made from wound cardboard and 

closed on one end, characterized by
 
a winding device for winding a cylindrical pipe of 

predetermined diameter from cardboard strips,
 
a cutting device for cutting the pipe into a tube of 

predetermined length,
 
a prepressing device (2) in which the tube (12), put on 

an axially movable printing stamp (17), is conically 
pressed at one end by an outer bell (19) which opposes 

the pressing motion of the printing stamp (17), wherein 
the printing stamp (17) and the bell (19) each have an 

outer or inner contour respectively (18, 18') 
corresponding to the conical pressing, and a sealing 

and rounding device (3) also having a printing stamp 
(17) projecting into the tube (12) and a bell (30) 

surrounding the tube at its tip (13) with outer and  
 

inner contours respectively (28) corresponding to the 
intended sealing and rounding, as well as an anvil (31) 

working in opposition to the tip of the stamp for 
fashioning a cone on the tip of the tube (13) having a 

stable shape. 
Device according to claim 11, characterized in that a 
smoothing device (4) is also provided for smoothing the 

inner and outer wall in the vicinity of the sealed and 
rounded tube tip (13). 
Device according to claim 12, characterized in that the 
smoothing device (4) comprises a printing stamp (17) 

projecting into the tube and a bell working in 
opposition to the printing stamp. 
Device according to one or more of the claims 11 
through 13, characterized in that a printing device (5) 

is furthermore provided for applying ink to the outside 
of the smoothed tube tip (13). 
Device according to one or more of the claims 11 
through 14, characterized in that a gluing device (7) 

is provided for introducing glue (14) to the inside of 
the tube in the vicinity of the tube tip (13). 
Device according to claim 15, characterized in that the 
glue is a quick-drying hot glue. 
Device according to one or more of the claims 11 
through 16, characterized in that a edge-bordering 

device (8, 9) is furthermore provided for bordering the 
edge of the open end of the tube in the inward  

 
direction. 
Device according to claim 17, characterized in that the 
edge bordering device exhibits a prebordering and a 

postbordering position (8, 9), wherein the prebordering 
position (8) simply folds the tube edge in the inward 

direction and the postbordering position (9) folds the 
edge of the tube (19) further in a spiral fashion 

towards the inside. 
Device according to one or more of the claims 11 
through 18, characterized by a revolving transfer 

machine (40) with a rotary conveyor (41) having a 
predetermined number of receiving positions (I - X), 

arranged in a circle for the cardboard tubes and having 
sequential processing positions (I - X) around, above, 

and partially below the rotary conveyor (41) 
corresponding to the angular separations of the 

receiving positions (I - X), of which the first 
position (I) has a supply device (1) for introducing 

tubes having a predetermined diameter and a 
predetermined length into an aligned vertical position, 

the second through fourth stations (II- IV) having the 
prepressing device (2), the sealing and rounding device 

(3) and the smoothing device (4) respectively; the 
fifth position (V) the pressing device (5); the sixth 

position (VI) the turning device (6); the seventh 
position (VII) the gluing device (7); the eighth and 

ninth positions (VIII, IX) the prebordering and 
postbordering device (8, 9) and the tenth position (X) 

an ejection device (10) for ejecting the produced 
tubes.  

 
Device according to claim 19, characterized in that the 
transporting step of the rotary conveyor (41) and the 

working steps of the positions (I -X) are controlled by 
a memory programmable control device (SPS,11). 
Device according to claim 19 or 20, characterized in 

that the stamp (17) engages the interior of the tube 
(12) at each of the stations (II-IV) from below the 

rotary conveyor (41) whereas the bells (19, 29, 38) and 
the anvil (31) press the tip of the tube (13) from a 

location above the rotary conveyor (41). 
Device according to one or more of the claims 11 
through 21, characterized in that the turning device 

(6) turns the tubes (12) into the opposite position at 
which the tube opening is turned in the upper direction 

and the tube tip (13) is turned in the downward 
direction. 
Device according to one or more of the claims 11 
through 22, characterized in that the prepressing (2), 

the sealing and rounding device (3) and the smoothing 
device (4) are provided in a common machine holder 

(20), wherein a predetermined number of disk springs 
(22, 32, 35) are provided in the axial position between 

this machine holder (20) and the bells (19, 29, 38) of 
the prepressing (2), the sealing and rounding device 

(3), and the smoothing device (4) which exercise a 
spring force in opposition to the printing stamp 

pressing into the respective bells (19, 29, 38) in such 
a fashion that the corresponding spring path determines 

the pressing force exercised on the tube (12).  
 
Device according to one or more of the claims 11 
through 23, characterized in that the anvil (31) of the 

sealing and rounding device (3) is mounted without 
spring loading on the machine holder (20). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
