<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637992</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONDENSATION OF METAL VAPOURS IN A FLUIDIZED BED
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J818	B01J818	B01D500	B01D500	C22B1918	C22B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01D	B01D	C22B	C22B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J8	B01J8	B01D5	B01D5	C22B19	C22B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Metal vapour, for example zinc fume in the offgas of a smelting furnace, is captured by bringing the stream into direct contact with a fluidized bed of solid particles having a particulate loading of greater than 10 kg/m
<
3
>
 and preferably greater than 400 kg/m
<
3
>
. The thermal mass and temperature of the bed is such as to rapidly quench the vapour in the case of zinc from above 960  DEG C to below 419 DEG C in less than 100 milliseconds, whereby the vapour condenses in the bed and is recovered as zinc metal in acceptable yield.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMW SCIENT IND RES ORG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOUNT ISA MINES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMONWEALTH SCIENTIFIC AND INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANISATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOUNT ISA MINES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRY RODNEY JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLAYER ROGER LEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRY, RODNEY, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLAYER, ROGER, LEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the capture of 
metal vapours from a gas stream, for example zinc vapour 
from the offgas of a smelting furnace. Traditional methods of extracting zinc from 
sulphides involve roasting the concentrate to remove 
sulphur followed by reduction during which some or all 
of the zinc is removed as a fume. The zinc is then 
recovered from the fume by condensation. Similar processes are used for the recovery of 
other relatively volatile metals from sulphides. 
Although the invention will be herein described 
primarily with reference to the recovery of zinc it will 
be understood to be applicable to other metals including 
tin, lead, magnesium, cadmium, manganese or the like  
 
which may be produced by pyrometallurgical means 
involving fuming. The term "fume" as herein used refers 
primarily to a gas or vapour but includes a gas or 
vapour with entrained liquid and/or particulate matter. Zinc blast furnaces, for example, generally use a 
lead splash condenser (e.g. such as described in British 
Patent 572961) to capture zinc vapour as zinc liquid and 
lower the activity of the condensed product. This 
approach involves relatively large capital investment 
and has high maintenance costs. Another form of metal vapour capture currently in 
use relates to removal of zinc as fume from slag from 
lead production facilities, with subsequent oxidation. 
In that process, zinc vapour is fumed from the surface 
of a molten slag bath and is allowed to travel upwardly 
until it reaches a location well clear of turbulence 
associated with the bath surface. At that location an 
oxygen-containing gas such as air is admitted, and both 
temperature and oxygen potential are raised to the point 
where the zinc vapour is rapidly converted to zinc 
oxide. The zinc oxide has a very much lower vapour 
pressure than zinc metal and as a result precipitates 
from the gas stream as a fine powder. The zinc oxide is 
suitable for further purification by electrochemical 
methods, but must first be captured in suitable dust 
extraction equipment. This very fine dust is difficult 
to handle, and its capture once again requires large  
 
capital investment. It has been found that by appropriate adjustment of 
temperature and oxygen potential in a furnace it is 
possible to achieve commercially significant direct 
separation of metal as a vapour from sulphide containing 
materials. However, in this case the furnace offgas 
contains sulphur dioxide together with the metal vapour 
and the sulphur dioxide reacts
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of recovery of a metal from a gas 
stream containing the metal as a vapour, said method 

comprising the steps of: 

(a) bringing the stream into direct contact with a 
fluidized bed of solid particles, the bed having a 

particulate loading of greater than 10 Kg/m
3
; 
(b) controlling the fluidized bed so as to include an 
inventory of particles having a combined mass, 

specific heat and temperature such as to rapidly 
reduce in less than 1 second the temperature of the 

vapour in heat exchange relationship with the bed 
to below the condensation temperature of the metal, 

whereby to condense the metal vapour; and 
(c) controlling the oxygen potential of the stream to 
be brought into contact with the bed so as to 

maximise the recovery of the vapour as metal. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein the gas 
stream is a furnace offgas stream and contains a species 

reactive with the metal vapour, said method further 
comprising the steps of: 


(d) maintaining the offgas stream at a temperature 
substantially equal to or greater than the furnace 

temperature prior to contact with the bed; 
(e) controlling the fluidized bed so as to include an 
inventory of particles having a combined mass, 

specific heat and temperature such as to reduce the 
temperature of the offgas stream in heat exchange 

relationship with the bed to below the condensation 
temperature of the metal at a rate of change of  

 
temperature selected to minimize reaction between the 

vapour and the reactive species whereby to condense 
the metal vapour; and 
(f) separating the condensed metal from the remaining 
stream. 
A method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the 
temperature of the gas leaving the bed is reduced to below 

the melting point of the metal. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the temperature at which the gas stream is brought 

into contact with the bed and the average temperature of 
particles in the bed is selected so as to optimize the 

recovery of the vapour as elemental metal. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the particulate loading is greater than 200 

Kg/m
3
. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the gas stream has a temperature greater than 

960°C upon entry to the fluidized bed. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the gas stream has a temperature greater than 

1100°C upon entry to the fluidized bed. 
A method according to any one of the preceding  
 

claims, wherein the temperature of the gas stream upon 
leaving the bed is reduced to below 500°C. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the temperature of the gas stream upon leaving the 

bed is reduced to below 350°C. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the thermal mass of the bed in heat 

exchange relationship with the gas stream is such that in 
the absence of cooling the rise in temperature of the bed 

would be less than 100°C/sec. 
A method according to Claim 10, wherein the thermal 
mass of the bed in heat exchange relationship with the 

offgas stream is such that in the absence of cooling the 
rise in temperature of the bed would be less than 20°C/sec. 
A method according to any of of the preceding claims, 
wherein the particles of the bed have an average grain 

size not exceeding 2mm in diameter. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein 90% of the particles of the bed have a 

grain size not exceeding 0.5mm in diameter. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the metal vapour is zinc. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the particles of the bed are metal particles of 

the same metal as the metal of the vapour. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, 
wherein the particles of the bed are silica.  

 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
further comprising the step of continuously removing a 

proportion of the solids in the fluidized bed and 
recovering the condensed metal therefrom. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the fluidized bed is a continuously recirculating 

fluidized bed. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the metal of the vapour is selected from the group 

consisting of zinc, lead, tin, magnesium, cadmium and 
manganese. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein the metal is 
zinc. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein the metal is 
tin. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein the metal is 
lead. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein the metal is 
magnesium. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the gas stream contains a plurality of metals each 

as a vapour. 
A method according to any one of claims 2 to 24, 
wherein the gas stream contains one or more reactive 

species selected from the group consisting of sulphur, 
oxygen, halogen or nitrogen containing species. 
A method according to any one of claims 2 to 25,  
 

wherein the gas steam contains at least one reactive 
species selected from the group consisting of sulphur, 

sulphur dioxide and hydrogen sulphide. 
A method according to any one of claims 2 to 25, 
wherein the gas stream contains at least one reactive 

species selected from the group consisting of carbon 
dioxide, carbon monoxide or water. 
A method according to any one of claims 2 to 25, 
wherein the gas stream contains at least one reactive 

species selected from the group consisting of hydrogen 
halides and halogens. 
A method according to any one of claims 2 to 28, 

further comprising the step of controlling the oxygen 
potential of the gas stream so as to inhibit reaction 

between the reactive species and the metal. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
further including the step of heating the gas stream so 

that the temperature at which the vapour is brought into 
contact with the bed is greater than the furnace 

temperature. 
A method according to any preceding claim , wherein the 
temperature of the gas stream in heat exchange  

 
relationship with the bed is reduced to below the 

condensation temperature of the metal in less than 100 
milliseconds. 
A method according to any preceding Claim, 
wherein the temperature of the gas stream in heat 

exchange relationship with the bed is reduced to below 
the condensation temperature of the metal in less than 1 

millisecond. 
Apparatus for recovery of a metal from a hot 
gas stream containing the metal as a vapour, said 

apparatus comprising: 

(a) means for fluidizing a bed of solid particles having 
a particulate loading of greater than 10 kilograms per 

cubic metre; 
(b) means for bringing the gas stream having an oxygen 
potential into direct contact and heat exchange 

relationship with the fluidized bed at a first zone; 
(c) means for maintaining an inventory of particles of 
the fluidized bed in the first zone at a temperature 

below the condensation temperature of the metal vapour; 
and 
(d) means for controlling the oxygen potential of the 
gas stream to be brought into contact with the fluidized 

bed so as to maximise the recovery of the vapour as 
metal. 
Apparatus according to Claim 33, wherein the 
fluidized bed is recirculated through the first zone. 
Apparatus according to Claim 34, wherein 
particles of the fluidized bed are cooled at a second 

zone before recirculation to the first zone. 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 33 to 
35, in combination with a furnace operating at a  

 
temperature greater than 960°C to produce the hot gas 

stream. 
Apparatus according to Claim 36, wherein 
the furnace is operating at a temperature greater than 

1100°C. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
33 to 37, wherein the fluidized bed has a particulate 

loading of greater than 400 Kgs./m
3
. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
33 to 38, wherein the fluidized bed comprises silica 

particles. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
33 to 39, wherein the means for maintaining an inventory of 

cooled particles includes water spray injections. 
Apparatus according to Claim 40, wherein 
the water is sprayed into the first zone. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
33 to 41, wherein an inventory of particles in the bed is 

maintained at below 500°C. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
35 to 42, further comprising means for maintaining the 

furnace offgas stream at above 960°C until it enters the 
fluidized bed. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
35 to 43, further comprising means for maintaining the 

furnace offgas stream at above 1100°C until it enters the 
fluid bed.  

 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
33 to 44, further comprising means for separating a portion 

of the solids in the fluid bed from the remainder. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
35 to 43, including means for raising the temperature of 

the gas stream to above the furnace temperature. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
33 to 46, further including means to control the oxygen 

potential in the gas stream prior to entering the first 
zone. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
33 to 47, wherein the particles of the bed have a thermal 

mass such that if the bed were uncooled the rate of 
increase in temperature of the inventory of particles in 

the first zone would be less than 100°C/second. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 
33 to 48, wherein the particles of the bed have a thermal 

mass such that if the bed were uncooled the rate of 
increase in the temperature of the inventory of particles 

in the first zone would be less than 20°C/second. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
