<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642402</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GLASS SCORING MECHANISM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B3300	C03B33027	C03B3310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	C03B	C03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B33	C03B33	C03B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A glass scoring machine includes a table (10) and a numerically controlled carriage for movement over the table (10) along X and Y axes. The carriage supports a scoring assembly including a glass scoring wheel (34) which is held against the sheet of glass (106) by a pneumatic cylinder (66) and a compression spring (82). In one embodiment, adjustable stop means (104) are provided to establish the desired force applied to the glass (106) by the scoring wheel (34) depending on the thickness of the glass to be cut. In an alternate embodiment, the pneumatic cylinder is provided with a variable pressure regulator to establish the desired force at the scoring wheel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOCKFORMER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE LOCKFORMER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH QUINN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, QUINN, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTION GLASS SCORING MECHANISMTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to glass cutting or scoring machines, and in particular to the mechanism for holding the glass scoring wheel against the sheet to be cut. (The terms "score" and "cut" and their variants are used synonymously herein.) In actual practice, the glass is scored by a scoring wheel and then deformed (usually manually) for severing or breaking the glass sheet along the score lines.Glass scoring machines of the type under consideration are provided with a table to support the sheet of glass to be cut. The table may be of the J tiltable type shown in United States patent No. 3,570,733 to facilitate handling of the glass sheets which are usually of rather large size and are consequently rather heavy. The scoring wheel is supported by a pillar post which is in turn supported over the table by a movable carriage. The carriage is numerically controlled and computer operated for movement along X and Y axes to score the glass along straight and curved paths. Representative prior art showing such machines are United States patents No. 4,171,657 and No. 4,709,483. 

 During operation of these scoring machines, the carriage remains in fixed vertical relationship with the table. Glass scoring machines of the type under consideration are normally provided with some form of a resilient or yieldable means for establishing the desired force between the scoring wheel and the surface of the glass sheet to be scored. Usually, either a spring or pneumatic system is employed to yieldably urge the scoring wheel against the glass surface. A prior art reference showing the pneumatic type of hold-down mechanism for a scoring wheel is United States patent No. 3,058,220.As is known to those skilled in the art, the surface of the table used to support the glass sheet is not perfectly flat or planar. Normally, variations in the surface of the table will be in the range of plus or minus 1/8 of an inch. The glass sheet (which itself is very flat and has a very uniform thickness) will tend to follow or adopt the surface contour of the table both because of the weight of the glass sheet and because of the force applied to the glass sheet by the scoring wheel. Thus, the distance between the carriage and the glass surface to be scored will vary as much as 1/4 of an inch during a scoring operation. By way of reference, the depth of the score is usually about 1/1000 of an inch. Thus, to maintain consistency and uniformity in the depth of the score line, it is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. In an glass scoring apparatus of the type including a table for supporting a sheet of glass to be scored, a carriage and means mounting the carriage in predetermined spaced relationship with the table and for movement along X and Y axes, the improvement comprising: (a) a pillar post assembly mounting a glass scoring wheel; (b) guide means supported by the carriage and mounting the pillar post assembly for relative linear movement toward and away from the glass to be scored;
(c) spring means attached to said pillar post assembly for yieldably urging the glass scoring wheel into engagement with a sheet of glass supported by the table; and
(d) adjustment means engaged with said spring means for presetting the spring force to a selected value.
2. The improvement according to claim 1 wherein said adjustment means comprises:
(a) a member mounted by the carriage and engaged with said spring means for movement in first and second directions for increasing and decreasing the spring force, respectively; and
« (b) adjustable stop means connected to said member for establishing the position of the latter.
3. The improvement according to claim 2 wherein said adjustable stop means includes pneumatic means. 


 4. The improvement according to claim 1 further defined by:
(a) said spring means being in the form of a helical compression spring having one end thereof connected with support means engaged with said pillar post assembly;
(b) said adjustment means including a pneumatically operated piston and cylinder having a piston rod extension disposed exteriorly of said cylinder with a portion of said extension coaxially received within said compression spring;
(c) said adjustment means also including a collar mounted on said extension and engaged with the other end of said compression spring; and (d) said adjustment means further including first and second stop elements, said first stop element being connected to said piston rod for movement therewith, said second stop element being adjustably movable and mounted for being engaged by said first stop element to limit the amount of movement of said collar toward the sheet to be scored.
5. The improvement according to claim 4 wherein the axes of said pillar post assembly and said piston rod are in substantially parallel offset relationship and wherein said support means includes compensating means to prevent binding when the piston rod is not in true parallel relationship with the axis of the pillar post assembly.
6. The improvement according to claim 5 wherein said upport means includes a slide collar mounted on said piston rod for axial movement relative thereto. 


 7. The improvement according to claim 6 wherein said compensating means includes interengaging convex and concave washers mounted on said slide collar.
8. The improvement according to claim 1 wherein said adjustment means comprises:
(a) an adjustable member mounted by the carriage and engaged with said spring means for movement in first and second directions for increasing and decreasing the spring force, respectively;
(b) a pneumatically operated piston and cylinder assembly connected to said adjustable member; and
(c) variable pressure regulator means operatively associated with said piston and cylinder assembly for varying the spring force of said spring means.
9. The improvement according to claim 8 further defined by: (a) said spring means being in the form of a helical compression spring having one end thereof connected with support means engaged with said pillar post assembly;
(b) said piston and cylinder assembly including a piston rod having a portion thereof received within said compression spring; and
(c) said adjustment means including a collar mounted on said piston rod and engaged with the other end of said compression spring. 


 10. The improvement according to claim 9 wherein the axes of said pillar post assembly and said piston rod are in substantially parallel offset relationship and wherein said support means includes compensating means to prevent binding when the piston rod is not in true parallel relationship with the axis of the pillar post assembly.
11. The improvement according to claim 10 wherein said upport means includes a slide collar mounted on said piston rod for axial movement relative thereto.
12. The improvement according to claim 11 wherein said compensating means includes interengaging convex and concave washers mounted on said slide collar. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
