<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610402</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED DAMPING IN COMPOSITE STRUCTURES THROUGH STRESS COUPLING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B318	F16F1366	B32B108	B32B512	B32B2700	B32B508	B32B528	B32B508	F16F1502	B32B512	F16F930	F16F900	B32B2700	B32B522	B32B100	F16F136	B32B318	F16F1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	F16F	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	F16F	B32B	F16F	F16F	B32B	B32B	B32B	F16F	B32B	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B3	F16F1	B32B1	B32B5	B32B27	B32B5	B32B5	B32B5	F16F15	B32B5	F16F9	F16F9	B32B27	B32B5	B32B1	F16F1	B32B3	F16F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A composite stiffness layer (11) is provided in segments (11A, 11B, 11C) and the orientation of the reinforcing fibers in adjacent segments is dissimilar (17). A damping layer (15) may be integral with a stiffness layer, adhered to a stiffness layer, or sandwiched between stiffness layers. Multiple layer composite structures may be formed as tubes, plates, beams or other forms with improved damping proportions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV BRIGHAM YOUNG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLCOTT DENNIS D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROTZ CHRISTOPHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLCOTT, DENNIS, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROTZ, CHRISTOPHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to composite
structures. It is particularly directed to multiple
layer composite structures, and provides a multi segment
construction with significantly improved damping
properties.The control of vibrations
in composite structures is an important area of research
in aerospace, automotive and other industries. For
example, spacecraft vibrations initiated by attitude
adjusting thrusters, motors and thermally induced
stresses inhibit accurate aiming of antennas and other
equipment carried by the craft. Such vibrations can
cause severe damage to the craft and its associated
equipment. Fatigue failure of structural components can
occur at stresses well below static load limits.Composite materials have been used to construct
a wide variety of structural elements, including tubes,
enclosures, beams, plates and irregular shapes. Objects
as diverse as rocket motor housings and sporting goods,
notably skis, archery arrows, vaulting poles and tennis
rackets have been structured from composite materials.
While composite constructions have offered many
significant advantages, such as excellent strength and
stiffness properties, together with light weight, the
poor vibration damping properties of such constructions
have been of concern. The article "Understanding
Vibration Measurements," George F. Lang, Sound and
Vibration, March, 1976, p. 26, presents a generally
accepted mathematical treatment of the vibration of
mechanical structures under environmental loading. This
treatment applies generally to composite structures, and
is incorporated by reference for purposes of this
disclosure for its explanation of the amplification
factor Q and its relationship to the viscous damping 
factor ξ. The "loss ratio" referred to in this
disclosure is twice the viscous damping factor as defined
by Lang.A technique known as "constrained layer
damping" has been relied upon to add damping properties
to existing structures. According to this technique,
damping material, typically a viscoelastic material, is
applied to the surface of a composite structure, such as
an airplane wing. The damping material is sandwiched
between the composite surface and a rigid layer, such as
a thin aluminum sheet. This approach has generally been
remedial in character and is accomplished at the
sacrifice of other considerations, such as weight,
aesthetics and ideal surface configuration. It is known
that laminated beams composed of alternating layers of
elastic and viscoelastic materials can dissipate
vibratory energy while
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A composite structure comprising:

at least two stiffness layers, each said stiffness layer
being formed of multiple segments, each said

segment abutting against an adjacently
positioned segment to define a boundary, each

said stiffness layer including reinforcing
fibers impregnated with resin, wherein the

orientation of said reinforcing fibers in
adjacently positioned segments define

alternating positive and negative orientation
angles with respect to a longitudinal axis of

the composite structure; and
a damping layer positioned between said at least two
stiffness layers, said damping layer being

adhered to said at least two stiffness layers;

wherein the orientation of the reinforcing fibers in
adjacent said segments is such that

stresses are concentrated at a boundary between
adjacent said segments in response to loads

applied along said stiffness layer transversely
to said boundary.
The composite structure according to
Claim 1, wherein said structure includes a first said

stiffness layer, a second said stiffness layer and an
intermediate damping layer of viscoelastic material.
The composite structure according to
Claim 2, wherein each of said first and second stiffness

layers has a corresponding number of segments structured
and arranged to position the boundaries between adjacent

segments of said first stiffness layer approximately
opposite, with respect to said damping layer, the 

corresponding boundaries between adjacent segments of
said second stiffness layer.
A composite structure comprising a
stiffness layer comprised of impregnated reinforcing

fibers, and a damping layer, adhered to said stiffness
layer, said stiffness layer being provided in a plurality of

segments, the reinforcing fibers in adjacent said

segments being dissimilarly oriented such that stresses
are concentrated at a boundary between adjacent said

segments in response to loads applied along said stiffness layer
transversely to said boundary.
A composite structure according to Claim
4, wherein said reinforcing fibers are impregnated at

least partially with a viscoelastic material.
A composite structure according to Claim
5 including a first said stiffness layer, a second said

stiffness layer and an intermediate damping layer of
viscoelastic material.
A composite structure according to Claim
6, wherein each of said first and second stiffness layers

has a corresponding number of segments structured and
arranged to position the boundaries between adjacent

segments of said first stiffness layer approximately
opposite, with respect to said damping layer, the

corresponding boundaries between adjacent segments of
said second stiffness layer.
A composite structure comprising a damping
layer and a stiffness layer, said stiffness layer being

comprised of reinforcing fibers impregnated with resin,
said damping layer being adhered to said stiffness layer, 

said stiffness layer being formed in a plurality of
segments, the reinforcing fibers in adjacent said

segments being dissimilarly oriented such that stresses
are concentrated at a boundary between adjacent said

segments in response to loads applied along said stiffness layer
transversely to said boundary.
A composite structure according to Claim
8, wherein said structure includes a first said stiffness

layer, a second said stiffness layer and an intermediate
damping layer of viscoelastic material.
A composite structure according to Claim
8, wherein said stiffness layer includes sufficient

viscoelastic material to contribute damping properties to
said stiffness layer.
A composite structure according to Claim
10, wherein said structure includes a first said

stiffness layer, a second said stiffness layer and an
intermediate damping layer of viscoelastic material.
A composite structure according to Claim 8
configured as a hollow tube, said stiffness layer

comprising the wall of said tube.
A composite structure according to Claim
12, wherein said wall comprises a plurality of said

stiffness layers arranged concentrically with the annulus
defined by adjacent said stiffness layers being filled

with a damping layer.
A composite structure comprising a damping
layer and a stiffness layer, said damping layer being

adhered to said stiffness layer, said stiffness layer
being comprised of a plurality of segments, each segment

including an arrangement of respective reinforcing 
fibers, each segment being positioned adjacent to another

said segment along a longitudinal axis of said stiffness
layer, wherein said reinforcing fibers in each segment

are oriented dissimilarly to said reinforcing fibers of
an adjacent segment.
The composite structure of Claim 14
wherein each said segment is positioned co-planar with

each said segment positioned adjacent thereto.
The composite structure according to
claims 1, 4, 8 or 14 wherein said reinforcing fibers

extend continuously through at least two adjacently
positioned segments.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
