<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Micro-mechanical optical shutter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2602	G02B2604	H01L2102	H01L21027	H02N100	H02N100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	H01L	H01L	H02N	H02N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B26	G02B26	H01L21	H01L21	H02N1	H02N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A micro-optical shutter array (92, 102) having a number of tiny 
shutters (10), which revolve so as to intermittently block light from a via (12), 

and which may be operated in either a stepping or continuous motion. The 
array (92, 102) may be batch manufactured using integrated circuit 

fabrication techniques. For each shutter, a via (12) is etched through a 
substrate (11). A rotor (13, 43, 53, 63) with at least one opening is fabricated 

over the via (12), such that as the rotor (13, 43, 53, 63) turns, radiation 
transmitted through the via (12) is selectively blocked or not blocked. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAMPSELL JEFFREY B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAMPSELL, JEFFREY B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to micro-optical devices, and more particularly, 
to an optical shutter whose motion is provided by a micromotor. A recent development in the field of optical instrumentation has been 
the miniaturization of various optical devices. These "micro-optical" devices 
use tiny optical components for applications such as lightwave 
communications and optical computing. An example of a micro-optical device 
is a microlens array, which can be fabricated using integrated circuit 
fabrication techniques. Various guided wave devices, such as planar 
waveguides are also being made on a micro-optical scale. A need exists for 
an optical switch that is compatible with these micro-optical devices. A first aspect of the invention is an array of micro-optical shutters, 
each for intermittently blocking the passage of radiation. A substrate has a 
plurality of vias through which said radiation may pass. Each via is 
associated with a shutter which is capable of rotating. Preferably each 
shutter comprises a rotor hub fabricated on the substrate and a rotor spaced 
above the substrate for revolving around the rotor hub in a plane parallel to 
the substrate, The rotor has at least one opening that is aligned with the via 
during a part of each revolution of the rotor. A set of stator poles is also 
fabricated above the substrate around the perimeter of the rotor and 
substantially co-planar to the rotor. A voltage applied to the stator poles  
 
provides a rotor torque that causes the rotor to rotate. A control unit controls 
the timing of the voltage applied to the stator poles. A technical advantage of the shutter array is that each shutter permits 
a very small beam of light to be chopped or switched. The shutters can be 
operated at very high speeds, either in continuous or stepped motion. 
Shutters having continuous motion are useful as infrared choppers. Shutters 
having stepped motion are useful for optical switching. Arrays of shutters 
can be easily manufactured, each shutter having uniformity of size and of 
other characteristics. The arrays are especially suited for various 
applications involving other micro-optical or micro-electrical components, 
such as optical fibers, lens, and light modulators. Figures 1 and 2 are cross sectional and plan views, respectively, of an 
optical shutter. Figures 3A - 3C illustrates the steps of making a via during fabrication 
of a micromotor. Figure 4 is an alternative design for the rotor and stator poles. Figure 5 is a third alternative design for the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An array of micro-optical shutters, each for intermittently blocking the 
passage of radiation, comprising: 

a substrate having a plurality of vias through which said radiation 
may pass, each via associated with a shutter; 

each shutter is capable of rotating so as to intermittently block 
radiation from the via. 
The array of claim 1, wherein each shutter comprises a rotor hub 
fabricated upon said substrate, a rotor fabricated above and spaced 

from said substrate for revolving around said rotor hub in a plane 
parallel to said substrate, said rotor having at least one opening that is 

aligned with at least one of said vias for a part of each revolution of 
said rotor, and a set of stator poles fabricated above said substrate 

around the perimeter of said rotor to which voltage may be applied for 
providing a rotor torque. 
The array of Claim 2, wherein each said rotor has a set of radial 
spokes. 
The array of Claim 2 or Claim 3, wherein each said rotor is generally 
disk-shaped. 
The array of any of Claims 2 to 4, wherein each said rotor has a 
number of teeth around its perimeter. 
The array of any of Claims 2 to 5, wherein each said rotor is in the 
order of 100 microns in diameter. 
The array of any of Claims 2 to 6, wherein each of said rotors has one 
or more dished portions of its underside. 
The array of any of Claims 2 to 7, further comprising a control unit for 
controlling the timing of said voltage applied to said stator poles. 
The array of any preceding Claim, wherein each shutter has at least 
one filter for changing the wavelength of said light over at least one 

opening in the shutter. 
The array of any preceding Claim, wherein said vias are cylindrical in 
shape and of a size suitable for securing an optical fiber. 
The array of any of Claims 2 to 9, wherein said via are cone-shaped. 
A method of manufacturing an array of micro-optical shutters, 
comprising the steps of: 

etching vias through a substrate, each via associated with one of said 
shutters; 

filling said vias with a sacrificial material; 
sequentially depositing layers of etchable material on said substrate 

and etching shutters capable of rotating so as to intermittently block 
radiation from the vias in use; and 

removing said sacrificial material from said vias. 
The method of claim 12, wherein the etching step comprises etching 
rotors, rotor hubs, and stators from said material, such that each rotor 

is rotatable around a rotor hub when voltage is applied to said stators, 
wherein each said rotor has at least one opening that may be aligned 

with an associated via during one revolution of said rotor. 
The method of Claim 13, further comprising the steps of depositing a 
filter material over said at least one opening. 
The method of Claim 13, further comprising the step of etching a 
dished portion on the underside of each said rotor. 
The method of any of Claims 12 to 15, wherein said substrate is silicon 
and said step of etching vias is performed with a orientation directed 

etch, such that said vias are cone-shaped. 
The method of any of Claims 12 to 16, wherein said step of etching vias 
is performed such that said vias are cylindrical in shape and have a 

diameter suitable for inserting an optical fiber. 
The method of any of Claims 12 to 17, wherein said step of etching vias 
follows said step of fabricating said shutter. 
An optical correlation system for comparing multiple reference images 
to one or more acquired image, comprising: 

an array of micro-optical shutters fabricated on a substrate having a 
plurality of vias, each shutter comprising a rotor hub fabricated upon 

said substrate, a rotor fabricated above and spaced from said substrate 
for revolving around said rotor hub in a plane parallel to said 

substrate, said rotor having at least one opening that is aligned with 
one of said vias for a part of each revolution of said rotor, and a set of 

stator poles fabricated above said substrate around the perimeter of 
said rotor and substantially co-planar to said rotor, to which voltage 

may be applied for providing a rotor torque; 

an array of lenses, each lens for receiving light transmitted through a 
via when a corresponding shutter is open; 

a reference film having an array of reference images, each image 
associated with one of said shutters; 

a first transform lens for receiving a reference image from said 
reference film and for transforming said image into its Fourier 

transform image; 
a spatial light modulator having an array of reflective pixel elements, 

for displaying an image representing the complex conjugate of the 
Fourier transform of the acquired image and for reflecting said Fourier 

transform image of said reference image; 
a second transform lens for receiving the combination of the image 

displayed by said spatial light modulator and the image reflected by 
said spatial light modulator, and for Fourier transforming the 

combined images; and 
a sensor for receiving the image transmitted by said second transform 

lens. 
The optical correlation system of Claim 19, wherein said vias are 
cylindrical in shape for inserting an optical fiber. 
The optical correlation system of Claim 19 or Claim 20, wherein said 
vias are cone-shaped and further comprising an array of focussing 

lenses for focussing light from a source to each of said shutters. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
