<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629372</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Shear-cutting paper towel dispenser.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47K1024	A47K1036	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47K	A47K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47K10	A47K10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus (10) for shear cutting and dispensing individual 
sheets of paper toweling from a web of paper toweling (24) including a 

feed roller (18) and two shear blades (58,64) which engage to cut the 
toweling (24). One of the shear blades (58) is movably mounted relative 

to 
the feed roller (18) and projects outwardly through the slot (60) during 

rotation of the feed roller (18) to engage the other shear blade (64) 
which 

is mounted on a dispenser housing. The shear blade (64) mounted on 
the housing (12) has a curved shear cutting surface spaced from the 

feed roller (18), the curvature of the curved shear cutting surface 
generally corresponding to the curvature of the outer surface (20) of 

the feed roller (18). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAMES RIVER PAPER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAMES RIVER PAPER COMPANY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BANAS ANDREZEJ J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINERT LAWRENCE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BANAS, ANDREZEJ J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINERT, LAWRENCE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus and method for 
cutting and dispensing individual sheets of flexible sheet 
material from a web of flexible sheet material forming a roll. 
The invention has particular application to the dispensing of 
paper towels from a continuous roll of paper toweling. The 
cutting and dispensing operations are initiated and carried out 
by a user grasping and pulling a terminal end portion of the 
toweling. Shear blade means incorporated in the apparatus shear 
cut an individual paper towel from the web as the terminal end 
portion is pulled. The prior art includes a number of arrangements for the 
simultaneous dispensing and cutting of paper toweling. U.S. 
Patent No. 3,896,691, issued July 29, 1975, discloses such a 
device. The free end of a roll of toweling passes over a drum 
having a non-circular periphery and pulling of the free end by 
the user causes rotation of the drum and unwinding of the roll.  
 
A blade is secured to the drum and rotates therewith. The blade 
secured to the drum engages a counter-blade in position within 
the apparatus housing. Both the blade and counter-blade are 
straight; however, the counter-blade is angled or obliquely 
mounted so that the blade and counter-blade cut the toweling 
passing between them in the manner of a pair of scissors. Because the blade and counter-blade of the apparatus of 
U.S. Patent No. 3,896,691 are straight, cutting across the entire 
width of the web must be accomplished during a very short segment 
of the rotation of the drum and within a very short period of 
time. This means that considerable tension or pulling forces 
must be applied to the toweling free end to operate the apparatus 
during the short period of blade engagement, possibly resulting 
in ripping or tearing of the toweling. Furthermore, the blade 
and counter-blade are prone to maladjustment and misalignment due 
to the mounting schemes employed. A number of paper towel dispensers are disclosed in the 
prior art in which the towel dispenser employs a toothed knife 
mounted internally of a feed roller. Exerting a pulling force on 
the toweling end causes rotation of the feed roller and a 
mechanism causes movement of the toothed knife outwardly through 
a slot formed in the feed roller to pierce the toweling disposed 
thereon. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,404,880, issued 
September 20, 1983, and U.S. Patent No. 4,188,844, issued 
February 19, 1980, disclose an approach wherein a toothed knife  
 
is pivotally mounted internally of a feed roller
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for cutting and dispensing individual 
sheets of flexible sheet material from a web of flexible sheet 

material forming a roll and having a terminal end portion, said 
apparatus comprising, in combination: 

   a housing defining an interior; 
   a feed roller rotatably mounted in said housing interior and 

having an outer surface for engaging said web terminal end 
portion; 

   first shear blade means movably mounted on said feed roller 
and rotatable with said feed roller; 

   second shear blade means mounted within said housing and 
engageable by said movably mounted first shear blade means upon 

rotation of said feed roller to shear cut said web and at least 
partially sever said terminal end portion from the remainder of 

said web. 
The apparatus according to Claim 1 additionally 
comprising biasing means for yieldably biasing at least one of 

said shear blade means against the other of said shear blade 
means during engagement therebetween. 
The apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein said 
feed roller defines a longitudi
nally extending slot, said first 
shear blade means including at least one shear blade movable 

between an operative position wherein said shear blade projects 
outwardly of said slot and an inoperative position, said 

apparatus additionally comprising means for moving said first 
shear blade means between said operative and inoperative 

positions responsive to rotation of said feed roller. 
The apparatus according to Claim 3 wherein said 
means for moving said first shear blade means includes a 

rotatable shaft rotatably mounted in said feed roller and at 
least one connector connecting said rotatable shaft to said first 

shear blade means. 
The apparatus according to Claim 4 wherein said 
connector comprises a plurality of spaced pins interconnecting 

said rotatable shaft to said first shear blade means, said pins 
resiliently biasing said first shear blade means against said 

second blade means when said first shear blade means is in said 
operative position. 
The apparatus according to Claim 4 wherein said 
means for moving said first shear blade means further includes 

cam means mounted in said housing interior and follower means 
operatively associated with said cam means and said rotatable 

shaft to rotate said rotatable shaft and move said first shear 
blade means from inoperative position to operative position 

responsive to rotation of said feed roller. 
The apparatus according to Claim 6 wherein said 
means for moving said first shear blade means further includes 

spring means operatively associated with said first shear blade 
means to retract said shear blade means and move said shear blade 

means from operative position to inoperative position responsive 
to rotation of said feed roller. 
The apparatus according to Claim 5 additionally 
comprising biasing means interconnecting said follower means and 

said first shear blade means for yieldably biasing said first 
shear blade means against said second shear blade means when said 

first shear blade means is in said operative position. 
The apparatus according to Claim 8 wherein said 
follower means includes said rotatable shaft, said rotatable 

shaft positioned within said feed roller and extending 
substantially the length thereof, and wherein said follower means 

includes a follower arm connected to said shaft and in operative 
engagement with said cam means to rotate said shaft responsive to 

rotation of said feed roller, said biasing means comprising a 
plurality of biasing elements affixed to said shaft, extending 

from said shaft, and rotatable therewith, said biasing elements 
imparting movement to said first shear blade means to move said 

first shear blade means from inoperative to operative position 
during rotation of said shaft. 
The apparatus according to Claim 3 additionally 
comprising a rider roll disposed adjacent to said feed roller, 

said terminal end portion passing between said rider roll and 
said feed roller, said rider roll being positioned closely 

adjacent to the slot in said feed roller. 
Apparatus for cutting and dispensing individual 
sheets of flexible sheet material from a web of flexible sheet 

material forming a roll and having a terminal end portion, said 
apparatus comprising, in combination: 

   a housing defining an interior; 
   a feed roller rotatably mounted in said housing interior and 

having an outer surface for engaging said web terminal end 
portion; 

   first shear blade means mounted on said feed roller and 
rotatable therewith; and

 
   second shear blade means mounted within said housing and 

engageable by said first shear blade means upon rotation of said 
feed roller to shear cut said web and at least partially sever 

said terminal end portion form the remainder of the web, said 
second shear blade means having a curved shear cutting surface 

spaced from said feed roller and extending partially around said 
feed roller, the curvature of said curved shear cutting surface 

generally corresponding to the curvature of the outer surface of 
said feed roller. 
Apparatus for cutting and dispensing individual 
sheets of flexible sheet material from a web of flexible sheet 

material forming a roll and having a terminal end portion, said 
apparatus comprising, in combination: 

   a housing defining an interior; 
   a feed roller rotatably mounted in said housing interior and 

having an outer surface for engaging said web terminal end 
portion; 

   first shear blade means mounted on said feed roller and 
rotatable therewith; 

   second shear blade means mounted within said housing and 
engageable by said first shear blade means upon rotation of said 

feed roller to shear cut said web and at least partially sever 
said terminal end portion form the remainder of the web; and 

   biasing means for yieldably biasing at least one of said 
shear blade means against the other of said shear blade means 

during engagement therebetween. 
The apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein said second shear 
blade means has a generally V-shaped configuration. 
The apparatus according to Claim 1 or Claim 12 wherein said second shear 
blade means has a curved shear cutting surface spaced from said feed roller, the curvature 

of said curved shear cutting surface generally corresponding to the curvature of the outer 
surface of the feed roller. 
The apparatus according to Claim 14 wherein said second shear blade 
means is twisted whereby said curved shear cutting surface is directed toward said feed 

roller outer surface over the length of said curved shear cutting surface. 
The apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein said housing 
includes a movable door for selectively closing said interior, said second shear blade 

means being mounted on said door and movable therewith. 
A method for cutting and dispensing individual 
sheets of flexible sheet material from a web of flexible sheet 

material forming a roll and having a terminal end portion, said 
method comprising the steps of: 

   positioning said web terminal end portion on a curved 
surface; 

   unwinding said roll by exerting a pulling force on said 
terminal end portion while maintaining said terminal end portion 

on said curved surface; 
   through frictional engagement between said terminal end 

portion and said curved surface, moving said curved surface 
during said unwinding step; 

   during said unwinding step, bringing said web between two 
relatively movable shear blades;

 
   engaging said shear blades with said web therebetween to 

shear cut said web to at least partially sever the terminal end 
portion from the remainder of the web; and 

   while shear cutting said web, yieldably biasing at least one 
of said shear blades in the direction of the other of said shear 

blades. 
The method according to Claim 17 wherein said step 
of engaging said blades includes the simultaneous steps of moving 

one of said shear blades in a direction away from said curved 
surface and rotating said curved surface and said one shear blade 

toward the other of said shear blades. 
The method according to Claim 18 wherein shear 
cutting of said web is initiated at at least two spaced locations 

on said web and converging lines of cut are progressively formed 
during rotation of said support surface. 
The method according to Claim 19 wherein shear 

cutting of said web is substantially simultaneously initiated at 
said at least two spaced locations. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
