<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640793</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Combustion apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23D1700	F23D1700	F23C9900	F23D100	F23D100	F23C9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23D	F23D	F23C	F23D	F23D	F23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23D17	F23D17	F23C99	F23D1	F23D1	F23C99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A combustion apparatus comprises a mixture 
feeding pipe (1) through which a mixture of pulverized coal 

and combustion air flows. The mixture is injected into 
a furnace (2) through the mixture feeding pipe and then 

ignited. A radial outwardly flared flame maintaining 
ring (3) is provided at the tip end of the mixture feeding 

pipe. The flame maintaining ring is under a reduction 
atmosphere and exposed to high temperatures due to 

radiant heat from the furnace. Therefore, there is a 
possibility of burnout of the flame maintaining ring or 

growth of slag on the flame maintaining ring. In order 
to prevent this, a projection (6) is disposed to extend into 

the furnace beyond the flame maintaining ring so as to 
shut off radiation from the inside of the furnace to the 

flame maintaining ring adequately, thereby suppressing 
an excessive temperature rise. Combustion air flows 

along the surface of the projection so as to locate the 
projection under an oxidation atmosphere. A pulverized 

coal/air separating member (7) extends through within the 
mixture feeding pipe. A portion where separation of the 

flow is forcibly occurred is formed locally in a conical 
end portion (II) of the pulverized coal/air separating 

member. It is therefore possible to effect a combustion 
in a stabilized manner as a whole regardless of the unit 

capacity and load of the combustion apparatus. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a combustion
apparatus, and for example, to a combustion apparatus of
a pulverized coal boiler.In a pulverized coal firing boiler, a
combustion apparatus injects a mixture of pulverized
coal and air into a furnace through a mixture feeding
pipe. The mixture injected is ignited so as to form a
flame in the furnace. As disclosed in USP 4,545,307, a
radially outwardly flared flame maintaining ring is
provided at an end of the mixture feeding pipe.
Vortices of the mixture are formed along the flame
maintaining ring so that the pulverized coal is
concentrated in the vicinity of the flame maintaining
ring. As a result, an ignition takes place from the end
portion of the mixture feeding pipe located in the
furnace to form a high temperature strong reduction
flame, thereby making it possible to suppress the
generation of nitrogen oxides NOx.The flame maintaining ring gets covered with
ashes and is kept under a reduction atmosphere and,
further, exposed to high temperatures due to radiant 
heat from the furnace. These conditions may cause a burnout of
the flame maintaining ring or, when the operation is not
proper, growth of slag on the flame maintaining ring, that is,
promotion of the slagging, under certain circumstances. The
burnout of the flame maintaining ring or the growth of the slag
results in the deterioration of the effect of the flame
maintaining ring, increase of the amount of nitrogen oxides
NOx, or the trouble of the apparatus.EP-A-0,280,568, on which the two-part form of claim 1 is
based, discloses various combustion apparatus capable of
burning coal, gas and oil fed along the same axis. One
apparatus includes a mixture feeding pipe exposed into a
furnace for feeding a mixture of pulverized coal and oxygen-containing
gas into said furnace; a first gas feeding passage
disposed radially outwardly of said mixture feeding pipe for
feeding oxygen-containing gas into said furnace; a second gas
feeding passage disposed radially between said first gas
feeding passage and said mixture feeding pipe for feeding
oxygen-containing gas into said furnace; and an annular space
part between said first and second gas feeding passages through
which a plurality of gas-feeding pipes penetrate into the
furnace; a guide sleeve arranged to regulate the air flow from
the second gas feeding passage and to act as a flame-retaining
plate, being disposed radially inside said first gas feeding
passage spaced said annular space part by an annular gap for
passing cooling air to cool the guide sleeve,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A combustion apparatus comprising:

a mixture feeding pipe (1) exposed into a furnace (2) for
feeding a mixture of powdery fuel and oxygen-containing gas

into said furnace (2);
a first gas feeding passage (4) disposed radially
outwardly of said mixture feeding pipe for feeding oxygen-containing

gas into said furnace (2);
a second gas feeding passage (5) disposed radially between
said first gas feeding passage (4) and said mixture feeding

pipe (1) for feeding oxygen-containing gas into said furnace;
and
projection means (6) disposed radially between said first
gas feeding passage (4) and said mixture feeding pipe (1),

extending at an exposed end surface thereof into said furnace
(2) beyond an exposed end of said mixture feeding pipe (1),
characterised in that said projection means (6) defines
part of the second gas feeding passage (5) by virtue of being

hollow for the flow therein of oxygen-containing gas.
A combustion apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
exposed end surface of said projection means (6) is flat.
A combustion apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
the projection means (6) has an inner peripheral wall (62)

which is inclined radially outwardly towards said furnace.
A combustion apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising a powdery fuel/oxygen-containing

gas separating member (7) disposed inside of said
mixture feeding pipe (1) coaxially with said mixture feeding

pipe (1), said separating member (7) including a right circular
cylindrical portion (73) which cooperates with said mixture

feeding pipe (1) to define therebetween a mixture feeding
passage portion (I) having a constant sectional area and a

conical portion (74) extending from said right circular
cylindrical portion (73) and being tapered toward the

downstream side of the flow of the mixture so as to cooperate
with said mixture feeding pipe (1) to define therebetween a

further mixture feeding passage portion (II) having a sectional
area which gradually increases in a direction of flow of the

mixture.
A combustion apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said
conical portion has a first portion (742) where separation of

the flow is caused to occur and second portion (743) where
separation of the flow is not caused to occur, and wherein

first and second portion (742, 743) of said conical portion
(74) alternate circumferentially.
A combustion apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said projection means includes an

opening (631, 633) through which a part of the oxygen-containing
gas flowing within said projection means is ejected

towards said exposed end surface of said projection means (6).
A combustion apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said projection means (6) is disposed

radially between said first gas feeding passage (4) and said
second gas feeding passage (5).
A combustion apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said hollow part of said projection

means (6) forms part of said second gas feeding passage (5).
A combustion apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims, further comprising flame maintaining means

provided at an exposed peripheral edge portion of said mixture
feeding pipe.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
