<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616353</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cathode assembly and method of manufacturing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J904	H01J120	H01J904	H01J126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J9	H01J1	H01J9	H01J1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method of forming a coating on an electron 
emitting cathode, in which a black coating (23) is formed 

on the inner surface of a cathode sleeve (15) constituting 
the electron emitting cathode, the cathode sleeve 

(15) is filled with a suspension as a coating material, 
and a porous absorbent member is brought into contact 

with or near an opening portion of the cathode sleeve at 
the same time or after the cathode sleeve (15) is filled 

with the suspension, thereby causing the porous absorbent 
member to absorb an unnecessary portion of the suspension. 

Thereafter, the cathode sleeve (15) to which the 
coating material is adhered is heat-treated. As a 

result, a black coating (23) having a uniform thickness 
is formed, on the inner surface of the cathode sleeve, as 

a sintered layer obtained by mixing tungsten having an 
average particle diameter in a range of 0.5 µm 

(inclusive) to 2 µm (inclusive) with alumina having an 
average particle diameter in a range of 0.1 µm 

(inclusive) to 1 µm (exclusive) at a weight ratio of the 
tungsten to the alumina in a range of (90 : 10) to 

(65 : 35). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a cathode assembly 
used for an electron tube such as a color cathode ray 
tube and a method of manufacturing the same and, more 
particularly, to an improvement in a black coating 
formed inside the cathode sleeve of the cathode assembly. Recently, a color cathode ray tube having a high 
resolution, which is achieved by increasing the number 
of scanning lines, and a display tube compatible with 
high-frequency signals have been developed. There have 
been demands for a projection tube and the like to 
increase their brightness. It is required for tubes 
suitable for these application purposes to greatly 
increase the density of electrons emitted from the 
cathode. A great deal of attention has been paid to an 
impregnated cathode because of these demands. In 
general, an impregnated cathode obtains a high current 
density than an oxide cathode. Therefore, this 
impregnated cathode has been used for an electron tube 
such as a traveling wave tube or a klystron. As an 
application which effectively uses the high current density 
characteristics of an impregnated cathode, a color 
picture tube incorporating the above-mentioned 
impregnated cathode has recently been developed. As is well known, the operating temperature of  
 
an impregnated cathode is higher than that of an oxide 
cathode by about 200°C. Accordingly, the heater 
temperature in the impregnated cathode is high, which 
reaches 1,250°C in rated operation conditions. 
Consequently, thermal distortion of the heater and a 
deterioration in breakdown voltage performance between 
the heater and the cathode tend to occur. Several 
attempts have been made to decrease the heater 
temperature by increasing the efficiency of heat 
transfer from the heater to the cathode. For example, 
an impregnated cathode assembly obtained by forming a 
black layer containing a refractory metal or a 
refractory metal powder and an inorganic binder on the 
inner surface of a cathode sleeve is proposed in Jpn. 
Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication No. 61-288339. According 
to this proposal, for example, a slurry or suspention 
obtained by adding a mixture of a tungsten powder and an 
aluminum oxide powder, i.e., an alumina powder, in an 
alumina sol in which alumina whiskers (0.1 µm × 0.01 µm) 
are dispersed in an acetic acid solution, is coated and 
dried on the inner surface of a tantalum (Ta) sleeve, 
and the coating is sintered at a temperature of about 
1,600°C for five minutes, thus forming a black layer on 
the inner surface of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cathode assembly comprising: 

a cathode sleeve (15) having an inner surface; 
an electron emitting portion (13), arranged on 
an end portion of said cathode sleeve (15), for 

emitting electrons; 
a heater (21), arranged inside said cathode 
sleeve (15), for heating said electron emitting 

portion (13); and 
a black coating (23) formed on the inner surface 
of said cathode sleeve, which black coating (23) is 

a sintered layer formed by mixing tungsten with 
alumina at a weight ratio of the tungsten to the 

alumina in a range of (90 : 10) to (65 : 35), 
 
   characterized in that said tungsten has an 

average particle size in a range of 0.5 µm 
(inclusive) to 2 µm (inclusive) and said alumina 

has an average particle diameter in a range of 0.1 
µm (inclusive) to 1 µm (exclusive). 
An assembly according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said cathode sleeve (15) is made of a component 

selected from the group consisting of tantalum, an alloy 
containing tantalum as a main component, niobium, and an 

alloy containing niobium as a main component. 
An assembly according to claim 1, characterized 
in that the weight ratio of the tungsten to the alumina 

(tungsten : alumina) is in a range of (70 : 30) to 
(85 : 15). 
A cathode assembly manufacturing method of 
forming a black coating (23) on an inner surface of a 

cathode sleeve (15), characterized by comprising the 
steps of: 


coating a suspension on the inner surface of said 
cathode sleeve (15), the suspension being obtained by 

mixing tungsten having an average particle size in a 
range of 0.5 µm (inclusive) to 2 µm (inclusive) and  

 
alumina having an average particle size in a range of 

0.1 µm (inclusive) to 1 µm (exclusive) in a dispersion at 
a weight ratio of the tungsten to the alumina in a range 

of (90 : 10) to (65 : 35); and 
sintering the suspension coating in a substantially 
nonoxidizing atmosphere at a temperature in a range of 

1,250°C to 1,580°C, thereby forming a black coating (23). 
A method according to claim 4, characterized in 
that said cathode sleeve (15) is made of a component 

selected from the group consisting of tantalum, an alloy 
containing tantalum as a main component, niobium, and an 

alloy containing niobium as a main component. 
A method according to claim 4, characterized in 
that the suspension coating is sintered at a temperature 

in a range of 1,400°C to 1,550°C.  
 
An electron gun assembly characterized by 
comprising the cathode assembly according to claim 1. 
A color cathode ray tube apparatus 
characterized by comprising the electron gun assembly 

according to claim 7. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
