<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638092</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYNTHETIC PEPTIDE VACCINES FOR DENTAL CARIES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61P3100	A61K3909	C07K14195	C07K1600	C12N910	C07K700	C07K1600	A61K3909	C12N910	C07K14315	A61P3104	C07K708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61P	A61K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C07K	C07K	A61K	C12N	C07K	A61P	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61P31	A61K39	C07K14	C07K16	C12N9	C07K7	C07K16	A61K39	C12N9	C07K14	A61P31	C07K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Immunization of animals with a composition containing either an amino acid sequence from the catalytic domain of glucosyltransferase, an amino acid sequence from the glucan-binding region of glucosyltransferase or an amino acid sequence from the native surface domain of glucosyltransferase provoke antibody and T-cell immune responses to this enzyme. Since this enzyme has been implicated in the colonization of mutans streptococci on tooth surfaces, such immune responses are important for the prevention of dental caries. Multicomponent and multivalent compositions which include these amino acid sequences provide effective vaccine capabilities.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORSYTH DENTAL IN RY FOR CHILD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORSYTH DENTAL INFIRMARY FOR CHILDREN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH DANIEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAUBMAN MARTIN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, DANIEL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAUBMAN, MARTIN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Mutans streptococci have been convincingly implicated
in the initiation of dental caries in humans. The ability
of these organisms to accumulate and colonize on the tooth
surface has been associated with the synthesis of glucans
from sucrose. These glucans are synthesized by
constitutively secreted glucosyltransferase (GTF) enzymes.
These enzymes have been considered as potential components
of a dental caries vaccine, because of their role in the
pathogenicity of mutans streptococci. Experiments in
animal models and in humans have supported this potential.
For example, glucosyltransferases from S. sobrinus and S.
mutans species of the mutans streptococci have been
demonstrated to elicit immune responses which are
protective for experimental dental caries caused by
infection with several mutans streptococcal species
(Taubman and Smith, J. Immunol, 118:710, (1978); Smith and
Taubman, Infect. Immunity, 21:843, (1978)). Oral and/or
local administration of glucosyltransferases to humans has
also been significantly correlated with the reduction of
the ability of indigenous mutans streptococci to
reaccumulate in the oral cavity (Smith and Taubman,
Infect. Immunity, 55:2562, (1987); J. Clin. Immunol.,
10:273, (1990)). Successful experimental applications of
GTF-based vaccines have been associated with the
appearance of mucosal (predominantly IgA) antibody alone,
or with the combined appearance of mucosal and systemic
(IgG) antibody. However, vaccines based on intact GTF
have a variety of disadvantages such as the presence of
inappropriate epitopes and excess molecular material that
does not possess appropriate immunogenic features. Smith et al in J. Dental Res. 70:461 (1991) teaches
that a synthetic 22 amino acid peptide derived from the
putative glucan-binding region of glycosyltransferase (GTF)
is immunogenic in rats and elicits a humeral immune
response which comprises antibody that is reactive with a
common epitope present in the peptide and GTF, and that the
anti-peptide antisera inhibits GTF enzymatic function.
This document does not suggest that any amino acid
sequences outside of the "glucan binding domain of GTF,"
such as the catalytic domain, possess immunogenicity.Dertzbaugh et al in Infection and Immunity,
58(6):1509-1513 (1990) teaches the in vitro inhibition of
GTF enzymatic activity (e.g. synthesis of a glucan polymer
from sucrose) using an antisera elicited in rabbits by the
administration of a fusion protein comprising the N-terminal
end of the B subunit of cholera toxin and a
specific 15 amino
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vaccine composition comprising a portion of a
glucosyltransferase peptide of sufficient length to raise

an immune response in a mammal, wherein said portion is an
amino acid sequence of the catalytic domain of

glucosyltransferase.
A vaccine composition of claim 1, wherein the
amino acid sequence is selected from the group consisting

of:


and

The vaccine composition of claim 1, wherein the
immune response comprises both a B-cell response and a T-cell

response or produces antibodies of the IgG or the IgA
isotype.
A vaccine composition comprising at least two
portions of a glucosyltransferase peptide, each portion of

sufficient length to raise an immune response in a mammal,
wherein one portion consists of an amino acid sequence of

the catalytic domain of glucosyltransferase and one portion
consists of an amino acid sequence of the glucan-binding 

domain of glucosyltransferase, and for example 2 or more of
the peptides are present and arranged on a core matrix of

3 or more lysines.
A vaccine composition of claim 4, wherein the
amino acid sequence of the catalytic domain is selected

from the group consisting of:


and


and the amino acid sequence of the glucan binding domain is
selected from the group consisting of:



and

A vaccine composition comprising a plurality of
peptides, covalently attached to a peptidyl core matrix,

e.g. at least one lysine, wherein a first peptide consists
of an amino acid sequence of the catalytic domain of

glucosyltransferase and a second peptide consists of an
amino acid sequence of the glucan binding domain of

glucosyltransferase, and each peptide is of sufficient
length to raise an immune response in a mammal to whom it

is administered.
The vaccine composition of claim 6 having at 
least one additional immunologic component covalently

attached to said peptidyl core matrix, wherein said
additional immunologic component is not an amino acid

sequence of glucosyltransferase, and for example the
additional immunologic component is selected from

diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, measles and polio vaccines.
A vaccine composition of claim 6, comprising
three peptides wherein the amino acid sequences of the

peptides are an amino acid sequence of the catalytic domain
of glucosyltransferase; an amino acid sequence of the

glucan binding domain of glucosyltransferase; and an amino
acid sequence of a native glucosyltransferase surface

domain.
A vaccine composition of claim 8, wherein the
amino acid sequences are selected from the group consisting

of:


and

The vaccine composition of claim 6, wherein the 
immune response comprises both a B-cell response and a T-cell

response, and for example both the B-cell response and
the T-cell response are elicited by the same amino acid

sequence.
The vaccine composition of claim 10, wherein the
immune response produces antibodies of the IgG or the IgA

isotype.
A vaccine composition of claim 1 comprising three
further peptides, where the three further peptides are the

same or different and each consists essentially of an amino
acid sequence selected from the group consisting of all or

a portion of the amino acid sequence of the catalytic

domain of glucosyltransferase, all or a portion of the
amino acid sequence of the glucan binding domain of

glucosyltransferase and all or a portion of the amino acid
sequence of the native glucosyltransferase surface domain;

and the 4 peptides are on a core matrix of 3 lysines, and
said vaccine is capable of eliciting an immune system

response to glucosyltransferase in a mammal to whom it is
administered, for example a reduction of the colonization

or accumulation of mutans streptococcal strains in a mammal
to whom the vaccine composition is administered. 
A vaccine composition of claim 12, wherein the
amino acid sequence of each further peptide is selected

from the group consisting of:


and

A vaccine composition of any of the preceding
claims which is capable of causing antibody-mediated

interference with the enzymatic activity of
glucosyltransferase in a mammal to whom it is administered.
Use of a peptide consisting of an amino acid
sequence of the catalytic domain of glucosyltransferase of

sufficient length to raise an immune response in the a
mammal, for the manufacture of a medicament for interfering

with the enzymatic activity of glucosyltransferase in the
mammals.
Use according to claim 15, for the manufacture of
a medicament for reducing colonization or accumulation of

mutans streptococcal strains in the mammal. 
Use according to claim 15 or claim 16, wherein
the peptide has the amino acid sequence selected from:



and

Use according to claim 15, 16 or 17, of a second
peptide in combination with said peptide, for the

manufacture of said medicament, said second peptide
consisting of an amino acid sequence selected from the

group consisting of:


and

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
