<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622622</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Physical quantity detecting apparatus and internal combustion engine control apparatus each utilizing optical fiber
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L100	F02D4500	G01P1518	G01L2316	G01L1900	G01L2300	G01P1502	F02F1100	G01L1100	G01L124	G01L900	G01L900	G01L124	G01P1503	G01L100	F02F1100	G01L2322	G01P1518	G01L1900	G01L1102	F02D4500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	F02D	G01P	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01P	F02F	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01P	G01L	F02F	G01L	G01P	G01L	G01L	F02D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L1	F02D45	G01P15	G01L23	G01L19	G01L23	G01P15	F02F11	G01L11	G01L1	G01L9	G01L9	G01L1	G01P15	G01L1	F02F11	G01L23	G01P15	G01L19	G01L11	F02D45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A physical quantity detecting apparatus 
comprises at least one optical fiber (3; 500), at least 

one light emitting means (1) for emitting an incident 
light beam on the optical fiber, at least one light 

receiving means (5) for detecting an outgoing light beam 
from the optical fiber, physical quantity applied 

position information generating means (14) for providing 
information indicative of a position of a portion at 

which a physical quantity is applied to the optical 
fiber, and operation means (12; 12a) for receiving 

signals from the light receiving means and physical 
quantities applied position information generating means 

and calculating a change with time in physical quantity 
at respective positions on the optical fiber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOMACHIYA MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURITA MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHO SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAYAMA TAKAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMADA SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI SEIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI MINORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOMACHIYA, MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURITA, MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHO, SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAYAMA, TAKAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMADA, SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, SEIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI, MINORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a physical
quantity detecting apparatus according to the preamble
portion of claim 1.The physical quantity detecting apparatus is
sometimes required to be so designed as to have the
ability to perform not only the detection of a physical
quantity at a single site but also the simultaneous
detection of physical quantities at many sites or the
parallel detection of changes with time in the physical
quantities.Known as a conventional example of detection
of physical quantities at many sites within a wide range
is a tactile sensor described in Transactions, The
Institute of Electronic Information and Communication
Engineers of Japan, Vol. J74-C-II, No. 5 (1991), pages
411-420. In this sensor, a great number of pressure
sensors are formed in array on a silicon substrate and
pressures at individual points are detected by
corresponding pressure sensors.In the aforementioned conventional example,
pressure signals from the respective pressure sensors
are sent to a signal processor through respective wiring 
lines and tactile information, i.e., the two-dimensional
pressure distribution is calculated. Accordingly,
pressures at the respective points can be determined
precisely, but in order to detect pressure-applied
states within a wide area, a large amount of information
pieces delivered out of a great number of pressure
sensors must be processed, raising problems that the
scale of the signal processor is increased and the time
taken for calculation to proceed becomes long.On the other hand, in a control system
constructed by using the physical quantity detecting
apparatus, it is often necessary that a state of
physical quantity over the whole of a wide area be
detected simultaneously with values of physical
quantities at individual points as fast as possible.
For example, in an engine control system, pressures in
respective cylinders of an engine constructed of a
plurality of cylinders, that is, information concerning
combustion states of the all cylinders is required to be
detected at a high speed in compliance with a revolution
number of the engine.The pressure sensor as above is for
electrically detecting pressure and therefore when
pressures in a plurality of engine cylinders are
detected in parallel, electrical noises generated from
ignition plugs are adversely detected by the pressure
sensors. Especially, in the engine room of an
automobile, a great number of parts are arranged closely
to make it difficult to add parts to the existing parts
and hence it is difficult to make
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A physical quantity detecting apparatus utilizing optical
fiber, comprising:


at least one optical fiber (3; 500);
at least one light emitting means (1) for emitting an
incident light beam on said optical fiber;
at least one light receiving means (5) for detecting an

outgoing light beam from said optical fiber; and
physical quantity applying means (20; 210) for bending
said optical fiber on the basis of at least one physical

quantity to be measured so as to change the power
of the light passing through said optical fiber,

characterized in that

said optical fiber is a birefringent or a single mode
fiber and
the fiber is supported at three points, wherein one
point is defined by a projection (230) located between

the other two points (240) so that the fiber is pre-bent
with a predetermined initial bending value (R) when no

physical quantity is applied by said physical quantity
applying means (20; 210).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 1, further comprising


position information generating means (14) for generating
position information concerning crank angle positions

at which, when said at least one physical quantity
to be measures is a plurality of physical quantities,

the plurality of physical quantities are applied
to said optical fiber; and
operation means (12; 12a) for discriminating at least
one necessary physical quantity of said plurality of

physical quantities on the basis of a detection signal
from said light receiving means and the position information

from said position information generating means.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 1 or 2 wherein said optical fiber is a birefringent

optical fiber having an asymmetrical cross-sectional
shape (Fig. 2).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 1 or 2 wherein said optical fiber is a polarization

plane conserving birefringent optical fiber.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 1 or 2, further comprising:


means (7), interposed between said light emitting
means and said optical fiber, for performing polarization

control of the incident light beam on said optical
fiber; and
a polarizer (4) interposed between said optical fiber
and said light receiving means.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 5 wherein


said polarization control means is means for providing
a plurality of polarized components;
said physical quantity applying means is means responsive
to at least one of said plurality of physical quantities

to change the power of each of said plurality of
polarized components; and
said polarizer is means for detecting at least one necessary
polarized components of said plurality of polarized

components (Fig. 43).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 1 or 2 wherein said physical quantity applying

means is means for applying said plurality of physical
quantities to a plurality of positions on said one

optical fiber. 
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 7 wherein part of said optical fiber is used as a

delay circuit, and said operation means includes means
for processing a signal from said light receiving means

on time-division base (Fig. 30).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 1 or 2, comprising


a plurality of optical fibers (2b);
said light emitting means (1, 6) having means (6) for
admitting a light beam to each of said plurality of optical

fibers (2b);
said physical quantity applying means (20) being means
for applying at least one physical quantity to each optical

fiber (2b); and
said light receiving means (5) having means (5a, 5c)
for detecting light beams from said plurality of optical

fibers (Fig. 29; Fig. 35).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 9 wherein said light receiving means (5a, 5c) is

provided in association with each of said plurality of
optical fibers (2b) (Fig. 29).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 9 wherein said light admitting means (6) is a beam

splitter (6) for splitting a light beam from one light
emitting means (1).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 1 or 2 wherein said optical fiber has its tip (34)

opposing a reflection surface (Fig. 35; Fig. 36). 
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 12 further comprising light splitting and coupling

means (6a), interposed between said light emitting means
and said optical fiber, for admitting a reflection beam

from said tip to said light receiving means (Fig. 35).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to any
of the preceding claims, wherein said physical quantity

is pressure or a quantity to be converted into a pressure.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 14 wherein said physical quantity applying means

has a pressure transmitting medium (210; 230) for transmitting
the pressure to said optical fiber.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 15 wherein said pressure transmitting medium has a

diaphragm (210; 72) responsive to the pressure to transmit
its movement to said optical fiber.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 16 wherein said pressure transmitting medium

further has a working portion (230; 70) for acting the
movement of said diaphragm on said optical fiber.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 17 wherein said pressure transmitting medium

further has a pressure transmitter (71) for transmitting
the movement of said diaphragm to said working portion.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 17 wherein said working portion is provided to one

side of said diaphragm opposite to the other side to
which the pressure is applied. 
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 16, comprising a bending action structure responsive

to the movement of said diaphragm to provide an
action to curve said optical fiber (Fig. 11; Fig. 15;

Fig. 18; Fig. 19; Fig. 22).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 19 wherein said bending action structure includes


an optical fiber supporting structure for supporting
said optical fiber at two points; and
a bending stress structure responsive to pressing
force exerted by said diaphragm to apply bending stress

to said optical fiber between said two supporting
points.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 19 wherein said bending action structure has a

two-member structure including:

an optical fiber supporting member (200a) for supporting
said optical fiber at two points; and
a diaphragm member (200b) including said diaphragm and
transmitting the movement of said diaphragm to said

optical fiber between said two support points.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 22 wherein said two-member structure is unified

into an integral structure (200) in the form of a
module.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 23 wherein said optical fiber is cut into sections

having a necessary length and each section is mounted,
at its ends, with an optical connector (Fig. 19). 
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 14 wherein said physical quantity applying means

has:

a groove (Fig. 7) for receiving said optical fiber;
and
means for applying the pressure to said optical fiber
positioned in said groove.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 15 wherein said pressure transmitting medium is

formed, at at least part thereof, of a thermal conductor
and serves as radiation means for radiating heat generated

near said optical fiber.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 14 wherein said physical quantity is an internal

pressure in a plurality of cylinders of an internal
combustion engine.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 27 wherein said optical fiber is laid in the

vicinity of each of said plurality of cylinders.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 28 wherein said optical fiber is disposed in a

gasket of said plurality of cylinders.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 28 wherein said optical fiber is disposed near

ignition plugs of said plurality of cylinders.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 28 wherein said optical fiber is so disposed as to

expose to the interior of each of said plurality of
cylinders (Fig. 24). 
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 28 wherein said optical fiber (3; 500) is applied

with a necessary preliminary bending via a projection
(230) even when said internal combustion engine is in

the non-combustion state.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 27 wherein


said physical quantity applying means has pressure
transmitting means (210) for applying the pressure to

said optical fiber (500); and
each of said plurality of cylinders is formed with a
first space (100b) for accomodating a pressure receiving

portion of said optical fiber and a second space
(110, 120) communicating with the interior of a cylinder.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 33,

characterized in that

an internal pressure seal means (300) is provided in
said first space (100b) by which a change in cylinder

internal pressure can be converted into a pressure
difference and hence into a displacement of the pressure

transmitting means.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 34 wherein said internal pressure seal means (300)

is made of a material of high thermal conductivity and
acts as means for radiating heat generated near said

optical fiber. 
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 33 wherein said pressure receiving portion of

said optical fiber and said pressure transmitting means
(210) are packaged into a sensor block with said internal

pressure seal means. 
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
- claim 33 wherein said first and second spaces are formed

in a gasket (20) of said cylinders.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 37 wherein said second space opens to the interior

of said cylinder at a semi-circular surface of the cylinder
inner surface opposing an exhaust manifold

(800b).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 37 wherein said gasket (20) includes at least one

layer (440) stamped for formation of said first and
second spaces and said layer (440) and another gasket

(430) are overlapped with each other to form said first
and second spaces.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 37 wherein said first space, said pressure transmitting

means (210) responsive to pressure in said first
space and said optical fiber applied with a pressing

pressure by said pressure transmitting means are arranged
in a direction of thickness of said gasket.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 33 wherein said first and second spaces are formed

in an ignition plug.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 27 wherein said position information generating

means (14) is means for generating position information 
on the basis of a rotation angle of the crank shaft of

said internal combustion engine.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 27 wherein said position information generating

means is means for generating position information on
the basis of ignition timings of ignition plugs of said

plurality of cylinders.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 1 or 2, further comprising conversion means for

converting said physical quantity into pressure, wherein
said physical quantity appling means is means for applying

a pressure resulting from conversion by said conversion
means to said optical fiber.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 44 wherein said physical quantity is temperature

and said conversion means is means for converting
temperature into pressure.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 45 wherein said conversion means is of bimetal.
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 44 wherein said physical quantity is acceleration

and said conversion means is means for converting acceleration
into pressure (Fig. 42).
A physical quantity detecting apparatus according to
claim 27, further comprising:


means (12; 12a) for controlling at least one of
ignition timing, fuel amount and air amount for each

cylinder on the basis of the internal pressure in said
plurality of cylinders.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
