<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622442</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method for cleaning hot fuel gas
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10K300	C10K100	C10K300	C10K102	C10K132	C10K126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10K	C10K	C10K	C10K	C10K	C10K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10K3	C10K1	C10K3	C10K1	C10K1	C10K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hot gas cleanup system for removing 
particulates, alkali and sulfur from fuel gas produced by 

the gasification of coal in a gasifier, especially in an 
integrated gas turbine gasification power plant. A calcium 

based sulfur sorbent and an alkali sorbent are injected 
directly into the fuel gas and then recovered, along with 

the used sorbent, in a high efficiency, high temperature 
ceramic barrier filter. The fuel gas is then subjected to 

further de-sulfurization in a polishing de-sulfurizer 
supplied with a copper based sulfur sorbent. The used 

copper based sorbent is regenerated in fluidized bed 
regenerator. The regenerated sorbent is returned to the 

polishing de-sulfurizer and sulfur dioxide produced by the 
regeneration is directed to an oxidizer to which the used 

and unused sulfur sorbent from the filter is supplied so 
that the sulfur dioxide can be captured and so that the 

used sulfur sorbent can be converted to a more stable form 
for disposal. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWBY RICHARD ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWBY, RICHARD ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a system and
method for cleaning a hot coal-derived fuel gas. More
specifically, the present invention relates to a hot gas
cleanup system and a method for removing particulates,
sulfur and alkali species from high temperature, high
pressure coal-derived fuel gas in an integrated combined
cycle coal gasification power plant or in a direct coal-fired
gas turbine power plant.The high efficiency, low capital cost and short
lead time of gas turbine based power plants make them
particularly attractive to electric utilities as a means of
producing electrical power. Unfortunately, traditionally,
gas turbines have been limited to operation on expensive,
sometimes scarce, fuels -- chiefly, distillate oil and
natural gas. As a result of the ready availability and low
cost of coal, considerable effort has been expended toward
developing a gas turbine system for generating electrical
power that can utilize coal as its primary fuel.Two such approaches have been developed. In one
approach, referred to as an integrated combined cycle coal
gasification power plant, steam and compressed air from the
gas turbine compressor, or compressed oxygen, is used to
partially combust coal in a gasifier to produce a low to
medium heating value fuel gas. In the second approach,
coal is directly gasified in compressed air from the
compressor, producing a low heating value fuel gas. In
either approach, a high temperature, high pressure gas is 
produced that must then be expanded in the turbine section
of the gas turbine. Since the gas contains particulate
matter, as well as sulfur and alkali species, all of which
can be harmful to the turbine components, it is important
that the gas be cleaned prior to expansion in the turbine.
The cleaned gas should also satisfy environmental emission
standards.Traditionally, fuel gas cleanup systems operate at
near ambient temperature and require large heat exchanger
equipment to cool the hot fuel gas prior to cleaning. Such
low temperature gas cleaning is expensive and reduces the
power plant efficiency. While high temperature cleanup
systems have been proposed that utilize ceramic barrier
filter technology to remove particulates and zinc-based
sorbents to remove sulfur, such systems have a high capital
cost and are expensive to operate. The operating temperature
of the zinc-based sorbents is limited so that large
heat exchanger equipment is still required. In addition,
the cost of zinc-based sorbents is high and sorbent losses
due to physical and chemical attrition
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for removing sulfur species from a
hot coal-derived gas, comprising:


a) first means for injecting a first sulfur
sorbent into contact with said gas so as to entrain

said first sorbent therein and convert said first
sorbent into a first sulfur compound;
b) removing means for removing from said gas
at least a portion of said entrained first sorbent and

said first sulfur compound;
c) means, connected to receive said gas from
said removing means, for bringing a second sulfur

sorbent into contact with said gas so as to convert a
portion of said second sulfur sorbent into a second

sulfur compound;
d) means for regenerating said second sulfur
compound so as to produce said second sulfur sorbent

and a sulfurous gas; and
e) a vessel connected to receive said first
sorbent and said first sulfur compound removed by said

removing means and connected to receive said sulfurous
gas produced in said sorbent regenerating means, said

vessel enclosing a bed of said first sorbent and said
first sulfur compound fluidized by said sulfurous gas.
The sulfur removal system according to claim
1, wherein said sorbent regenerating means comprises a

vessel enclosing a fluidized bed of said second sulfur
compound. 
The sulfur removal system according to claim 2,
wherein said second sulfur sorbent comprises a copperbased

sorbent.
The sulfur removal system according to claim 3,
wherein said second sulfur compound comprises copper sulfide

and said sulfurous gas comprises sulfur dioxide.
A method of removing sulfur sorbant from a
hot coal-derived gas, comprising the steps of:


a) bringing a first sulfur sorbant into contact with
said gas so as to remove a first portion of said sulfur

species from said gas by converting said first sorbant into
a first sulfur compound, at least portions of said first

sorbant and said first sulfur compound being entrained in
said gas;
b) removing at least a portion of said entrained first
sorbant and said entrained first sulfur compound from said

gas;
c) bringing a second sulfur sorbant into contact with
said gas so as to remove a second portion of said sulfur

species from said gas by converting said second sorbant
into a second sulfur compound, at least portions of said

second sorbant and said second sulfur compound being entrained
in said gas;
d) regenerating at least a portion of said second
sulfur compound brought into contact with said gas

in a regenerator so as to produce regenerated second
sulfur sorbant and a sulfurous gas; and
e) fluidizing a bed of said first sulfur sorbant with
said sulfurous gas to convert said sulfurous gas produced

by said regeneration into a third more stable sulfur compound.
The method according to claim 5, wherein the step
of bringing said first sorbent into contact with said gas

comprises the step of injecting particles of said first
sorbent into said gas.
The method according to claim 6, wherein the step
of injecting particles of said first sorbent into said gas

comprises the step of injecting particles having a diameter
of less than about 250 µm.
The method according to claim 5, wherein the step
of bringing a second sulfur sorbent into contact with said

gas comprises the step of directing said gas into a vessel,
and further comprising the step of directing said regenerated

second sulfur sorbent into said vessel so that said
gas fluidizes a bed of said regenerated second sorbent.
The method according to claim 5, wherein the step
of regenerating at least a portion of said second sulfur

compound comprises the step of directing a fluid into a
vessel containing a bed of said second sulfur compound so

as to fluidize said bed.
The method according to claim 5, further comprising
the step of converting said first sulfur compound

removed from said gas into a third sulfur compound, said
third sulfur compound being more stable than said first

sulfur compound.
The method according to claim 10, wherein said
first sulfur compound comprises calcium sulfide and said

third sulfur compound comprises calcium sulfate. 
The method according to claim 10, wherein the
step of converting said first sulfur compound into said

third sulfur compound comprises the step of fluidizing a
bed of said first sulfur compound in a vessel.
The method according to claim 5, further comprising
the steps of:


a) converting said first sulfur compound removed from
said gas into a third sulfur compound, said third sulfur

compound being more stable than said first sulfur compound;
and
b) converting said sulfurous gas produced by said
regeneration into a solid sulfur compound.
The method according to claim 13, wherein said
first sulfur compound comprises calcium sulfide, said

third sulfur compound comprises calcium sulfate, said
sulfurous gas comprises sulfur dioxide, and said solid

sulfur compound comprises calcium sulfate.
The method according to claim 13, wherein the
steps of converting said first sulfur compound into a third

sulfur compound and converting said sulfurous gas into a
solid sulfur compound comprises the step of fluidizing a

bed of said first sorbent and said first sulfur compound in
said sulfurous gas.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
