<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654093</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DETECTING AND AMPLIFYING TARGET NUCLEIC ACIDS USING EXONUCLEOLYTIC ACTIVITY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to improved LCR amplification schemes using at least one downstream probe modified at its 5' end to reduce or eliminate target independent amplification. The different modified probes, and kits containing them are also presented. Also presented is a method for detecting differences in nucleic acid sequences, with reduced target independent amplification, using the modified probes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARRINNO JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PABICH EDWARD K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RINEHARDT LAURIE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPIES UWE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARRINNO, JOHN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PABICH, EDWARD, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RINEHARDT, LAURIE, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPIES, UWE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to nucleic acid amplification techniques and,
more specifically, to the reduction and preferably elimination of target independent
background amplification in assays utilizing the ligase chain reaction (LCR). The
invention also relates to the identification of differences in target nucleic acid sequences.The ligase chain reaction (LCR) is a method for amplifying a specific nucleic
acid sequence (target) in a sample. LCR can be used to detect single or double stranded
DNA targets. Typically, two ligatable pairs of probes are employed in excess over the
target, one pair of the probes are hybridizable to the other. The target DNA is first
denatured (if double stranded) to allow for the hybridization of the ligatable probe pairs
to their respective complementary strands. The hybridized probes are then ligated by
DNA ligase. Next, the ligated probes are dissociated from the target and function as
target sequences themselves. By repeated cycles of hybridization and ligation,
amplification of the target sequence is achieved. The process of LCR is described in the
literature, including EP-A-320,308, EP-A-439,182, EP-A-336,731, WO 89/09835,
WO 89/12696, and WO 90/01069 among others.A common problem for LCR is non-specific (i.e. target independent)
amplification which can lead to false positive results. This can occur, for example,
when a pair of adjacent LCR probes are ligated to each other in the absence of the
target. Since LCR probes are typically used in high concentration relative to the target
the possibility of target independent ligation is great, and there is a comensurate need to
overcome this concern.Methods for reducing target independent ligation events have been described.
For example, EP-A-439,182 describes a variation of LCR wherein one of the probes of
the ligatable pair is modified so that it cannot be ligated until a correction event takes
place. Correction events take place only when the probe is hybridized to target.
Specifically, this application describes modifications to the 3' ends of the upstream
probe, where upstream refers to the probes whose 3' ends participate in the ligation
reaction. Disclosed modifications are a 3' blocking group, such as phosphate; a 3'
overhang of ribonucleotides (on a deoxyribonucleotide probe); 3' overhangs including
an abasic site; and 3' gaps which must be filled in to render the probes adjacent and 
ligatable. None of the disclosed embodiments involve modifications of the 5' end of the
downstream probe.The invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for assaying a target nucleic acid sequence comprising the
steps of:


(a) under hybridizing conditions exposing a sample suspected of containing
the target nucleic acid sequence in single stranded form to an excess of a first set of

oligonucleotides comprising a first upstream probe and a first downstream probe, both
probes having sequences substantially complementary to portions of a target nucleic acid

sequence, the 3' terminus of the first upstream probe hybridizing proximate to the 5'
terminus of the first downstream probe, wherein the 5' end of the first downstream

probe is modified to be ligation incompetent absent correction, thereby hybridizing the
first set of oligonucleotides to the target nucleic acid sequence, if present;
(b) correcting the 5' end of the downstream probe substantially only when
the downstream probe is hybridized to target, said correction including nucleolytic

degradation of said 5' end, whereby the correction renders this 5' end ligation
competent;
(c) ligating the corrected downstream probe to the upstream probe to form a
ligated product; and
(d) determining to what extent the correction or ligation steps occur as a
measure of the target nucleic acid in the sample comprising monitoring the

release of cleaved fragments from the 5' end of said downstream probe.
The method of Claim 1, wherein determining the extent of correction or
ligation comprises separating ligated product from unligated probes and determining the

amount of ligated product formed.
The method of Claim 1, wherein said ligation incompetent 5' end
consists essentially of a non-phosphorylated 5' terminus and wherein said correction

step comprises cleaving the terminal nucleoside to create a new 5' phosphorylated
terminus on said downstream probe.
The method of Claim 3, wherein said correction step further comprises
extending the 3' terminus of said upstream probe by the addition of one or more.

nucleoside triphosphates in a template-dependent manner to bring said extended 3'
terminus adjacent to said newly created 5' phosphorylated terminus.
The method of Claim 4, wherein both said cleaving and extending steps
are performed by a template-dependent polymerase having 5' to 3' nucleolytic activity.
The method of Claim 1 wherein said cleaved fragment comprises a
fluorescent label and said monitoring comprises fluorescence

polarization. 
The method of Claim 1, wherein the ligation incompetent 5' end
comprises at least one nucleotide base in said 5' end which is mismatched with respect

to the target sequence to which it hybridizes, and wherein said correction step comprises
cleaving the mismatched nucleotide to create a new 5' phosphorylated terminus on said

downstream probe.
The method of Claim 7, wherein said correction step further comprises
extending the 3' terminus of said upstream probe by the addition of one or more

nucleoside triphosphates in a template-dependent manner to bring said extended 3'
terminus adjacent to said newly created 5' phosphorylated terminus.
The method of Claim 7, wherein said at least one mismatched base is
positioned within 1 to 5 nucleotides internal of said 5' terminal nucleotide.
The method of Claim 7, wherein the ligation incompetent 5' end of said
downstream probe further comprises a non-phosphorylated 5' terminus.
The method of Claim 7, wherein determining the extent of correction and
ligation comprises separating ligated product from unligated probes and determining the

amount of ligated product formed.
The method of Claim 7, wherein the cleaved portion of the 5' end of the
downstream probe carries a label, and wherein said determining the extent of correction

and ligation comprises monitoring the release of label from the downstream probe.
The method of Claim 1, further comprising an excess of a second set of
oligonucleotides comprising a second upstream probe and a second downstream probe,

both probes having sequences substantially complementary to the first downstream
probe and first upstream probes, respectively, the 3' terminus of the second upstream

probe being hybridized proximate to the 5' terminus of the second downstream probe,
and

   wherein said hybridization, correction and ligation steps (a-c) are
repeated to effect an amplification of the target nucleic acid sequen
ce.
The method of Claim 13, wherein the ligation incompetent 5' end of said
first downstream probe consists essentially of a non-phosphorylated 5' terminus and

wherein said correction step comprises cleaving the terminal nucleoside to create a new
5' phosphorylated terminus on said downstream probe. 
The method of Claim 14, wherein the 5' end of the second downstream
probe is also modified to be ligation incompetent absent correction by means of a

modification selected from: (a) a non-phosphorylated 5' terminus; and (b) at least one
nucleotide base in the 5' end which is mismatched with respect to the template sequence

to which it hybridizes and wherein said correction step includes cleaving the 5' end of
said second downstream probe to create a new phosphorylated 5' terminus, whereby the

correction step renders the 5' ends of both downstream probes ligation competent.
The method of Claim 15, wherein said correction step further comprises
extending the 3' terminus of both said upstream probes by the addition of one or more

nucleoside triphosphates in a template-dependent manner to bring said extended 3'
termini adjacent to said newly created 5' phosphorylated termini.
The method of Claim 15, wherein determining the extent of correction
and ligation comprises separating ligated product from unligated probes and determining

the amount of ligated product formed.
The method of Claim 15, wherein said terminal nucleotide of the
downstream probe carries a label, and wherein said determining the extent of correction

and ligation comprises monitoring the release of label from the downstream probe.
The method of Claim 13, wherein the ligation incompetent 5' end of said
first downstream probe comprises at least one nucleotide base in said 5' end which is

mismatched with respect to the template sequence to which it hybridizes, and wherein
said correction step comprises cleaving the mismatched nucleotide to create a new 5'

phosphorylated terminus on said downstream probe.
The method of Claim 19, wherein the 5' end of the second downstream
probe is also modified to be ligation incompetent absent correction by means of a

modification selected from: (a) a non-phosphorylated 5' terminus; and (b) at least one
nucleotide base in the 5' end which is mismatched with respect to the template sequence

to which it hybridizes and wherein said correction step includes cleaving the 5' end of
said second downstream probe to create a new phosphorylated 5' terminus, whereby the

correction step renders the 5' ends of both downstream probes ligation competent.
The method of Claim 20, wherein said correction step further comprises
extending the 3' terminus of both said upstream probes by the addition of one or more

nucleoside triphosphates in a template-dependent manner to bring said extended 3'
termini adjacent to said newly created 5' phosphorylated termini.
The method of Claim 20, wherein the at least one mismatched base of
one or both of said downstream probes is positioned at the 5' terminal nucleotide, or

within 1 to 5 nucleotides internal of said 5' terminal nucleotide. 
The method of Claim 22, wherein said cleaving step includes cleaving a
nucleotide adjacent the mismatched nucleotide on its 3' side.
The method of Claim 20, wherein determining the extent of correction
and ligation comprises separating ligated product from unligated probes and determining

the amount of ligated product formed.
The method of Claim 20, wherein said terminal nucleotide of the
downstream probe carries a label, and wherein said determining the extent of correction

and ligation comprises monitoring the release of label from the downstream probe.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
