<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620603</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Upper cap for electrical accumulators provided with handles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M234	H01M210	H01M210	H01M220	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M2	H01M2	H01M2	H01M2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Upper cap for electrical accumulators useful either for stationary 
or movil 

applications in automobiles, ships and general vehicles, the 
accumulator including a 

positive and a negative terminal pins, the cap comprising an upper 
surface (6) including a 

central strip (8) having two opposite side edges (11) on which two 
respective flappers (9,10) are 

connected, each flapper having an outer edge (13) and an inner edge (21) 
and at least one through 

opening located close to the outer edge, the inner edge (21) being 
connected to a respective 

side edge (11) of the central strip through a hinge-connection, 
whereby the flappers may be 

positioned in a folded position wherein the flappers upwardly extend 
relative to the 

upper surface of the cap so that the openings remain adjacent one to 
the other to define 

a handle for taking and carrying the accumulator (1). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASAIS OSVALDO BALBINO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASAIS, OSVALDO BALBINO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASAIS OSVALDO BALBINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASAIS, OSVALDO BALBINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an upper cap for electrical accumulators, the 
accumulators being either used in stationary or mobile stations like houses, automobiles, 
ships, planes and general vehicles. The invention particularly relates to a closing cap for 
accumulators, the cap allowing a person to take and carry the accumulator easily. The 
accumulators being of the type requiring maintenance or not, in the case of maintenance 
the cap including ports for replenishing electrolyte and, in the case of no maintenace 
required the cap totally seals the accumulator. The conventional batteries or electrical accumulators comprise a container box 
housing metal plates and an electrolyte. This box has an upper opening sealed by a 
closing cap. The cap includes electrical terminal pins, positive and negative pins, 
through which the electrical power is taken. There are batteries that require 
maintenance in which case the electrolyte must be periodically replenished, therefore 
the cap must include access ports for repleneshing purposes. These ports are generally 
closed by sealing plugs, threaded in necks of the ports so that the plugs may be removed 
and then, after repleneshing, inserted again in the ports. There is another type of accumulators which do not require maintenance, 
therefore the accumulator box is totally closed by the upper cap in a tightly manner. In 
this case the upper cap has not access ports. With any one of the above accumulator types it is frequently necessary to 
remove the accumulator from the place wherein it is installed, either for maintenance, 
service or cleaning purposes or merely for replacing an old accumulator by a new one.  
 
In any of these situations the accumulator must be firmly taken and safetly carried, 
however the heavy weight of the accumulator and the dangerous electrolyte it contains 
make the handling and carrying of the acccumulator very perilous. Because the 
conventional accumulators do not have effective handling means both hands are 
generally neccesary to take, lift and carry them. The above drawacks become of a very importance when the accumulator is for 
automobiles, in this case the accumulator is installed in a small, generally unaccessible 
space, full of mechanical parts, wires and cables, grease, etc. These causes the reaching, 
taking and lifting of the accumulator with both hands to be cumbersome. Due to the above explained disadvantages the automobile manufacturers are 
requiring to the accumulator manufacturers that the acumulators be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Upper cap for electrical accumulators for stationary or 
movable applications in houses and vehicles, the 

accumulator (1) including a positive and a negative 
terminal pins (4), the cap (3) comprising an upper surface 

(6) and at least two foldable flappers (9,10), each flapper 
having an outer edge (13) and an inner edge (21), the inner 

edges (21) being hinged to the cap (3), whereby the 
flappers (9,10) may be positioned in a folded position 

wherein the flappers (9,10) upwardly extend relative to the 
upper surface (6) of the cap (3) and an unfolded position 

wherein the flappers (9,10) extend substantially in a plane 
with the upper surface (6) of the cap, each flapper (9,10) 

including at least one through opening (17) through which 
fingers may pass, the opening (17) being located close to 

the outer edge (13) thereof, whereby when both flappers 
(9,10) are in the folded position both openings (17) 

thereof are adjacent one to the other to define a handle 
for taking and carrying the accumulator (1), the upper 

surface (6) of the cap comprising locking means (12) 
including at least a pair of upwardly extending projections 

(20) in the upper surface (6), the projections (20) being 
located in positions whereby when the flappers (9,10) are 

in the unfolded position each projection (20) snuggly fits 
into the opening (17) of the associated flapper (9,10), 

occupying the entire opening (17) and being level with 
outer surfaces of the flappers (9,10). 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to claim 
1, wherein the upper surface includes a central strip (8) 

having opposite side edges (11) on which respective 
flappers (9,10) are connected, the inner edge (21) of each 

flapper (9,10) being hinged to a respective side edge (11) 
of the central strip (8).  

 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to claim 
2, wherein the locking means (12) further comprise at 

least one skirt (14) projecting from each outer edge (13) 
of the flappers (9,10), the skirt (14) being capable of 

resiliently snapping on a locking step (15) formed in an 
associated side wall (16) of the cap (3) to retain the 

flappers (9,10) in the unfolded position. 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to claim 
1, wherein the flappers (9,10) form part of an integral 

laminar piece, the flappers (9,10) being spaced apart by a 
central strip (8) of the piece, the flappers (9,10) being 

connected to the piece by respective weakened lines (19) in 
the laminar piece. 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to claim 
4, wherein the laminar piece is made of plastics. 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to claim 
4 or 5, wherein the central strip (8) is bonded with 

adhesive to the cap (3). 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to claim 
4 or 5, wherein the central strip (8) is welded by heat to 

the cap (3). 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to one 
of claims 2 to 7, wherein the central strip (8) has two 

opposite side edges (11) and one flapper (9,10) is 
connected to each side edge (11). 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to one 
of claims 1 to 8, wherein one of the flappers (10) has a 

portion forming a safety cover for covering at least the 
positive terminal pin (4) in the unfolded position. 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to 
claim 9, wherein the cap (3) has a plurality of ports (7)  

 
for replenishing electrolyte and the other one flapper (9) 

covers the ports (7) in the unfolded position. 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to one 
of claims 1 to 10, wherein the flappers (9,10) have same 

width. 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to one 
of claims 5 to 11, wherein the plastic material is 

polypropylene. 
Upper cap for electrical accumulators according to one 
of claims 1 to 12, wherein the at least one opening (17) of 

each flapper (9,10) is one elongated opening for passing 
the fingers of a human hand. 
Electrical accumulator for stationary and/or movable 
applications in houses, automobiles, ships, and planes, the 

accumulator (1) comprising a container box (2) housing 
electrical elements and electrolyte, the box (2) having an 

upper cap (3) and a positive and a negative terminal pins 
(4), the cap (3) comprising an upper surface (6) including 

a central strip (8) having opposite side edges (11) on 
which respective flappers (9,10) are connected, each 

flapper (9,10) having an outer edge (13) and an inner edge 
(21), the inner edge (21) being connected to a respective 

side edge (11) of the central strip (8) through a hinge-connection, 
whereby the flappers (9,10) may be positioned 

in a folded position wherein the flappers (9,10) upwardly 
extend relative to the upper surface (6) of the cap (3) and 

an unfolded position wherein the flappers (9,10) extend 
substantially in a plane with the upper surface (6) of the 

cap (3), each flapper (9,10) including at least one through 
opening (17) through which fingers may pass, the opening 

(17) being located close to the outer edge (13) thereof, 
whereby when both flappers (9,10) are in the folded 

position both openings (17) thereof are adjacent one to the 
other to define a handle for taking and carrying the  

 
accumulator (1), the upper surface (6) of the cap 

comprising locking means (12) including at least a pair of 
upwardly extending projections (20) in the upper surface, 

the projections (20) being located in positions whereby 
when the flappers (9,10) are in the unfolded position each 

projection (20) snuggly fits into the opening (17) of the 
associated flapper (9,10), occupying the entire opening 

(17) and being level with outer surfaces of the flapper 
(9,10). 
Electrical accumulator according to claim 14, wherein 
the central strip (8) and the flappers (9,10) comprise an 

integral laminar piece, the central strip (8) being firmly 
affixed to the cap (3), the side edges (11) of the strip 

(8) being parallel and formed by respective weakened lines 
(19) in the laminar piece. 
Electrical accumulators according to claim 15, wherein 
the laminar piece is made of plastics. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
