<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646303</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED TELECOMMUNICATION DISPLAY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M1108	H04M1108	H04N716	H04N716	H04N726	H04N726	H04N750	H04N750	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M11	H04M11	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Existing voice telephone communications are augmented in a simple and understandable way by the addition of a "dumb" display terminal (14) at a subscriber's location (10). Text, graphics, and picture data can be transmitted in ASCII code or other protocol, over existing, standard telephone lines (52, 54) and displayed on the terminal (14). The "dumb" feature is due to the display terminal (14) having a voice/data selector that can automatically recognize digital data and switch from voice communication to data communication mode. Accordingly, this display terminal (14) is entirely self-contained and is controlled from a remote location (60), such as a telemarketing agents position, requiring nothing more from the subscriber than mere possession of the display terminal (14).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RADISH COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RADISH COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRITTAIN ANTHONY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FETTE CHARLES J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATHYS PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITMORE RONALD K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRITTAIN, ANTHONY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS, RICHARD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FETTE, CHARLES, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATHYS, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITMORE, RONALD, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Improved Telecommunication Display System DescriptionTechnical FieldThe present invention relates to telecommunications systems and more specifically to a telecommunications system adapted for transmission of speech and display data over standard, existing telephone lines for audio-graphic communication between parties. Background ArtIt is often desirable to be able to transmit a visual image of data being discussed by parties over a telephone line concurrent with the verbal discussion. For example, a travel agent might wish to show a telephone customer a travel itinerary as they are discussing it, or a broker might want to show a customer a visual confirmation of a financial transaction, which the customer has just made orally over the telephone. Facsimile devices for transmitting data over telephone lines and displaying it for a receiving person in visual form are well known. However, such facsimile technology does not accommodate situations where the supplier of information needs instantaneous transfer of data for visual viewing by a receiver (customer) directly during the telephone conversation. There are several devices that purport to allow alternate voice and visual display data via telephone lines for special purpose applications, but none of them really provide a general, user friendly system. Lacking is a system in which an agent can intersperse visual display transmissions over the same telephone to a user or receiver between sentences in a voice conversation almost on a real time basis and within the time constraints of natural pauses in the conversation so as to not be disruptive of the conversation.The U.S. patent no. 4,656,654, issued to Neil S. Dumas, describes a more complex conferencing system in which both the agent and the receivers have personal computers and speaker phones, and either one of them can interrupt voice communication through the speaker phones to send data from one personal computer to the other. However, that system is not particularly user friendly, requiring the agent and the receiver to be computer literate enough both to go through a fairly complex set of menu selections, and the visual data transmission requires a quite significant pause or interruption in the voice conversation.The Cooper-Hart patent, U.S. 4,715,059, and Walker patent, U.S. 4,845,636, both transmit images captured by a video camera during a voice communications. The Brown patent, U.S. 

4,700,378, is an example of a system in which a .user or receiver wants to access a 'data base to receive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
The embodiment of die invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A telecommunication system for sequentially transmitting voice and visual communications via a plain old telephone system (POTS) connection, comprising: an agent station having agent visual data generating means for generating agent visual data and agent transfer means connected to said agent visual data generating means and to said POTS for receiving agent visual data from said agent visual data generating means and for transmitting said agent visual data into said POTS; and a subscriber station having subscriber visual data display means for displaying agent visual data from said agent station, a subscriber telephone, and subscriber ttansfer means connected to said subscriber visual data display means, to said subscriber telephone, and to said POTS for sequentially disconnecting said subscriber telephone from said POTS, receiving said agent visual data ttansmitted on said POTS by said agent transfer means, transmitting said agent visual data to said subscriber visual data display means, and tiien reconnecting said subscriber telephone to said POTS.
2. The telecommunication system of claim 1, wherein said subscriber ttansfer means includes: subscriber visual data receiving means for receiving said agent visual data and transmitting it to said subscriber visual data display means; subscriber directional coupler means positioned between said POTS , said subscriber telephone, and said subscriber visual data receiving means for transmitting signals bidirectionally between said POTS and said subscriber telephone, for transmitting signals from said POTS to said subscriber visual data receiving means, and for inhibiting signal ttansfer between said subscriber telephone and said subscriber visual data receiving means; and subscriber by-pass relay means positioned between said POTS and said subscriber directional coupler means for connecting and disconnecting said subscriber directional coupler and said subscriber telephone to and from said POTS and for by-pass connecting and disconnecting said subscriber visual data receiving means directly to said POTS.
3. The telecommunication system of claim 2, wherein said subscriber ttansfer means includes subscriber microcontroller means connected to said subscriber by-pass relay means for actuating said subscriber by-pass relay means to disconnect said subscriber directional coupler means and said subscriber telephone means from said POTS and to connect said subscriber visual data receiving means to said POTS when said agent visual data is being ttansmitted by said agent transfer means on said POTS. 


 4. The telecommunication system of claim 3 , wherein said agent transfer means includes agent tone generator means for generating signal tones on said POTS, including an agent start tone to indicate the agent visual data is about to be ttansmitted, and wherein said subscriber visual data receiving means includes subscriber modem means connected to said subscriber directional coupler means and to said subscriber microcontroller means for detecting said agent start tone and signaling said subscriber microcontroller means mat said agent start tone has been received, said subscriber microconttoUer means being programmed to actuate said subscriber by-pass relay means to disconnect said subscriber directional coupling means and said subscriber telephone from said POTS and to connect said subscriber visual data receiving means directly to said POTS in response to being signalled by said subscriber modem means that said agent start tone has been received.
5. The telecommunication system of claim 4, wherein said agent ttansfer means also includes agent flag signal generator means for generating agent flag signals, and wherein said agent tone generator means is also for generating agent rate signals including tone characteristics that are indicative of rate at which said agent transfer means will transmit said agent visual data on said POTS, said agent ttansfer means being programmed to put said agent flag signals on said POTS in advance of putting said agent rate signals on said POTS, and wherein said subscriber modem means includes subscriber modem controller means for receiving and demodulating said agent flag signals and feeding them to said subscriber microcontroller means, said subscriber microcontroller means being programmed to reconfigure said subscriber modem controller means in response to said agent flag signals to monitor said subscriber tone detector means to detect said agent rate signals.
6. The telecommunication system of claim 5, wherein said subscriber modem means is also for detecting said agent rate signals and for transmitting signals to said subscriber microcontroller means indicative of said tone characteristics of said agent rate signals, and wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to respond to said signals indicative of said tone characteristics and to generate signals to said subscriber modem controller means to set said subscriber modem means to receive data at die rate indicated by said tone characteristics.
7. The telecommunication system of claim 6, wherein said subscriber modem means is set up to receive and demodulate said agent visual data and to send demodulated visual data to said subscriber microcontroller means, and wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to receive said demodulated agent visual data, to form the demodulated agent visual data into sets, to transmit the sets of demodulated agent visual data to said subscriber visual data display means, and to recognize the end of a transmission of agent visual data.
8. The telecommunication system of claim 7, wherein said subscriber transfer means includes subscriber local disconnectrelay means positionedbetween said subscriber directional coupler 


means to and from said subscriber telephone for connecting and disconnecting said subscriber directional coupler means to and from and said subscriber telephone means, and wherein said subscriber local disconnectrelay means is connected to said subscriber microprocessor means and said subscriber microprocessor means is programmed to actuate said subscriber local disconnect relay means to disconnect said subscriber directional coupler means from said subscriber telephone in response to said agent start tone on said POTS.
9. The telecommunication system of claim 8, wherein said subscriber ttansfer means includes subscriber local power supply/tone generator means connected to said subscriber local disconnect relay means for providing local power and local audio tone to said subscriber telephone when said subscriber local disconnect relay means is actuated to disconnect said subscriber telephone from said POTS.
10. The telecommunication system of claim 7, wherein said subscriber visual data receiving means includes subscriber high pass filter means positioned between said subscriber directional coupler means and said subscriber modem means for establishing a low frequency limit and for blocking frequencies lower than said low frequency limit from reaching said subscriber modem means.
11. The telecommunication system of claim 10, wherein said subscriber visual data receiving means includes subscriber limiter means for establishing a high amplitude limit and for prohibiting signal amplitudes higher than said high amplitude limit from reaching said subscriber modem means.
12. The telecommunication system of claim 11, wherein said subscriber modem means includes subscriber automatic gain control means positioned between said subscriber limiter means and said subscriber tone detector means for adjusting amplitude of signals within limits acceptable to said subscriber tone detector means. 13. The telecommunication system of claim 12, wherein said subscriber transfer means includes subscriber isolation relay means connected to said subscriber microcontroller and positioned between said subscriber directional coupler means and said subscriber high pass filter means for isolating said subscriber modem means from said subscriber directional coupler means, said subscriber microcontroller being programmed to actuate said subscriber isolation relay means to isolate said subscriber modem means from said subscriber directional coupler means when said agent start tone is detected on said POTS.
14. The telecommunication system of claim 12, wherein said subscriber visual data receiving means includes subscriber summing means positioned between said subscriber high pass filter means and said subscriber limiter means and between said subscriber by-pass relay means and 


said subscriber limiter means for connecting said subscriber modem means to said subscriber by-pass relay means.
15. The telecommunication system of claim 14, wherein said subscriber by-pass relay means has a default mode in which said subscriber directional coupler means is connected to said POTS when said subscriber by-pass relay is not powered, and wherein said subscriber local disconnect relay means has a default mode in which said subscriber telephone is connected to said subscriber directional coupler means when said subscriber local disconnect relay means is not powered.
16. The telecommunication system of claim 14, wherein said subscriber isolation relay means has a default mode in which said subscriber modem means is connected to said subscriber directional coupler means when said subscriber isolation relay means is not powered.
17. The telecommunication system of claim 7, wherein said subscriber modem means includes subscriber data transmitting means for transmitting a subscriber acknowledgement signal to said agent station upon receipt of said agent visual data by said subscriber station. 18. The telecommunication system of claim 17, wherein said agent ttansfer means includes: agent modem means for modulating said agent visual data from said agent visual data generating means and sending die modulated visual data into said POTS, for modulating said agent flag signals and sending said agent flag signals into said POTS, and for generating tones for use as said agent start tone and for use as said agent rate signals; and agent microcontroller means connected to said agent modem means for generating said agent flag signals, for controlling actuation and deactuation of said agent modem means to modulate and send said agent flag signals, and for controlling actuation and deactuation of said agent modem means to generate and send said agent start tone and said agent rate signals. 19. Thetelecommunicatϊon system of claim 18, wherein said agent modem means includes first agent tone generator means for producing a tone having a first frequency and second agent tone generator means for producing a tone having a second frequency, and wherein said subscriber modem means includes first subscriber tone detector means for detecting a tone having said first frequency and second subscriber tone detector means for detecting a tone having said second frequency. 


 20. The telecommunication system of claim 19, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to actuate said first agent tone generator and said second agent tone generator simultaneously to produce simultaneous tones having said first frequency and said second frequency, respectively, to comprise said agent start tone. 21. The telecommunication systems of claim 20, wherein said first frequency and said second frequency are both in the range of about 300 to 3,300 Hz.
22. The telecommunication system of claim 21, wherein said first frequency is about 2,312.5 Hz.
23. The telecommunication system of claim 21, wherein said second frequency is about 2,912.5 Hz.
24. The telecommunication system of claim 21, wherein said second frequency is about 1,412.5 Hz.
25. The telecommunication system of claim 20, wherein said start tone has a duration of about 200 milliseconds. 26. The telecommunication system of claim 20, wherein said agent microcontroller means comprises said agent flag signal generator means and is programmed to actuate said agent modem means to modulate and ttansmit data after said agent modem means produces said agent start signal and then sequentially to produce said agent flag signal for modulation and ttansmission by said agent modem means. 27. The telecommunication system of claim 26, wherein said agent modem means and said subscriber modem means botii have selectable low, medium, and high data ttansmitting and receiving rates.
28. The telecommunication system of claim 27, wherein said low data ttansmitting and receiving rate is about 300 bits per second. 29. The telecommunication system of claim 27, wherein said medium data ttansmitting and receiving rate is about 4,800 bits per second. 


 30. The telecommunication system of claim 27, wherein said high data ttansmitting and receiving rate is about 9,600 bits per second.
31. The telecommunication system of claim 27, wherein said agent microcontroller is programmed to actuate said agent modem means for ttansmitting said agent flag signals at said low rate.
32. The telecommunication system of claim31, wherein said flag signal includes six bytes of data.
33. The telecommunication system of claim 32, wherein a byte of said flag signal comprises a 01111110 byte. 34. The telecommunication system of claim 31, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to actuate said subscriber modem means to receive and demodulate date in response to said agent start signal.
35. The telecommunication system of claim 34, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to actuate said subscriber modem means to receive and demodulate data at said low rate in response to said agent start signal.
36. The telecommunication system of claim 35, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to reconfigure said agent modem means after said agent flag signals are ttansmitted to produce and ttansmit said agent rate signal on said POTS.
37. The telecommunication system of claim 36, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to reconfigure said subscriber modem means in response to said agent flag signals on said POTS to actuate said first and second subscriber tone detector means.
38. The telecommunication system of claim 37, wherein said agent microcontroller means is also connected to said agent visual data generating means and is programmed to reconfigure said agent modem means immediately after said agent rate signal is produced for data modulation and transmission on said POTS at a rate that is the same as the rate indicated by said agent rate signal and 


to then immediately feed said agent visual data from said agent visual data generating means to said modem means for modulation and transmission on said POTS.
39. The telecommunication system of claim 38, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to reconfigure said subscriber modem means in response to said agent rate signal on said POTS to receive data at the rate indicated by said agent rate signal.
40. The telecommunication system of claim 39, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to receive said agent visual data on said POTS via said subscriber modem means and to feed said agent visual data to said subscriber visual display means.
41. The telecommunication system of claim 40, wherein said agent visual data generating means is programmed to produce an agent termination character at the end of each agent visual data.
42. The telecommunication system of claim 41, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to recognize said agent termination character as being indicative of die end of said agent visual data and to generate a subscriber acknowledgement signal in response to said agent termination character and to send said subscriber acknowledgement signal to said subscriber modem means for modulation and ttansmission on said POTS.
43. The telecommunication system of claim 42, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is also programmed to generate a success report in response to said agent termination character for display on said subscriber visual data display means.
44. The telecommunication system of claim 42, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is also programmed to recognize when said agent termination character is not at the end of said agent visual data received by said subscriber ttansfer means and to generate an error report for display on said subscriber visual data display means.
45. The telecommunication system of claim 42, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to reconfigure said subscriber modem means in response to said agent termination character to generate and ttansmit on said POTS a subscriber rate signal that is indicative of said low rate, tiien to reconfigure said subscriber modem means again to ttansmit data at said low 


rate, and to produce said subscriber acknowledgement signal in data form to said subscriber modem means for transmission on said POTS.
46. The telecommunication system of claim 41, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to select said low data ttansmitting and receiving rate when said agent visual data is shorter than a threshold data lengtii and to select a data ttansmitting and receiving rate at is faster than said low data ttansmitting and receiving rate when said agent visual data is at least as long as said threshold data length.
47. The telecommunication system of claim 46, wherein said threshold data length is about four characters. 48. The telecommunication system of claim 46, wherein said data ttansmitting and receiving rate that is faster than said low data ttansmitting and receiving rate is said medium data transmitting and receiving rate.
49. The telecommunication system of claim 46, wherein said data transmitting and receiving rate that is faster than said low data transmitting and receiving rate is said high data transmitting and receiving rate.
50. The telecommunication system of claim 46, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to detect said agent termination character, to determine tiie length of said agent visual data preceding said agent termination character, to compare the length of said agent visual data to said threshold data lengdi, and to actuate said agent modem means to produce said agent rate signal that is indicative of the selected data ttansmitting and receiving rate.
51. The telecommunication system of claim 50, wherein said agent rate signal comprises a single tone generated by said first agent tone generator means having said first tone frequency to indicate said low data ttansmitting and receiving rate.
52. The telecommunication system of claim 50, wherein said agent rate signal comprises a single tone generated by said second tone frequency to indicate said medium data ttansmitting and receiving rate. 


 53. The telecommunication system of claim 50, wherein said agent rate signal comprises simultaneous tones generated by botii said first and said second agent tone generator means having both said first and said second tone frequencies to indicate said high data ttansmitting and receiving rate. 54. The telecommunication system of claim 35, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed with a time limit and is programmed to determine whetiier said agent flag signals are received by said subscriber modem means within said time limit from when said subscriber microcontroller means reconfigures said subscriber modem means to receive data and, if not, to return said subscriber station to a voice mode by outputting signals to actuate said subscriber by-pass relay means, said subscriber local disconnect relay means, and said subscriber isolation relay means to reconnect said subscriber telephone to said POTS, to disconnect said subscriber visual data receiving means from said POTS, and to disconnect said subscriber local power supply /tone generator means from said subscriber telephone.
55. The telecommunication system of claim 37, wherein said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed widi a time limit and is programmed to determine whether said agent rate signal is received by said subscriber modem means witiiin said time limit from when said subscriber microcontroller means reconfigures said subscriber modem means to actuate first and second subscriber tone detector means and, if not, to return said subscriber station to a voice mode by outputting signals to actuate said subscriber by-pass relay means, said subscriber local disconnect relay means, and said subscriber isolation relay means to reconnect said subscriber telephone to said POTS, to disconnect said subscriber visual data receiving means from said POTS, and to disconnect said subscriber local power supply/tone generator means from said subscriber telephone.
56. The telecommunication system of claim 45, wherein said agent modem means is also for detecting subscriber rate signals on said POTS and for distinguishing characteristics of subscriber rate signals tiiat are indicative respectively of said low, medium, and high data ttansmitting and 


receiving rates, and for signaling said agent microcontroller means in a manner that reflects said rate distinguishing characteristics of the subscriber rate signals detected.
57. The telecommunication system of claim 56, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to reconfigure said agent modem means immediately after ttansmitting said agent visual data for detecting a subscriber rate signal on said POTS.
58. The telecommunication system of claim 57, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to recognize die rate distinguishing characteristics of the subscriber rate signals and to reconfigure said agent modem means to receive said acknowledgement signal data at die data transmitting and receiving rate indicated by said subscriber rate signal. 59 - The telecommunication system of claim 57, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed widi a maximum acknowledgement time limit and to measure time elapsed from said reconfiguring of said agent modem means for detecting said subscriber rate signal, and wherein said microcontroller means is also programmed to initiate a retry procedure when said time elapsed exceeds said maximum acknowledgement time limit by resending said agent start signal, said agent flag signals, and said agent visual data in sequence to said subscriber station and tiien to reconfigure again said agent modem means for detecting said subscriber rate signal.
60. The telecommunication system of claim 59, wherein said agent microconttoUer means is programmed to reconfigure said agent modem means to ttansmit said agent visual data at a first retry rate at least as high as the rate at which said agent visual data was ttansmitted initially for a predetermined number of said retry procedures.
61. The telecommunication system of claim 60, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to reconfigure said agent modem means to transmit said agent visual data a predetermined number of times at a second retry rate lower than said first retry rate if none of said retries at said first retry rate result in receipt of said subscriber rate signal by said agent modem means, and to reconfigure said agent modem means after each such retry at said second retry rate for 


detecting said subscriber rate signal and to terminate said retry procedure whenever said subscriber rate signal is detected by said agent modem means.
62. The telecommunication system of claim 61 , wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to terminate said retry procedure when said agent visual data has been ttansmitted at said low data ttansmitting and receiving rate a preset number of times without detecting said subscriber rate signal.
63. The telecommunication system of claim 41, wherein said subscriber station includes subscriber visual data generating means connected to said subscriber microcontroller means for generating subscriber visual data, said subscriber visual data being programmed to produce an agent termination character at die end of each subscriber visual data.
64. The telecommunication system of claim 63, wherein said agent termination character and said subscriber termination character is any one of die characters ETX, ETB, EOT, wherein said ETX character signals tiiat an open-ended exchange of data is allowed between said agent station and said subscriber station, said ETB character signals that one data response is allowed from said subscriber station, and said EOT character indicates that no data response from said subscriber station is allowed.
65. The telecommunication system of claim 64, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to detect and distinguish whetiier said agent termination character is an ETX, ETB, or EOT, character. 66. The telecommunication system of claim 65, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to reconfigure said agent modem means to detect a subscriber rate signal on said POTS in response to an ETX character after said agent visual data is ttansmitted and tiien to reconfigure said agent modem means in response to said subscriber rate signal to receive subscriber visual data from said subscriber station on said POTS at the rate indicated by said subscriber rate signal. 


 67. The telecommunication system of claim 66, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to determine whether said subscriber termination character at tiie end of said subscriber visual data is an ETX character, and, if it is an ETX character, then to leave said agent modem means configured to ttansmit data. 68- The telecommunication system of claim 67, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to determine whetiier said subscriber termination character at the end of said subscriber visual data is an ETB character, if it is not an ETX character, and if it is an ETB character, then to leave said agent modem means configured to ttansmit data.
69. The telecommunication system of claim 68 wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to determine whetiier an EOT character is present at the end of said subscriber visual data, if an ETB character is not detected, and, if not, to terminate data ttansfer and reception by said agent station.
70. The telecommunication system of claim 69, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to terminate data ttansfer and reception by said agent station if an EOT character is detected at the end of said subscriber visual data.
71. The telecommunication system of claim 70, said agent visual data generator means is programmed to produce one additional agent visual data after said ETB character at the end of said subscriber visual data is detected, and wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to cause said agent modem means to transmit said additional agent visual data on said POTS and tiien to terminate said data ttansfer and reception by said agent station, while said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed to reconfigure said subscriber modem means to receive said additional agent visual data and ttansfer it to said subscriber visual display means and tiien to convert the subscriber station to a subscriber voice mode.
72. The telecommunication system of claim 71, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to reconfigure said agent modem to receive data in response to detection of said ETB character at the end of said agent visual data, said subscriber microcontroller means is programmed 


to reconfigure said subscriber modem means to ttansmit one additional subscriber visual data and tiien to convert the subscriber station to a subscriber voice mode, and said agent microcontroller means is programmed to terminate data transfer and reception by said agent station after reception of said additional subscriber visual data. 73. The telecommunication system of claim 72 , wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to terminate data transfer and reception by said agent station when said EOT character is not detected at die end of said agent visual data.
74. The telecommunication system of claim 73 , wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to terminate data transfer and reception by said agent station when said EOT character is detected at die end of said agent visual data.
75. The telecommunication system of claim 74, wherein said subscriber station is in said subscriber voice mode when said subscriber ttansfer means is disconnected from said POTS and said subscriber telephone is connected to said POTS.
76. The telecommunication system of claim 75, wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to convert said subscriber station to said subscriber voice mode by outputting signals to acmate said subscriber by-pass relay means to connect said subscriber directional coupler and said subscriber telephone to said POTS and to disconnect said subscriber visual data receiving means from said POTS, to acmate said subscriber local disconnect relay means to connect said subscriber telephone to said subscriber directional coupler means and to disconnect said subscriber telephone from said subscriber local power supply/tone generator means, and to acmate said subscriber isolation relay means to connect said subscriber modem means to said subscriber directional coupler means.
77. The telecommunication system of claim 76, wherein said agent station includes agent visual data display means for displaying said agent visual data and said subscriber visual data.
78. The telecommunication system of claim 77, wherein said agent station includes an agent telephone connected to said agent transfer means. 


 79. The telecommunication system of claim 78, wherein said agent ttansfer means includes: agent directional coupler means positioned between said POTS, said agent telephone, and said agent modem means for transmitting signals bi-directionally between said POTS and said agent telephone, for transmitting signals from said POTS to said agent modem means, and for inhibiting signal ttansfer between said agent telephone and said agent modem means; and agent by-pass relay means positioned between said POTS and said agent directional coupler means for connecting and disconnecting said agent directional coupler and said agent telephone to and from said POTS and for by-pass connecting and disconnecting said agent modem means directly to said POTS.
80. The telecommunication system of claim 79, wherein said agent microconttoUer means is connected to said agent by-pass relay means for actuating said agent by-pass relay means to disconnect said agent directional coupler means and said agent telephone means from said POTS and to connect said agent modem means to said POTS when said subscriber visual data is being transmitted by said subscriber ttansfer means on said POTS.
81. The telecommunication system of claim 80, wherein said subscriber ttansfer means includes subscriber tone generator means for generating signal tones on said POTS, including a subscriber start tone to indicate die subscriber visual data is about to be ttansmitted, and wherein said agent modem means is connected to said agent directional coupler means and to said agent microcontroller means for detecting said subscriber start tone and signaling said agent microcontroller means that said subscriber start tone has been received, said agent microcontroller means being programmed to acmate said agent by-pass relay means to disconnect said agent directional coupling means and said agent telephone from said POTS and to connect said agent modem means directly to said POTS in response to being signalled by said agent modem means tiiat said subscriber start tone has been received. 



 82. The telecommunication system of claim 81, wherein said subscriber transfer means also includes subscriber flag signal generator means for generating subscriber flag signals, and wherein said subscriber tone generator means is also for generating subscriber rate signals indicative of rate at which said subscriber ttansfer means will ttansmit said subscriber visual data on said POTS, said subscriber transfer means being programmed to put said subscriber flag signals on said POTS in advance of putting said subscriber rate signals indicative of rate on said POTS, and wherein said agent modem means includes agent modem controller means for receiving and demodulating said subscriber flag signals and feeding diem to said agent microcontroller means, said agent microcontroller means being programmed to reconfigure said agent modem controller means in response to said subscriber flag signals to monitor said agent tone detector means to detect subscriber rate signals indicative of the rate at which said subscriber ttansfer means will ttansmit said subscriber visual data on said POTS.
83. The telecommunication system of claim 82, wherein said agent modem means is also for detecting said subscriber rate signals and for ttansmittmg signals to said agent microconttoUer means indicative of said tone characteristics of said subscriber rate signals, and wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to respond to said signals indicative of said tone characteristics and to generate signals to said agent modem controller means to set said agent modem means to receive data at the rate indicated by said tone characteristics.
84. The telecommunication system of claim 83, wherein said agent modem means is set up to receive and demodulate said subscriber visual data and to send demodulated visual data to said agent microcontroller means, and wherein said agent microcontroller means is programmed to receive said demodulated subscriber visual data, to form the demodulated subscriber visual data into sets, and to ttansmit the sets of demodulated subscriber visual data to said agent visual data display means, and to recognize die end of a ttansmission of subscriber visual data. 85. The telecommunication system of claim 84, wherein said agent transfer means includes agent local disconnect relay means positioned between said agent directional coupler means 


and said agent telephone for connecting and disconnecting said agent directional coupler
'
means to and from said agent telephone, wherein said agent local disconnect relay means is connected to said agent microprocessor means, and wherein said agent microprocessor means is programmed to acmate said agent local disconnect relay means to disconnect said agent directional coupler means from said agent telephone in response to said subscriber start tone on said POTS .
86. The telecommunication system of claim 85, wherein said agent transfer means includes agent local power supply/tone generator means connected to said agent local disconnect relay means for providing local power and local audio tone to said agent telephone when said agent local disconnect relay means is actuated to disconnect said agent telephone from said POTS. 87. The telecommunication system of claim 86, wherein said agent ttansfer means includes agent high pass filter means positioned between said agent directional coupler means and said agent modem means for establishing a low frequency limit and for blocking frequencies lower than said low frequency limit from reaching said agent modem means.
88. The telecommunication system of claim 87, wherein said agent visual data receiving means includes agent limiter means for establishing a high amplitude limit and for prohibiting signal amplitudes high than said high amplitude limit from reaching said agent modem means.
89- The telecommunication system of claim 88, whereinsaid agent modem means includes agent automatic gain control means positioned between said agent limiter means and said agent tone detector means for adjusting amplitude of signals within limits acceptable to said agent tone detector means.
90. The telecommunication system of claim 89, wherein said agent ttansfer means includes agent isolation relay means connected to said agent microcontroller means and positioned between said agent directional coupler means and said agent high pass filter means for isolating said agent modem means from said agent directional coupler means, said agent microconttoUer means being programmed to acmate said agent isolation relay means to isolate said agent modem means from said agent directional coupler means when said subscriber start tone is detected on said POTS. 


 91. The telecommunication system of claim 90, wherein said agent ttansfer means includes agent summing means positioned between said agent high pass filter means and said agent limiter means and between said agent by-pass relay means and said agent limiter means for connecting said agent modem means to said agent by-pass relay means. 92. The telecommunication system of claim 91, wherein said agent by-pass relay means has a default mode in which said agent directional coupler means is connected to said POTS when said agent by-pass relay means is not powered, and wherein said agent local disconnect relay means has a default mode in which said agent telephone is connected to said agent directional coupler means when said agent local disconnect relay means is not powered. 93. The telecommunication system of claim 92, wherein said agent isolation relay means has a default mode in which said agent modem means is connected to said agent directional coupler means when said agent isolation relay means is not powered.
94. The telecommunication system of claim 93, wherein said agent modem means includes agent data ttansmitting means for ttansmitting an agent acknowledgement signal to said subscriber station upon receipt of said subscriber visual data by said agent station.
95. The telecommunication system of claim 1, wherein said agent station includes recorded voice information means connected to said agent ttansfer means and to said agent visual data generating means for generating artificial voice messages on said POTS and for actuating said agent visual data generating means to generate said agent visual data. 96. The telecommunication system of claim 95, wherein said recorded voice information means includes an audiotex system.
97. The telecommunication system of claim 95, wherein said recorded voice information means includes a voice mail service.
98. The telecommunication system of claim 79, wherein said agent telephone is in the form of automatic answering means for responding to a telephone ring signal on said POTS and going off-hook on said POTS and recorded voice information means connected to said automatic 


answering means and to said agent visual data generating means for generating artificial voice messages on said POTS and for actuating said agent visual data generating means to generate said agent visual data.
99. The telecommunication system of claim 98, wherein said automatic answering means and said recorded voice information means include an audiotex system.
100. The telecommunication system of claim 98, wherein said automatic answering means and said recorded voice information means include a voice mail service.
101. The telecommunication system of claim 1, whereinsaid subscriber visual display means includes a visual display screen capable of producing visual images from electronic data. 102. The telecommunication system of claim 1, wherein said subscriber visual display means includes a computer with a visual display terminal.
103. The telecommunication system of claim 1, wherein said subscriber visual display means includes a printer.
104. The telecommunication system of claim 101, wherein said subscriber visual display means includes modem means for detecting a telephone ring signal on said POTS and going-off hook and random access memory means for receiving and storing said agent visual data for later delivery to said display screen.
105. The telecommunication system of claim 101, including an automatic answering and voice recording machine connected to said subscriber ttansfer means for automatically going off-hook in response to a telephone ring signal on said POTS and for recording voice communications on said POTS.
106. The telecommunication system of claim 1, wherein said subscriber visual display means includes an agent computer with source data generating means for generating a source display of visual source data, and reformatting means for capmring designated portions of said source display and for converting the capmred portions into a target display of said agent visual data, which target display has different visual content and appearance tiian said source display. 


 107. The telecommunication system of claim 106, wherein said agent visual data generating means includes agent visual data display means connected to said agent computer for displaying said source display in a visually perceptible manner, and wherein said agent computer includes a data interface port connected to said agent ttansfer means, an interface circuit for feeding said agent visual data to said data interface port and to said agent ttansfer means, and agent send actuating means for actuating said reformatting means capture said designated portions of said source display and to convert diem to said target display and for actuating said interface circuit to feed said target display as agent visual data to said agent ttansfer means.
108. The telecommunication system of claim 107, wherein said reformatting means is actuateable to copy data in designated portions of said source display and to insert said data into designated portions of said target display.
109. The telecommunication system of claim 108, wherein said reformatting means includes conditional criteria for comparing to data in said designated portions of said source display and screening means for prohibiting copying of data that does not meet said conditional criteria into said target display.
110. The telecommunication system of claim 108, wherein said reformatting means includes conditional criteria for comparing to data in said designated portions of said source display and to substimte character strings for insertion into said target display instead of said data in said designated portions of said source display tiiat meet said conditional criteria. 111. The telecommunication system of claim 110, wherein said agent computer includes auxiliary agent data entry means for entering additional data into said target display tiiat is not in said source display.
112. The telecommunication system of claim 111, wherein said auxiliary agent data entry means includes a keyboard connected to said agent computer. 


 113. A method of establishing a data ttansfer link between a first electronic telecommunication station and a second telecommunication station for transmitting information data between said first and second stations, comprising the steps of: establishing a telecommunication connection between said first station and said second station by which data can be ttansmitted; generating a start tone at said first station and transmitting said start tone to said second station via said telecommunication connection; selecting a data transmission rate at said first station at which said information data will be transmitted from said first station to said second station, generating a data ttansmission rate signal at said first station that has characteristics indicative of die selected data ttansmission rate, and transmitting said rate signal to said second station via said telecommumcation connection; transmitting said information data from said first station to said second station at said selected data ttansmission rate via said telecommumcation connection after ttansmitting said data ttansmission rate signal; monitoring said telecommunication connection at said second station for detection of said start tone, and, when said start tone is on said telecommunication connection, detecting said start tone at said second station; and detecting and receiving said data ttansmission rate signal, determining said selected data ttansmission rate from said characteristics indicative of the selected data ttansmission rate, and preparing said second station to receive said information data at said selected data transmission rate.
114. The method of claim 113, including tiie steps of: generating a flag signal at said first station after ttansmitting said start and ttansmitting said flag signal to said second station at a present flag signal rate via said telecommunication connection; preparing said second station in response to said start tone to receive said flag signal at said present flag signal rate; and 


 monitoring said telecommunication connection for said flag signal.
115. The method of claim 114, including die steps of establishing a flag signal time limit, starting a timer at said second station in response to detection of said start tone at said second station and measuring time elapsed after detection of said start tone, comparing said time elapsed after detection of said start tone to said flag signal time limit, determining if said time elapsed after detection of said start tone equals said flag signal time limit without having received said flag signal, and, if so, returning said second station to a mode of monitoring said telecommunication connection for detection of said start tone.
116. The method of claim 114, including die steps of receiving said flag signal at said second station, and, in response to said flag signal, preparing said second station to detect and receive said data transmission rate signal.
117. The method of claim 116, including the steps of receiving said flag signal, and, in response to said flag signal, preparing said second station for detecting and receiving said data transmission rate signal. 118. The method of claim 113, including die steps of generating said start tone by generating a first start tone component widi a first frequency and a second start tone component widi a second frequency, and ttansmitting said first start tone component and said second start tone component simultaneously to said second station via said telecommunication connection.
119. The method of claim 118, including tiie steps of generating said first start tone - component and said second start tone component widi botii of said first frequency and said second frequency within a range of about 300 to 3,300 Hz.
120. The method of claim 119, including die step of generating said first start tone component with a frequency of about 2,312.5 Hz.
121. The method of claim 119, including the step of generating said second start tone component with a frequency of about 2,912.5 Hz. 


 122. The method of claim 119, including die step of generating said second start tone component with a frequency of about 1,412.5 Hz.
123. The method of claim 115, including tiie steps of generating a plurality of short flag signals sequentially at said first station and returning said second station to said mode of monitoring said telecommunication connection for detection of a start tone when a preset threshold number of said flag signals is not detected at said second station with said flag signal time limit.
124. The method of claim 123, including die steps of generating six flag signals sequentially a said first station and returning said second station to said mode of monitoring said telecommunication connection for detection of a start tone when at two of said flags are not detected at said second station within said flag signal time limit.
125. The method of claim 116, including die steps of generating a plurality of flag signals sequentially at said second station, establishing a flag signal time limit, measuring time elapsed after detection of said start tome and comparing the measured time elapsed to said flag signal time limit, and preparing said second station to detect and receive said data ttansmission rate signal when a threshold number of said flag signals are detected at said second station within said flag signal time limit.
126. The method of claim 125, including die steps of generating six flag signals at said first station and preparing said second station to detect and receive said data ttansmission rate signal when two of said flag signals are detected at said second station within said flag signal time limit. 127. The method of claim 114, including die step of establishing said preset flag signal rate at about 300 bits per second.
128- The method of claim 113 or 117, including the steps of generating said data transmission rate signal at said first station in the form of a tone with a characteristic frequency that indicates die selected data ttansmission rate. 


 129. The method of claim 128, including tiie steps of establishing a low data transmission rate, a medium data ttansmission rate tiiat is faster than said low data ttansmission rate, and a high data ttansmission mat is faster than said medium data transmission rate.
130. The method of claim 129, including die step of establishing said low data ttansmission rate at about 300 bits per second.
131. The method of claim 129, including the step of establishing said medium data ttansmission rate at about 4,800 bits per second.
132. The method of claim 129, including establishing said high data transmission rate at about 9,600 bits per second. 133. The method of claim 129, including die step of establishing a maximum low speed data length, determining the acmal length of said information data, comparing the acmal length of said information data to said maximum low speed data length, selecting said low data ttansmission rate when said acmal length of said information data does not exceed said maximum low speed data length, and, alternatively, selecting one of said data ttansmission rates that is higher than said low data transmission rate when said acmal length of said information data exceeds said maximum low speed data length.
134. The method of claim 133, including the step of establishing said maximum low speed data length at four characters.
135. The method of claim 133, including me step of returning said second station to said mode of monitoring said telecommunication connection for detection of a start tone, if said data transmission rate signal is not detected at said second station witiiin a predetermined length of time.
136. The method of claim 135, including the steps of preparing said first station to receive and detect an acknowledgment signal via said telecommunication connection from said second station after transmitting said information data, and monitoring said telecommunication connection for said acknowledgement signal. 


 137. The method of claim 136, including the steps of establishing an acknowledgement time limit, measuring the time after ttansmitting said information data at said first station, and, if an acknowledgement signal is not received witiiin said acknowledgement time limit, and performing a retry process by repeating said steps at said first station of selecting a data transmission rate, transmitting said information data, preparing to receive and detect an acknowledgement signal, and monitoring said telecommunication connection for said acknowledgement signal.
138. The method of claim 137, including the step of selecting a slower data ttansmission rate in said retry process than was selected previously.
139. The method of claim 137, including the steps of selecting the same data ttansmission rate in said retry process as was selected previously and repeating said retry process a predetermined number of times at said previously selected data transmission rate or until an acknowledgement signal is detected at said first station, and, if no acknowledgement signal is received witiiin said predetermined number of times, then selecting the next slower data transmission rate and repeating said retry process again for said predetermined number of times until an acknowledgement signal is detected, and, if no acknowledgement signal is detected at said first station during any retry at said next slower data transmission rate said predetermined number of times or until an acknowledgement signal is detected at said first station.
140- The method of claim 139, including die steps of returning said first station to an idle mode at comprises the steps of monitoring said telecommunication connection for a start signal from said second station and simultaneously remaining ready for repeating said metiiod of establishing a data transfer link upon receipt of a link establishment command signal.
141. The method of claim 136, including die steps of generating an acknowledgement signal at said second station and ttansmitting said acknowledgement signal via said telecommumcation connection to said second station. 142. The method of claim 136, including tiie steps of preparing said first station to receive and detect a data transmission rate signal after ttansmitting said information data, generating and 


transmitting a data ttansmission rate signal at said second station indicative a rate at which said second station will ttansmit an acknowledgement signal, detecting said data ttansmission rate signal at said first station, setting said first station to receive said acknowledgement signal, generating said acknowledgement signal at said second station and ttansmittmg said acknowledgement signal at the rate indicated by said data ttansmission rate signal via said telecommunication connection to said first station, and receiving said acknowledgement signal at said first station.
143. The method of claim 142, including the step of generating said data ttansmission rate signal in die form of a tone having a frequency that is indicative of a data ttansmission rate.
144. The method of claim 142, including d e steps of generating said data ttansmission rate signal in the form of two distinct, simultaneous frequencies that together indicate a data transmission rate.
145. The method of claim 142, including the steps of generating said acknowledgement signal in me form of a data stting.
146. The method of claim 141, including die steps of generating a termination character at the end of said information data.
147. The method of claim 146, including die step of detecting said termination character at said first station and utilizing it to determine the length of said information for said step of selecting said data ttansmission rate.
148. The method of claim 141, including the steps of detecting said termination character at said second station to determine when die end of die information data is received by said second station, and generating said acknowledgement signal in response to said detecting of said termination character at said second station.
149. The method of claim 146, including the step of generating said termination character in the format of one of the following: ETX to indicate that open-ended exchange of data is allowed;
ETB to indicate that one data response is allowed; and 


 EOT to indicate that no data response is allowed.
150. The method of claim 149, including die steps of detecting said ETX termination character at said first station, setting said first station to receive data from said second station, detecting said ETX termination character at said second station, and setting said second station to ttansmit data.
151. The method of claim 150, including die steps of generating another information data with one of said termination characters, ttansmitting said another information data from said second station, receiving said another information data at said first station, detecting said termination character at the end of said another information data, generating an acknowledgement signal at said first station, ttansmitting said acknowledgement signal via said telecommunication connection to said second station.
152. The method of claim 149, including d e steps of detecting said ETB termination character at said first station, setting said first station to receive data from said second station, detectmg said ETB termination character at said second station, and setting said second station to ttansmit data.
153. The method of claim 152, including die steps of generating another information data with one of said termination characters, transmitting said another information data from said second station, setting said second station to receive an acknowledgement signal, receiving said another information data at said first station, detecting said one of said termination characters at the end of said another information data at said first station, generating an acknowledgement signal at said first station, transmitting said acknowledgement signal to said first station in idle in response to said ETB termination character by setting said first station to receive and detect a start signal, detecting said acknowledgement signal at said second station, and setting said second station in idle in response to said ETB termination character by setting said second station to receive and detect a start signal. 154. The method of claim 149, including the steps of detecting said EOT termination character at said first station, setting said first station to receive said acknowledgement signal, 


detecting said EOT termination character at said second station, generating said acknowledgement signal at said second station , ttansmitting said acknowledgement signal to said first station, setting said second station in idle in response to said EOT termination character by setting said second station to receive and detect a start signal, receiving and detecting said acknowledgement signal at said first station, and setting said first station in idle in response to said EOT termination character by setting said first station to receive and detect a start signal.
155. The method of claim 154, including tiie steps of connecting a telephone to said telecommunication connection with a relay switch that is controllable by said first station, acmating said relay switch to disconnect said telephone from said telecommunication connection when generating and transmitting said start tone at said first station, acmating relay switch to reconnect said telephone to said telecommunication connection when setting said first station in idle.
156. The method of claim 154, including die steps of connecting a second telephone to said telecommumcation connection with a relay switch that is controllable by said second station, acmating said relay switch to disconnect said telephone from said telecommunication connection in response to receipt and detection of said start tone by said second station, and acmating said relay switch to reconnect said telephone to said telecommumcation connection when setting said second station in idle.
157. The method of Claim 113, including die steps of capmring said information data from a formatted screen source display, of data produced by a source computer application, utilizing the capmred information data to create a formatted screen target display, and ttansmitting the information data from the first station to the second station in the target display format.
158. The method of Claim 157, including the steps of capmring said information data from a formatted screen source display by selecting portions, and transferring the selected portions to the target display. 


 159. The method of Claim 158, including die steps of selecting specific positions on the target display for positioning specifically identifiable portions of the data captured from the source display.
160. The method of Claim 159, including the step of creating a set of reformatting rules specificaUy applicable to an identified source computer application display format, which reformatting rules designate specific portions of the source display to be captured, specific positions and arrangements for setting the captured portions of the source display into die target display, storing said reformatting rules in a computer memory at the first station, retrieving and interposing said reformatting rules between the source display and said first station, selecting die source display for ttansmission to said second station, and automatically applying the reformatting rules to the selected source display to create die information data in the format of the target display along widi die step of ttansmitting the information data. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
