<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653292</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Soft contact lens transfer means and system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02C1300	G02C1300	G01N	B29L1100	B29C7100	B29C7100	G02C	B29D1100	B29D1100	G02C704	G02C704	B08B1100	B08B1102	B05C309	C08J700	C08J702	B05C3109	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02C	G02C	G01N	B29L	B29C	B29C	G02C	B29D	B29D	G02C	G02C	B08B	B08B	B05C	C08J	C08J	B05C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02C13	G02C13	G01N	B29L11	B29C71	B29C71	G02C	B29D11	B29D11	G02C7	G02C7	B08B11	B08B11	B05C3	C08J7	C08J7	B05C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Male and female members for contact lenses are disclosed. 
Either member is able to hold the contact lens as it moves 

from station to station during the hydration process. The 
female member fits together with the male member forming a 

chamber. Each of the members contains a line centrally 
located so that both surfaces of the contact lens are 

flushed during the hydration process, and drainage takes 
place radially on the outside of the mated male and female 

chamber members. These members may be produced on a frame 
with a plurality of members, usually eight to a frame, to 

allow ease of processing. Full automation is possible, 
and complete and positive lens control during any step of 

the process through the packaging step is achieved. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON 
&
 JOHNSON VISION PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON 
&
 JOHNSON VISION PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINDT-LARSEN TURE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINDT-LARSEN, TURE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus for handling
soft contact lenses. More
particularly, the invention pertains to chambers prepared
from metal or plastic materials which can be effectively
employed for the continuous or semi-continuous hydration
of one or a plurality of essentially polymerized soft
contact lenses.The increase of the popularity of the soft contact lenses
has led to many proposals for their manufacture. This is
especially true because current contact lens manufacture
employs a number of discrete processing steps. First, a
monomer, of an appropriate material having good optical
properties when polymerized, is placed into a female
mold. A male member is then placed over the mold, much as
described in U.S. Patent No. 4,640,489. The monomer is
then polymerized by exposing the mold to ultraviolet light
or by heat.After polymerization, the lens is removed from the mold
and hydrated by immersion in a bath. Generally this bath
is comprised of a buffered salt solution with a
surfactant. After hydration, the lens is washed and
placed in a saline solution. Thereafter, the finished
lens is packaged and made available for consumer use.It has been recognized however, that current hydration
processes can be quite long and time consuming. After
placing the lenses in a wash tank, the lenses must be 
drained, rinsed and brought to equilibrium in an isotonic
saline solution.Current hydration processes use large volumes of water
contained in several large tanks through which the lenses
must be moved by large machinery. During processing the
lens may sometimes become inverted. In these instances it
will be necessary for a worker to touch the lenses to
reinvert them. This is especially true in systems where
lenses are manually transferred to the final package.
This human interface is slow, expensive, and can damage
the lens.JP-A-58 071 055 discloses apparatus for holding
a glass disk-shaped block which is to be
polished to form a lens.The present invention provides a contact lens
transfer system as claimed in claims 1, 4, 21 and 23.In one embodiment, the transfer system comprises
a chamber which is used in an improved hydration
process. The chamber contains a male and female member.
The male member is insertable within the female member
such that there is clearance for a soft contact lens
between the two members, yet not enough so that the
contact lens can invert, or fold over. The chamber
contains a conduit for washing and hydrating the lenses.
Such a conduit is found on both sides of the chamber, so
that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A soft contact lens transfer system, said system
comprising:


a transport frame (12), said transport frame
facilitating transfer of a soft contact lens between two

processing stations;
a carrier element, said element including a body portion
(10) having a convex lens attachment surface (20)

generally conforming to a concave surface of
said contact lens so as to hold said contact

lens with surface tension on one end
and means for attaching said body portion to said transport

frame on an opposite end; and
a fluid line (16) extending through said body portion
(10) for introducing a fluid between said convex lens

attachment surface (20) and a soft contact lens carried
thereon to release said lens.
A soft contact lens transfer system, as claimed in claim
1 wherein said body portion (10) includes a circumferential

wall (19) having a plurality of openings (18) formed therein,
said wall formed proximal to a circumference of the contact

lens attachment surface (20).
A soft contact lens transfer system, as claimed in claim
1 wherein said body portion includes an annular shoulder

formed proximal to a circumference of the contact lens
attachment surface (20). 
A soft contact lens transfer system comprising:

a carrier assembly;
a plurality of contact lens carrier elements attached to
said carrier assembly, said carrier elements including a body

portion (10) having a convex lens attachment surface (20)
generally conforming to a concave surface of said

contact 'lens' so as to hold said contact lens with
surface tension on

one end and a fitting means for attaching said carrier
element to said carrier assembly on an opposite end;
means cooperating with said carrier assembly for
attaching contact lenses to said plurality of carrier

elements;
means cooperating with said carrier assembly for
releasing contact lenses from said plurality of carrier

elements; and
means cooperating with said carrier assembly to transfer
said assembly and said lenses between two or more processing

stations.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
4 wherein said means for releasing contact lenses include a

fluid line (16) extending through said body portion (10) for
introducing a fluid between said convex lens attachment

surface (20) and said lens.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
4 wherein said body portion includes a circumferential wall

(19) having a plurality of openings (18) formed therein, said
wall formed proximal to the circumference of the convex lens

attachment surface (20). 
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
4 wherein said body portion includes an annular shoulder

formed proximal to a circumference of the contact lens
attachment surface (20).
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
4 wherein said means cooperating with said carrier assembly

for attaching contact lenses to said plurality of carrier
elements includes a plurality of concave lens holding means

(50), each of said concave lens holding means containing a
lens associated with a respective carrier element, means for

inverting and submerging said engaged carrier element, lens
and conca
ve lens holding means into a quantity of fluid to
transfer said lens to said carrier element by gravity.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
8 wherein said concave lens holding means (50) is a contact

lens mold in which said lens was molded.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
8 which further includes means for removing said engaged

carrier elements and concave lens holding means (50) from
said fluid and disengaging said concave lens holding means

from said carrier.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
4 wherein said means cooperating with said carrier assembly

for attaching contact lenses to said plurality of carrier
elements includes a source of pressurized air for lifting

said contact lenses into engagement with the convex lens
attachment surface (20) of said carrier elements. 
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
4 wherein said means cooperating with said carrier assembly

for attaching contact lenses to said plurality of carrier
elements includes a plurality of concave lens holding means

(50), each means containing a lens associated with a
respective carrier element and a pressurized source of fluid

for introducing said pressurized fluid against a convex
surface of each lens in said lens holding means to lift the

lens into engagement with the convex lens attachment surface
(20) of each carrier element.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
12 wherein said concave lens holding means (50) is a

hydration chamber having a fluid line through which said
pressurized fluid is introduced.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
4 wherein said means cooperating with said carrier assembly

for releasing contact lenses also includes a plurality of
concave lens holding means (50), each of said means

associated with a respective carrier element to receive a
lens attached thereto, and a fluid line (16) extending

through said body portion of said carrier element for
introducing a fluid between said convex lens attachment

surface and said lens to release the lens from said convex
lens attachment surface (20) and transfer said lens to said

concave holding means (50).
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
14 wherein said fluid is air under pressure.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
14 wherein said fluid is a water solution. 
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
14 wherein said concave lens holding means (50) is a

hydration chamber.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
14 wherein said concave lens holding means (50) is an

inspection carrier.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
18 wherein said concave lens holding means (50) is part of a

final package for said lens.
A soft contact lens transfer system as claimed in claim
12 wherein said pressurized fluid is compressed air.
Means for transfer of a soft contact lens comprising a
carrier element, said element including a body portion (10)

having a lens attachment surface (20)
generally conforming to a surface of said contact lens so as

to hold said contact lens with surface tension on one end, said
surface conforming to the curvature of a soft contact lens

and holding said lens in a mating relationship, and means for
attaching said body portion to a transport frame on an

opposite end,

   said transfer means capable of transferring said contact
lens to a package for holding said lens, by means of a

flushing line (16) extending through said body portion for
introducing a fluid between said lens attachment surface and

said soft contact lens carried thereon.
Means of claim 21 wherein said flushing line (16) is
centrally located, and further comprising a circumferential

wall (19) formed proximal to the circumference of the lens
attached to said side. 
A soft contact lens transfer system, said system
comprising:


a transport frame, said transport frame
facilitating transfer of a soft contact lens between two

processing stations;
a carrier element, said element including a body portion
having a concave lens attachment surface

generally conforming to a convex surface of
said contact lens so as to hold said contact

lens with surface tension on one end
and means for attaching said body portion to said transport

frame on an opposite end; and
a fluid line extending through said body portion
for introducing a fluid between said concave lens

attachment surface and a soft contact lens carried
thereon to release said lens.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
