<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646313</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTERNAL TYPE INDIVIDUAL IDENTIFICATION APPARATUS FOR ANIMALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K1100	A01K1100	G01S1300	G01S1375	G01S1376	G01S1379	H04B159	H04B159	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K11	A01K11	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	H04B1	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An internal type individual identification apparatus for animals used so that the apparatus stays reliably in a 
live body of a domestic animal without hurting the live body, which apparatus is formed so that the apparatus can 

be found out and recovered easily after the domestic animal has been slaughtered. Concretely speaking, an internal 
type individual identification apparatus for animals is used by leaving the apparatus in a first or second stomach of a 

ruminant animal. A container (1) of the apparatus is formed out of a material which is not affected by gastric juice 
while the apparatus stays in the first or second stomach. The container (1) is formed to such weight and shape that 

permit the container (1) to stay in the first or second stomach after the container (1) has once entered the same, and 
a transmitting antenna (2) is provided in an inner portion or on an outer portion of the container (1). The container 

(1) is provided in the inner portion thereof with an integrated circuit (3) having a data memory and a control circuit 
for transmitting the data, which are stored in the data memory, through the antenna (2) in response to electromagnetic 

waves sent out from an outer portion of a body of an animal. Consequently, the recording of data on an animal being 
raised, such as the recording of automatic feeding carried out in each farmhouse and for each domestic animal in 

stock farming and the recording of weight of each domestic animal, and the accumulation of data in the distribution 
market including the recording of data obtained in the livestock price guarantee business and the recording of data on 

the evaluation of the meat of a slaughtered domestic animal can be carried out reliably. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SURGE MIYAWAKI CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SURGE MIYAWAKI CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAWAKI YUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAKI KATSUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAWAKI, YUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAKI, KATSUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an internal 
identification apparatus for animals, and particularly, 
to an internal identification apparatus to be swallowed 
by a ruminant and that stays in the first or second 
stomach of the ruminant. The apparatus may be embedded 
in a subcutaneous part of an animal. Data related to the 
animal is read out of the apparatus by an external 
apparatus, to identify the animal. Various identification apparatuses and methods for 
animals have been proposed for the livestock industry, to 
manage the shipment, ownership, and individual conditions 
of livestock such as cattle, hogs, and sheep. Most 
generally used identification devices are tags printed 
with numbers and marks. The tags are fixed to the ears, 
legs, ankles, or tails of animals. The tags are 
convenient for limited use for farms because they are 
easy to handle. The tags, however, are not suitable to nationally or 
regionally control and breed livestock because they must 
bear large-digit numbers and because they are unreliable 
when they are replaced with others. Instead of the tags, 
black and white patterns for Holsteins or nose patterns 
for Japanese black cattle are frequently used. Identifying individual livestock was originally to 
clarify their ownership. The identification is required 
nowadays to improve and evaluate individual livestock. 
Livestock must be individually identified for 
registration and deals. Stock raisers must identify 
individual livestock to breed and manage them. An identification apparatus for animals is required 
to correctly identify each livestock and provide 
unchanging, unique, objective, easy-to-judge data. The 
apparatus must be easily attached to livestock and must  
 
be safe for livestock and their products. A rapid development in electronic technology has 
realized a very small electronic apparatus for an 
identification system for livestock. The system 
transfers data in a noncontact manner with magnetism, 
radio waves, or light. The system is interlinked with a 
computer to utilize the data for various purposes. The system includes a transponder, an antenna, and a 
reader. The reader is connected to a host computer, 
which uses data read out of the transponder for various 
purposes. For example, for a stock raiser, the data are 
used for automatically feeding livestock and recording 
the weight of individual livestock. For a livestock 
market, the data are used for securing livestock prices 
and evaluating the quality of meat of slaughtered 
livestock. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An internal identification apparatus for 
animals, to be swallowed by a ruminant such as a cow, 

sheep, goat, or deer and stay in the first or second 
stomach of the ruminant, comprising: 

   a casing made from material that is 
resistive to gastric juices in the first or second 

stomach, and having a proper weight and shape to stay in 
the first or second stomach; 

   an antenna for transmitting and receiving 
data, internally or externally formed on the casing; and 

   data storage means and a controller 
incorporated in the casing, the controller transmitting 

data stored in the data storage means through the antenna 
in response to electromagnetic waves from outside the 

ruminant. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to claim 1, wherein the antenna is a 

coil antenna that generates an electromotive force in 
response to the electromagnetic waves, to drive the 

controller. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising 

power supply means incorporated in the casing, for 
driving the controller in response to the electromagnetic 

waves. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to claim 3, further comprising a 

charging mechanism incorporated in the casing, for 
generating power in response to the movements of the 

casing, to charge the power supply means. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to any one of claims 1 to 3, further 

comprising dissimilar metals exposed on the surface of 
the casing, for providing some signals or a voltage to 

charge the power supply means. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
 

animals according to any one of claims 1 to 5, further 
comprising a sensor incorporated in the casing, to detect 

conditions in the first or second stomach, the detected 

conditions being regularly or at a certain occasion saved 
by the control means in the data storage means. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to any one of claims 1 to 6, further 

comprising a reception chamber defined in the casing, for 
sealing therein the characteristics of the ruminant that 

swallows the casing. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein 

the casing incorporates a part that usually operates and 
a part that operates under specific conditions. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to any one of claims 1 to 8, further 

comprising an identifier externally arranged on the 
casing, to identify the apparatus visually or through a 

reader. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to any one of claims 1 to 9, further 

comprising hairs or fins for surely keeping the casing in 
the first or second stomach. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to any one of claims 1 to 10, further 

comprising sound means incorporated in the casing, to be 
driven by the controller in response to the 

electromagnetic waves. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to any one of claims 1 to 11, further 

comprising a positioning device incorporated in the 
casing, for locating the animal. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein 

the controller or another circuit in the casing stores, 
in the data storage means, an environmental change that 

occurs when the apparatus is taken out of the animal. 
An internal identification apparatus for 
animals, to be inserted or embedded in a part of an 

animal such as a cow, having a casing that contains an 
antenna, data storage means, and control means for 

transmitting data stored in the data storage means 
through the antenna in response to electromagnetic waves 

externally provided, 
   the control means storing, in the data 

storage means, an environmental change that occurs if the 
apparatus is taken out of the part of the animal. 
The internal identification apparatus for 
animals according to any one of claims 1 to 12 and 14, 

wherein the characteristics of the animal are digitized, 
encoded, and stored in the data storage means before the 

apparatus is swallowed by, inserted in, or embedded in 
the animal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
