<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655933</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODULAR DEVICE FOR THE EASE OF USE AND INSTALLATION OF FILTRATION TEXTILES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D3530	B01D3530	B01D3315	B01D3317	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D35	B01D35	B01D33	B01D33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modular table filter for a circular horizontal rotating table filter includes a number of sections (20) which may be assembled on the support frame thereof. The sections (20) are annular-sector-shaped and, when assembled, form an annulus on the table filter. Each section (20), in turn, may be broken down into an outer subsection (24) and an inner subsection (22). Filtration fabric (30), or textile, may be placed on top of the outer subsection (24), and secured therein by the inner subsection (22), which is designed to lock therein. Alternatively, each section (20) may be an integral annular-sector-shaped frame having a peripheral groove or channel. Filtration textile (30) may be placed on top of the frame, and over the groove or channel, and wedges driven thereinto to hold the fabric tautly across the frame. The modular table filter greatly simplifies the replacement of the filtration fabric (30), as the sections (20) holding fabric needing replacement may be removed easily and replaced by ones having fresh filtration textiles (30) without the need for isolating the table filter for an inordinately long time.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALBANY INT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALBANY INTERNATIONAL CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERAKIOS MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERAKIOS, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a circular
horizontal rotating table filter, and, more
specifically, is concerned with a modular device
designed to facilitate the installation and
replacement of filtration textiles thereon.Circular horizontal rotating table filters
are known in the art. As shown, for example, in U.S.
Patent No. 3,485,375 to Lee
a table filter has radial
vertical partitions subdividing it into sector-shaped
individual filtration chambers adjoining one another
around a central hub portion, or center island
portion, which is part of the rotating table
structure. The table filter, as a whole, may have a
diameter in the range from 4.6 to 7.6 m (15 feet to 25 feet).It should be understood that in a
conventional table filter, the mounting of the
sector-shaped filter media comprises the so-called
divider strips or channel members extending radially
along, and supported by, the horizontal top faces of
respective radial partitions. The inner ends and the
outer ends of the divider strips are interconnected
respectively by inner and outer arcuate channel
members, the inner channel members hugging the center
island portion, or center island, the outer channel
members following the curvature of the peripheral 
boundary wall of the filter table. A sector-shaped
channel frame thus defines the boundary of each
effective sector-shaped filter area, with the filter
media itself edgewise secured in this channel frame.
Corresponding sector-shaped perforated backing plates
or panels usually support the filter media, and are
in turn supported by rigid grid structures and ledges
provided in the respective filtration chambers.
There may be a total of twenty (20) such sector-shaped
filter areas making up the entire table
filter. That is to say, the circular table filter
may be divided into twenty sector-shaped filter
areas.The present application is concerned with
the replacement, when necessary, of the filter media
itself. At present, to carry out such replacement,
the entire table filter must be isolated for a
considerable length of time, while the filter media
in all or several of the sector-shaped filter areas
are replaced. In each filter area, as noted above,
the filter medium is held edgewise within a channel
which extends around the periphery thereof. The
filter medium is secured in a taut fashion within
each filter area by means of caulking ropes, which
must be driven manually into the peripheral channel.
This is a labor-intensive operation, usually
accomplished by hand-hammering the caulking ropes
into
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A modular table filter (10), comprising a plurality of
annular-sector-shaped sections (20), each of said sections

comprising a filtration textile (30) and means for holding
said filtration textile tautly thereacross, and means for

removably engage said sections to each other and to a
support frame member (54) of the filter table so that after

assembly of the sections a modular table filter having the
form of an annulus is obtained.
A modular table filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
each of said annular-sector-shaped sections (20) comprises

an outer subsection (24) and an inner subsection (22)
fitting therewithin, each outer subsection having a first

radial member and a second radial member, said first radial
member and said second radial member having an inner

surface within said annular-sector-shaped section and an
outer surface without said annular-sector-shaped section,

said inner surface having a ledge (40), so that said inner
subsection (22) may be supported within said outer

subsection (24) between said first radial member and said
second radial member thereof, said ledge (40) being

provided with fastening means (42,44) to secure said inner
subsection within said outer subsection, said inner

subsection (22) also having a first radial member and a
second radial member, said first radial member and said

second radial member having outer surfaces with fastening
means (46,48) engageable with said inner surface of said

first and second radial members of said outer subsection,
and said outer surfaces of said first radial member and

said second radial member of said outer subsection having
fastening means (50,52) for connection with second and

first radial members of outer subsections of adjacent
annular-sector-shaped sections, respectively, to complete

said annulus, and wherein said means for holding said
filtration textile tautly across said 

annular-sector-shaped sections is the fastening of said
inner subsection within said outer subsection over said

filtration textile.
A modular table filter as claimed in claim 2, wherein
said fastening means on said outer surface of one of said

first radial member and said second radial member of said
outer subsection (24) is a male locking component (50), and

said fastening means on said outer surface of the other of
said first radial member and said second radial member of

said outer subsection is a female locking component (52)
engageable with said male locking component.
A modular table filter as claimed in claim 2, wherein
said fastening means on said ledge (40) on said inner

surface of one of said first radial member and said second
radial member of said outer subsection (24) is a male

locking component (44), and said fastening means on said
ledge on said inner surface of the other of said first

radial member and said second radial member of said outer
subsection is a female locking component (42).
A modular table filter as claimed in claim 4, wherein
said fastening means on said outer surface of one of said

first radial member and said second radial member of said
inner subsection (22) is a male locking component (48)

engageable with said female locking component (42) on said
ledge (40) on said inner surface of one of said first

radial member and said second radial member of said outer
subsection (24), and said fastening means on said outer

surface of the other of said first radial member and said
second radial member of said inner subsection (22) is a

female locking component (46) engageable with said male
locking component (44) on said ledge (40) on said inner

surface of the other of said first radial member and said
second radial member of said outer subsection (24).
A modular table filter as claimed in claim 1, wherein
each of said annular-sector-shaped sections comprises an

annular-sector-shaped frame (60), said frame having a 
peripheral channel (62) extending thereabout on a surface

thereof, and wherein said means for holding said filtration
textile (30) tautly across said annular sector-shaped

sections is at least one wedge (64), placed above said
filtration textile and driven into said channel.
A modular table filter as claimed in claim 6 further
comprising means (66) for joining adjacent annular-sector-shaped

sections to one another to complete said annulus.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
