<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625693</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vertical reference and attitude system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C900	G01C904	G01C1510	G01C1510	G01C2110	G01C2118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G01C	G01C	G01C	G01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C9	G01C9	G01C15	G01C15	G01C21	G01C21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a vertical reference that includes a sensor (14) for 
providing an input signal indicative of angular tilt from the predetermined reference 

axis; a sensor for detecting the rate of angular tilt; an integrator (26) to integrate the 
angular rate signal to provide a dynamic angular tilt signal that tracks the dynamics 

of the angular tilt input signal; a pendulum (12) to provide a signal indicative of angular 
displacement relative to the predetermined axis; a first amplifier (42) for filtering and 

amplifying the dynamic angular tilt signal and the angular displacement signal to 
produce a first amplified signal; a second amplifier (44) for filtering and amplifying the 

dynamic angular tilt signal and the angular displacement signal to produce a second 
amplified signal; and a dual input amplifier (60) for combining and amplifying the first and 

second amplified signals to produce an output signal indicative of vertical reference 
and attitude. In another embodiment of the present invention a vertical reference 

apparatus includes a cascaded second-order filter or control loop having a first 
second-order loop (112) that receives its inputs from the pendulum and the angular rate 

sensor and a second second-order loop (152) that receives as its inputs the output signal of 
the first loop and the angular rate sensor. The output of the second loop is provided 

to a control system for the structure whose orientation is desired to be measured or 
stabilized. In this alternative embodiment of the present invention each control loop 

includes a summing amplifier, a summing damped integrator, an inverting amplifier, 
and an integrator. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATSON IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATSON INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARNICK DREW A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATSON WILLIAM S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARNICK, DREW A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATSON, WILLIAM S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to vertical reference and/or attitude 
systems, that is, to devices for providing signals indicative of vertical inclination or 
attitude relative to a predetermined frame or axis of reference. In particular, the 
present invention relates to such a device utilizing a plurality of filters providing high 
and low pass filtering functions to provide high and low pass inputs to a dual input 
filter thereby producing a full bandwidth output with a 12 dB/octave ramp up and 
down. Vertical reference devices find use in numerous commercial and military 
applications. For example, they can be used to provide sensory input to the 
microprocessors and motors used for keeping a platform on a ship, military, 
commercial, or otherwise, at a predetermined orientation relative to some 
predetermined frame and/or axis of reference, often the gravitational vector and a 
plane parallel thereto. Thus, they have been used to keep decks on luxury yachts at 
a constant, level or non-tilting orientation relative to the horizon; to keep decks on  
 
cattle ships at the same orientation, thereby avoiding making the animals sick during 
ocean crossings; and to control the orientation of helipads on military ships so that the 
pad is not tilting with the ship as helicopters land on the pad. Vertical reference devices utilized in such applications incorporate a variety of 
sensing devices whose output signals are processed to provide a signal to a 
microprocessor that drives one or more motors or hydraulic cylinders that are used 
to control the orientation of the platform. One form of such a device is shown in 
U.S. Patent No. 3,974,699 to Morris. Morris utilizes linear and angular 
accelerometers to provide input signals to an electronic system that provides an output 
signal to a control system used to keep particular structures, such as a motor grader 
blade or a train car passenger cabin, in a predetermined orientation. Another Morris 
patent, U.S. Patent No. 4,038,876, also uses linear and angular accelerometers to 
provide inputs signals to a control system utilized to monitor and stabilize a structural 
body about at least one axis. Morris notes the applicability of this device to ocean 
based platforms such as off-shore oil drilling platforms and to stable platforms and 
"strapdown" situations. Using accelerometers as Morris does, however, creates problems with a drift 
of the output signal. This occurs because of the dual integration that must be 
performed on the accelerometer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vertical reference apparatus, said apparatus being configured for 
mounting to a structure whose orientation relative to a predetermined reference axis 

is desired to be stabilized or measured, said apparatus including: 
   means for providing a signal indicative of angular tilt from the predetermined 

reference axis; 
   means for providing a signal indicative of angular rate relative to the 

predetermined axis; 
   means for integrating said angular rate signal to provide a dynamic angular tilt 

signal; 
   means for providing a signal indicative of angle displacement relative to the 

predetermined axis; 
   first filtering and amplifier means for filtering and amplifying said dynamic 

angular tilt signal and said angle displacement signal to produce a first 
amplified signal; 

   second filtering and amplifier means for filtering and amplifying said dynamic 
angular tilt signal and said angle displacement signal to produce a 

second amplified signal; and 
   means for combining and amplifying said first and second amplified signals to 

produce an output signal indicative of vertical reference and attitude 
wherein said output signal is provided to control means for controlling the vertical 

reference and attitude of the structure relative to the predetermined reference axis. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for integrating comprises 
an active low pass filter. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for providing a signal 
indicative of angular rate comprises a solid state rate gyroscope. 
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means for providing a signal 
indicative of angle displacement comprises a liquid pendulum. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for providing a signal 
indicative of angle displacement comprises a liquid pendulum. 
The apparatus of claim 1 and further including a resistor and a capacitor 
and wherein said first amplifier means is an operational amplifier having inverting and 

noninverting inputs, said operational amplifier receiving a D.C. and low frequency 
response through said resistor at its noninverting input from said second amplifier and 

its high frequency response from said capacitor at said noninverting input from said 
means for integrating. 
The apparatus of claim 6 and further including a second resistor and a 
second capacitor and wherein said second amplifier means is a second operational 

amplifier having inverting and noninverting inputs, said second operational amplifier 
receiving a D.C. and low frequency response through said second resistor at its 

noninverting input and a high frequency response from said second capacitor at its 
noninverting input. 
The apparatus of claim 1 and further including a second resistor and a 
second capacitor and wherein said second amplifier means is a second operational 

amplifier having inverting and noninverting inputs, said second operational amplifier 
receiving a D.C. and low frequency response through said second resistor at its 

noninverting input and a high frequency response from said second capacitor at its 
noninverting input. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first and second amplifier means 
comprise a first amplification loop and wherein said further comprises: 

   a second amplification loop, said second amplification loop including:
 

   third amplification means for amplifying the signal produced by said 
first and second amplification means; and 

   fourth amplification means for amplifying the signal produced by said 

first and second amplification means; 
wherein said third and fourth amplification means each provide an amplified output 

signal to said means for combining. 
A vertical reference apparatus for providing a signal indicative of the 
orientation of a structure relative to a predetermined reference axis, said apparatus 

comprising: 
   means for providing a signal indicative of angular tilt relative to the 

predetermined reference axis; 
   means for providing a signal indicative of angular rate relative to the 

predetermined reference axis; 
   a first second-order control loop, said first loop receiving as its inputs the 

signal indicative of angular tilt and angular rate relative to the 
predetermined reference axis, said first loop providing a dynamic 

output signal indicative of the orientation of the structure relative to the 
predetermined reference axis; 

   a second second-order control loop, said second loop receiving as its inputs the 
output signal from said first loop and the signal indicative of angular 

rate relative to the predetermined reference axis, said second loop 
providing a dynamic output signal indicative of the orientation of the 

structure relative to the predetermined reference axis, wherein said 
output signal of said second loop provides a flat frequency response. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said first second-order loop includes: 
   a summing amplifier; 

   a summing damped integrator; 
   an inverting amplifier; and

 
   an integrator, 

wherein: 
   said summing amplifier receives as its input the angular rate signal and a 

control signal provided by said summing damped integrator, said 
summing amplifier providing an output signal to said integrator; 

   said inverting amplifier receives as its input the signal indicative of angular tilt 
relative to the predetermined reference axis and provides an output 

signal to said summing damped integrator; and 
   said summing damped integrator providing a control signal to said summing 

amplifier and an output signal to a summing junction where it is 
summed with the signal output of said integrator to produce a first loop 

output signal. 
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said second second-order loop 
includes: 

   a second loop summing amplifier; 
   a second loop summing damped integrator; 

   an second loop inverting amplifier; and 
   an second loop integrator, 

wherein: 
   said second loop summing amplifier receives as its input the angular rate 

signal and a control signal provided by said second loop summing 
damped integrator, said second loop summing amplifier providing an 

output signal to said second loop integrator; 
   said second loop inverting amplifier receives as its input the output signal of 

said first second-order loop and provides an output signal to said 
second loop summing damped integrator; and 

   said second loop summing damped integrator providing a control signal to 
said second loop summing amplifier and an output signal to a second 

 
loop summing junction where it is summed with the signal output of the 

second loop integrator to produce a second loop output signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
