<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638012</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF TRUING AND ANGLING CUTTER BLADES BY SHARPENING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B24B306	G05B1918	G05B1918	B24B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B24B	G05B	G05B	B24B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B24B3	G05B19	G05B19	B24B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed herein is a method of truing and angling the blades of a form-relieved face mill cutter during the blade sharpening process thus eliminating a separate time-consuming procedure for truing and angling. The position of the cutting edge of each blade is determined and a reference blade is selected. The sharpening plane of each remaining cutting blade is repositioned, if needed, such that after removing stock material from the blades in accordance with the newly repositioned sharpening plane, the cutting edge of each blade will follow essentially the same path when the cutter is rotated about its axis.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLEASON WORKS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE GLEASON WORKS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITCHEN RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEDERSEN HARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITCHEN, RICHARD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEDERSEN, HARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
sharpening the blades on cutters such as those cutters 
utilized in the production of gears and the like. More 
particularly, the present invention relates to a method 
of truing and angling the blades on a cutter by 
sharpening. Form-relieved face mill cutters have been used for 
many years in processes for producing gears, 
particularly spiral bevel and hypoid gears and the like. Face mill cutters of the form-relieved type 
comprise a plurality of cutting blades extending in an 
axial direction from one side of a cutter head with the 
cutting blades usually arranged and spaced equidistantly 
about the cutter head. The cutter head itself is 
adapted to be secured to the rotary cutter spindle 
carried by a machine tool. Each cutting blade includes 
a front face and a cutting edge formed by the 
intersection of the front face with the top, radius, and 
one side surface of the cutting blade. Wedges and/or  
 
shims are commonly utilized in order to correctly orient 
each cutting blade with respect to the axis of rotation 
of the cutter head. An example of a form-relieved face 
mill cutter utilizing shims and wedges is disclosed by 
US-A-2 930 112. The cutting blades which are usually releasably 
secured to the cutter head may be blades known as 
outside blades which cut the concave side of the teeth 
of a work gear, or, the blades may be those known as 
inside blades which cut the convex side of the work gear 
teeth. Examples of face mill cutters having outside 
blades and face mill cutters having inside blades are 
shown in US-A-3 192 604. 
Alternatively, cutting blades and cutter heads may be of 
unitary construction, formed from a solid body of 
material such as high speed steel. Another type of face mill cutter is shown by 
US-A-3 268 980 wherein cutters 
for roughing and cutters for finishing are shown in 
which both outside and inside cutting blades are 
alternatively arranged about a cutter head. This type 
of cutter forms the entire tooth slot between adjacent 
teeth on a work gear since each pair of inside and 
outside blades forms the opposite sides of adjacent 
teeth. A further type of cutter is shown by WO 91/20021 
wherein a method and apparatus for stock dividing gear 
shaped workpieces is disclosed. The positions of the 
leading and trailing edges of the flanks of the 
workpiece teeth are measured. These positions are 
compared to those of a correctly sized finished gear.  
 Error values generated by this comparison are used 
to position the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for sharpening the blades of a form-relieved 
face mill cutter (10) having a plurality of 

cutting blades, each of said cutting blades having a 
cutting edge (30), radial truing and angling of said 

each cutting edge as part of the sharpening process, 
said process comprising: 


determining the actual position of said each 
cutting edge (30,30'), 
comparing said actual position with a reference 
position for said each cutting edge, 
identifying those blades having cutting edge 
actual positions varying by more than a predetermined 

tolerance amount from said reference position, 
repositioning the sharpening plane (35) of each 
of the identified blades to remove stock from the 

blades and place the cutting edge of said each 
identified blade in a position within said 

predetermined tolerance from said reference position. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said 
plurality of cutting blades, being inside and/or 

outsidecutting blades, each of said blades comprising a 
front face (32) having a top (40,40'), a base (33) and 

two edges (30,42), one of said two edges being a 
cutting edge (30,30') with said cutting edge (30,30') 

extending from said top of said front face (32) to said 
base (33) of said front face (32),
  
 

   wherein the steps of determining the position 
of each cutting edge and comparing the position of each 

cutting edge to a reference position comprise 

selecting said inside cutting blades or said 
outside cutting blades, 
probing the cutting edge (30,30') of each of 
the selected blades at a first point near said top of 

said front face and storing the location of said first 
point of said each blade, 
determining one blade having the lowest first 
point location from all said selected blades, 
calculating a first point difference between 
said lowest first point location of said one blade and 

the location of the first point of each remaining 
selected blade and storing each said first point 

difference for said each remaining selected blade, 
establishing a new first point location for 
said each remaining selected blade by subtracting said 

first point difference for said each remaining selected 
blade from the respective location of said first point 

for each said remaining selected blade whereby for said 
each remaining selected blade, the location of each 

said new first point is substantially the same as said 
lowest first point location of said one blade, 
probing the cutting edge (30,30') of said each 
selected blade at a second point near said base (33) of 

said front face (32) and storing the location of said 
second point of said each like blade, 
comparing the location of said second point of  
 

said one blade with the location of the second point of 
each of the remaining like blades, 
calculating a second point difference between 
said second point location of said one blade and the 

location of said second point for said each remaining 
like blade, 
establishing a new second point location for 
said each remaining like blade by subtracting said 

second point difference of said each remaining blade 
from the respective second point location of said each 

remaining like blade, 
calculating a new cutting edge (30,30') for 
said each remaining like blade based upon said new 

first point and said new second point for said each 
remaining like blade, 
repositioning the sharpening plane (35) of said 
each remaining like blade to form a new cutting edge 

(30,30') thereon whereby said new first and second 
points for said each remaining like blade lie on said 

new cutting edge (30') defined by the repositioned 
sharpening plane (35'). 
The method of claim 1 wherein said 
repositioning of the sharpening plane (35) comprises 

changing at least one of the offset angle (K) and the 
angle S,
 
   said angle S being the angle between said 

sharpening plane (35) and the plane P
R
 measured in a 
plane perpendicular to both the plane P
R
 and the  
 

sharpening plane
 
   said plane P
R
 being parallel to the plane of 
rotation of the cutter blades (22) and perpendicular to 

the cutter axis of rotation,
 
   said offset angle (R) being the angle between 

the sharpening plane (35) at any point along the cutter 
edge and a line between the axis of rotation of the 

blade (22) and said point along the cutter edge. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said 
repositioning of the sharpening plane (35) effects a 

radial position change of said cutting edge (30,30'). 
The method of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein 
said repositioning of the sharpening plane (35) effects 

a change in the pressure angle () of said cutting 

edge,
 
   said pressure angle being the angle at which 

the cutting edge (30) extends relative to the plane 
perpendicular to a cutter radius (R
C
). 
The method of claim 2 wherein said probing is 
performed with a non-contacting probe. 
The method of claim 2 wherein for said each 
remaining like blade, at least one of said new first 

point and said new second point is not established when 
at least one of the respective said first point 

difference and said second point difference does not  
 

exceed a predetermined tolerance amount. 
The method of claim 2 further comprising 
repeating said process for the other of said inside 

blades and said outside blades. 
The method of claim 8 further including 
controlling the relative height of said inside blades 

relative and said outside blades. 
The method of claim 2 further comprising 
rotating said cutter an amount to provide sufficient 

stock material for said repositioning of the sharpening 
plane to form said new cutting edge. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
