<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651613</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR DISPENSING DEFINED PORTIONS OF ICE CREAM, OR THE LIKE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G302	A23G302	A23G900	A23G900	A23G904	A23G904	A23G928	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G3	A23G3	A23G9	A23G9	A23G9	A23G9	A23G9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEVLAKIS JOHN M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEVLAKIS, JOHN M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZEVLAKIS JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZEVLAKIS, JOHN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR DISPENSING DEFINED PORTIONS OF ICE CREAM, OR THE LIKEFIELD OF INVENTIONThis invention relates to the field of automatic product dispensing apparatus and methods, and more particularly to dispensing portions of products, such as frozen ice cream and the like, supplied in a continuous tubular casing.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The teachings of prior related United States Patents 4,762,483 and 4,830,864 issued to the inventor of the present invention are incorporated herein by reference. As will be seen from later description, the present invention represents an improvement upon the teachings of the inventions of the prior patents.Patent No. 4,762,483 is for an Apparatus for Packaging and Dispensing Ice Cream and The Like. Patent "483 describes a machine which measures and cuts off a portion of a frozen food product which is packaged in a coiled tubular casing. The mechanism for cutting off the product is a thin blade which is linearly actuated much in the fashion of a guillotine. The separated portion of a frozen food or similar product, is then transferred by a scoop device to a receiving container.Patent No. 4,830,864 is for a Method for Packaging and Dispensing Ice Cream and the Like. The *864 patent is a division of the '843 patent and deals with the preparatory process of packaging the frozen food product into the casing to be subsequently handled by the dispensing machine of the '483 patent.The idea of packaging and dispensing products from a disposable casing is a practical one for commercial establishments and for automated, consumer-operated equipment as well. A difficulty encountered with the mechanism of the '483 patent is that the mechanical components, particularly the cutting device and the scoop moving components, come into direct contact with the food product. This product contact means there is a significant cleaning requirement. Since the product beingSUBSTITUTESHEET 

cut and served is intended to be a food product, a sanitation concern exits. Cleaning is required periodically to keep the parts in condition to function, and, if a change in product were to occur, to prevent unwanted product mixing.The prior patents noted are directed primarily to handling and dispensing ice cream and the like. The present invention is likewise applicable to ice cream, and additionally is recognized as possibly being useful in dispensing controlled portions of other food and non-food products.The method of constricting a product packed within a casing has been done before,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for automatically dispensing a controlled quantity of a deformable product packed in a flexible tubular casing from which the product can be readily released and with which the product is capable of retaining a deformed shape, said apparatus comprising:
(a) a supply station providing means for holding a supply of a product packaged in a tubular casing having a longitudinal axis;
(b) driving means adapted to move said product and its casing from said supply station through said apparatus along a defined path;
(c) means located at intervals along said path for compressing a series of longitudinally separated segments of said product by forces applied perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said casing at selected intervals along said axis as said casing with its encased product is moved through said apparatus;
(d) means located at an exit end of said path for opening said casing such that a portion of product defined by two sequential compressed segments of said product can be removed from said casing;
(e) means for removing said opened casing from said portion; and
(f) means for releasing said portion from said apparatus at said exit end of said path.
2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an entry guide located at an entry end of said path adapted and positioned so as to form said product filled casing into a uniform substantially round cross sectional shape that is linearly continuous for some predetermined distance in the direction of said axis.
3. the apparatus claimed in claim 1 in which said means for opening said casing comprises a pair of laterally opposed, laterally separated, inwardly directed cutting blades positioned to slit opposite sides of said casing proximate said exit of said path.
S
UB
S
TITUTESHEET 


4. The apparatus claimed in claim 2 in which said means for compressing a segment of said product comprises means mounting a pair of opposed bars located on opposite sides of said casing adapted to periodically converge to a position wherein the bars are spaced apart a distance which is less than the diameter of said product filled casing exiting said entry guide.
5. the apparatus as in claim 4 in which said driving means operates intermittently in response to a signal and stops automatically after completing a predetermined cycle.
6. A method for automatically dispensing a controlled quantity of a deformable product packed in a flexible tubular casing from which the product can be readily released and with which the product is capable of retaining a deformed shape, comprising:
(a) supplying a product packed in a flexible casing having a longitudinal axis to a dispensing apparatus; (b) moving said casing with its encased product through said apparatus;
(c) compressing a series of separated segments of said product at selected intervals along said axis to define a product portion as said product is being moved through said apparatus;
(d) removing said casing from said product portion; and
(e) releasing said product portion from said apparatus.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising forming said product in said casing into a uniform cross-sectional shape prior to segmentally compressing said product.
8. The method of claim 7 in which said process of removing said casing comprises cutting said casing along at least one line parallel to said axis.
9. The method of claim 8 in which said process of removing said casing further comprises coiling said cut casing onto a spool for disposal.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


10. The method of claim 9 wherein said product is moved intermittently in response to a signal.
11. An apparatus for automatically dispensing a controlled quantity of a deformable product packed in a flexible tubular casing from which the product can be readily released and with which the product is capable of retaining a deformed shape, comprising:
(a) a pair of substantially vertical, fixedly connected planar, parallel, spaced apart side walls between which walls said product travels along a defined path from an entry to an exit;
(b) means to move said product along said defined path from said entry to said exit;
(c) product forming means mounted between said walls near said entry and configured so as to form said product into a linearly continuous substantially uniform cross sectional shape;
(d) product constricting means mounted between said walls in a position downstream from said forming means and operative to constrict a series of separated segments of said product along a line substantially perpendicular to said path so as to create a series of portions of equal quantity between said constricted segments; (e) means adapted to open said tubular casing and mounted between said walls at a location along said path downstream from said product constructing means; and
(f) means to expel successive said product portions at said exit.
12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 in which said product is a food product.
13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 in which said means to move said product comprises a series of interrelated drive sprockets, drive chains and gears actuated by a motor means and being connected operationally to said product constricting means.
14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 13 in which said product forming means comprises a pair of rollers mounted rotatably on parallel axes and having a contoured surface
S
UBSTITUTESHEET 


configured to form said product in said casing into a uniform round cylindrical shape.
15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 14 in which said product constricting means includes a bar which is operatively connected to said product moving means so as to intermittently impact said casing with its encased product and cause a constriction thereby.
16. An apparatus as claimed in claim 14 in which said product constricting means comprises a pair of cooperatively operating bars operatively connected to said product moving means so as to impact opposite sides of said product in said casing simultaneously causing a constriction thereby.
17. An apparatus as claimed in claim 14 in which said product constricting means comprises two pairs of cooperatively operating bars, a first pair constricting said product relatively slightly and a second pair constricting said product relatively severely so as to create a virtual separation between portions of said product.
18. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 in which said casing opening means comprises a knife blade fixedly positioned between said walls so as to intercept said casing.
19. An apparatus as claimed in claim 13 further comprising switching means coordinated with said product constricting means and adapted to stop said motor means in a manner related thereto.
20. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 further comprising means to remove said tubular casing from said product after said casing has been opened and as each said portion is dispensed.
21. An apparatus as claimed in claim 20 in which said means to remove said casing from said product comprises one or more scrap spools which are connected to a slip drive mechanism driven by said means to move said product so as to accommodate said casing discharge speed from an
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


e pty spool condition to a full spool condition.
22. An apparatus as claimed in claim 21 further comprising plural product dispensing apparatuses built into an automatic dispensing machine having a coordinated cup dispenser and cup positioning belt.
23. A method for dispensing a portion of a frozen food product such as ice cream from a bulk supply, comprising:
(a) forming a bulk supply of the product by packaging the product in a substantially long tubular casing extending between leading and trailing end portions and formed of a material from which the product can be readily released;
(b) feeding the leading end portion of the casing with its encased product along a path and at selected intervals sequentially pinching the casing so as to form the product contained between sequential pinched segments into an individual portion; and
(c) while continuing to move the casing containing the individual portion of the product, removing the casing from around the product so as to permit the individual formed portion to be discharged from the casing.
24. A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein said pinching of the casing and its encased product is performed with a pair of rotating pinching elements located on opposite sides of the casing and which rotate periodically into closely spaced position to pinch the casing including its encased product.
25. A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein said product comprises ice cream.
26. An apparatus for dispensing a portion of a frozen food product such as ice cream from a bulk supply, comprising: (a) a supply station providing a bulk supply of the product packaged in a substantially long tubular casing extending between leading and trailing end portions and formed of a material from which the product can be readily released;
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 (b) feed-pinch means operative for feeding the leading end portion of the casing with its encased product along a path and at selected locations on the casing leading end portion for pinching the casing so as to form the product between such pinched locations into a defined portion of the product; and
(c) stripping means operative while said casing leading end portion is moving for removing the casing from said defined portion so as to permit such defined portion of the product to separate from the casing.
27. An apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein said product is ice cream, said bulk supply comprises a bulk supply of ice cream, said encased product comprises encased ice cream and said defined portion comprises a defined portion of ice cream.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
