<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618552</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fraud protection for card transactions
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07F710	H04M342	G06Q2000	H04M360	G06Q2000	H04M342	H04M360	G07C900	G07C900	G07F710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07F	H04M	G06Q	H04M	G06Q	H04M	H04M	G07C	G07C	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07F7	H04M3	G06Q20	H04M3	G06Q20	H04M3	H04M3	G07C9	G07C9	G07F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The problems of fraud in card transactions can be reduced by, after 
requiring the person engaged in the card transaction to initially identify himself, such 

as by supplying a card number, a) requesting, the person to supply as authentication 
information either 1) a randomly selected piece of prestored information or 2) 

information derived from a randomly selected piece of prestored information; and b) 
completing the transaction only if the authentication information requested is 

correctly supplied. The authentication information requested is described in terms of 
its nature, i.e., what it represents, so that one can not deduce from the request the 

correct response without knowing the selected prestored piece of information. Since 
the authentication information is randomly determined for each card transaction, a 

thief will rarely, if ever, be able to successfully complete a card transaction simply 
by supplying, in response to a request, the same piece of authentication information 

last supplied by the authorized person. Each authorized person already knows the 
particular pieces of information that are prestored for him, e.g., birthdate of spouse, 

year of school graduation, and mother's telephone number. Thus, he need exert no 
extra effort to remember them. If the pieces of prestored authentication information 

are various numbers they may be transmitted over a telephone network from a caller 
to the authorization system using currently available dial pads and DTMF signaling 

(FIG. 2). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENZIAS ARNO ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENZIAS, ARNO ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the processing of transactions charged to credit
cards and the like, and more particularly, to the reduction of fraudulent use of such
cards.As used herein, the term "card" refers to any type of credit card or credit
account mechanism including, but not limited to: a) a telephone-company-issued
card, such as the Bell Atlantic IQ Card, b) a combined commercial credit card and
telephone card, such as the AT&T Universal Card, c) a commercial credit card, such
as an American Express card or a VISA card, or d) a debit card. A "card number" is
a multi-character string that identifies the account associated with a card. A "card
call" is a telephone call whose cost is charged to the account associated with a card.
Other common ways of referring to a "card call" are: a) a call charged to a card, or b)
a call charged to a card number. It will be appreciated that card issuers, i.e., the
providers of the credit for each card, need not provide a tangible manifestation, such
as embossed plastic, for each card.Using a card call as an example, currently, a caller who places a call to
be charged to a card must enter all of the digits of his card number and the associated
personal identification number (PIN), if any, for each such call. It is noted that,
depending on one's perspective, the characters comprising a PIN may or may not be
considered as an integral part of the card number. Either way, however, there is a
single piece of information, usually the PIN, which the issuer believes only an
authorized user of the card would know, and this authentication information must be
supplied before a card call, or any transaction charged to a card, is permitted to
proceed.The advantages of such a system are 1) that it is easy to ubiquitously
implement at low cost, through the use of telephone dial pads and dual tone, multi-frequency
signaling (DTMF), because the card number and authentication
information are all sets of letters or digits and 2) the authorized user need not
remember a large amount of information that he didn't already know. However, a
drawback of such a system is that the card number and the PIN may be stolen by an
unscrupulous person who observes their entry by a caller at a telephone key pad.
The thief can then make calls and charge them to the card, by supplying the stolen
card number and PIN. Theft of service may continue until the unusual calling
pattern is noticed by the card owner or the card issuer and the card number and/or 
PIN is changed.Well known prior art solutions to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for use in authorising a card transaction for a particular card comprising
the steps of:


prestoring a plurality of pieces of user identity authentication information
supplied by a person authorised to charge card transactions for said particular card;
requesting, from said user engaged in said card transaction, a piece of identity
authentication information, derived from or consisting of a randomly selected one of said

pieces of prestored user identity authentication information, said requested authentication
information being indicated in said request by a description of its nature so that the

correct response can not be deduced from the request without knowing the selected
prestored piece of information; and
completing said transaction only if said requested information is correctly
supplied;

   the method being 
characterised in that
 it further comprises the step of:

requiring said user to provide user identity information to initiate said card
transaction, said user identity information being different from said requested

authentication information;
and 
in that
 the user identity authentication information has meaning to the
authorised card user independent of its significance to said particular card.
A method as defined in Claim 1 wherein the step of requiring a user to identify
himself to initiate said card transaction comprises: requiring said user to identify his

account number.
A method as defined in Claim 2 wherein the step of requiring a user to identify
himself to initiate said card transaction comprises: requiring said user to identify his

personal identification number.
A method as defined in Claim 1 wherein said piece of information requested is a
portion of said randomly selected one of said prestored pieces of information. 
A method as defined in Claim 1 wherein said piece of information requested is the
entirety of said randomly selected one of said prestored pieces of information.
A method as defined in Claim 1 wherein said randomly selected piece of
information is selected so that the same piece of information is not selected for two

successive requests.
A method as defined in Claim 1 wherein said request is secretly made to said
person whereby said request is not detectable by any person other than said person.
A method as defined in Claim 1 wherein said person engaged in said card
transaction supplies said requested information as dual tone multi-frequency signals.
A method as defined in Claim 1 wherein said person engaged in said card
transaction supplies said requested information by speaking it.
A method as defined in Claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of pieces of
information supplied by said authorised person are sets of characters representing a

particular item known to said person.
A method as defined in Claim 10 wherein said piece of information derived from
a randomly selected one of the stored pieces of information is a subset of a randomly

selected one of said sets of characters.
A method as defined in Claim 10 wherein said characters are digits.
A method as defined in Claim 10 wherein said characters are representable by
designated keys on a telephone dial pad.
A method of authenticating the identity of a requester who is using a card to
request access to a resource, the method comprising the steps of:
 
   verifying the identity of said requester by


(i) requesting that said requester supply a randomly selected piece of information
from among a plurality of pieces of information prestored in an authorisation database for

said particular person, said information requested being indicated in said request by a
description of its nature so that the correct response can not be deduced from the request

without knowing the selected piece of information; and
(ii) comparing information supplied by said requestor in response to said request
with said randomly selected piece of information;

   the method being 
characterised in that
 said requester is initially identified as a
particular person from indicia stored on said card, said randomly selected piece of

information being different than said indicia stored on said card;

   and 
in that
 the user identity authentication information has meaning to the
authorised card user independent of its significance to said particular card.
A method as defined in Claim 14 including the further step of granting access to
said resource only if said information supplied by said requestor matches said randomly

selected piece of information.
A method as defined in Claim 14 wherein said randomly selected piece of
information is selected so that the same piece is not selected for two successive requests

in which said particular person is initially identified.
A method as defined in Claim 1 or 14 wherein said pieces of information are
selected from personal knowledge of said person engaged in said transaction, said

information pieces comprising one of a phone number, a date, a street address, and a
social security number or portion thereof.
A method as defined in Claim 1 or 14 further including the steps of: 

storing said randomly selected piece of information;
comparing said stored piece of information with a first new randomly selected
piece of information in a s
ubsequent transaction;
selecting another new randomly selected piece of information if said first
randomly selected piece of information is the same as said stored piece of information

and comparing said another new piece of information with said stored piece of
information;
continuing said steps of selecting and comparing until said new randomly selected
piece of information is different from said stored piece of information; and
continuing with said transaction.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
