<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610193</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRON BEAM EXPOSURE METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J3730	H01J37302	H01L2102	H01L21027	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICK GREGORY JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICK, GREGORY, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Description ELECTRON BEAM EXPOSURE METHODField of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to the fabrication of integrated circuits and more particularly to a system and method of lithographic patterning of radiation sensitive layers by an electron beam exposure system.Background of the InventionIntegrated circuit shapes can be patterned on a wafer entirely by means of direct writing electron beam (e-beam) lithography. Using e-beam to write microcircuit patterns in integrated circuit fabrication is well known in the art. The intended pattern can be directly written onto the wafer by exposing a thin layer of radiation sensitive material on the wafer with a beam of electrons or, alternatively, by using a mask made with an e-beam tool to optically expose a thin layer of photoresist on the semiconductor wafer. Whether the pattern is directly written or indirectly written with a mask, the e-beam tool control remains the same. See generally, U.S. Patent No. 4,494,004 to Mauer, IV, et al. and assigned to the assignee of the present invention, for an example of a direct writing e-beam lithography method and apparatus used to expose to an entire semiconductor wafer. Using a computer to control the e-beam as disclosed in Mauer, IV, et al., is also well known.While e-beam lithography provides the advantage of very sharply defined patterns for very small geometric shapes, transferring those shapes from a 

 co puter designed shape to a physical image on a photoresistive, or radiation sensitive layer(resist), can be both expensive and time consuming.Most of the cost associated with transferring the shape is computer operating cost, which is also generally time dependent. Therefore, reducing computer operating time will reduce both the time and the expense associated with e-beam lithography.Typically, an e-beam tool writes only one specific type of shape such as a rectangle. So, in order to print design shapes into the resist which are more complex than rectangles, the e-beam tool prints a series of contiguous rectangles of various sizes. The pattern formed by these printed rectangles matches or closely approximates the design shape. The size and placement of these printed rectangles are generated from design shapes in a process called the "fill", so called because it appears that the rectangles have filled the shape.The rectangles generated in the fill are called fill rectangles.Although fill rectangles generated in the fill supply size and placement information to control the e-beam tool, they do not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I Claim:
1. A system for selectively graying and placing a macro transform comprising: organization means for organizing a macro; placing means for placing said macro and for selecting a macro transform for graying; and graying means for graying said selected macro transform.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the organization means comprises shadowing means for creating a macro shadow and for creating a shadow around a shape in said macro.
1 The system of claim 2 wherein the organization means further comprises sorting- means for sorting a plurality of fill rectangles, said fill rectangles defining said macro shape.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein said organization means further comprises chaining means for chaining said sorted fill rectangles.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein said placing means further comprises means for placing a plurality of portions of said macro.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein said placed macro portions remain nested in said macro.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein said placing means further comprises transforming means for 


 transforming from a first coordinate system to a second coordinate system.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein the graying means comprises: means for selecting a spanning fill rectangle from said macro and for gray-splicing said spanning rectangle; means for selecting a spanning subchain of fill rectangles from said macro and for gray-splicing one said spanning subchain fill rectangle.
9. The system of claim 8 wherein the graying means further comprises means for identifying a first portion of said macro located in a first subfield of a subfield pair and a second portion of said macro located in a second
'•
 subfield of said subfield pair.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein the organization means comprises: sorting means for sorting a plurality of fill rectangles; chaining means for chaining together said sorted fill rectangles; and shadowing means for creating a macro shadow for said macro and for creating a chain shadow for said chain of fill rectangles.
11. A method of generating a plurality of two dimensional shapes comprising the steps of: retrieving a first portion of a macro from a buffer; 


 generating a first portion of a cell from a part of a shape from said first portion of said macro; and generating at least one unnested shape touching said first shape part.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the steps of: retrieving a second portion of said macro from said macro buffer? and generating a second partial macro read command from said second portion of said macro.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein the macro comprises a plurality of fill rectangles.
14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of organizing the macro's fill"rectangles.
15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of transforming a subfield pair boundary onto said macro.
16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of gray-splicing said at least one unnested shape.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising identifying a first group of fill rectangles in one of said subfields and identifying a second group of fill rectangles in the other of said subfields. 


18. The method of claim 17 wherein the first macro portion is said first group and the second macro portion is said second group.
19. A method of graying a macro comprised of a plurality of fill rectangles comprising the steps of: a) organizing one said macro for graying; έnά b) graying said organized macro and, placing a first and second portion of said grayed macro.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein at least one said fill rectangle spans a boundary of a pair of subfields.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein the organization step comprises: creating at least one contiguous chain of said fill rectangles; creating a chain shadow for each said at least chain; and creating a macro shadow for said macro.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the organization step further comprises sorting said macro fill rectangles.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein said fill rectangles are sorted in an order determined by said macro's dimensions.
24. The method of claim 22 wherein said macro fill rectangles are sorted in an order determined to 


 -34- minimize cutting of said chains by said subfield pairs.
25. The method of claim 22 wherein each said at least one chain's shadow is the least enclosing rectangle for said at least one chain.
26. The method of claim 22 wherein said macro shadow is the least enclosing rectangle for said macro.
27. The method of claim 22 wherein the graying and placing step (b) further comprises gray-splicing at least one spanning fill rectangle and placing said gray-spliced fill rectangle.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein the graying and placing step (b) further comprises: transforming said macro shadow into said subfield pair; and, determining if said transformed macro is a spanning macro.
29. The method of claim 27 wherein the graying and placing step (b) further comprises: transforming said subfield pair onto said macro; and, determining which of said fill rectangles spans said subfield boundary.
30. The method of claim 29 wherein the graying and placing step (b) further comprises; determining if each said chain intersects with said transformed subfield boundary. 


31. The method of claim 30 wherein the graying and placing step further comprises: placing in one subfield of said subfield pair a first partial macro read command for any said chain completely located in said one subfield; placing in a second subfield of said subfield pair a second partial macro read command for any said chain completely located in said second subfield; said first portion of said grayed macro comprising said first partial macro read command; and, said second portion of said grayed macro comprising said second partial macro read command.
32. The method of claim 31 wherein th graying and placing step comprises: placing in one subfield of said subfield pair, a first partial macro read command for a first chain portion of at least one said determined intersecting chain, said first chain portion lying completely within said one subfield and butting one said gray-spliced and placed rectangle; placing in a second subfield of said subfield pair a second partial macro read command for a second chain portion of said at least one determined intersecting chain, said second chain portion lying completely within said second subfield and butting said one gray-spliced and placed rectangle; 


 said first portion of said grayed macro further comprising said first partial macro read command; and, said second portion of said grayed macro further comprising said second partial macro read command.
33. A method of generating control for controlling a particle beam tool in exposing a radiation sensitive layer to at least one repetitious shape described by a macro, said macro comprising a plurality of fill rectangles, said method comprising the steps of; a) organizing said macro, said organizing step comprising the steps of:
1) sorting a plurality of fill rectangles in said macro according to the macro's largest dimension, and
2) creating at least one chain of rectangles from said sorted fill rectangles, a chain shadow for each said at least one chain, and a macro shadow for said macro; and, b) graying and placing said macro for at least one occurrence of said repetitious shape spanning a -boundary of a subfield pair, said graying and placing step comprising the steps of:
1) transforming said macro shadow onto each said occurrence of said repitious shape in said subfield pair until said macro shadow spans said boundary,
2) transforming said boundary onto said macro. 


 3) determining which of said fill rectangles lie in each of said pair of subfields,
4) determining which of said fill rectangles span said subfield boundary,
5) determining which of said fill rectangles form subchains spanning subfield boundaries,
6) gray-splicing and placing said spanning rectangles and said subchain fill rectangles lying in an overlap region,
7) placing in one said subfield all said fill rectangles completely lying in said subfield and placing in the other said subfield all of said fill rectangles completely lying in said other subfield,
8) repeating steps 2 - 7 for a second subfield pair boundary if at least one said fill rectangle remains unplaced, and
9) repeating steps 1 - 8 until every said macro shadow has been transformed onto every said shape occurrence. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
