<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631513</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED VALVED CATHETER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M3900	A61M3900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	A61M39	A61M39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STRATO INFUSAID INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STRATO/INFUSAID INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FENTON PAUL V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FENTON, PAUL, V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a catheter intended for at least partial 
implantation within a living body for special or long term usage, and more particularly 
to a catheter having at least one unidirectional valve for controlling fluid flow into or out 
of the catheter. Various medical procedures require vascular access over a period of time. Such 
procedures may include implantation of a permanent intravascular device for use with 
portable drug infusion devices, for hemodialysis, or for cases where continuous blood 
work or access to the bloodstream is required. These procedures are often performed 
by using either transcutaneous or totally implanted catheters. It is desirable to limit the number of such devices intruding into the human body 
and it is also desirable to limit the possibility of infection, blood embolism and the like, 
by precluding diffusion of blood into the device when it is not in use. To accomplish this, it is desirable to include a check valve integral with the 
catheter, so that when a pressure differential of a first sense is established across the 
catheter wall near its tip, a valve opens permitting fluid flow therethrough and when a 
pressure differential of the opposite sense is established, the valve closes and prevents 
fluid flow therethrough. Such check valves may be implemented to permit fluid flow 
either from the catheter or into the catheter. These valved catheters, however, have multiple element valve assemblies 
resulting in a corresponding complexity. The disclosure in Patent EP-A-0 125 844 (which corresponds to U.S. 
4,701,166) provides the basis for the preamble to the main claim of the 
present invention and is for a catheter which features a slit-type 
bidirectional check valve. The tip of the catheter is closed and the 
side wall of the catheter near the tip has a linear slit extending 
parallel to the central axis of the catheter, to form 
the slit valve. The valve allows both aspiration of blood and infusion of fluids 
depending upon the sense of the pressure differential across the catheter wall at the 
tip. The check valve precludes the diffusion of blood into the lumen when there is no 
pressure differential across the wall of the catheter. A catheter of this type is known as 
the Groshong catheter. While effective for some applications, this type of catheter 
typically has a very narrow range of pressure differentials at which no fluid flow occurs.  
 While various other valved catheters are also known, there is still a need for an 
improved, at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A catheter device (1) comprising an elongate, flexible 
tubular element (10), said element (10) being open at its 

proximal end (14), being closed at its distal end (16), 
having a side wall (18) with an outer surface and an inner 

surface (19) and defining a lumen (20) extending along an 
axis substantially parallel to a central axis (A) of the 

tubular element (10), said lumen (20) being adapted for 
selective flow of fluid therethrough; and a valve assembly 

(12) near said distal end (16) for selectively establishing 
fluid flow between said lumen (20) and a region adjacent to 

said outer surface near said distal end (16), the valve 
assembly (12) comprising a slit (22) extending through said 

side wall (18) between said outer surface and said inner 
surface (19) CHAR
ACTERISED IN THAT said slit (22) of 
the valve assembly (12) is convex in said outer surface and 

in said inner surface (19) for the slit (12) to define a 
valve flap portion (24) having a flap valve surface (34) 

which extends through the side wall (18) between an outer 
surface edge (24a) and an inner surface edge (24b) of the 

flap portion (24) and a base valve surface (36) which 
extends through the side wall (18) on a base portion (26) 

thereof, said flap valve surface (34) and base valve 
surface (36) being nominally opposed, adjacent and 

complementary to each other for said valve assembly to be 
closed when substantially no pressure differential exists 

across the side wall (18) of the tubular element bearing 
the slit (12) and wherein the flap valve surface (34) 

provides a bevel surface on the flap portion and the base 
valve surface (36) provides a complementary bevel surface 

on the base portion (26) of the side wall (18) whereby in 
response to a pressure differential across the side wall 

(18) of a first polarity said flap valve surface (34) is  
 

biased towards and against the base valve surface (36) to 
close the slit (22) and in response to a pressure 

differential across the side wall (18) of a polarity 
opposite to the first polarity said flap portion (24) is 

displaceable to displace the flap valve surface (34) from 
the base valve surface (36) and open the slit (22) for 

enabling fluid flow in a direction consistent with said 
pressure differential between the lumen (20) and said 

region adjacent to said outer surface near the distal end 
(16). 
A device as claimed in claim 1 in which the bevel 
surfaces provided by the flap valve surface (34) and the 

base valve surface (36) are arranged so that in response to 
a said pressure differential of said opposite polarity the 

flap valve portion (24) is displaceable outwardly of the 
tubular element (10) to open the slit (22). 
A device as claimed in claim 2 in which the outer 
surface edge (24a) has a greater length than the inner 

surface edge (24b). 
A device as claimed in claim 1 in which the bevel 
surfaces provided by the flap valve surface (34) and the 

base valve surface (36) are arranged so that in response to 
a said pressure differential of said opposite polarity the 

flap valve portion (24) is displaceable inwardly into the 
lumen (20) to open the slit (22). 
A device as claimed in claim 4 in which the inner 
surface edge (24b) has a greater length than the outer 

surface edge (24a). 
A device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 
in which end points (EP 1, EP 2) of the slit in said outer 

surface are located one on each of two spaced axes (OSA-1, 
OSA-2) parallel to the central axis and end points (EP' 1, 

EP' 2) of the slit in said inner surface (19) are located  
 

one on each of two spaced axes (1SA-1, 1SA-2) parallel to 
the central axis (A). 
A device as claimed in claim 6 in which the end points 
(EP 1, EP 2) of the slit (22) in the outer surface of the 

side wall (18) are disposed along a circumferential arc (C) 
which arc is located in a plane of the tubular element (10) 

that extends substantially perpendicularly relative to the 
central axis (A). 
A device as claimed in either claim 6 or claim 7 in 
which the end points (EP' 1, EP' 2) of the slit (22) in the 

inner surface (19) of the side wall (18) are disposed along 
a circumferential arc (C) which arc is located in a plane 

of the tubular element (10) that extends substantially 
perpendicularly relative to the central axis (A). 
A device as claimed in claim 7 and claim 8 in which 
the end points (EP 1, EP 2) of the slit in said outer 

surface and the end points (EP' 1, EP' 2) of the slit in 
said inner surface are located substantially in the same 

plane of the tubular element that extends perpendicularly 
relative to the central axis (A). 
A device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 
in which each of the flap valve surface (34) and base valve 

surface (36) is planar and provides bevel surfaces with a 
uniform slit angle about the valve flap portion (24). 
A device as claimed in claim 10 when appendant to 
claim 9 in which the bevel presented by said planar flap 

valve surface (36) at each end point (EP' 1, EP' 2) of the 
slit in the inner surface (19) subtends an acute angle  in 

said plane relative to a radial line (R1, R2) located in 
that plane to extend through the central axis (A) and the 

respective end point (EP' 1, EP' 2) of the slit in the 
inner surface (19). 
A device as claimed in claim 11 in which the angle   
is greater than 35° and less than 55°. 
A device as claimed in claim 6 or in any one of claims 
7 to 12 when appendant to claim 6 wherein said outer 

surface edge (24a) of the flap portion is substantially 
symmetrical about an axis in the outer surface of the side 

wall that is substantially parallel to the central axis 
(A). 
A device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 
and comprising a first said valve assembly (12) and a 

second said valve assembly (12'). 
A device as claimed in claim 14 when appendant to 
claims 2 and 4 in which the first and second valve 

assemblies are arranged so that in response to a respective 
said pressure differential of said opposite polarity, the 

flap valve portion (24) of the first valve assembly (12) is 
displaceable outwardly of the tubular element (10) and the 

flap valve portion (24) of the second valve assembly (12') 
is displaceable inwardly into the lumen (20). 
A device as claimed in either claim 14 or claim 15 in 
which one of the first valve assembly (12) and of the 

second valve assembly (12') is disposed closer to the 
distal end (16) of the tubular element (10) than the other 

valve assembly. 
A device as claimed in claim 16 in which said one of 
the first valve assembly (12) and of the second valve 

assembly (12') is disposed between the said other valve 
assembly and the distal end (16). 
A device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 
in which the tubular element (10) has at least two said 

lumens (20, 20') and wherein at least two said valve 
assemblies (12, 12') are provided in the side wall (18), at 

least one said valve assembly being associated with each 
said lumen (20, 20') for selectively establishing fluid  

 
flow between the respective lumen (20, 20') and the region 

adjacent to the outer surface of the tubular element (10) 
near the distal end (16). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
