<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658843</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for libernation file creation.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F100	G06F100	G06F130	G06F130	G06F132	G06F132	G06F9445	G06F9445	G06F946	G06F946	G06F948	G06F1114	G06F1114	G06F1216	G06F1216	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F11	G06F11	G06F12	G06F12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Hibernation and wake-up of multiple environments are performed while password security is 
maintained.

 
When the hibernation mode is entered, a hibernation file is determined in which hibernation data 

is to be saved, based on an identifier assigned to the current operating environment (step 902). 
After save operation is finished, the validity information of the hibernation file is updated, and in 

some cases, a hibernation signature is set (step 908). For wake-up operation, a list of hibernation 
files being saved, and the user is prompted to select an operating environment to be regenerated 

(step 913). When a corresponding password has been specified, the user is requested to input the 
password for the corresponding operating environment (step 915). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIROHISA SUZUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEN INOUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TETSUJI KOIDE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIROHISA, SUZUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEN, INOUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TETSUJI, KOIDE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to information processing systems that operate with limited power 
supply, needing reduced power consumption, and particularly to portable information processing 
systems such as notebook type computers. Recent improvements in technologies have provided compact, light-weight, and portable 
computers. To use such portable computers outdoor, power is supplied by a battery. However the 
battery mounted on portable computers is restricted to a small size, thus personal computers are 
operative only for a relatively short time after a battery charge. Therefore various contrivances have 
been applied to many portable computers in order to reduce power consumption. One of such contrivances is a suspend/resume function. With this function, the computer enters 
a suspend mode upon the occurrence of a state of, for instance, an input/output device activity not 
being detected for a specified period of time. During the suspend mode, all tasks halt and the data 
needed for later restart is saved in the main memory. Then power to the CPU, for example, is 
turned off while power to the main memory and video memory (VRAM) is maintained. Even with the 
suspend/resume function supported by a portable computer, however, there remains the problem 
that the battery power is exhausted when the suspend mode continues for an extended period of 
time, and as the result the contents of the memory or VRAM are lost. To overcome the problem, a portable computer has been suggested and sold which supports a 
hibernation function, such as in LTE Lite/25 (TM) manufactured by Compaq (TM). With hibernation 
enabled, when the system enters a low-battery state or detects a condition of the suspend mode 
being maintained for a specified period of time, it saves all the data necessary for restarting tasks 
in its hard disk before entering the hibernation mode. In this hibernation mode, power to the entire 
system including its memory and VRAM is turned off. Later, when the user turns on the system, the 
data stored in the hard disk is restored to the memory and VRAM, and interrupted tasks restart 
automatically. These successive operations associated with power-on are called wake-up. In currently available systems, a user may use a number of operating environments, e.g. OS/2 (TM) 
and DOS/V, by switching from one to another. However, known prior art systems have not 
implemented any hibernation/wake-up function which is applicable to multiple operating 
environments.  A technique allowing the user to choose one
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information processing system including a CPU (10), a volatile main memory (12), and a 
non-volatile external storage device (68), the system being capable of implementing a plurality of 

operating environments and supporting a multi-hibernation function, said system is characterized 
by further comprising: 


(a) means for prompting a user to input an identifier of the current environment; 
(b) means for generating a hibernation interrupt signal upon the occurrence of predetermined 
conditions; 
(c) means for saving hibernation data describing the operating state of said system at the time of 
the interrupt signal, in response to said hibernation interrupt signal in an area on said external 

storage device, said area being specified by said identifier; and 
(d) means for powering-off said system. 
The information processing system according to claim 1, characterized in that the area in 
which said hibernation data is saved has a name specified by said identifier and is a hibernation 

file managed by an operating system file system. 
The information processing system according to claim 2, characterized in that hibernation files 
exist on said external storage device (68) for each of a plurality of operating environments and the 

management information of said hibernation files is stored in a reserved area on said external 
storage device (68), said reserved area being unaccessible to the user. 
The information processing system according to claim 3, characterized by further comprising 
a means for prompting for input of a password for the current operating environment, and said 

management information includes said password. 
The information processing system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that 
the area in which said hibernation data is saved is a reserved area on said external storage device, 

said reserved area being inaccessible to the user, and that a list for managing the hibernation data 

 
for a plurality of operating environments is also created in said reserved area. 
The information processing system according to any preceding claim, characterized by further 
comprising means for writing information indicating that the hibernation data for said current 

operating environment is valid in said external storage device after the save operation by said 
means for saving hibernation data. 
The information processing system according to claim 6, characterized by further comprising: 
means for determining, after the save operation by said means for saving hibernation data, whether 

any valid hibernation data for any other operating environment has been saved; and 
means for writing a hibernation signature in a reserved area on said external storage device in 

response to the absence of saved valid hibernation data. 
The information processing system according to any preceding claim, characterized by further 
comprising means for calculating, after the save operation by said means for saving hibernation 

data, a check sum of said hibernation data and writing said check sum in a reserved area on said 
external storage device. 
The information processing system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that 
said hibernation data comprises the contents of the main memory and video memory of the system 

and the hardware context information necessary to fully restore the operating state of the system. 
An information processing system including a CPU (10), a volatile memory (21), and a non-volatile 
external storage device (68), in which hibernation data for describing the system operating 

state for each of a plurality of operating environments is saved, said system supporting a wake-up 
function, characterized by further comprising: 


(a) means for displaying a list of said plurality of operating environments in response to power-on; 
and 
(b) means for restoring, in response to the selection of one of said plurality of operating 
environments, the hibernation data for said selected operating environment to restore said operating 

environment. 
The information processing system according to claim 10, characterized in that: 
said external storage device (68) has an area for storing a password specified for each of said 

plurality of operating environments; and 
said system further comprises 

means for determining whether a password is specified for said selected operating environment, 
and if specified, prompting the user to input said password; and 

means for comparing said specified password with the input password and refusing to restore the 
saved operating environment should a mismatch occur. 
The information processing system according to claim 11, characterized in that the area for 
storing said password is a reserved area which is inaccessible to the user. 
The information processing system according to any claim from 10 to 12, characterized by 
further comprising: 

means for prompting the user to choose whether to wake-up the saved operating environment or 
perform normal booting; and 

means for performing normal booting procedures in response to the selection of normal booting. 
The information processing system according to any claim from 10 to 13, characterized in that 
said hibernation data includes the contents of the main memory (21) and video memory (58) of said 

system and the hardware context information necessary to fully restore the operating state of the 
system. 
The information processing system according to any claim from 10 to 14, characterized in 
that: 

information is stored in said external storage device for every operating environment being saved 
which indicates that the hibernation data is valid; and that: 

said system further comprises means for overriding the hibernation data for the regenerated 
operating environment after the restore operation by said means for restoring. 
The information processing system according to claim 15, characterized in that: 
a hibernation signature indicating that valid hibernation data for at least one operating environment 

 
has been saved is stored in a reserved area on said external storage device; 

and said system further comprises 
means for determining, after the restore operation by said means for restoring, whether valid 

hibernation data for any other operating environment has been saved; and 
means for overriding the hibernation signature in response to the absence of saved valid 

hibernation data. 
The information processing system according to any claim from 10 to 16, characterized in 
that: 

for each operating environment being saved, a check sum of the hibernation data is stored in a 
reserved area on said external storage device; and that 

said system further comprises 
means for calculating, after the restore operation by said means for storing, the check sum of the 

hibernation data having been saved; 
means for comparing the result of said calculation with said stored check sum; and 

means for terminating system operation in the case of mismatch. 
An information processing system, characterized by including a combination of the information 
processing system as claimed in any claim from 1 to 9 with the information processing system as 

claimed in any claim from 10 to 17. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
