<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634973</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LITHOGRAPHIC MASK, COMPRISING A MEMBRANE HAVING IMPROVED STRENGTH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03C1722	C03C1722	C03C1734	C03C1734	G03F114	G03F114	G03F116	G03F116	H01L2102	H01L21027	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03C	C03C	C03C	C03C	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03C17	C03C17	C03C17	C03C17	G03F1	G03F1	G03F1	G03F1	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A membrane is supported at its edge by an annular, tapered skirt structure. The skirt strengthens the attachment of the membrane to the support ring (55) and reinforces the edge region where the membrane would otherwise tend to fail. Stress concentrations are reduced by providing a skirt or featheredge, on the interior side of the skirt, that meets the membrane at a relatively small effective contact angle. In a preferred embodiment, the membrane is made by depositing a polysilicon layer (20) on the surface of a substrate of silica-based glass (10). A portion of the polysilicon layer (20) remains as a free-standing, tensile film supported by a remaining portion of the substrate (50).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN TELEPHONE 
&
 TELEGRAPH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN TELEPHONE 
&
 TELEGRAPH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRIMBLE LEE EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRIMBLE LEE EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LITHOGRAPHIC MASK, COMPRISING A MEMBRANE HAVING IMPROVED STRENGTHField of the InventionThis invention relates to free-standing tensile films which are supported at the edges by rigid, annular members. More particularly, this invention relates to films made from polysilicon or other materials of suitable transparency to x rays for use in x-ray lithographic masks for fabrication of integrated circuits. Art BackgroundMembranes are widely used as microsensor elements, vacuum windows, and substrates for lithographic masks. In particular, masks formed on membranes are of interest for fabricating integrated electronic devices by x-ray lithography. In such a process, an electronic substrate is coated with a resist material that is sensitive to x radiation, and the material is exposed in a pattern defined by a mask for incident x rays. The mask generally includes a desired pattern of x-ray attenuating material and a substrate for supporting the attenuating material. However, a body of substantial thickness underlying the patterned region may itself unacceptably attenuate the incident x radiation in areas that should be transmissive. Generally, this problem is avoided by depositing the attenuating material on a thin membrane that is supported at its periphery by a thicker, typically ring-shaped, suppoπ region. The membrane is typically 0.5 - 5 μm thick. Desirably, the membrane is relatively robust; e.g., capable of withstanding, over a 2-μm thickness and 3-cm diameter, a pressure differential across the membrane of at least 20 kPa.The search for a robust membrane has been fraught with difficulty. For example, one widely investigated x-ray mask is made by forming a heavily boron- doped surface layer on a silicon wafer. A membrane is then formed by exposing the wafer to a selective etchant that removes relatively undoped silicon much more rapidly than the boron-doped silicon. A support ring is defined by applying an etch- resistant material to a peripheral, annular region on the face of the wafer opposite to the boron-doped face. After etching, the thin, boron-doped layer remains suspended within the annular support ring. The etchant must exhibit high selectivity to avoid substantial thinning of the boron-doped layer. The boron-doped silicon is typically single-crystalline on the silicon substrate. As such, it is susceptible to fracture along its crystallographic planes, and therefore does not generally attain the desired degree of robustness. 

 A more robust membrane is described in U.S. Patent No. 5,051,326,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims:
1. An article comprising a perforate body having a principal surface and a thickness measured perpendicularly to the principal surface; and an imperforate, solid layer overlying the principal surface, wherein: a) in at least a portion of the body, the thickness is at least about lOOμm; b) the body has an inner surface such that: die inner surface defines a hole, and the inner surface forms an effective contact angle with the layer; c) the layer overlies the hole; d) the layer has a thickness of about 5 μm or less; and e) tfiat portion of the layer that overlies the hole, such portion to be referred to as a membrane, has a diameter at least about 1000 times the layer thickness;
CHARACTERIZED IN THAT f) the article further comprises a skirt region intermediate the layer and the hole, the skirt region providing an effective contact angle of about 10° or less.
2. The article of claim 1, wherein: a) the inner surface intersects the principal surface, whereby a circumferential edge is defined; b) the skirt region comprises a portion of the body adjacent the circumferential edge; c) in the skin region, the inner surface is smooth and concave; and d) a portion of the skirt region nearest the circumferential edge has a thickness smaller than the layer thickness.
3. The article of claim 2, wherein the effective contact angle is 3° or less.
4. The article of claim 2, wherein the body comprises silica-based glass, and me layer comprises silicon.
5. The article of claim 2, wherein the body comprises aluminosilicate glass, and the layer comprises polysilicon.
6. The article of claim 5, wherein the layer thickness is about 2 μm or less, and die membrane diameter is about 27 mm or more. 



 7. The article of claim 6, wherein the membrane has a strength of about 1.5 GPa or more.
8. The article of claim 1, further comprising at least one perforate, solid layer intermediate the body and the imperforate layer, wherein: a) the perforate layer has a thickness y; b) the skirt region comprises a shelf-like portion of the perforate layer which projects a distance x over the hole; c) x is at least about 6y; and d) die effective contact angle is defined as arctan — . x
9. The article of claim 8, wherein the body comprises silicon, the imperforate layer comprises silicon nitride, and the perforate layer comprises silicon nitride.
10. The article of claim 8, wherein the body comprises aluminosilicate glass, the perforate layer comprises polysilicon, and the imperforate layer comprises polysilicon.
11. The article of claim 9, wherein the imperforate layer thickness is 1 μm or less, and die membrane diameter is about 27 mm or more.
12. The article of claim 11 , wherein the membrane has a strength of about 0.9 GPa or more.
13. The article of claim 11 , wherein x is about 0.5 mm and y is about
1 μm.
14. A med od for manufacturing an article, comprising the steps of: a) providing an aluminosilicate glass body having front and back surfaces; b) forming a continuous polysilicon film on the front surface and an annular polysilicon film on the back surface; and 


 c) etching the body in an aqueous solution comprising hydrofluoric acid, CHARACTERIZED IN THAT: d) d e aqueous solution of the etching step further comprises sulfuric acid in an amount sufficient to prevent substantial amounts of precipitated aluminum fluoride and calcium fluoride from accumulating on the back surface during the etching step; and die method further comprises the step of: e) during the etching step, rotating the body about an axis perpendicular to the front and back surfaces.
15. A mediod for manufacturing an article, comprising the steps of: a) providing an aluminosilicate glass body having front and back surfaces; b) forming an annular polysilicon film on the back surface and a first, continuous polysilicon film on the front surface; and c) etching the body such that a central portion thereof is removed, CHARACTERIZED IN THAT the method further comprises the steps of: d) after (b) but before (c), forming a second polysilicon film overlying the first polysilicon film, and forming a silicon dioxide film included between the first and second polysilicon films; e) after (c), etching the first polysilicon film such that a central portion thereof is removed; and then f) etching the silicon dioxide film and the glass body such that a central portion of said film is removed, and such that an annular portion of said body is removed, leading to exposure of an annular portion of the first polysilicon film.
16. A method for manufacturing an article, comprising the steps of: a) providing a body which comprises aluminosilicate glass and has at least one surface to be etched; b) preparing an etchant solution which comprises hydrofluoric acid; and c) exposing the surface to the etchant solution, CHARACTERIZED IN THAT d) the preparing step comprises including in the etchant solution an amount of sulfuric acid sufficient to prevent substantial amounts of precipitated aluminum fluoride and calcium fluoride from accumulating on the surface during the etching step. 


 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the preparing step comprises preparing an etchant solution comprising, by volume, about 10 parts water, about 1 pan concentrated hydrofluoric acid, and about 1 part concentrated sulfuric acid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
