<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643532</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dynamic focus circuit of electromagnetic focusing type for cathode ray tube of video image displaying apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N326	H04N326	H04N928	H04N928	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N3	H04N3	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dynamic focus circuit of electromagnetic focusing 
type for a cathode ray tube of a video image displaying 

apparatus, is provided with a first oscillating circuit and a 
second oscillating circuit. The first oscillating circuit is 

provided with: an electric power source (Vi); a first switching 
device (SW1); and a capacitor (C), which are connected in 

series to form a loop, the first oscillating circuit being 
opened and closed by the first switching device. The second 

oscillating circuit is provided with: a second switching 
device (SW2); the capacitor (C), which is commonly used with 

the first oscillating circuit such that the first and second 
oscillating circuits are parallel with respect to the 

capacitor; and a focus coil (L2) for focusing an electron beam 
of the cathode ray tube, the second switching device, the 

capacitor and the focus coil being connected in series to form 
a loop, the second oscillating circuit being opened and closed 

by the second switching device. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PIONEER ELECTRONIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PIONEER ELECTRONIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAMOTO KATSUNORI PIONEER ELE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAMOTO, KATSUNORI, PIONEER ELECTRONIC CORP.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to a dynamic 
focus circuit of a display apparatus, and more particularly to 
a dynamic focus circuit of electromagnetic focusing type, 
which is used for a CRT (Cathode Ray Tube) of a projection 
television etc.. The multi-media and the projection television are 
being popularized, by which a video image can be enjoyed at 
home on a wide picture plane with force. In order to display 
a video image source of high quality such as a high definition 
television, a clear vision etc., and display the character 
information and the drawing information in the multi-media, 
there is a tendency that the picture plane is getting larger 
and the resolution is getting higher. On such a background, it 
is demanded to improve the focusing capability in view of 
improving the image quality on the overall picture plane. In the projection television, the video image of the 
CRT is magnified and projected by use of a projection lens. 
The focusing technique by means of a main focusing lens, is 
such a technique to focus an electron beam emitted from an 
electron gun to a smallest spot on a fluorescent surface of the  
 
CRT and on the screen, at this time. There are two types of focusing method, i.e. an 
electrostatic focusing method, which adjusts focusing by 
adjusting the application of the voltage by combining the 
cylindrical electrodes within the CRT, and an electromagnetic 
focusing type focusing method (hereinbelow, it is referred to 
as an electromagnetic focusing method) which uses a focusing 
coil and the permanent magneto at the external of the CRT. The 
electromagnetic focusing method can perform such a control to 
make the spot diameter smaller than the electrostatic method, 
so that the electromagnetic focusing method is suitable for the 
high image quality projection television. FIG. 7 shows a principle of the electromagnetic 
focusing method. FIG. 7 shows a CRT 12 and a screen 11. The CRT 12 
projects a video image onto the screen 11. A focus coil L1 for 
generating a correction magnetic field, and a permanent 
magneto 13 for generating a stationary magnetic field are 
equipped at a neck portion 12b of the CRT 12. An electron gun 
14 is equipped in the internal space of the CRT 12. An electron 
beam 15 is emitted from the electron gun 14. At the central portion of a fluorescent surface 12a, 
the electron beam 15 is focused with a focal distance L from 
the electron gun 14 to the fluorescent surface 12a. At the 
peripheral portion of the fluorescent surface 12a, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dynamic focus circuit of electromagnetic focusing 
type for a cathode ray tube of a video image displaying 

apparatus, characterized in that said dynamic focus circuit 
comprises a first oscillating circuit and a second oscillating 

circuit, 
   said first oscillating circuit comprising: an 

electric power source (Vi); a first switching means (SW1); and 
a capacitor (C), which are connected in series to form a loop, 

said first oscillating circuit being opened and closed by said 
first switching means, 

   said second oscillating circuit comprising: a second 
switching means (SW2); said capacitor (C), which is commonly 

used with said first oscillating circuit such that said first 
and second oscillating circuits are parallel with respect to 

said capacitor; and a focus coil (L2) for focusing an electron 
beam of said cathode ray tube, said second switching means, 

said capacitor and said focus coil being connected in series to 
form a loop, said second oscillating circuit being opened and 

closed by said second switching means, 
   said first switching means opening and closing at a 

timing in correspondence with a blanking time period or a video 
image time period based on a horizontal scanning frequency of 

video image data of said video image displaying apparatus, to 
charge and discharge said capacitor,

 
   said second switching means opening and closing at 

a timing according to an inverse logic of said first switching 
means, to charge and discharge said capacitor. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said first oscillating circuit further 

comprises a first coil (L1) for generating an oscillation in 
said first oscillating circuit. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to claim 2 
characterized in that said dynamic focus circuit further 

comprises a snubber circuit (9) connected in parallel with said 
first coil. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to any one of 
claims 1 to 3, characterized in that said first switching means 

(SW1) comprises a first thyristor (SCR1), and said second 
switching means (SW2) comprises a second thyristor (SCR2). 
A dynamic focus circuit according to claim 4, 
characterized in that said dynamic focus circuit further 

comprises a timing control circuit (2) for controlling a 
switching timing of said first thyristor and a switching timing 

of said second thyristor. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to any one of 
 

claims 1 to 5, characterized in that said dynamic focus circuit 
further comprises a horizontal synchronization separating 

means (1) for separating a horizontal synchronizing signal 
from the video image data of said video image displaying 

apparatus, 
   said first and second switching means opening and 

closing on the basis of the separated horizontal synchronizing 
signal. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to any one of 
claims 1 to 6, characterized in that said second oscillating 

circuit further comprises a second coil (L3) for generating an 
oscillation in said second oscillating circuit. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to claim 7, 
characterized in that said second coil (L3) comprises a 

saturable inductor, and changes an oscillating frequency in 
said second oscillating circuit by changing an inductance of 

said saturable inductor. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to claim 8, 
characterized in that said dynamic focus circuit further 

comprises a F/V (Frequency to Voltage) convertor (5) for 
converting the horizontal synchronizing frequency to a voltage 

signal for controlling said saturable inductor. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to claim 7 
characterized in that said dynamic focus circuit further 

comprises a snubber circuit (10) connected in parallel with 
said second coil. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to any one of 
claims 1 to 10 characterized in that said dynamic focus circuit 

further comprises: 
   a transistor (Q) connected in series in the loop of 

said first oscillating circuit, for controlling a voltage 
supplied by said electric power source; and 

   a negative feed back loop (7, 8) for negatively feed 
back a portion of an oscillating current of said focus coil to 

said first oscillating circuit to stabilize the oscillating 
current of said focus coil. 
A dynamic focus circuit according to any one of 
claims 1 to 11, characterized in that said first oscillating 

circuit further comprises a smoothing capacitor (Ci) for 
bypassing an oscillating current of said first oscillating 

circuit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
