<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643683</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE RECOVERY OF METAL CATALYSTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C4550	C07C4500	C07C4585	C07C4578	C07C4580	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C45	C07C45	C07C45	C07C45	C07C45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for recovering cobalt values from a cobalt-containing aqueous phase comprising a preforming step in which the aqueous phase is contacted, in the presence of syn gas, with a noble metal catalyst and with an organic solvent for dicobalt octacarbonyl in a preformer (4), and a further step in which volatile cobalt carbonyl compounds are recovered from the reaction product of the preforming step. The method and apparatus of the invention enable efficient recovery of cobalt values to be achieved with the production of low quantities of waste material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANIN JEAN ALEXANDRE ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DRIESSCHE EDDY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANIN, JEAN, ALEXANDRE, ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DRIESSCHE, EDDY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the oxo process and, in 
particular, to the catalyst cycle of the oxo process. 
That is, it relates to a method for removing metal-containing 
catalyst residues, for example, cobalt-containing 
residues, from crude oxo products and 
recovering therefrom catalyst residues in a form suitable 
for recycle to the oxo reaction. Oxo reactions (also referred to as hydroformylation 
reactions) involve the preparation of oxygenated organic 
compounds by the reaction of a carbon monoxide and 
hydrogen mixture ("syn gas") with carbon compounds 
containing olefinic unsaturation. The reaction is 
performed in the presence of a carbonylation catalyst and 
results in the formation of a compound, for example, an 
aldehyde, which has one more carbon atom in its molecular 
structure than the starting olefinic feedstock. By way 
of example, higher alcohols may be produced in the oxo 
process by hydroformylation of commercial C6-C12 olefin 
fractions to an aldehyde-containing oxonation product, 
which on hydrogenation yields C7-C13 alcohols. The crude 
product of the hydroformylation reaction will contain 
catalyst, aldehydes, alcohols, unreacted feedstock, syn 
gas and by-products. Before further processing of the crude product is 
possible, it is necessary to remove the catalyst therefrom. 
One conventional method of removing cobalt values 
(that is, cobalt in any one of its possible oxidation  
 
states) from such a crude product is to treat the product 
with an alkali or acid wash technique; however, this 
uses expensive raw materials and, moreover, it is 
difficult to remove essentially all traces of cobalt from 
the water wash streams before those may be discharged 
into water courses. Another such conventional method 
involves the oxidation of the cobalt catalytic species 
followed by extraction as a salt in aqueous solution. US Patent No. 3725534 proposes a method for recovery 
of cobalt values from crude oxo product in which, after 
separation from unreacted gases, the oxo product 
containing substantially all the cobalt values in the 
form of dissolved cobalt compounds is mixed with an 
acidic solution, the cobalt materials being converted to 
water-soluble salts of the acid. After it has been 
combined with a promotor, for example, an alkali or 
alkaline earth metal salt of a weak acid, the separated 
aqueous phase is introduced into a preformer containing a 
preforming catalyst, for example, a noble metal catalyst. 
The amount of the promotor is so selected that 
substantially complete
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of recovery of cobalt values from a cobalt-containing 
aqueous phase, comprising contacting the 

aqueous phase, in the presence of syn gas, with a solid 
catalyst that is suitable for catalysing carbonylation of 

cobalt ions and with an organic solvent for hydrocobalt 
carbonyl and dicobalt octacarbonyl, the said solvent 

being substantially immiscible with water and being 
present in an amount of not less than 20% by volume, 

based on the combined volume of the solvent and the 
aqueous phase to be contacted with the solid catalyst, 

and recovering from the aqueous phase and organic liquid 
phase so obtained volatile cobalt carbonyl compounds. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the aqueous 
phase and the organic liquid phase are subsequently 

treated in a stripping step in which the said phases are 
contacted with a stripping gas, volatile cobalt compounds 

being entrained in the stripping gas. 
A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the aqueous 
phase and the organic liquid phase are combined with oxo 

product from an oxo reactor before they are contacted 
with the stripping gas. 
A method for recovery of cobalt values from the 
crude product of a cobalt-catalysed oxo reaction, the 

crude oxo product containing cobalt compounds in addition 
to an organic oxo product, the method comprising 


treating the crude oxo product to remove  
 

volatile cobalt compounds; 
contacting the crude oxo product with an 
aqueous phase of pH not greater than 7 to form an aqueous 

phase containing cobalt values; and 
contacting the aqueous phase so obtained, in 
the presence of syn gas, with a solid catalyst that is 

suitable for catalysing carbonylation of cobalt ions and 
with an organic solvent for hydrocobalt carbonyl and 

dicobalt octacarbonyl, the said solvent being 
substantially immiscible with water, to obtain cobalt-containing 

aqueous and organic liquid phases and a 
cobalt-containing gas phase. 
A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein at least one 
of the cobalt-containing aqueous and organic liquid 

phases and the cobalt-containing syn gas obtained is 
treated to remove volatile cobalt compounds therefrom. 
A method as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5, wherein 
the crude oxo product is treated in a stripping step in 

which it is contacted with a stream of stripping gas in 
the presence of an aqueous phase of pH not greater than 7 

to entrain volatile cobalt compounds in said stripping 
gas and to form an aqueous phase containing cobalt 

values. 
A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein at least one 
of the cobalt-containing syn gas and the cobalt-containing 

aqueous and organic liquid phases is treated to 
remove volatile cobalt compounds therefrom, the said 

treatment comprising recycling one or more of that gas  
 

and those phases to the stripping step. 
A method as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7, wherein 
the stripping gas is syn gas. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 8, 
wherein cobalt compounds that are removed from the oxo 

product by the stripping gas are recycled to the oxo 
reaction. 
A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein, after 
contacting the crude product, the stripping gas is 

contacted with olefin feed for the oxo reactor, cobalt 
values in the said stripping gas becoming entrained in 

the olefin feed. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 6 to 10, 
wherein, after contacting the solid catalyst, the 

cobalt-containing aqueous and organic liquid phases and 
the cobalt-containing syn gas are combined with crude oxo 

product and fed to the stripping step. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 11, 
wherein the aqueous phase is concentrated to a cobalt 

concentration of at least 0.5 wt % cobalt (calculated as 
metal) before it is contacted with the solid catalyst. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein at least a 
part of the aqueous effluent from the concentration step 

is recycled to form a part of the aqueous phase of pH not 
greater than 7 that is contacted with crude oxo product. 
A method as claimed in claim 13, in which before the 
said aqueous effluent is contacted with the crude oxo 

product it is used as wash water in a washing step in  
 

which residual cobalt is removed from the oxo product 
after that has been treated to remove volatile compounds 

and contacted with an aqueous phase of pH not greater 
than 7. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 14, 
wherein the water used in the method is contained in a 

substantially closed loop, substantially no waste water 
being generated. 
A method according to any one of claims 4 to 15, 
wherein the solvent for hydrocobalt carbonyl and dicobalt 

octacarbonyl is selected from decobalted crude oxo 
product, hydrogenated oxo product, oxo alcohols, light 

oxo fraction, heavy oxo fraction and olefins. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 16, 
wherein the solid catalyst is a noble metal catalyst. 
A method as claimed in claim 17, wherein palladium, 
platinum or gold or a compound of one of those metals is 

used as the noble metal catalyst. 
A method for recovery of cobalt values from the 
crude product of a cobalt catalysed oxo reaction, 

substantially as described herein with reference to 
Figure 1 of the drawings. 
A method for recovery of cobalt values from the 
crude product of a cobalt catalysed oxo reaction, 

substantially as described in Example 1 herein. 
An apparatus comprising 

an oxo reactor; 
a stripping means arranged for receiving crude oxo  
 

product from the reactor and comprising means for 
effecting contact between the said oxo product and syn 

gas in the presence of water or aqueous acid and means 
for separating the aqueous phase from the oxo product and 

syn gas; 
a preformer arranged for receiving separated aqueous 
phase from the stripping means, the said preformer having 

means for containing a solid catalyst and having inlet 
means for the separated aqueous phase, for an organic 

liquid phase and for a gas, the preformer further 
comprising means for effecting contact between the 

liquid phases and the solid catalyst, and means for 
effecting contact between the aqueous phase and the 

organic liquid phase and the gas; and 
recycling means for recycling to the stripping means 
effluent from the preformer comprising one or more of the 

organic liquid phase, the aqueous phase and the gas. 
An oxo apparatus including a cobalt recovery system 
substantially as described with reference to Figure 1 of 

the drawings herein. 
The use of a two-liquid-phase catalytic preformer 
for improving the efficiency of recovery of cobalt 

values. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
