<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638773</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Air cleaning method, cleaning apparatus, and mist generator.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24F316	F24F316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24F	F24F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24F3	F24F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air cleaning apparatus includes a housing (100) having an air 
inlet (110) and an air outlet (120), and a mist generator (150) arranged 

in the housing for generating minute particles of water. The minute 
water particles are mixed with air by a blower (140) in the housing and 

the resulting mixture is fed into a space outside the housing through 
the air outlet (120). Floating contaminant particles in the outside 

space is expanded by combining the floating contaminant particles with 
the minute water particles fed by the blower, and the expanded floating 

contaminant particles are sucked into the housing through the air inlet 
by the blower and are seized by a filter (130) provided at the air 

inlet. 
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCAT EQUIPMENT PTE LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCAT EQUIPMENT PTE LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOON CHEONG KONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOON, CHEONG KONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an air cleaning 
method and a cleaning apparatus for cleaning air by 
seizing minute particles, such as dust, floating in the 
air, and a mist generator used in the cleaning 
apparatus. Exhaust gas, smoke, sulfurous or carbonic acid 
gas, dust, ticks, pollen, and various other dust and 
germs are floating in the air, resulting in air 
pollution. A clean aerial environment is required in 
various fields, including electronic, medical, and food 
industries, and it is created by using clean rooms and 
the like. According to a conventional method for cleaning 
air in a clean room, floating particles in the air are 
seized by means of a blower and a filter. In this 
method, the air in the clean room is circulated by 
means of the blower, the filter is arranged in the 
middle of the path of circulation of the air so that 
floating contaminant particles in the air are seized by 
the filter as the air passes through the filter, and  
 
the filtered air is supplied to the clean room. The cleaning efficiency of this filtering method 
can be increased by making the filter mesh finer. If 
this is done, however, the flow resistance against the 
air becomes higher, so that the pressure loss 
increases. It is necessary, therefore, to use a high-pressure 
blower with an unreasonably large capacity or 
to increase the frequency of air circulation. Usually, 
the filtering performance of a filter is evaluated in 
terms of the efficiency of seizing minute particles of 
0.3 µ m or less. In order to increase this efficiency 
to 99% or more, however, a filter of very fine mesh is 
required. In this case, the pressure loss is so high 
that a high-pressure blower should be used with the 
filter, thus entailing higher equipment cost. If a commercially available air cleaning apparatus 
is used in order to cut the equipment cost, the 
filtering performance of its filter is too low to seize 
minute particles of 0.3 µ m or less with ease. 
Moreover, it takes a very long time to obtain a 
predetermined cleanness after the operation of the 
cleaning apparatus is started. The present invention has been contrived in 
consideration of these circumstances, and its object is 
to provide an air cleaning method and a cleaning 
apparatus, in which minute particles can be effectively  
 
seized with use of a filter of conventional performance 
in a short period of time, and a mist generator used in 
the cleaning apparatus. In order to achieve the above object, an air 
cleaning method according to the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of cleaning air comprising the steps 
of: 

   generating minute particles of water; 
   expanding floating contaminant particles in air by 

combining the minute water particles with the floating 
contaminant particles, and 

   seizing the expanded floating particles by means 
of a filter. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein said 
step of generating the minute water particles includes 

scattering and pulverizing the water by means of a 
rotating member. 
An air cleaning apparatus comprising: 
   a housing having an air inlet and an air outlet; 

   a mist generator arranged in the housing for 
generating minute particles of water; 

   air delivery means for mixing the minute water 
particles with air, feeding the resulting mixture into 

a space outside the housing through the air outlet, 
expanding floating contaminant particles in the outside 

space by combining the floating contaminant particles 
with the minute water particles, and sucking the 

expanded floating contaminant particles into the 
housing through the air inlet; and 

   a filter provided at the air inlet, for seizing 
the floating contaminant particles in air passing 

 
through the air inlet. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, 
wherein said minute water particles generated by means 

of the mist generator have an average size of 0.3 µ m 
or less. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, 
wherein said mist generator includes a pair of rotating 

members opposed and connected to each other across a 
predetermined gap for integral rotation, a water 

reservoir containing water, a suction pipe having one 
end connected to the rotational center portion of one 

of the rotating members and opening into the gap and 
the other end immersed in the water in the water 

reservoir, and drive means for rotating the rotating 
members to generate a negative pressure in the gap 

between the rotating members by means of a centrifugal 
force, introducing the water from the water reservoir 

into the gap through the suction pipe by means of the 
negative pressure, and scattering and pulverizing the 

water in the gap by means of the centrifugal force of 
the rotating members. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 5, 
wherein said water reservoir includes a water tank 

having an opened top and containing the water, and a 
baseplate removably attached to the water tank and 

closing a opened top thereof, and said rotating members 
and drive means are supported by the baseplate. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 6, 
wherein said water reservoir includes a mist chamber 

defined between the surface of the water in the water 
tank and the baseplate, and said rotating members are 

arranged in the mist chamber. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 7, 
wherein said baseplate has a through hole, said drive 

means includes a motor mounted on the baseplate so as 
to face the through hole and having a driving shaft 

extending through the through hole into the mist 
chamber, and said rotating members are connected to the 

driving shaft. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 8, 
wherein said rotating members include a disk-shaped 

first rotating plate coaxially fixed to an extending 
end of the driving shaft and a disk-shaped second 

rotating plate opposed and coaxially attached to the 
first rotating plate at a predetermined distance 

therefrom. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 9, 
wherein said suction pipe is fixed to the second 

rotating plate and extends coaxially with the driving 
shaft. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 10, 
wherein said mist generator includes an air-water 

separator mounted on the baseplate, the separator 
having one end communicating with the mist chamber and 

 
the other end communicating with the air delivery means 

by means of a supply duct. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 11, 
wherein said mist generator includes a guide plate 

arranged between the rotating members and the air-water 
separator in the mist chamber, the guide plate defining 

a meandering passage for guiding air and the minute 
water particles from the rotating members toward the 

air-water separator. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein said mist generator includes a fan for guiding 

the air from the housing into the mist chamber through 
the through hole of the baseplate and delivering the 

air to the air delivery means via the passage, the 
air-water separator, and the supply duct. 
A cleaning apparatus according to claim 6, 
wherein said mist generator includes a cylindrical 

water filter having one end fixed to a bottom of the 
water tank and the other end opening above the water 

surface, the water filter surrounding the suction pipe. 
A mist generating apparatus comprising: 
   a pair of rotating members opposed and connected 

to each other across a predetermined gap for integral 
rotation; 

   a water reservoir containing water; 
   a suction pipe having one end connected to the 

rotational center portion of one of the rotating 
 

members and opening into the gap and the other end 
immersed in the water in the water reservoir; and 

   drive means for rotating the rotating members to 
generate a negative pressure in the gap between the 

rotating members by means of a centrifugal force, 
introducing the water from the water reservoir into the 

gap through the suction pipe by means of the negative 
pressure, and scattering and pulverizing the water in 

the gap by means of the centrifugal force of the 
rotating members. 
A mist generating apparatus according to 

claim 15, wherein said water reservoir includes a water 
tank containing the water and having an opened top and 

a baseplate removably attached to the water tank and 
closing the opened top thereof, and said rotating 

members and drive means are supported by means of the 
baseplate. 
A mist generating apparatus according to 
claim 16, wherein said water reservoir includes a mist 

chamber defined between the surface of the water in the 
water tank and the baseplate, and said rotating members 

are arranged in the mist chamber. 
A mist generating apparatus according to 
claim 17, wherein said baseplate has a through hole, 

said drive means includes a motor mounted on the 
baseplate so as to face the through hole and having a 

driving shaft extending through the through hole into 
 

the mist chamber, and said rotating members are 
supported by means of the driving shaft. 
A mist generating apparatus according to 
claim 18, wherein said rotating members include a 

disk-shaped first rotating plate coaxially fixed to an 
extending end of the driving shaft and a disk-shaped 

second rotating plate opposed and coaxially attached to 
the first rotating plate at a predetermined distance 

therefrom. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
