<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629303</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR FACILITATING COMMUNICATION BETWEEN COMPONENTS HAVING DIFFERENT BYTE ORDERINGS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F500	G06F500	G06F776	G06F776	G06F1300	G06F1300	G06F1340	G06F1340	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F5	G06F5	G06F7	G06F7	G06F13	G06F13	G06F13	G06F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for allowing a component having a first byte ordering to effectively transfer information to another component having a second byte ordering. The present invention envisions embodiments where facilitation of the information transmission is set depending upon whether the two components have the same byte ordering or whether they have different byte orderings.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OLIVETTI ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OLIVETTI ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY CENTER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAM STEPHEN YIU-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAM, STEPHEN, YIU-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS, SYSTEM AND METHOD FORFACILITATING COMMUNICATION BETWEENCOMPONENTS HAVING DIFFERENT BYTE ORDERINGSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONI. Field of the Invention This invention relates to a system and method for allowing a computer-related component having a first byte ordering to effectively communicate with a computer- elated component having a second byte ordering. Embodiments of the present invention also envision a system and method for determining whether two components have the same byte ordering and for making provisions allowing the two components to communicate with each other. In addition, embodiments of the present invention contemplate that these provisions allowing the two components to communicate with each other can be administered dynamically.II. Related ArtOver the past several decades, various types of computer architectures have evolved. Many computer manufacturers have developed their own schemes and protocols, often stifling communication between devices using different schemes and protocols.Consequently, much effort has been expended in the computer industry in recent years trying to allow otherwise "incompatible" devices to communicate with each other.One such protocol difference that has developed between computer manufacturers concerns the "byte 

ordering" within a computer system. Byte ordering relates to the order in which bytes are ranked (typically within a "word" or portion thereof) from least significant to most significant in relation to the bit order (which concerns the order in which bits are ranked) .Components such as processor interfaces, memory devices and I/O interfaces typically need to be pre- configured to utilize a particular byte ordering. This is so these components can effectively communicate within a conventional computer system. Software components such as operating systems and application programs typically inherently utilize (and can be said to "have") the byte ordering of the hardware they were created on. Byte ordering is not an issue for the registers of a processor itself, since the bytes within a register cannot typically be selectively accessed (and thus, by default, the least significant byte is the one comprising the lowest order bits) . The majority of computer architectures utilize one of two different types of byte ordering schemes. In the first type, the least significant byte comprises the eight least-significant bits of a word. Similarly, the most significant byte comprises the eight most- significant bits. The significance of each byte
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for facilitating the transmission of information in a computer system, wherein the information is comprised of bytes, comprising: a first component having a first byte ordering, said first component capable of providing information to the computer system; a second component, said second component capable of receiving the information from said first component; and swapping means, communicatively positioned between said first component and said second component, for swapping the bytes of the information, prior to its receipt by said second component when the byte ordering of said second component is a second byte ordering.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first component is a bi-endian processor, initially configured using a first byte ordering mode, wherein said bi-endian processor is running a first computer program having said first byte ordering.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein upon receipt of a request by said first computer program to run a second computer program having a second byte ordering, said bi-endian processor is reconfigured using a second byte ordering, wherein said swapping means ceases swapping the bytes of information where the bytes of information are swapped when said bi-endian processor is running said first computer program and wherein .said swapping means swaps the bytes of information where the bytes of information are not swapped when said bi-endian processor is running said first computer program. 



4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said swapping means comprises at least one switch means within which two byte lines pass through, wherein said at least one switch means connectively swaps two byte lines upon receipt of a cross over input signal indicating that said switch is to become active.
5. The appartaus of claim l, wherein said swapping means is an integral part of said first component or said second component.
6. An apparatus for facilitating the transmission of information in a computer system, wherein the information is comprised of bytes and is transmitted by a source component having a byte ordering, comprising: a target component for receiving the information, wherein said target component has a first byte ordering; and swapping means, in communication with said target component, for receiving an indication concerning the byte ordering of the source component; wherein upon receiving an indication that the source component has a byte ordering different from said first byte ordering of said target component, said swapping means is set to an active mode in which the bytes of the information are swapped prior to the information being received by said target component, wherein upon receiving an indication that the source component has said first byte ordering, said swapping means is set to an inactive mode in which the bytes of the information are not swapped prior to the information being received by said target component. 


7. The apparatus of claim 6, Wherein said target component is a memory device.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the source component is a bi-endian processor, initially configured using a first byte ordering mode, wherein said bi-endian processor is running a first computer program having said first byte ordering.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein upon receipt of a request by said first computer program to run a second computer program having a second byte ordering, said bi-endian processor is reconfigured using a second byte ordering, wherein said swapping means is reset to an active mode when said swapping means is set to an inactive mode and wherein said swapping means is reset to an inactive mode when said swapping means is set to an active mode.
10. A computer system for utilizing a computer program comprised of bytes, wherein the computer program has a byte ordering, comprising: processor means for operating in either a first byte ordering mode or a second byte ordering mode, wherein said processor means is configured to operate using the byte ordering mode of the computer program; a component, having a byte ordering, for storing the computer program and for allowing said processor means to access the computer program; swapping means, communicatively positioned between said processor means and said component, for receiving an indication of the byte ordering mode of said processing means, and for swapping the bytes of the 


computer program when the byte ordering of said component is different from the byte ordering of said processor means.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said swapping means comprises at least one switch means within which two byte lines pass through, wherein said at least one switch means connectively swaps two byte lines upon receipt of a cross over input signal indicating that said switch is to become active.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said component is a memory device.
13. A method for facilitating the- transmission of information between a first component and a second component in a computer system, wherein the first component and the second component each have a byte ordering, comprising the steps of:
(1) determining whether the byte ordering of the first component is the same as the byte ordering of the second component;
(2) activating a byte swapper upon determination in said step (3) that the byte ordering of the first component is not the same as the byte ordering of the second component; and
(3) deactivating said byte swapper upon determination that the byte ordering of the first component is the same as the byte ordering of the second component.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps prior to said step (1) of: 


 receiving information concerning the byte ordering of the first component; and receiving information concerning the byte ordering of the second component. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
