<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655343</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stamp device employing a heat sensitive stencil paper
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41K132	B41K100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41K	B41K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41K1	B41K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stamp unit includes a grip portion (2) to be grasped 
by a hand, a stamp portion (3) that is fixedly linked to the 

grip portion, a skirt member (6) covering the outer peripheral 
side of the stamp side, and a protection cap (7) that is 

freely detachably mounted on the stamp portion. The skirt 
member is upwardly and downwardly slidably supported. At 

its nonuse time, the lower end of the skirt member 
projects to a position lower than a print face portion of 

the stamp portion. However, by locating the stamp unit at 
a print position and pressing the grip portion, the skirt 

member is moved upwardly, and the print face portion of 
the stamp member is pressed against a print surface, 

whereby ink oozes out from the print face portion to 
perform the print operation. The stamp unit is further 

provided with plural engaging holes (37) formed at the lower 
portion of the grip member and plural engaging pawls (14) that 

are provided at the upper portion of the stamp member and 
elastically engaged with the respective engaging holes. 

The grip member and the stamp member are mutually 
detachably mounted to each other through the respective 

engaging holes and the respective engaging pawls. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKI TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEO KEIJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKI, TAKASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEO, KEIJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a stamp unit, and particularly to
a stamp unit whose print face portion is formed of a heat sensitive
stencil paper in place of rubber.There has been utilized various kinds of stamps each of
which serves to print a company name, an address or other character
arrays on the surface of a sheet and has a print face portion
formed of rubber.Usually, this type of stamp is individually made to order.
Hence, they are expensive and a user must wait for a long time to
receive them from an order.On the other hand, a heat sensitive stencil paper has been
used for printing in which a desired pattern can be perforated by
irradiation of infrared rays or a thermal head, and ink is
transmitted through a perforation array to print various kinds of
patterns of character arrays, figures, marks or the like.In U.S. Patent No. 5 285 725, the applicant of the present
application proposed a stencil plate that mainly contains a heat
sensitive stencil paper as described above and an impregnation
member impregnated with ink. The stencil plate is suitable to
prepare a stamp in place of the conventional stamp having the print
face portion formed of rubber as described above. EP-A-0 516 399,
upon which the precharacterizing portion of amended claim 1 is
based, similarly discloses a stamp device having a stamp portion
with a stencil plate covering an ink impregnated member.The stencil plate is formed as follows. An impregnation
member impregnated with ink and a frame member surrounding the
impregnation member are adhesively attached to a synthetic resin
film, and a heat sensitive stencil paper is adhesively attached
onto the surfaces of the impregnation member and the frame member.When the stencil plate as described above is applied to a
stamp, the stencil plate is adhesively attached to the lower
surface of the base portion of a 
stamp member having a grip portion through a cushion
member, and a desired pattern of a character array or the
like is perforated on a heat sensitive paper by
irradiation of infrared rays or a thermal head. With this
construction, a stamp that comprises a stamp member and a
stencil plate and can print the desired character-array
pattern or the like on sheets over many times can be
obtained.In a stamp to which the heat sensitive stencil
paper as described above is applied, the heat sensitive
stencil paper located on the lower surface of the
impregnation member constitutes the print face portion. A
frame having a width is provided around the print face
portion, and thus, it may suffer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A stamp unit comprising:

a grip portion (2); and
a stamp portion (3) including a holding member (5)
and a print face portion fixed to a lower surface of said

holding member (5), the print face portion having an ink
member (4) and a heat sensitive stencil paper (28) covering

the ink member (4); characterized in that:
the holding member (5) is resiliently detachably
engageable with a lower surface of said grip portion (2).
A stamp unit as claimed in claim 1 wherein the ink
member is impregnated with ink.
A stamp unit as claimed in claim 1 wherein:

said holding member (5) comprises a base (35), the
ink member (4) being fixed to a lower surface of said base

(35);
the heat sensitive stencil paper (28) comprises
the print face portion; and
a skirt member (6) is provided surrounding an
outer peripheral side of said stamp portion (3), said skirt

member (6) being upwardly and downwardly movable.
The stamp unit as claimed in claim 3, wherein said
skirt member (6) is supported by at least one of said grip

portion (2) and said stamp portion (3) so as to be upwardly
and downwardly movable between a first position at which a

lower end portion of said skirt member (6) projects beyond
said print face portion of said stamp portion (3) and a

second position at which the lower end portion of said skirt
member (6) does not project beyond said print face portion.
The stamp unit as claimed in claim 4, further
comprising an elastic member (21) elastically urging said

skirt member (6) toward the first position relative to said
grip portion (2).
The stamp unit as claimed in claim 4 or 5, wherein
said grip portion (2) and said skirt member (6) comprise 

guide holes in order to maintain said skirt member (6) at a
position other than the first and second positions.
The stamp unit as claimed in any one of claims 3
to 6, wherein said holding member (5) has an outer-periphery

(34) surrounding an outer peripheral portion of said heat
sensitive stencil paper (28) and extending toward an outer

peripheral side of said base (35) at an inside of said skirt
member (6).
The stamp unit as claimed in any one of claims 3
to 6, further comprising:


a protection cap (7) for covering said print face
portion of said stamp portion (3), said protection cap (7)

being freely detachably mounted on said stamp portion (3).
The stamp unit as claimed in claim 8, wherein an
upper end of said protection cap (7) is arranged to abut a

lower end of an outer-periphery (34) of said holding member
(5) surrounding the outer peripheral portion of said heat

sensitive stencil paper (28) such that said protection cap
(7) is maintained spaced from said print face portion.
The stamp unit as claimed in any one of claims 3
to 9, wherein said heat sensitive stencil paper (28) is

perforated in a dot pattern to form one or more characters.
The stamp unit as claimed in claim 10, wherein
said grip portion (2) has a guide groove (15) formed at each

of lower portions of a front wall (12) and a rear wall (13)
thereof in order to allow said grip portion (2) to be

maintained at a predetermined position when the dot pattern
is perforated.
The stamp unit as claimed in any one of claims 3
to 11, wherein said ink member comprises an impregnation

member (27) impregnated with ink.
The stamp unit as claimed in any one of claims 3
to 12, wherein said grip portion (2) has a recess portion

(11) formed at a top portion of said grip portion (2), said
recess portion (11) adapted to receive a label for

distinguishing said stamp unit. 
The stamp unit as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein one of said stamp portion (3) and said grip portion

(2) comprises at least one engaging pawl (14,136) and the
other of said stamp portion (3) and said grip portion (2)

comprises a corresponding at least one engaging window
(37,114A) releasably engageable with said at least one

engaging pawl (14,136).
The stamp unit as claimed in claim 14, wherein

the or a skirt member is linked to said grip
portion (2), said skirt member being freely upwardly and

downwardly movable while surrounding an outer periphery of
said stamp portion (3); and comprising
an engagement releasing piece abutting against
each of said at least one engaging pawl when said grip

portion (2) is moved relative to said skirt member, said
engagement releasing piece elastically deforming each of said

at least one engaging pawl so that engagement between each of
said at least one engaging window and each of said at least

one engaging pawl is released.
The stamp unit as claimed in any one of claims 1
to 13, wherein one of said stamp portion (3) and said grip

portion (2) comprises a pair of flexible engaging pawls (14,
136) and the other of said stamp portion (3) and said grip

portion (2) comprises an engaging plate releasably engageable
with said pair of flexible engaging pawls (14,136).
The stamp unit as claimed in claim 16, wherein

the or a skirt member is linked to said grip
portion (2), said skirt member being freely upwardly and

downwardly movable while surrounding an outer periphery of
said stamp portion (3); and comprising
an engagement releasing piece abutting against
said pair of flexible engaging pawls when said grip portion

(2) is moved relative to said skirt member, said engagement
releasing piece elastically deforming said pair of flexible

engaging pawls so that engagement between said engaging plate
and said pair of flexible engaging pawls is released.
The stamp unit as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein said skirt member (7) is partially cut out and is

formed of a transparent material facilitating positioning of
the print face portion to a desired print position.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
