<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627283</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of controlling a grinder robot
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25J916	B25J918	B25J918	B25J916	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25J9	B25J9	B25J9	B25J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention is directed to a method of controlling 
a grinder robot wherein a grinder is mounted at a tip of a 

robot finger, and a grinding operation is performed in 
respect of a prescribed grinding region of a work while 

controlling the pressing force of the grinder. The force 
control is exercised such that the pressing force of the 

grinder is made smaller as the grinder approaches a 
vicinity of a boundary of the grinding region. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of controlling a
grinder robot. In more detail, the present invention
relates to a method of controlling a grinder robot wherein
a grinder is mounted at a tip of a robot finger, and a
grinding operation is performed on a work surface while
controlling a pressing force of the grinder with respect to
the work surface.Grinder robots are known in which a grinding tool such
as a grinder is mounted at a tip of a robot finger, and a
grinding operation is performed while pressing this grinder
against a work of an arbitrary shape with a prescribed
force. Specific examples of such grinder robots are
illustrated in U.S. Patent 5,126,645 and U.S. Patent
5,265,195, etc.In a grinding operation performed by such a grinder
robot, the pressing force of the grinder against the work
is detected by a six-axis force/torque sensor mounted at
the tip of the robot arm, and the target position and
attitude of the grinder are successively corrected while
successively comparing this detected pressing force with a 
target pressing force, thereby controlling the target
pressing force so that it is maintained constant.Thus, while using such a control method, for example
as shown in Fig. 1, the grinder is progressively fed in the
X direction while performing a plurality of reciprocations
over the grinding region of the work. As a result, a
smooth surface condition can be produced over the grinding
region.However, in a conventional grinder robot controlled as
described above, in cases where a grinding operation is
performed that had to grind a work surface in which a
comparatively large number of burrs and/or irregularities
are present before grinding, there is a high probability of
the following problems occurring.The first problem is that, when a work surface in
which comparatively large irregularities are present has to
be ground smooth, a step (groove) is formed along the
boundary of the grinding region on the work surface after
grinding.Formation of such a step risks giving rise to stress
localization at the step portion. If a large force is
applied to such a work, stress concentration occurs in the
vicinity of the step, leading to the formation of cracks
from the vicinity of the step.Furthermore, since the step formed by the conventional
grinding operation is formed at right angles when seen in 
the cross-sectional plane of the work, it is fairly sharp,
and thereby presents a risk of scratching other works,
etc., coming into proximity with it. In particular, such
steps are often formed in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for controlling a grinder robot, the
method comprising:


driving a grinder connected to said grinder robot
while pressing said grinder against a grinding region of a

workpiece; characterised in that
the pressing force of said grinder is reduced as
said grinder approaches the vicinity of a boundary of said

grinding region.
A method according to claim 1, wherein the
pressing force of said grinder in the vicinity of the

boundary of the grinding region is controlled so as to be
constantly reduced to zero at the boundary of the grinding

region.
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein
the pressing force of said grinder in the vicinity of the

boundary of said grinding region is controlled so as to form
a taper in the vicinity of the boundary of said grinding

region.
A method according to claim 1 further
characterised by the steps of pressing said grinder against

a grinding region of the workpiece while driving the grinder
in a first direction; 


lifting the grinder out of contact with the
workpiece and moving the grinder in a second direction while

the grinder is not contacting the work; and
altering distances that the grinder is moved in
the first and second directions.
A method according to claim 4, wherein said
altering step comprises varying the commencement position

and the termination position of the grinding operation.
A method according to claim 4, wherein the first
and second distances are altered as a function of the number

of times of the grinding operation.
A method according to claim 6, wherein the
function is defined as a random number function.
A method according to claim 1, further
characterised by:


contacting said grinder with a grinding region of

a workpiece;
calculating a guide line for said grinder using
the contact point obtained in said contacting step; and
controlling said grinder so as to start a grinding
operation from a position on said guide line.
A method according to claim 8, wherein the force
control of said grinder is exercised in the normal direction

of the workpiece while the grinding operation is started
from said guide line, and said grinder and the workpiece are

maintained in a non-contacting condition while effecting a
return of the grinder to said guide line.
A method according to claim 8, wherein the force
control of said grinder is exercised in the normal direction

of the workpiece while the grinding operation is started
from said guide line, and the force control of said grinder

is exercised in a tangent direction of the workpiece during
a feeding grinding operation from said guide line.
A method according to claim 1, further
characterised by:


contacting said grinder with a grinding region of
the workpiece;
calculating a guide point of said grinder using
the contact point obtained at said contacting step; and
controlling said grinder so as to start a grinding
operation from a position on said guide point.
A method according to claim 11, wherein the force
control of said grinder is exercised in a normal direction

of the workpiece while the grinding operation is started
from said guide point and said grinder and the workpiece are 

maintained in a non-contacting condition while effecting a
return of the grinder to said guide point.
A method according to claim 11, wherein the force
control of said grinder is exercised in a normal direction

of the workpiece while the grinding operation is started
from said guide point and the force control of said grinder

is exercised in a tangent direction of the workpiece during
a feeding grinding operation from said guide point.
A method according to claim 1, further
characterised by:


controlling a pressing force of the grinder in
accordance with first and second boundary pressing force

profiles and a constant pressing force between the first and
second boundary pressing force profiles, wherein the first

and second boundary pressing force profiles apply a smaller
force than the constant pressing force.
A method according to claim 14, wherein the first
boundary pressing force profile increases from a first

predetermined force value to the constant pressing force and
the second boundary force profile decreases from the

constant pressing force to a second predetermined force
value. 
A method according to claim 15, wherein the first
predetermined force value equals the second predetermined

force value.
A method according to claim 16, wherein the first
and second predetermined force values are zero.
A method according to claim 17, wherein the first
boundary pressing force profile increases linearly from the

first predetermined force value to the constant pressing
force and the second boundary pressing force profile

decreases linearly from the constant pressing force to the
second predetermined force value.
A method according to claim 15, wherein the first
and second boundary pressing force profiles are quadratic

curves.
A method according to claim 15, wherein the first
and second pressing force profiles are triangular functions.
A method according to claim 11, further comprising

calculating a subsequent guide point of said
grinder using said guide point so as to start a subsequent

grinding operation from a position on said subsequent guide
point.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
