<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642592</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIGASE CHAIN REACTION STARTING WITH RNA SEQUENCES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07H2100	C07H2104	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	C12Q168	C12Q170	C12Q170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07H	C07H	C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07H21	C07H21	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention involves a method of amplifying RNA by producing complementary DNA (cDNA) by reverse transcription of RNA, and amplification of the cDNA sequences. The analysis of the amplified material facilitates the detection of pathogens and disease states associated with the presence of particular nucleic acid sequences, so the present invention is important in medical diagnostic procedures. A method of producing cDNA of predetermined length is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARRINO JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSHALL RONALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSTACHEK JOANN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARRINO, JOHN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSHALL, RONALD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSTACHEK, JOANN, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 'Ligase chain reaction starting with RNA sequences".This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application Serial Number 07/891,543 filed May 29, 1992, the whole of which is incorporated by reference. Technical FieldThe present invention relates to methods and kits for amplifying and detecting specific RNA sequences. In particular, the invention relates to methods for producing complementary DNA (cDNA) by reverse transcription of RNA, and amplification of the DNA sequences. The analysis of the amplified material facilitates the detection of pathogens and disease states associated with the presence of particular nucleic acid sequences, so the present invention is important in medical diagnostic procedures.BackgroundNucleic acid amplification techniques are established as powerful tools for detecting small amounts of DNA or RNA which previously were undetectable by standard nucleic acid hybridization methods. DNA amplification most commonly employs the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) as described in U.S. Patents 4,683,195 and 4,683,202 or the ligase chain reaction (LCR) as described in EP-A-320308 and EP-A-439 182. The entire disclosure of each of these publications is incorporated herein by reference.When coupled with reverse transcription, PCR permits the amplification and detection of minute amounts of RNA as described in PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Amplifications. Academic Press, Inc., (1990). The PCR process is discussed further in WO 91/0994, which describes a one-enzyme system that can amplify RNA. A thermostable DNA polymerase having reverse transcriptase activity is reported. The reverse transcriptase activity makes a cDNA copy of the RNA and the cDNA is amplified by PCR, using the same enzyme and reagents.Efforts to avoid amplifying contaminating DNA are disclosed by Shuldiner et al, in published U.S. patent application 07/504,591 (NTIS) published May 14, 1991 for RNA template-specific PCR.The present invention provides a method to amplify RNA using the LCR. It utilizes a combination of ohgonucleotide probes and amplification methods which enhance the sensitivity and reliability of RNA amplification and detection with LCR. 

Summary of the InventionThe present invention relates to methods and kits useful for amplifying and detecting ribonucleic acid (RNA) from a multitude of sources. In a first aspect, the invention provides a method of amplifying a known RNA target sequence present in a biological sample, said method comprising:(a) treating RNA in the sample under hybridizing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is: 1. A method of amplifying a known RNA target sequence present in a biological sample, said method comprising: (a) treating RNA in the sample under hybridizing conditions with a first ohgonucleotide probe which is hybridizable to a first segment of the known target RNA under hybridizing conditions; (b) extending a 3' terminus of said first probe by reverse transcription of the RNA target so that a cDNA segment is produced having at its 5' end said first probe and at its extended 3
1
 end which, under hybridizing conditions, is a nucleotide sequence complementary to a second segment of the target RNA, said reverse transcription being limited to the addition of not more than about 30 nucleotides; (c) associating the extended first probe from the RNA target; (d) hybridizing a second oligonucleotide probe to said extended first probe, said second probe having a 3' end hybridizable to the extended cDNA segment of the first probe, but substantially not hybridizable to said first probe when it is unextended; (e) forming at least one of : (i) an elongated second probe complex by covalently ligating a third oligonucleotide probe to the 3' terminus of said second probe, with the proviso that if said second or third probe is modified, it is corrected prior to ligation of the third probe to the second probe; or (ii) an elongated first probe complex by forming a fourth oligonucleotide segment covalently attached to the 3' terminus of said first probe and complementary to said second probe; and (f) amplifying at least one of said elongated second probe complex and said elongated first probe complex.
2. The method of Claim 1 , wherein said elongated first probe complex is formed by the polymerization of nucleotide triphosphates to the 3' terminus of the extended first probe.
3. The method of Claim 1 , wherein said elongated first probe complex is formed by covalently ligating a fourth oligonucleotide probe to the 3' terminus of the extended first probe.
4. The method of Claim 3, wherein said first probe is extended by polymerization of nucleotide triphosphates to its 3' end, and wherein said elongated first probe complex is formed by covalently ligating the 5' terminus of a fourth oligonucleotide probe to the 3
*
 terminus of the extended first probe. 


 5. The method of Claim 4, wherein said first probe is extended by polymerization of between about 5 and about 15 nucleotides.
6. The method of Claim 1 , wherein said elongated second probe complex is formed by covalently ligating the 5' end of a third oligonucleotide probe directly to the 3' terminus of the second probe.
7. The method of Claim 1 , wherein said second probe is corrected by polymerization extension, adding nucleotide triphosphates to its 3' end, and wherein said elongated second probe complex is formed by covalently ligating the 5' terminus of a third oligonucleotide probe to the 3' terminus of the extended second probe.
8. The method of Claim 7, wherein said second probe is extended by polymerization of between 1 and 5 nucleotides.
9. The method of Claim 1 , wherein said second probe is corrected by cleavage of a blocking moiety present on its 3' end, and wherein said elongated second probe complex is formed by covalently ligating the 5' terminus of a third oligonucleotide probe to the 3' terminus of the corrected second probe.
10. The method of Claim 1 , wherein said reverse transcription comprises the use of a reverse transcriptase or a DNA polymerase.
11. The method of Claim 1 wherein the length of the cDNA extension of the first probe is limited to a predetermined length by providing a combination of less than all four nucleoside triphosphate types complementary to a selected segment of target RNA.
12. The method of Claim 11 , wherein the length of the cDNA extension comprises a sufficient number of bases complementary to the target RNA so that said second and first probes form a stable hybridization complex under the reaction conditions.
13. The method of Claim 11 , wherein the length of the cDNA extension from the first probe is from about 5 to about 15 bases.
14. The method of Claim 1 , wherein said target RNA sequence is selected from genomic RNA, mRNA, tRNA, rRNA, nuclear RNA, cytoplasmic RNA, total RNA, and viral RNA and any combination thereof.
15. The method according to Claim 1 , wherein said amplifying step comprises at least one repeated cycle of forming both: 


 (i) an elongation complex of a third ohgonucleotide probe covalently ligated to the 3' terminus of said second probe and complementary to at least a portion of said first probe, with the proviso that if said second or third probe is modified, it is corrected prior to ligation of the third probe to the second probe; and
(ii) an elongation ohgonucleotide complex covalently attached to the 3' terminus of said first probe and complementary to at least a portion of said second probe.
16. The method according to Claim 15, wherein said first, second and third ohgonucleotide probes used in the amplifying step are identical to those used in step (e) to form the elongation probe complex.
17. The method according to Claim 15, wherein said fourth ohgonucleotide segment is formed by covalendy ligating a fourth ohgonucleotide probe to the 3' terminus of said first probe, with the proviso that said first probe is extended prior to ligation, whereby said amplification step becomes a variation of LCR.
18. The method according to Claim 15, wherein said elongation oligonucleotide complex is formed solely by extension of said first probe, whereby said amplification step becomes a hybrid amphfication reaction with elongation forming one elongation complex and polymerization extension forming the other elongation complex. 19. A method of amplifying a known RNA target sequence present in a biological sample, said metfiod comprising: (a) treating RNA in the sample under hybridizing conditions with a first ohgonucleotide probe which is hybridizable to a first segment of the known target RNA under said hybridizing conditions; (b) extending a 3' terminus of said probe by reverse transcription of the RNA target so that a cDNA segment is produced having at its 5' end said first probe and at its extended 3' end a nucleotide sequence complementary to a second segment of the target RNA, wherein the length of the cDNA extension of the first probe is limited to a predetermined length by providing a combination of less than all four nucleoside triphosphate types complementary to a selected segment of target RNA; (c) dissociating the extended first probe from the RNA target; (d) hybridizing a second oligonucleotide probe to said extended first probe, said second probe having a 3' end which, under hybridizing conditions, is hybridizable to the extended cDNA segment of the first probe, but substantially not hybridizable to said first probe when the first probe is unextended; (e) ligating a third oligonucleotide probe, complementary to said first probe, to the 3' terminus of said second probe, with the proviso that if said second probe is 


extended prior to ligation, the third probe is ligated to the 3' terminus of the extended second probe, thereby to form an extended second probe complex; (f) ligating a fourth oligonucleotide probe, complementary to said second probe, to the 3 ' terminus of said first probe, with the proviso that if said first probe is extended prior to ligation, the fourth probe is ligated to d e 3' terminus of the extended first probe, thereby to form an extended first probe complex; and (g) amplifying at least one of said extended second probe complex and said extended first probe complex by the hgase chain reaction, using the first, second, third and fourth probes as reactants
Δ
 with the proviso that if said reactant probes are modified, they are corrected prior to ligation.
20. A method of forming cDNA of a predetermined length from a known RNA target sequence present in a sample, comprising the steps of: (a) treating RNA under hybridizing conditions with a first oligonucleotide probe which is hybridizable to a first segment of the target RNA under said hybridizing conditions; and (b) extending a 3' terminus of said probe by reverse transcription of the RNA under conditions including less than all four nucleoside triphosphate types, so that a cDNA segment of a predetermined length is produced, wherein such extension is terminated at said predetermined length when said RNA template requires a nucleoside triphosphate which is not present .
21. A method according to claim 20, further comprising dissociating the extended first cDNA probe from the RNA target and detecting said cDNA probe.
22. A method according to claim 21 , further comprising amplifying said cDNA prior to said detecting step.
23. A diagnostic kit for detecting a nucleic acid target present in a biological sample, comprising in combination: (a) a first ohgonucleotide probe which is complementary to a portion of the target ; (b) an extending reagent for reverse transcription of an RNA target and/or extension of the first probe on a DNA target in the presence of a supply of the nucleoside triphosphates complementary to the target region 3' of the first probe, using the first probe as a primer, (c) a second oligonucleotide probe capable of hybridizing to said first oligonucleotide probe under hybridizing conditions substantially only when said first probe has been extended by reverse transcription; (d) at least one of 


 (i) a third oligonucleotide probe complementary to a portion of said first probe, said probe having a 5' terminus ligatable to the 3' terminus of said second probe and complementary to a portion of said first probe, with the proviso that if said second or third probe is corrected prior to ligation, the second probe is hgatable to the third probe in their corrected form, thereby to form an elongated second probe complex; or (ii) a fourth oligonucleotide probe which is covalently hgatable to the 3' terminus of said first probe once it is extended, and complementary to a portion of said second probe, thereby to form an elongated first probe complex; and (e) an assembling reagent for forming the elongated second probe complex, the elongated first probe complex, or both.
24. The kit of Claim 23 wherein said extending reagent comprises reverse transcriptase or DNA polymerase.
25. The kit of Claim 23 wherein said assembhng reagent comprises a hgase and optionally a DNA polymerase.
26. The kit of Claim 23 wherein in step (d) a tiiird oligonucleotide probe is provided.
27. The kit of Claim 23 wherein in step (d) a fourth oligonucleotide probe is provided.
28. The kit of Claim 26 wherein in step (d) a fourth oligonucleotide probe is also provided.
29. A kit according to Claim 23 for use in detecting HCV, wherein said first probe is about 15 to about 30 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with die ohgonucleotide
5 ' -CCAGGCATTGAGCGGGTTGATCC-3 ' (SEQ ID No 1) and said second probe is about 15 to about 40 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the oligonucleotide
5 ' -AATTGCCACGACGACCGGGTCCTTTCTT-3 ' (SEQ ID No 2) . 


 30. A kit according to Claim 23 for use in detecting HCV, wherein said first probe is about 15 to about 30 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the ohgonucleotide
5 
•
 -ACCGTTTCTGCGTGAAGACAGTAG-3 ' (SEQ ID No 5) and said second probe is about 15 to about 40 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the oligonucleotide
5 ' -CACCATAGATCACTCCCCTGTGAGGAA-3 * (SEQ ID No 6) .
31 . A kit according to Claim 23 for use in detecting HCV, wherein said first probe is about 15 to about 30 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the ohgonucleotide
5 ' -TCGCAAGCACCCTATCAGGCAGT-3 ' (SEQ ID No 25) and said second probe is about 15 to about 40 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the ohgonucleotide 5 ' -CGAGTAGTGTTGGGTTGCGAAAGGCCTTGTGGT-3 ' (SEQ ID No 26) .
32. A kit according to Claim 23 for use in detecting HTV, wherein said first probe is about 15 to about 30 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the oligonucleotide
5 ' -CTAGTGTAGCTGCTGGTCCCAATG-3 ' (SEQ ID No 13) and said second probe is about 15 to about 40 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the ohgonucleotide
5 ' -CGAACCCAGATTGTAAGACTATTTTAAAAG-3 ' (SEQ ID No 14) .
33. A kit according to Claim 23 for use in detecting HTV, wherein said first probe is about 15 to about 30 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the oligonucleotide
5 
•
 -GTATTGCTACTTGTGATTGCTCCA-3 ' (SEQ ID No 17) and said second probe is about 15 to about 40 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the ohgonucleotide
5 ' -GAGCAGTATCTGGAGACCTGGAAAAACA-3 ' (SEQ ID No 18) .
34. A kit according to Claim 23 for use in detecting HIV, wherein said first probe is about 15 to about 30 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the oligonucleotide
5 ' -AGATTTTTAAATGGCTCTTGATAAA-3 ' (SEQ ID No 21) and said second probe is about 15 to about 40 nucleotides in length and at least 80% homologous with the ohgonucleotide
5 ' -GCAGGGGCAAGGCCAATGGACATATCAAA-3 ' (SEQ ID No 22) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
