<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617913</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Intracranial pressure monitor and drainage catheter assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61B503	A61M2700	A61M2700	A61M100	G01L900	A61M100	A61M2500	A61B503	G01L900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61B	A61M	A61M	A61M	G01L	A61M	A61M	A61B	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61B5	A61M27	A61M27	A61M1	G01L9	A61M1	A61M25	A61B5	G01L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A monitor-driven intracranial catheter assembly 
including a catheter comprising a housing (54) enclosing 

at least one lumen (70) for monitoring intracranial 
pressure via a pressure sensor located in the lumen. A 

second lumen (72) is provided for simultaneously 
draining cerebrospinal fluid. The second lumen (72) or 

optionally a third lumen, can be provided with a side 
port for receiving a stylet (74). The stylet is used as 

a stiffening agent to aid in advancing the catheter into 
the patient's brain. The pressure sensor is preferably 

a spectral modulation sensor that communicates with a 
photodetector apparatus by means of a single optical 

fiber (98), thus minimizing the diameter of the 
catheter. The photodetector is self-correcting for 

signal errors caused by temperature change, changes in 
intensity of the input light, and transmission losses 

within the optical apparatus. Moreover, the 
photodetector operates off the output voltage of the 

standard hospital monitor by "scaling" the signal from 
the monitor to provide a pressure measurement signal 

that emulates the output of a piezoresistive strain 
gauge sensor or Wheatstone bridge. Therefore, the 

entire catheter assembly is designed to be used with any 
of the common types of hospital monitors. The pressure 

monitoring catheter assembly can be used in any 
situation requiring very sensitive pressure measurements 

and can be zeroed and calibrated in situ. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKMAN RONALD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALL JOHN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKMAN, RONALD B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALL, JOHN P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a pressure-monitoring catheter system
for monitoring fluid pressure, optionally while simultaneously
removing a part of the fluid or infusing thereinto a second
fluid. In its preferred form, the invention relates to a
monitor-driven intracranial catheter assembly including a
dual lumen catheter having an in situ pressure monitoring
device at the distal tip for continuously monitoring
intracranial pressure via one lumen while optionally
conducting simultaneous drainage or sampling of
cerebrospinal fluid through the other lumen.The skull is a bony housing of fixed volume containing
three types of matter--blood, brain and cerebrospinal
fluid--each of which occupies a portion of that volume. If
the portion of the volume of one of the three increases
without a concomitant fall in the portions of the other
two, the intracranial pressure increases. Because the
brain has a limited capacity to adapt to increases in
intracranial volume, once the limit has been met, small
increases in volume cause significant increases in
intracranial pressure.Maintaining cerebral blood flow to provide adequate
oxygen and glucose to the brain is critical. However, an
increase in the volume of the brain or of cerebral spinal
fluid as the result of trauma, and the like,
correspondingly constricts the flow of blood and can stop
it completely if the increase in fluid is large enough to
herniate the brain at the base of the skull. In such
cases, death results. Because it is not practical to monitor cerebral blood
flow at the bedside, an algorithm based upon the
relationship between mean arterial pressure, intracranial
pressure and the cerebral perfusion pressure is used to
calculate blood flow in the brain (CPP = MAP - ICP). Thus,
a satisfactory means for monitoring intracranial pressure
by placement of a pressure transducer into the
intraventricular, subarachnoid or intraparentchymal spaces
is of utmost importance to the management of head injury
cases and has long been sought.Assemblies for monitoring pressure at various
locations within the body are known. The earliest pressure
monitoring devices utilize a pressure sensitive diaphragm
in contact with a column of sterile fluid contained within
a catheter inserted into the blood vessel, the brain, or
other area containing a fluid pressure of interest.
Pressure exerted by the fluid, for instance the
cerebrospinal or cephalorachitic liquid, is transmitted
through the fluid column within the catheter to an external
pressure transducer that transforms the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pressure-monitoring catheter system, said system comprising:

   a rigid stylet (276) having a proximal end (278) and a distal end (280); and a
pressure sensing catheter device comprising:


an elongate flexible catheter (250) having a proximal end (264), a distal end
(260) and an outer wall;
a sensing lumen (254) extending longitudinally through said catheter from
the proximal end to the distal end thereof;
a sensor means extending through said sensing lumen, said sensor means
being operative to sense the pressure of fluid at the distal end (260) of said catheter

and to transmit a pressure signal from the distal end of said catheter to the proximal
end (264) of said catheter;
and a stylet receiving lumen (256) formed within the catheter and having a closed distal tip;

   
characterised by
 a stylet insertion aperture (274) formed in the outer wall of
said catheter between its distal and proximal ends, through to the stylet receiving

lumen (256);

and in that the distal portion of said catheter, between said stylet insertion
aperture (274) and the distal end (260), is configured to receive therein the rigid

stylet (276);
said stylet being sized and configured for insertion into said stylet-receiving
lumen (256) so as to rigidify said distal portion of said catheter.
The system of Claim 1 wherein said stylet insertion aperture (274) is located
approximately 10cm (four inches) from the distal end of said catheter and said distal

portion of said catheter constitutes approximately the distal-most 10cm (four inches)
of said catheter. 
The system of Claim 1 wherein said stylet insertion aperture (274) is
located approximately fifteen centimetres from the distal end (260) of said catheter.
The system of any preceding claim, wherein said stylet (276) is sized and
configured such that, when said stylet is fully inserted into the distal portion of the

catheter, the distal end of said stylet abuts against said closed distal end (260).
The system of any preceding claim, wherein said sensor means comprises
an optical pressure sensing assembly.
The system of Claim 5 wherein said optical pressure sensing assembly
comprises:


a light-reflective diaphragm positioned at the distal end of said catheter, said
diaphragm being constructed and positioned so as to move in accordance with

changes in pressure at the distal end of said catheter;
a distally-directed light transmitting member extending longitudinally through
said catheter, said distally-directed light transmitting member having a proximal end

and a distal end, the proximal end of said distally directed light transmitting member
being connectable to a light source such that light from said light source will be

transmitted in the distal direction, through said distally directed light transmitting
member, to said light-reflective diaphragm positioned at the distal end of said

catheter; and
a proximally directed light transmitting member extending longitudinally
through said catheter, said proximally directed light transmitting member having a

proximal end and a distal end, said proximally directed light transmitting member
being configured and positioned to transmit reflected light from said light-reflecting

diaphragm, in the proximal direction, to the proximal end of said catheter; 
the proximal end of said proximally directed light transmitting member being
connectable to a monitoring device operative to generate indicia of pressure relative

to changes in said reflected light received from said proximally directed light
transmitting member.
The system of any preceding claim, further comprising:

a fluid transport lumen (252) extending longitudinally through said catheter
for transporting fluid between the proximal and distal ends thereof; and
at least one fluid passage aperture (262) formed near the distal end of said
catheter in fluid communication with said fluid transport lumen.
The system of Claim 7 wherein said at least one fluid passage aperture (262)
comprises a plurality of apertures formed near the distal end (260) of said catheter.
The system of Claim 7 wherein said at least one fluid passage aperture (262)
comprises a plurality of apertures aligned in a longitudinal row near the distal end of

said catheter.
The system of Claim 9 wherein said at least one fluid passage aperture
comprises three separate rows of apertures (262).
The system of any preceding claim, wherein said stylet (276) further
comprises:

   a coiled handle (278) formed on the proximal end of said stylet.
The system of Claim 7, 8, 9, 10 or 11 wherein said at least one fluid
passage aperture (262) is formed within the distal-most 1.3cm (one-half inch) of said

catheter.
The system of Claim 8, 9 or 10, wherein said plurality of apertures are
formed in the distal-most 1.3 cm (one-half inch) of said catheter.
The system of Claim 6 wherein said distally directed light transmitting
member comprises an optical fibre.
The system of Claim 6 or 14 wherein said proximally directed light 
transmitting member comprises an optical fibre.
The system of Claim 6 wherein said distally directed light transmitting
member and said proximally directed light transmitting member jointly comprise a

single optical fibre.
The system of Claim 6 wherein said distally directed light transmitting
member comprises a first optical fibre and said proximally directed light transmitting

member comprises a second optical fibre, separate from said first optical fibre.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
