<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619093</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for monitoring the condition of a patient.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B502	A61B502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method for anticipating a 
change occurring in the condition of a patient's organism 

before the condition of a patient reaches a critical 
point, the condition of a patient's organism being 

monitored by the application of an appropriate measuring 
method and the determinations according to said measuring 

method being effected at appropriate time intervals (t
s
). The 
measuring results (m₁,m₂) obtained on the basis of effected 

measurements, the number of which must be at least two, 
or quantities derived therefrom are utilized for 

predicting the future development (P) of one or more 
measuring results and, if a measuring result according to 

the prediction indicates that a limit value (A
h
,A
l
) 
representing 

a predetermined critical point is reached in the 
condition of a patient within a predetermined period of 

time (t
s
), a warning signal is released indicating that this 
critical point is being approached. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTRUMENTARIUM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTRUMENTARIUM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALOHEIMO MARKKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALOHEIMO, MARKKU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for 
anticipating a change occurring in the condition of a 
patient's organism before the condition of a patient 
reaches a critical point, the condition of a patient's 
organism being monitored by the application of an 
appropriate measuring method and the determinations 
according to said measuring method being effected at 
appropriate time intervals. In the monitoring of all types of phenomena it is usual 
that the variables subjected to monitoring be set with 
upper and lower limit values, the breaking of which 
produces a reports. Such a report is also often referred 
to as an alarm. Momentary signal faults unrelated to the 
specific character of a quantity being monitoted produce 
needless reports. Efforts have been made to eliminate 
needless and monitor-interfering reports by filtering the 
basic quantities in various ways and by delaying a report 
to be issued. The result of both filtering and delaying 
is a late appearance of a report received on a 
"legitimate" occurrence relative to the occurrence itself 
and even an alarm that is too late from the clinical 
point of view. The reporting sensitivity can be regulated by the 
location of limit values in relation to the normal 
behaviour of a signal; a narrow limit value range 
produces more readily reports about deviations from the 
normal range while a wide limit value range may leave 
substantial changes unnoticed. The reporting philosophy 
based solely on a limit value range does not take the 
rate of changes into consideration. Even in the best of 
circumstances, the reporting system based on a limit 
value produces plenty of false alarms, the occurrence of  
 
which causes a temptation to either widen the limit value 
range or to switch off the alarm system. If the normal value of a variable being monitored 
fluctuates between situations and individuals, the fixed 
limit values must have a sufficiently wide range to 
include the entire natural fluctuation range for a 
quantity being monitored. Efforts have been made to 
enhance the reporting sensitivity by using automatic 
limit values, which are relatively narrow and which are 
set on either side of a standardized variable at a 
"suitable" distance according to sensible arguments. In 
the systems, the basic distances or ranges for automatic 
reports cannot be generally changed by the operator. 
Since the automatically set limit values indicate more 
sensitively the deviations of a quantity from a normal 
value, the use thereof often causes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for anticipating a change occurring in the 
condition of a patient's organism before the condition of 

a patient reaches a critical point, the condition of a 
patient's organism being monitored by the application of an 

appropriate measuring method and the determinations 
according to said measuring method being effected at 

appropriate time intervals, characterized in that the 
measuring results obtained on the basis of effected 

measurements, the number of which must be at least two, or 
quantities derived therefrom are
 utilized for predicting 
the future development of one or more measuring results 

and, if a measuring result according to the prediction 
indicates that a limit value representing a predetermined 

critical point is reached in the condition of a patient 
within a predetermined period of time, a warning signal is 

released indicating that this critical point is being 
approached. 
A method as set forth in claim 1, characterized in 
that a limit value representing the critical point 

determines the highest and/or lowest acceptable numerical 
quantity level. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 or 2, characterized 
in that an alarm signal is released when a measuring result 

representing the condition of a patient breaks a limit 
value predetermined as the critical point. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the prediction of a measuring result 

is carried out on the basis of at least two measurements 
effected at different times, the measurements having 

effected by the application of a common measuring method. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the prediction of a measuring result 

 
is carried out on the basis of at least two successive 

accepted measurements. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the obtained measuring results are 

arranged in at least two groups, each of said groups 
including at least two measuring results, and the measuring 

results included in such a group are worked into one common 
measuring result representing such measuring results, the 

future development of a measuring result being predicted on 
the basis of the measuring results representing the groups. 
A method as set forth in claim 6, characterized in 
that the measuring results included in a group consist of 

successive sequential accepted measuring processes. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that a predetermined time, wherein a 

warning signal is produced indicating that a limit value 
representing a predetermined critical point in the 

condition of a patient can be reached, is at least as long 
as a time between the effected measurements. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that a predetermined time, wherein a 

warning signal is produced indicating that a limit value 
representing a predetermined critical point in the 

condition of a patient can be reached, is at least as long 
as the added time lapse between the measurements required 

for a group to be set up from the measuring results. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that a predetermined time, wherein a 

warning signal is produced indicating that a limit value 
representing a predetermined critical point in the 

condition of a patient can be reached, is calculated from 
such an effected measurement that a measuring result 

 
obtained therefrom is used when predicting the future 

development on one or more measuring results. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that a predetermined time, wherein a 

warning signal is produced indicating that a limit value 
representing a predetermined critical point in the 

condition of a patient can be reached, is calculated from 
such a latest effected measurement that a measuring result 

obtained therefrom is used when predicting the future 
development of one or more measuring results. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the warning signal comprises a 

visible signal. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the warning signal comprises a sound 

signal. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the alarm signal comprises a visible 

signal. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the alarm signal comprises a sound 

signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
