<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621173</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Chainless driving device for bicycle.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62K1900	B62K1934	B62M1700	B62M1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62K	B62K	B62M	B62M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62K19	B62K19	B62M17	B62M17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A combination chainless driving device of a bicycle comprises a 
five-way seat (10) housing a crank axle (11) and having a connecting 

portion (14) and a front connecting mount (15) fastened to an end of a 
fork connecting mount fastened to an end of a fork tube (13) and 

provided with a front auxiliary gear (18) mounted thereinto. The front 
auxiliary gear (18) meshes with a main gear (19) fastened to the crank 

axle (11). Fastened to another end of the fork tube (13) is a rear 
connecting mount (20) provided with a rear main gear (21) mount 

thereinto. The rear connecting mount (20) is fastened to a gear box (22) 
in a manner that the rear main gear (21) engages a rear auxiliary gear 

(23) inside the gear box. The rear auxiliary gear (23) has a shaft 
portion provided with an axial hole to receive therein a rear wheel axle 

(25). The gear box (22) has an axle locking mount (220) provided with an 
axle receiving slot (222) for locking the rear wheel axle (25) of a nave 

(24) which is provided with a drive frame (240) covered by a 
semicircular frame (221) of the gear box (22) and fastened to the axle 

locking mount by means of a rear cover. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POORUNGRIT PISAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POORUNGRIT, PISAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEU JIUNN-HORNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEU, JIUNN-HORNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a combination chainless driving 
device of a bicycle,which can be assembled easily and operated with 
a transmission stability.
 
   as shown in FIGS.1 and 2,an front portion of a prior art 
combination chainless driving device of a bicycle,as disclosed in 
the Taiwanese Patent 163732,comprises a crank shaft 5 which is 
driven by a pedal and is housed securely in a five-way tube 62 with 
a shaft tube 6 fastened thereto. The shaft tube 6 receives therein 
an inner lining shaft 61. A sector wheel 3 is fastened securely to 
an end of the inner lining shaft 61,which is adjacent to the crank 
shaft 5. The sector wheel 3 is provided with a coupling edge 31 
engageable with a sector wheel 4 of the crank shaft 5. A locating 
mount 1 is provided with a ball slot 11 opposite in location to the 
coupling edge 31 and with a ball ring surface 12. A ball supporting 
plug 2 is disposed in a location corresponding to the ball ring 
surface 12 and is provided with a supporting edge 21. The sector 
wheel 3, the locating mount 1 and the ball supporting plug 2 
are fastened to the inner lining shaft 61. The ball 14 is arranged  
 
between the sector wheel 3 and the ball slot 11. Another ball 14 is 
arranged between the ball ring surface 12 of the locating mount 1 
and the supporting edge 21 of the ball supporting plug 2. The rear 
wheel of the bicycle is driven by a rear gear set,which is in turn 
driven by the inner lining shaft 61,which is in turn driven by the 
crank axle 5. The front wheel of the bicycle is driven by the inner lining 
shaft 61 which in turn is driven by the sector wheel 3 engaging 
with the sector wheel 4 of the crank axle 5.The process of locating 
the sector wheel 3 on the inner lining shaft 61 is complicated and 
can not be done easily,unless the component parts used in locating 
the sector wheel 3 are made in accordance with certain 
specifications. In addition, the five-way tube 62 must be welded 
to the bicycle frame with precision,thereby undermining the work 
efficiency of assembling the driving device of the bicycle . The rear section of a prior art chainless driving device of 
bicycle is disclosed in the Taiwanese Patent 154043. The prior art 
driving device compriese a sector helical gear 9,which is mounted 
in a gear box 7A in a manner that it engages a sector 
helical auxiliary gear 100A having a restraining flange 101A. 
Located in the tubular body of a one-way ratchet sleeve 82A are a 
steel ball slot 102A,a one-way ratchet 103A, and a double-stepped 
stee
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A combination chainless driving device of bicycle,comprising: 
   a.five-way seat housing a crank axle and having a connecting portion 

provided therein with a gear cell in communication with said five-way 
seat,with said connecting portion fastened with a front connecting 

mount in which a front auxiliary gear fastened to a drive shaft 
is mounted in a manner that said front auxiliary gear meshes with a 

front main gear fastened to said crank axle; 
   a rear connecting mount fitted over a rear end of a fork tube and 

provided with a rear main gear mounted therein in a manner that said 
rear main gear meshes with a rear auxiliary gear in a gear box 

fastened to said rear connecting mount,said rear auxiliary gear having 
a shaft portion provided with a one-way ratchet sleeve and with an 

axial hole receiving therein a rear wheel axle of a nave having a 
drive frame opposite in location to said rear auxiliary gear,said 

drive frame having a one-way ratchet fastened to said shaft portion of 
said rear auxiliary gear in a manner that one-way ratchet fastened to 

said shaft portion of said rear auxiliary gear in a manner that 
one-way ratchet engages said one-way ratchet sleeve;and 

   an axle locking mount arranged in said gear box in a manner that 
said axle locking mount is corresponding in location to a center of 

said rear main gear and is perpendicular to said rear wheel acle,said 
axle locking mount having an axle receiving slot for receiving and 

locking thereto an end portion of said rear wheel axle by means of 
a nut,so that a half of said drive frame of said nave is covered by a 

semicircular frame of said gear box and that another half of said 
drive frame of said nave is fastened with a rear cover. 
The combination chainless driving device of bicycle of claim 1 
wherein said five-way seat is provided with a tube locking mount 

having a plurality of through holes,said tube locking mount being 
opposite in location to a connecting frame of a seat tube having a 

plurality of round holes corresponding in location and number to said 
through holes of said tube locking mount,so that said seat tube can be 

fastened to said five-way seat by means of a plurality of bolts 
passing through said through holes and said round holes. 
The combination chainless driving device of bicycle of claim 1 
 

wherein said front connecting mount and said rear connecting mount are 
fastened by means of bolts to said connecting portion of said five-way 

seat and said gear box,with said front connecting mount and said rear 
connecting mount provided respectively with an axle receiving slot for 

locating said front auxiliary gear and said rear main gear,said front 
auxiliary gear and said rear main gear having respectively a shaft 

portion fitted over with a bearing retained by a C-shaped retaining 
ring. 
The combination chainless driving device of bicycle of claim 1 
wherein said rear auxiliary has an axial hole to receive therein said 

rear wheel axle,with said axial hole provided with an inner ball slot 
and an outer ball slot,said inner ball slot being opposite in location 

to a double-faced ball receiving portion of said rear wheel axle,said 
outer ball slot being opposite in location to a ball plug of said rear 

wheel axle,said outer ball slot being opposite in location to a ball 
plug of said rear wheel axle,with said double-faced ball receiving 

portion,said inner ball slot and said outer ball slot containing 
therein respectively an annularly-arranged ball chain. 
The combination chainless driving device of bicycle of claim 1 
wherein said rear wheel axle is fastened in said axle receiving slot 

of said axle locking mount in a manner that said rear wheel axle is 
separated from said rear auxiliary gear by a distance corresponding to 

radius of said rear main gear driving said rear main gear,and that 
said rear auxiliary gear is supported on a ball chain different from a 

ball chain supporting said nave. 
The combinatiion chainless driving device of bicycle of claim 1 
wherein said gear box has a semicircular frame provided with two 

insertion slots opposite in location to a frame body of said rear 
cover. 
The combination chainless driving device of bicycle of chaim 1 
wherein said gear box is provided with a lug having a locking hole 

corresponding in location and size to a fastening hole situated at a 
lower end of a seat stay of said bicycle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
