<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654163</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND DEVICE FOR MONITORING VIBRATIONAL EXCITATION OF AN AXIAL COMPRESSOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04D2700	G01H100	G01H100	F04D2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04D	G01H	G01H	F04D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04D27	G01H1	G01H1	F04D27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process and a device for monitoring vibrational excitation of an axial compressor (10) by measuring of pressure fluctuation within at least one stage (12, 14) of said compressor (10) in the region of the compressor housing (24) by means of at least one pressure sensing device (32), checking whether each of said frequency signals comprises at least one excitation peak within a predetermined frequency interval in a region of at least one critical frequency of said compressor (10), determining at least one peak parameter indicative of the excitation status of the compressor (10) and generating a status change signal in case said peak parameter has a value lying beyond a predetermined value range.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW DEUTSCHLAND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW DEUTSCHLAND INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLUS HEINZ E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOENEN HERWART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTER HILGER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLUS, HEINZ, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOENEN, HERWART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTER, HILGER, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process and a device for monitoring
and controlling vibrational excitation of an axial compressor, said compressor
comprising a rotor and a housing, said rotor being rotatably mounted within
said housing for rotation about a rotational axis with variable or constant
rotational speed, said compressor further comprising at least one compressor
stage, each of said at least one stages comprising a row of rotor blades mounted
on said rotor and being arranged one following the other in a circumferential
direction with respect to said rotational axis and of a row of stator blades
mounted on said housing and being arranged one following the other in a
circumferential direction with respect to said rotational axis.The invention provides for monitoring of vibrational excitations of either
multi- or single stage compressors with the possibility of being able to control
the compressor in accordance with the detected vibrational excitations. A
compressor may be operated as an isolated unit or in conjunction with a power
turbine engine, as would be the case in a power plant operation. The
compressor may further be part of a gas turbine used for driving aeroplanes,
ships or large vehicles.Compressors exist of a series of rotating or stationary blade rows in
which the combination of a rotor (circular rotating blade row) and a stator
(circular stationary blade row) forms one stage. Inside the rotor, kinetic energy
is transferred to the gas flow (usually air) by the individual airfoil blades. In
the following stator, this energy is manifested as a pressure rise in the gaseous
air as a consequence of deceleration of the gaseous air flow. This deceleration of
the gaseous air flow is induced as a result of the design of the stator section.
The pressure ratio (exit pressure/inlet pressure) of a single stage is limited
because of intrinsic aerodynamic factors, so several stages are connected
together in many turbo compressors to achieve higher pressure ratios than
could be achieved by a single stage.When operating an axial compressor, mechanical vibrations of
compressor components, especially of rotor and stator blades, occur. An 
important cause for these mechanical vibrations are pressure fluctuations
within the compressor stages.The air fluid flow around each blade has an associated boundary layer
which covers each blade and coheres to the blade in case of the rotor blades.
The flow boundary layer associated with a rotor blade will rotate as an
associated entity of the blade as the blade
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Process for monitoring vibrational excitation of an axial
compressor (10), said compressor comprising a rotor and a housing, said rotor

being rotatably mounted within said housing for rotation about a rotational
axis with variable or constant rotational speed, said compressor further

comprising at least one compressor stage, each of said at least one compressor
stages comprising a row of rotor blades mounted on said rotor and being

arranged one following the other in a circumferential direction with respect to
said rotational axis and of a row of stator blades mounted on said housing and

being arranged one following the other in a circumferential direction with
respect to said rotational axis,said process comprising the following steps:


a) measuring of pressure fluctuations within at least one of said
compressor stages by means of at

least one pressure sensing device, each pressure sensing device
delivering a sensor signal, respectively;
b) deriving a frequency signal from each of said sensor signals, said
frequency signal comprising a set of a plurality of frequency

components of each of said respective sensor signals in a
respective frequency interval wherein each frequency signal is

indicative of the amplitudes of each of the frequency components
of said respective sensor signals within the respective frequency

interval;
c) checking whether at least one frequency component in at least one
of said frequency signals further comprises an excitation peak

correspondent to a resonant frequency of said rotor blades in a
region of at least one critical frequency, and determining at least

one peak parameter indicative of at least one said excitation peak;
d) generating a first status change signal indicative of a change of
operational status of said compressor in case of said peak

parameter having a value lying beyond a predetermined value
range.
Process according to claim 1, wherein said pressure sensing device
is arranged at said housing between the rotor blades and the stator blades of

one of said compressor stages.
Process according to claim 1, wherein said frequency signal is
obtained by fast Fourier transformation (FFT). 
Process according to claim 1, wherein said frequency signal is
obtained by fast Hartley transformation (FHT).
Process according to claim 1, wherein said pressure sensing device

comprises a piezoelectric or piezoresistive pressure sensor.
Process according to claim 1, wherein said peak parameter is
indicative of the peak height of the excitation peak.
Process according to claim 6, wherein the peak height is defined as
the ratio of a difference of a maximum value of the set of frequency

components of a frequency signal in the region of said critical frequency and a
mean value of said set of frequency components within a predetermined

frequency range about said critical frequency to said mean value.
Process according to claim 1, wherein said critical frequency is
defined as a torsional vibration basic frequency of said blades.
Process according to claim 8, wherein said critical frequency is
defined as a higher harmonic of said torsional vibration basic frequency.
Process according to claim 1, wherein said critical frequency is
defined as a bending vibration basic frequency of said blades.
Process according to claim 10, wherein said critical frequency is
defined as a higher harmonic of said bending vibration basic frequency.
Process according to claim 1, wherein said frequency interval is 0
Hz - 20 000 Hz.
Process according to claim 12, wherein said frequency interval is
100Hz - 2000Hz.
Process according to claim 1, wherein at least one mechanical
vibration sensing device is mounted at said housing detecting a mechanical

vibration excitation of said housing. 
Process according to claim 14, wherein said at least one
mechanical vibration sensing device is located near an end of said housing.
Process according to claim 15, wherein a second status change
signal is generated, indicative of an excess excitation status of said housing in

case of said mechanical vibration sensing device detecting an excess vibrational
excitation status of said housing.
Process for controlling vibrational excitation of an axial compressor
comprising a process for monitoring vibrational excitation of an axial

compressor according to one of claims 1 to 16, further comprising the
following step:


e) using said first status change signal for controlling said axial
compressor.
Process according to claim 17, wherein at least one mechanical
vibration sensing device is mounted at said housing detecting a mechanical

vibration excitation of said housing and wherein a second status change signal
is generated, indicative of an excess excitation status of said housing in case of

said mechanical vibration sensing device detecting an excess vibrational
excitation status of said housing, said second status change signal being used

for controlling said axial compressor.
Process according to claim 18, wherein said at least one
mechanical vibration sensing device is located near an end of said housing.
Device for monitoring vibrational excitation of an axial
compressor, said compressor comprising a rotor and a housing, said rotor being

rotatably mounted within said housing for rotation about a rotational axis with
variable or constant rotational speed, said compressor further comprising at

least one compressor stage, each of said at least one compressor stages
comprising a row of rotor blades mounted on said rotor and being arranged one

following the other in a circumferential direction with respect to said rotational
axis and of a row of stator blades mounted on said housing and being arranged

one following the other in a circumferential direction with respect to said
rotational axis, said device comprising at least one pressure sensing device for

measuring of pressure fluctuations within at least one of said compressor
stages, said pressure sensing device delivering a sensor signal, at least one

transformation unit for deriving a frequency signal from each of said sensor
signals, said frequency signal comprising a set of a plurality of frequency

components of each of said respective sensor signals in a respective frequency
interval wherein each frequency signal is indicative of the amplitudes of each

of the frequency components of said respective sensor signals within the
respective frequency interval, a peak evaluation unit being adapted for

checking whether at least one frequency component in at least one of said
pressure fluctuation frequency signal patterns further comprises an excitation

peak correspondent to a resonant frequency of said rotor blades in a region of at
least one critical frequency, for determining at least one peak parameter 

indicative of at least one said excitation peak, and for generating a first status
change signal in case of said peak parameter signal having a value lying

beyond a pre-determined value range, and a status indicating unit receiving said
first status change signal and indicating the respective operational status of

said compressor.
Device according to claim 20, wherein said pressure sensing
device is arranged at said housing between the rotor blades and the stator

blades of one of said compressor stages.
Device according to claim 20, wherein said pressure sensing
device comprises a piezoelectric or piezoresistive pressure sensor.
Device according to claim 20, wherein said transformation unit
comprises a fast Fourier transformation unit.
Device according to claim 20, wherein said transformation unit
comprises a fast Hartley transformation unit.
Device according to claim 20, wherein at least one mechanical
vibration sensing device is mounted at said housing.
Device according to claim 25, wherein said at least one mechanical
vibration sensing device is located near an end of said housing.
Device according to claim 25, wherein a signal evaluation unit is
connected to said mechanical vibration sensing device, generating a second

status change signal in case of said housing lying in an excess vibrational
excitation status.
Device according to claim 27, wherein a status indicating unit is
provided, receiving said second status change signal and indicating the

respective operational status of said compressor.
Device for controlling vibrational excitation of an axial compressor,
comprising a device for monitoring vibrational excitation of an axial

compressor according to one of claims 20 to 28, further comprising a
first controlling unit being supplied with said first status change signal

for operational control of said axial compressor. 
Device according to claim 29, wherein said pressure sensing
device is arranged at said housing between the rotor blades and the stator

blades of one of said compressor stages.
Device according to claim 29, wherein said pressure sensing
device comprises a piezoelectric or piezoresistive pressure sensor.
Device according to claim 29, wherein said transformation unit
comprises a fast Fourier transformation unit.
Device according to claim 29, wherein said transformation unit
comprises a fast
 Hartley transformation unit. 
Device according to claim 29, wherein at least one mechanical
vibration sensing device is mounted at said housing.
Device according to claim 34, wherein said at least one mechanical
vibration sensing device is located near an end of said housing.
Device according to claim 34, wherein a signal evaluation unit is
connected to said mechanical vibration sensing device, generating a second

status change signal in case of said housing lying in an excess vibrational
excitation status.
Device according to claim 36, wherein a status indicating unit is
provided, receiving said second status change signal and indicating the

respective operational status of said compressor.
Device according to claim 37, wherein a second controlling unit is
provided being supplied with said second status change signal for operational

control of said axial compressor.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
