<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649573</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COAXIAL CABLE CONNECTION PROTECTION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R400	H01R456	H01R905	H01R905	H01R9053	H01R13639	H01R13639	H01R4326	H01R4326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R4	H01R4	H01R9	H01R9	H01R9	H01R13	H01R13	H01R43	H01R43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system is provided for firmly attaching a coaxial cable terminus to a standard connection jack in such a way that the connection point is effectively shielded from tampering by individuals and is effectively sealed from degrading elements in the atmosphere. The system includes a jack attachment member having a collet structure, a swagging shell which slips over the collet structure to accomplish a firm connection with the jack and a single or preferred multi-chamber locking shroud which surrounds the swagging cylinder so as to make it difficult to de-attach and/or re-attach the cable terminus to the jack without special tooling. The preferred multi-chamber locking shroud of the invention makes it even more difficult to de-attach and/or re-attach the cable terminus to the jack without special tooling. The use of the locking shroud and especially the preferred shroud further makes it difficult to break off the locking shroud by twisting the shroud, such as with a pair of pliers. Such special tooling, however, is simple and inexpensive for authorized service technicians, thereby making the system at once relatively secure from tampering and atmospheric degradation and simple and inexpensive to install and maintain. Furthermore, the system can be retrofitted into existing coaxial cable equipment, using standard coaxial cable connection jacks.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYCHEM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYCHEM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREMGEN DIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTIS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCMILLS COREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FREMGEN, DIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTIS, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCMILLS, COREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COAXIAL CABLE CONNECTION PROTECTION SYSTEMTechnical Field of the Invention5 This invention relates generally to devices and methods for connecting the terminus of a coaxial cable to a standard coaxial cable connection jack, and, specifically, to devices and methods for connecting the terminus of a coaxial cable to a standard coaxial cable connection jack in such a way that the connection point is protected from ambientID conditions and from unauthorized tampering.Background of the InventionCoaxial cable is in widespread use for distributing wide band radio15 frequency information, such as television and radio signals. The cable television/radio industry, which relies almost exclusively on coaxial cable, is one of the most rapidly expanding segments of the United States' economy. It is anticipated that in the very near future the amount and type of information available via coaxial cable networks will be greatly expanded2D beyond traditional television and radio signals. By the early part of the twenty-first century, coaxial cable networks may be the principal vehicle by which consumers obtain their daily news, access library information, do their shopping, pay their bills, and otherwise interact with much of the outside world maintaining and controlling the integrity of the coaxial cable25 distribution networks which will carry such a large amount and such wide variety of consumer information and services is a major challenge fo the cable network industry.Coaxial cable typically includes a pair of conductors, a central axia conductor and an outer conductor which is disposed concentrically aroun a) the central conductor a low-loss, high dielectric insulation material, suc as plastic foam, is used to separate the two conductors an outer insulatin jacket is often provided over the concentric conductor to provide electrica insulation and physical protection to the cable. The concentric conducto may be a single continuous element or, more commonly, it is a composite o35 several layered elements of conductive foil, wire braid or similar material. For ease of initial installation and for flexibility with respect t subsequent modifications, coaxial cable networks comprise lengths of cabl connected to one another by some sort of connection equipment. In mos 

 coaxial cable networks, such connection equipment takes the form of male/female connection system wherein the male member is provided by connection jack and the female member is provided by a threaded o friction-fit coupler dimensioned to attach over the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A system for protectively connecting a coaxial cable terminus to standard coaxial cable connection jack, wherein the connection jac comprises (1) an externally threaded body with a connection jac aperture, and (2) an internal electrical conductor disposed within but insulated from, the body proximate to the connection jac aperture, the system comprising:
a. an electrically conductive connection jack connector comprising connection jack attachment moiety and a cable attachment moiety the connection jack attachment moiety having a collet structure wit a base, a base aperture and a plurality of flared fingers, and the cabl attachment moiety having an open ended hollow cylinder whic communicates with the collet base aperture, wherein the connectio jack attachment moiety is attached tightly around the threaded bod of the connection jack and the cable attachment moiety is attached t the coaxial cable terminus in such a way that the cable attachmen moiety is in electrical contact with the concentric conductor and i such a way that the central conductor protrudes axially through th collet base aperture, through the connection jack aperture, and is i electrical contact with the internal electrical conductor;
b. a hollow, open-ended swagging shell comprising a compressio moiety and a retraction moiety, the compression moiety bein disposed tightly over the flared fingers of the connection jac connector thereby applying hoop stress to the flared fingers so as t urge the flared fingers into tight connection with the threaded body o the connection jack; and
c. a hollow locking shroud having elongated side walls which defin a locking shroud chamber with an open end, the locking shrou being disposed with respect to the connection jack in such a way tha the side walls surround the connection jack, the connection jac connector and the swagging shell. 


 2. The system of Claim 1 herein the fingers of the cable attachment moiety have an external surface and an internal surface and wherein the internal surface comprises a ridge which is disposed within the external threads of the connection jack.
5
3. The system of claim 1 wherein the cable connection moiety of the connection jack connector is a mandrel which is disposed between the central conductor and the concentric conductor.
ID 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the mandrel has external threads.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein the external threads of the mandrel have a height which is between about 0.038 inches and about 0.042 inches and wherein the external threads are disposed about the
35 exterior of the mandrel between about 11 threads per inch and about
13 threads per inch.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the concentric conductor comprises braided metal strands and wherein a plurality of the braided metal
2D strands are disposed between the collet structure and the compression moiety of the swagging shell.
7. The system of claim 1 or 3 wherein the connection jack connector is made of aluminum or a material comprising tin.
-s
8. The system of claim 1 wherein the retraction moiety of the swagging shell is externally threaded.
9. The system of claim 4 wherein the swagging shell is cylindrical and 30 the inside diameter of the compression moiety is larger than the inside diameter of the retraction moiety and the inside diameter o the retraction moiety is dimensioned to urge the concentric conducto into tight contact with the mandrel.
35 10. The system of claim 11 wherein the swagging shell is cylindrical an the outside diameter of the compression moiety is larger than th outside diameter of the retraction moiety. 


 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the locking shroud is selected from the group consisting of metal, plastic, or combinations thereof.
12. The system of claim 1 wherein the locking shroud is internally 5 threaded.
13. The system of claim 12 further comprising an externally threaded driver cap threadably attached to the internal threads of the locking shroud. D
14. The system of claim 1 wherein the locking shroud is threadably attached to the connection jack.
15. The system of claim 1 wherein the locking shroud chamber is 5 cylindrical and wherein the inside diameter of the locking shroud chamber is between about 0.005 and about 0.2 inches greater than the outside diameter of the swagging shell.
16. The system of claim 1 wherein the locking shroud is cylindrical and 0 wherein the system further comprises a cylindrical locking shroud liner nested within the locking shroud.
17. The system of claim 1 wherein the locking shroud liner is threadably attached to the connection jack. 5
18. The system of claim 17 wherein the locking shroud liner is internally threaded.
19. The system of claim 18 further comprising an externally threaded D driver cap threadably attached to the internal threads of the locking shroud liner.
20. The system of claim 1 further comprising a locking shroud cover disposed over the locking shroud.
35
21. The system of claim 1 wherein the system comprises a plurality o locking shrouds and a locking shroud cover is disposed over the locking shrouds. 


 22. The system of claim 1 comprising two electrically connected connection jacks disposed back to back, each connection jack being surrounded by the side walls of a locking shroud.
5
23. The system of claim 22 wherein the connection jacks are grounded.
24. A locking shroud for protectively connecting a plurality of coaxial cable termini to standard coaxial cable connection jacks, wherein D each connection jack comprises (1) and externally threaded body with a connection jack aperture, and (2) an internal electrical conductor disposed within, but insulated from, the body proximate to the connection jack aperture, the locking shroud being hollow and having elongated sidewalls which define a plurality of locking 5 shroud chambers, each with an open end, the locking shroud being disposed with respect to each of the connection jacks in such a way that the sidewalls surround each connection jack and any connection between a coaxial cable terminus and the jack.
D 25. The locking shroud of claim 24 further comprising at least one locking shroud liner.
26. The system of claim 1 comprising three connection jacks electrically connected to one another so as to form a signal splitter, each 5 connection jack being surrounded by the side walls or a locking shroud.
27. A kit useful in protectively connecting a coaxial cable terminus to a standard coaxial cable connection jack, wherein the connection jack so comprises (1) an externally threaded body with a connection jack aperture, and (2) an internal electrical conductor disposed within, but insulated from, the body proximate to the connection jack aperture, the system comprising:
35 a. an electrically conductive connection jack connector comprising a connection jack attachment moiety and a cable attachment moiety, the connection jack attachment moiety having a collet structure with a base, a base aperture and a plurality of flared fingers, and the cable 


 attachment moiety having an open ended hollow cylinder whic communicates with the collet base aperture, wherein the connectio jack attachment moiety is dimensioned to attach tightly around th threaded body of the connection jack and the cable attachment moiet
5 is dimensioned to attach to the coaxial cable terminus in such a wa that, when the connection jack connector is attached to the cable terminus, the cable attachment moiety can be placed in electrical contact with the concentric conductor with the central conducto protruding axially through the collet base aperture, through th
ID connection jack aperture, and into electrical contact with the interna electrical conductor;
b. a hollow, open-ended swagging shell comprising a compression moiety and a retraction moiety, the compression moiety bein 15 dimensioned to tightly surround the flared fingers of the connectio jack connector so as to apply hoop stress thereto and so as to urge th flared fingers into tight connection with the threaded body of connection jack attached to the terminus of the cable; and
20 c. a hollow locking shroud having elongated side walls which defin a locking shroud chamber or a plurality of chambers having an ope end, the locking shroud being capable of being disposed with respec to the connection jack in such a way that the side walls surround th connection jack, the connection jack connector and the swaggin
25 shell.
28. A method of protectively connecting a coaxial terminus to a standar connection jack, wherein the connection jack comprises (1) a externally threaded body with a connection jack aperture, and (2) a so internal electrical conductor disposed within, but insulated from, th body proximate to the connection jack aperture, the metho comprising the following steps:
a. attaching an electrically conductive connection jack connecto 35 to the terminus of the cable, the connection jack connecto comprising a connection jack attachment moiety and a cabl attachment moiety, the connection jack attachment m moiety havin a collet structure with a base, a base aperture and a plurality o 


 flared fingers, and the cable attachment moiety having an open ended hollow cylinder which communicates with the collet base aperture, the connection jack attachment moiety being attached tightly around the threaded body of the connection jack and the cable 5 attachment moiety being attached to the coaxial cable terminus in such a way that the cable attachment moiety is in electrical contact with the concentric conductor and in such a way that the central conductor protrudes axially through the collet base aperture, through the connection jack aperture, and is in electrical contact ID with the internal electrical conductor;
b. sliding a hollow, open-ended swagging shell over the flared fingers of the connection jack connector, the swagging shell comprising a compression moiety and a retraction moiety and the 15 compression moiety being dimensioned to tightly surround the flared fingers of the connection jack connector thereby applying hoop stress to the fingers so as to urge the flared fingers into tight connection with the threaded body of the connection jack; and
20 c. disposing a hollow locking shroud having elongated side walls which define a locking shroud chamber or a plurality of chambers with an open end around the connection jack in such a way that the side walls surround the connection jack,the connection jack connector and the swagging shell. z
* * * * * * * * * * 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
