<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657052</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PARALLEL COMPUTING AND VOLUME VISUALIZATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1576	G06F1580	G06T120	G06T120	G06T1500	G06T1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F15	G06F15	G06T1	G06T1	G06T15	G06T15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A parallel computing system for volume visualization, numeric, symbol and other computing applications. The system is made up of a memory storage device (4), local computing units (5), a control computing unit (3) and a user interface and display computing unit (2). The memory storage device (4) comprises memory storage elements which represent a three dimensional memory storage array arranged in 3-D Cartesian Space. Each local computing unit (5) is assigned to a group of memory storage elements for accessing in parallel. The control computing unit (3) controls and coordinates each of the local computing units. Local and global data transfer mechanisms facilitate transfer of data elements among the memory storage elements. The system can be used to internally generate voxel-based representations of 3-D objects in a parallel fashion. It can also be used to display 2-D images of such voxel-based objects along any viewing direction by simulating either parallel or perspective viewing ray processes within the parallel computing system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKALASH REUVEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKALASH, REUVEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKALASH REUVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKALASH, REUVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PARALLEL COMPUTING AND VOLUME VISUALIZATIONBACKGROUND OF INVENTIONField of Invention The present invention relates to an advanced method and apparatus for parallel computing which is versatile and suitable for use in computationally demanding applications, including real-time visualization of volumetric data.Brief Description of the Prior Art In the contemporary period, most digital computers are similar in that they have (i) a central processing unit for performing computational tasks such as addition, multiplication, loading registers and comparisons, and also (ii) a memory storage medium for storing data. In order to solve a particular problem by computing, human programmers first reduce the problem to a series of computational tasks, and then divide each computational task into a sequence of steps or instructions to provide a program. The central processing unit then executes the sequence of instructions one step at a time upon a data set in order to compute a solution to the formulated problem. For each computation to be performed, the appropriate data set must be retrieved from the memory and brought to the central processing unit where there it is operated upon in accordance with the program before being returned to memory. This type of computing machine design is called sequential or serial because the processing operations are performed one at a time, in a sequence or series. 

 One major drawback of serial computing machines is that while the central processor is kept active, most of the memory is idle during processing operations. Another major drawback is that serial computing machines are inherently slow, since during each phase of a computation, many of the components of the processor are idle.Hitherto, the development of interleaved memory, pipelining, vector processing and very long word (VLI ) machinery has helped to increase the speed and efficiency of single processor serial computers. However, there are numerous applications in which even very fast serial computers are simply inadequate. For example, presently there are a large number of problems requiring the performance of hundreds of millions of computations per second. Such problems include, for example, simulation of atomic or particle interaction in the fields of computational physics and chemistry; simulation of gravitational interplay among celestial objects in the field of computational cosmology; simulation of biological cell processes in the field of computational biology; climate modeling and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Apparatus for storing and processing data elements in a parallel manner, comprising: a plurality of memory storage elements each being indexed so that said plurality of memory storage elements represents a three-dimensional array of memory storage elements arranged in 3-D Cartesian space characterized by three orthographic coordinate axes, with each said memory storage element being capable of storing one or more data elements; a plurality of local computing unit, each said local computing unit having means for storing a local program and means for locally processing data in accordance with said local program, and each said local computing unit being assigned to a group of said memory storage elements so that said plurality of local computing unit is capable of accessing a sequence of memory storage elements in 3-D Cartesian space, with each memory storage element in said sequence being accessable by a said different local computing unit; a control computing unit for controlling and coordinating each said local computing unit during the access of said sequence by said local computing units; and local data transfer means for transferring data elements between each said group of memory storage elements and said local computing unit assigned thereto.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said local data transfer means comprises means for responsive to each said local computing unit, for bidirectionally transferring data elements between each said group of memory storage elements and said local computing unit assigned thereto.
3. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said control computing unit further comprises 


 means for receiving user input data, means for storing a control routine, and means for processing said user-output data in accordance with said control routine, and producing control-output data which is provided to said local computing units to achieve said control and coordination thereof.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said control computing means is operably associated with said local data transfer means by way of a data collection means for receiving data elements accessed from said local computing units.
5. The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein said control computing unit coordinates the operation of said plurality of local computing units so as to access a rectilinear sequence of memory storage elements parallel to any one of said orthographic axes in 3-D Cartesian Space.
6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said control computing means coordinates the operation of said plurality of local computing means so as to access a sequence of memory storage elements arranged within a plane parallel to one of the principal planes in 3-D Cartesian space.
7. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said control computing means coordinates the operation of said plurality of local computing units so as to access a sequence of memory storage elements rbitrarily arranged across said three-dimensional array of memory storage elements.
8. The apparatus of Claim 3, which further comprises user interface computing unit having 


 means for inputting and storing user-input data, means for storing a user interface program, and means for processing said user-input data in accordance with said user interface program and generating said user-output data for use by said control computing unit.
9. The apparatus of Claim 4, wherein each said local computing unit is in data communication with said control computing means by way of a system data transfer means, and wherein said control computing unit produces as control data, a set of Cartesian coordinates which are simultaneously transmitted over said system data transfer means to said plurality of local computing unit, and wherein said plurality of local computing units process said set of Cartesian coordinates in accordance with said local programs stored so as to generate physical memory addresses for accessing said sequence of memory storage elements specified by said set of Cartesian coordinates.
10. The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein said local data transfer means is operably associated with a data input/output unit through which, under the control of said control computing unit, a plurality of data elements can be selectively transferred (i) from any said sequence of memory storage elements in 3-D Cartesian Space to an external data storage device and (ii) from said external data storage device into any said sequence of memory storage elements in 3-D Cartesian Space.
11. The apparatus of Claim 10, wherein the location of each said memory storage element in 3-D Cartesian Space is specified by Cartesian coordinates selected from the group consisting of x, y and z; 


 wherein each said group of memory storage elements in 3-D Cartesian Space comprised local memory storage module in physical memory space, each said local memory storage module being indexed k = 0, 1, 2, ... N-l, and containing N
2
 memory storage elements each being specified by physical address indices i and j; wherein said plurality of local computing units are indexed with indices k = 0, 1, 2, ... N-l, and each said k-th memory storage module is independently accessible by said k-th local computing unit; and wherein each said memory storage element specified by Cartesian coordinates x, y and z in 3-D Cartesian Space has a physical address location in physical memory space specified by physical address indices i,j,k, where k =(x + y + z)modN, x=i and y=j.
12. The apparatus of Claim 11, which further comprises global data transfer means operably associated with said control computing unit and said plurality of local computing units for transferring data elements between each said k-th local computing unit and said (k+Ak)th local computing where k = 0, 1, 2, ... N-l and Ak equals a predetermined module distance represented in physical memory space and determined by said control computing unit.
13. The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein said local data transfer means comprises N local data buses each indexed k = 0, 1, 2, ... N-l, and each k-th local data bus operably associated with said k-th local computing unit and said k-th local memory storage node; and wherein said global data transfer means comprises means for transferring a data element placed on each said k-th local data bus to said (k+Ak) local data bus. 


 14. The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein said global data transfer means comprises a plurality of global data transfer subunits operably connected among two or more said local data buses, and wherein the operation of each said global data transfer subunit is controlled by said control computing means.
15. The apparatus of Claim 11, which further comprises local control means, operably associated with each said k-th local computing unit, for selectively controlling the transfer of data elements between each said k-th local computing means and said (k-Ak)th local computing unit, and between each said k-th local computing unit and said (k+Ak)th local computing means, where Ak equals a locally determined module distance represented in physical memory space and determined by said k-th local computing unit.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein Ak is selected from the group consisting of -1, -2, -3, +1, +2, +3).
17. The apparatus of Claim 15, wherein said local data transfer means comprises N local data buses, each being operably associated with one said k-th local computing unit and with at least said (k+Ak)th and (k- Ak)th local computing unit.
18. The apparatus of Claim 16, wherein each (kth) local data bus is controllable by said k-th local computing unit.
19. The apparatus of Claim 11, which further comprises: global data transfer means operably associated with said control computing unit and said plurality of 


local computing unit, for transferring data elements between each said k-th local computing unit and said (k+Ak)th local computing unit, where k = 0, 1, 2, ... N-l and Ak equals a predetermined module distance expressed in physical memory space, and local control means, operably associated with each k-th local computing unit, for selectively controlling the transfer of data elements between each said k-th local computing unit and said k-th local computing unit and (k+Ak)th local computing unit, and between each said k-th local computing unit and said (k+Ak)th local computing unit.
20. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said control computing unit is in data communication with each said local computing unit by way of a system data transfer means, and wherein said user-input data specifies a 3-D geometric object to be voxelized, and said user-output data provides said control computing unit with an implicit representation of said specified 3-D geometric object, and wherein said control computing broadcasts over said system data transfer means to said local computing units, data representative of said implicit representation, and wherein each said local computing unit uses said broadcasted data to produce a partial voxel-based represenation of said 3-D geometric object which is stored in said group of memory storage elements assigned thereto, whereby, collectively said partial voxel-based representation provides a complete voxel-based represenation of said 3-D geometric object.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said user interface computing means further comprises display means for visually displaying a 2-D image of said voxel-based representation, viewed along an arbitrary viewing direction specified by said user. 


 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said user- input data further specifies an arbitrary viewing direction in 3-D Cartesian Space along which a plurality of projected viewing rays extend from said user through said complete voxel-based representation of said 3-D geometric object, said user-output data further providing said control computing unit with a geometric representation of said projected viewing rays, and said control computing unit broadcasting to said local computing units, viewing ray data representative of said projected viewing rays so that each said local computing unit can use said viewing ray data so as to determine the contribution that each said projected viewing ray makes to the said 2-D image of said 3-D voxel-based representation. A method of processing a voxel-based image represented in 3-D Cartesian Space, comprising the steps of:
(a) representing in 3-D Certesian Space, a voxel-based image consisting of a plurality of voxels, each said voxel having at least one attribute value and having a position in 3-D Cartesian Space specified by Cartesian coordinate values;
(b) specifying a plurality of viewing rays projected along a viewing direction and through said voxel-based image, said plurality of viewing rays being arranged in M groups of said viewing rays, each said group containing N said viewing rays residing along an m-th scanning plane specified in 3-D Cartesian Space, where m = 1, 2, 3, ... M; (c) within each said m-th scanning plane, performing up to N stages of processing in which the (n- th) stage of processing involves the substeps of
(1) accessing N voxels in a parallel manner so that each said accessed voxel has Cartesian coordinate values which coincide with one said viewing ray, and 


 (2) for each accessed voxel coinciding with one said viewing ray, processing the attribute value thereof to produce an intermediate result which is associated with one said viewing ray, and wherein each subsequent stage of processing in said scanning plane involves
(3) accessing N voxels in a parallel manner so that each said accessed voxel has Cartesian coordinate values which coincide with one said viewing ray, and
(4) for each accessed voxel coinciding with one said viewing ray, processing the attribute value thereof using said intermediate result produced during the (n-l)th stage of processing so as to produce an updated intermediate result,
(5) and after the last stage of processing, producing N final voxel values, each said final voxel value being produced using up to N updated intermediate results associated with one said viewing ray, said N final voxel values representing one scan-line of voxel data in a 2-D voxel-based image projected along said viewing direction and consisting of M scan lines of voxel data, and
(6) performing substeps (1) through (5) for each m-th scanning plane unit said M scan lines of voxel data in said 2-D voxel-based image are produced. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
