<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610012</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Remotely positioned MRI system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5055	A61B5055	G01R33385	G01R3338	G01R3338	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A remotely positionable device for use in magnetic 
resonance imaging includes a magnet which is juxtaposable 

against the object to be imaged without actually 
surrounding to object. When so positioned, the magnet 

generates a static nonhomogeneous magnetic field having a 
determinable measurement surface wherein both the magnitude 

and the gradient of the field are substantially constant. 
Additionally, the device includes an RF antenna for 

periodically pulsing nuclei in the measurement surface with 
pulses of the Larmor frequency to initially tilt the nuclei 

and to subsequently refocus the nuclei. The device also 
includes a pair of gradient coils which generate a gradient 

fields that are superposed on the static field to encode 
the nuclei. The RF antenna subsequently receives a 

plurality of encoded spin echo signals from the refocussed 
nuclei which are averaged by a computer to create a 

measured response. Specifically, the nuclei are refocussed 
and the encoded spin echo signals are received at a rate 

that is proportional to the gradient of the static flux 
field. The computer is also used to create an image from 

a plurality of measured responses taken from differently 
encoded spin echo signals. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PANACEA MEDICAL LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PANACEA MEDICAL LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROWLEY CHRISTOPHER W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSE FREEMAN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROWLEY, CHRISTOPHER W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSE, FREEMAN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains generally to nuclear 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) systems and their method 
of use. More particularly, the present invention pertains 
to remotely positionable MRI systems which employ magnets 
that do not surround an object. The magnets establish an 
external magnetic field for noninvasively imaging the 
nuclei density over a predetermined surface within the 
object. The present invention is particularly, but not 
exclusively, useful for creating a nuclear magnetic 
resonance image of a surface within an object using a 
nonhomogeneous magnetic field. In the field of nuclear magnet resonance imaging 
(MRI), it is known that certain atomic nuclei, e.g. 1H, 19F, 
31P, have nuclear magnetic moments which, when placed in a 
static magnetic field, can only take up certain discrete 
orientations. Each of these orientations corresponds to a 
different energy state for the nucleus. Further, it is 
known that the application of radio frequency (RF) 
radiation to nuclei in a magnetic field can induce a 
transition in the energy state of nuclei from one level to 
another. Such a transition is known as nuclear magnetic 
resonance (NMR) and it occurs under certain identifiable 
conditions. Many of these conditions relate to the 
magnetic fields which are imposed on the nuclei.  
 A magnetic field is described in terms of flux and 
lines of flux. From the standpoint of an individual 
nucleus, there are three essential parameters which are 
characteristic of the magnetic field at the location of a 
nucleus. These are: 1) the magnitude of the field, 2) the 
direction of the field as indicated by the flux line 
through the nucleus, and 3) the gradient, or rate of change 
in magnitude, of the field at the location of the nucleus. 
Each of these parameters has its effect on NMR. As stated above, nuclei assume certain discrete 
orientations in a magnetic field which may be subsequently 
changed by RF radiation. The RF radiation which is most 
effective for inducing such a change is a particular 
frequency which depends on the magnitude of the magnetic 
field at the location of the nucleus. This particular 
frequency, more familiarly known as the Larmor frequency, 
is equal to the angular frequency of precession of the 
nucleus spin vector about the direction of the magnetic 
field vector. When changes in the orientations of nuclei 
are induced by radiation applied at the Larmor frequency, 
the magnetic moments of the nuclei will generate signals 
which are characteristic of the nuclei.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A remotely positionable device for the magnetic resonance imaging 
of nuclei density using an external magnetic field which comprises: 


means for creating a substantially planar measurement surface within a 
nonhomogeneous magnetic field, said measurement surface having a static 

magnetic field with a substantially constant field magnitude and a substantially 
constant field gradient in a direction normal to said measurement surface; 
means for initially tilting said nuclei in said measurement surface; 
encoding means for imparting a predetermined transverse phase 
pattern on said tilted nuclei to encode said nuclei; 
means for refocussing said tilted nuclei at a rate proportional to said 
field gradient, while maintaining said predetermined transverse phase 

pattern, to generate encoded spin echo signals; 
means for receiving said encoded spin echo signals; and 
means for converting said encoded spin echo signals into an image of effective nuclei density in said measurement surface. 
A device according to claim 1 wherein said means for creating a 
measurement surface is a magnet, and said magnet comprises a plurality 

of magnetic blocks, each said magnetic block being individually 
positionable relative to other said magnetic blocks to form said 

measurement surface. 
A device according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said converting means 
distinguishes weighted parameters of said encoded spin echo signals to 

ascertain characteristics of said nuclei. 
A device according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said means 
for tilting said nuclei, said means for refocussing said nuclei and said 

means for receiving said spin echo signals is an RF antenna comprising an 
electrically conducting loop, and a selectively tunable capacitor bank  

 
electrically conducting loop, and a selectively tunable capacitor bank 

connected in series with said loop to form a resonant circuit for pulsing 
said nuclei in said measurement surface and receiving spin echo signals 

from said nuclei at a preselected frequency. 
A device according to claim 4 wherein said RF antenna uses a 
tilting pulse to initially tilt said nuclei in said measurement surface and 

uses a refocussing pulse to subsequently refocus said nuclei in said 
measurement surface. 
A device according to claim 4 or 5 further comprising a computer 
means electronically connected to said RF antenna and to said encoding 

means for coordinating activation of said RF antenna with said encoding 
means to receive selectively encoded spin echo signals. 
A device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said 
encoding means comprises: 


a first gradient coil; 
a second gradient coil; and 
means for selectively energizing said first gradient coil and said 
second gradient coil to respectively create a first encoding magnetic field 

and a second encoding magnetic field in said measurement surface to 
impart said predetermined transverse phase pattern on said encoded nuclei. 
A device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said 
substantially constant magnitude for said nonhomogeneous field is 

approximately 900 Gauss and said substantially  
 

constant flux gradient for said nonhomogeneous field is approximately 
400 Gauss/cm. 
A device according to any one of claims 2 to 8 further comprising 
a moveable gantry for holding and positioning said magnet. 
A device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said 
means for creating a measurement surface is remotely positionable for 

juxtaposition relative to said nuclei to be imaged. 
A method for magnetic resonance imaging nuclei density in a substantially planar measurement surface 
which comprises the steps of: 


creating a nonhomogeneous static magnetic field having a 
substantially constant field magnitude and a substantially constant field 

gradient in a direction normal to said measurement surface; 
pulsing said nuclei in said measurement surface to initially tilt said 
nuclei; 
selectively encoding said nuclei by imparting a predetermined 
transverse phase pattern on said nuclei; 
refocussing said nuclei at a rate proportional to said field gradient, 
while maintaining said predetermined transverse phase pattern, to generate 

encoded spin echo signals; 
measuring said encoded spin echo signals to generate an encoded 
response; 
averaging a plurality of similarly encoded responses 
to refine said response; and 
converting said refined responses from a plurality of different 
predetermined phase patterns to create an image of effective nuclei density 

in said measurement surface. 
A method according to claim 11 wherein said substantially constant 
magnitude for said nonhomogeneous field is approximately 

900 Gauss and said substantially constant field gradient for said 
nonhomogeneous field is approximately 

400 Gauss/cm. 
A method according to claim 11 or 12 further comprising the step 
of selecting a predetermined plurality of responses for said averaging step 

according to a desired refinement for said response. 
A method according to claim 11 wherein said field gradient is 
approximately 400 Gauss/cm and said 

rate for refocussing said nuclei is approximately once per twenty 
microseconds. 
A method for magnetic resonance imaging nuclei density in a substantially planar measurement surface 
which comprises the steps of: 


juxtaposing a device in proximity to an object to be imaged, said 
device comprising a magnet remotely positionable relative to said nuclei 

to be imaged, said magnet creating a measurement surface within an external 
nonhomogeneous magnetic field, said measurement surface having 

a static magnetic field with a substantially constant field magnitude and a 
substantially constant field gradient in a direction normal to said 

measurement surface; a gradient coil for generating an encoding magnetic 
field to impart a predetermined transverse phase pattern on said nuclei to 

encode said nuclei; and an RF antenna coil for transmitting pulses to said 
nuclei in said measurement surface to initially tilt said nuclei and to 

subsequently refocus said nuclei to generate encoded spin echo signals, 
said refocussing being accomplished at a rate proportional to said field 

gradient and said antenna coil being activated to receive said encoded spin  
 

echo signals; 
selectively varying said phase pattern to establish different encoded 
phase patterns for said nuclei; 
averaging a plurality of said encoded spin echo signals for each said 
predetermined encoded phase pattern to generate a refined response; and 
converting said refined responses from a plurality of different 
predetermined phase patterns to create an image of nuclei density in the 

measurement surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
