<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650422</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE FOR CONVEYING A LOAD BETWEEN TWO POSITIONS AT DIFFERENT LEVELS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R900	B60R904	B60R9042	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R9	B60R9	B60R9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The device consists of lifting arm (1) that can be rotated and having on its free end means for carrying out the fastening of load (4) so as to allow them to rotate in relation to the arm (1) itself during the whole transfer trajectory and also possesses means capable of reducing, at least for one part of the above-mentioned trajectory, the effort necessary for its operation. It can also be motorized.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SWIFTSHORE LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SWIFTSHORE LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
URGNANI GIANFRANCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
URGNANI, GIANFRANCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Device for conveying a load between two positions at different levelsThe invention relates to a device capable of transferring a load over a trajectory connecting two positions situated at different levels and it includes a support member that can be anchored which is located in connection with the upper level and at least one rotating lifting arm pivoted at one end on said support member and equipped on the other end with means to effect its fastening to the load to be transferred.There already exist some not very widespread embodiments of this kind of device: they are mostly used for the loading, unloading and transport of bicycles on the roof of motor vehicles.The drawbacks exhibited by these devices are mainly due to the significant effort that is necessary to operate them manually in the final part of the lifting trajectory, in other words when the load is located at a level that is higher and more inconvenient for the user; another significant drawback is that the means for fastening the load do not always allow it to carry out the whole transfer trajectory while keeping parallel to itself, when the shape of the load varies, i.e vertical, for example in the case of a bicycle; moreover the above mentioned means are capable of sustaining loads equipped with particular means of suspension. This and other considerations which will be explained below have prompted the inventor to elaborate the 

object of the present invention which attempts to resolve the above mentioned problems, and it consists of a device characterized in that the means for fastening are designed and positioned so as to rotate, by the sole effect of gravity acting on the load in relation to the arm while it completes the whole transfer trajectory so that the barycentric axis of the load itself is always essentially contained within the vertical plane that passes through the point or points of suspension, and in that it possesses means capable of reducing the effort necessary for operating the device, at least for one part of the above mentioned trajectory.A more detailed description of its functioning will be provided for some types of preferred embodiment while making reference to the attached drawings in which: - figure 1 represents the lateral view of a lifting arm designed according to the invention so as to reduce the effort in the final part of the transfer of the load;- figure 2 represents the prospective view of a preferred embodiment suited for the loading of a bicycle on the roof of an automobile;- figure 3 represents an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. Device for the transfer of a load over a trajectory that joins two positions located at different levels, consisting of a support member that can be anchored and located in relation to the higher level and of at least one lifting arm that can be rotated, hinged at one end of said support member and equipped at the other end with means to secure their being fastened to the load to be transferred, characterized in that said means for fastening (6, 6a, 6b, 23, 24) are designed and positioned in such a way that they rotate, by the sole effect of gravity acting on the load in relation to the arm while it completes the whole transfer trajectory so that the barycentric axis of the load itself is always essentially contained within the vertical plane that passes through the point or points of suspension, and in that it possesses means capable of reducing, at least for one part of the above mentioned trajectory, the effort necessary to operate the device.
2. Device according to claim 1, wherein: a) said means of fastening consist of one member (6, 23) connected to the free end of lifting arm (1) so that it can rotate in relation to it and equipped with members capable of engaging in a reversible manner with the two "V" stanchions of the frame of one or more bicycles or motorcycles in a higher position in relation to their barycenter; b) the effort necessary to operate the device manually is reduced by the force of gravity on account of the 


fact that lifting arm (1) is shaped in such a way that load (4) , as it moves through the final part (5B figure 1) of the trajectory that transfers it to the higher level (β) , has gone beyond vertical plane (γ) that passes through hinging pivot (2) of lifting arm (1) on support member (11) .
3. Device according to claim 1, in which: a) said means of fastening lifting arm (1) consist of at least two hooks (7, 8) shaped with vertical development, the ends of which are hinged on lifting arm (1) or on an intermediate member that is integral with it, and the loops (7a) of which are capable of allowing for the support and the containment of a bicycle or motorcycle wheel, and the above mentioned hooks (7, 8) are also equipped with means (7b, 7c, 7d) for carrying out the fastening of said wheel within them; b) the effort necessary to operate the device manually is reduced by the force of gravity by the fact that lifting arm (1) is curved or folded in such a way that load (4) , as it moves through the final part (5B figure 1) of the trajectory that transfers it to the higher level (β) , has gone beyond vertical plane (γ) that passes through hinging pivot (2) of lifting arm (1) on support member (11) .
4. Device according to claim 1, wherein: a) said means for fastening consist of one member (6, 23) connected to the free end of lifting arm (1) so that it can rotate in relation to it and equipped with members capable of engaging in a reversible manner with the two "V" stanchions of the frame of one or more bicycles or motorcycles in a higher position in relation to their 


barycenter; b) the effort necessary to operate the device manually is reduced by the application of one or more members (13) elastic to traction, which have their ends connected, free to be able rotate respectively to lifting arm (1) and to a fixed point of support member (3) or of the supporting structure (15) , while the fastening points of said ends are positioned so that the above mentioned members (13) , in the course of the arc of rotation made by lifting arm (1) to transfer load (4) from lower level (α) to higher level (β) exert on lifting arm (1) itself a traction, whose right line of application is such that it contrasts its rotation for a first part (5A) of the arc, and favors it for the remaining second part (58) . 5. Device according to one of claims 2 or 4, wherein the member for fastening load (4) to lifting arm (1) consists of metal tube (6) that can be extended telescopically to one or to both the ends connected to the free end of lifting arm (1) and equipped on its ends with connections (6a, 6b) capable of engaging in a reversible manner with the two "V" stanchion of frame 4d of a bicycle or motorcycle.
6. Device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein around hinging pivot (2) between lifting arm (1) and support member (3), one or more elements (14) elastic to torsion are applied, with their ends connected in relation to them.
7. Device according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the member for fastening the load to lifting arm (1) 


consists of strut (9) that carries several pairs of connections (9a, 9b) capable of engaging with the frames of several bicycles or motorcycles, pivoted on one of its intermediate points (9c) on the free end of lifting arm (1) , and the device also includes a supplementary arm (101) hinged on the respective ends, on one end (9d) of said strut (9) and on support member (3) so as to constitute the structure of a pantograph in order to maintain said strut (9) parallel to itself during the whole trajectory of the transfer of load (4).
8. Device according to any one of the preceding claims from 2 to 7, wherein support member 3 is capable of being connected to a structure of known type (15) for supporting loads on the roof of a motor vehicle. 9. Device according to any one of the preceding claims from 2 to 7, wherein support member (3) is equipped with means capable of effecting the direct anchoring to the roof of a motor vehicle.
10. Device according to one of claims 2 to 9, wherein it includes straps (20, 21 figure 3) with a self- blocking buckle capable of blocking the lower part of rims (16) of the bicycles or motorcycles in relation to the above mentioned supporting structure (15) or to a part of support member (3) by exerting a downward traction on the rims themselves (lb) .
11. Device according to claim 1, wherein the support member is a frame with vertical development (17) and it is equipped with means (18) capable of connecting it to vertical structure (19) , while the means for fastening load 


(4) to lifting arm (1) are capable of making possible, during the whole transfer trajectory, the rotation of load (4) around vertical axis (
<
S) , and the rotation of lifting arm (1) is obtained exerting traction on its mobile end (la) by means of rope (20) and a system of pulleys (21) capable of reducing the effort necessary.
12. Device according to claim 1, wherein the means of connecting lifting arm (1) to load (4) consist of sling (22) that wraps around load (4) and which is connected by ring (23) to the hook of spring-catch (24) which is free to rotate around its own axis (
<
S) and is connected to free end (la) of lifting arm (1) .
13. Device according to any one of claims 11 or 12, which also includes table (25) connected to support member (17) so that it can run vertically in relation to it and capable of being fastened to an outboard type marine motor (4) using means (26) with which the motor itself is equipped to be fastened to the transom of a boat.
14. Device according to one of claims 11 to 13, wherein at least two wheels (30, 31) are applied to support member (17) .
15. Device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein lifting arm (1) comprises several assembled parts that can be folded back or loosened. 16. Device according to any one of the preceding claims that comprises a handle with handgrip for manual operation.
17. Device according to one of claims 1 to 14 wherein lifting arm (1) is motorized. 


 18. Device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the arm that can be rotated can be extended or shortened telescopically. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
