<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619123</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REGENERATIVE ELECTRICAL STIMULATOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N1372	A61N1372	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A regenerative electrical stimulation device (20) 
comprising a stimulator portion to be surgically implanted 

in patients and an external controller portion. The 
implanted stimulator portion provides electrical stimuli 

of selected parameters to damaged nerve tissue to 
stimulate regeneration and/or healing of the damaged nerve 

tissue. The external controller portion communicates with 
the implanted stimulator portion to turn the stimulator 

portion on and off, to change the parameters of the 
electrical stimuli, to recharge the batteries, and to 

monitor the status of the batteries. The implanted 
portion has an antenna coil (32), a receiver (24), a programmable 

control processor (90), rechargeable batteries (28), and a passive 
transmitter. The external controller portion (22) has an 

antenna coil (30), a control processor (50), a transmitter, a 
receiver for receiving the data passively transmitted by 

the implantable portion, and a display means. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPINAL CORD SOCIETY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPINAL CORD SOCIETY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEISLER MARK S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEUTTER DEAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEISLER, MARK S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEUTTER, DEAN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Electrical stimulation of damaged neural tissue as a 
therapeutic agent has been demonstrated to be effective to 
restore or improve neural function in some cases. The 
electrical stimulation of a patient's neural tissue is 
accomplished by placing electrodes in contact with or in 
proximity to the neural tissue and applying an electrical 
potential to the electrodes. This necessitates the 
intrusion into the patient of, at a minimum, electrodes 
for the stimulation. Different parameters of neural 
stimulation may be appropriate for different patients for 
different types of neural injuries, and for different 
stages of treatment. Additionally, the appropriate length 
of time over which the stimuli is to be applied may vary 
greatly. To minimize the potential for infection and to allow 
freedom from external equipment during stimulation, an 
implantable stimulation device is desirable. The device 
should have a non-invasive battery replenishment means, 
should be able to alter the stimulation characteristics 
while implanted, and should be able to transmit pertinent 
data out of the body with minimal energy consumption. A regenerative electrical stimulation device 
comprising a stimulator portion to be surgically implanted 
in patients and an external controller portion. The 
implanted stimulator portion provides electrical stimuli 
of selected parameters to damaged nerve tissue to 
stimulate regeneration and/or healing of the damaged nerve 
tissue. The external controller portion communicates with 
the implanted stimulator portion to turn the stimulator 
portion on and off, to change the parameters of the  
 
electrical stimuli, to recharge the batteries, and to 
monitor the status of the batteries. The implanted 
portion has an antenna coil, a receiver, a programmable 
control processor, rechargeable batteries, and a passive 
transmitter. The external controller portion has an 
antenna coil, a control processor, a transmitter, a 
receiver for receiving the data passively transmitted by 
the implantable portion, and a display means. The external controller portion generates and emits 
electromagnetic energy from its antenna coil in the form 
of a 2 megahertz carrier wave. The external controller 
modulates the carrier wave for transmitting commands to 
the stimulator portion. The antenna coil of the 
stimulator portion couples with the antenna coil of the 
external controller to receive the electromagnetic energy. 
The stimulator portion rectifies the carrier wave to 
provide the power to recharge the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A nerve regeneration device of the type comprising an 
external controller portion and an implantable stimulator 

portion, the stimulator portion to provide electrical 
stimulus to nerve tissue; 

   the external controller comprising: 

      a first antenna coil; 
      a radio frequency transmitter connected to the 

antenna coil, the transmitter generating 
electromagnetic radiation at a selected 

transmission frequency; whereby the antenna coil 
radiates the electromagnetic radiation; 

      a first receiver means connected to the first 
antenna coil to detect electromagnetic radiation 

reflected back to the first antenna coil, the 
receiver having means for generating a signal 

corresponding to the reflected electromagnetic 
radiation; 

      a control processor connected to the receiver 
means, the control processor having means for 

receiving and responding to said signal; 
   the stimulator portion comprising: 

      a second antenna coil that couples with the 
first antenna coil and absorbs a portion of the 

electromagnetic radiation;
 

      a sensing means for detecting a specified 
condition of the stimulator portion, the sensing 

means providing a condition indicating signal 
which varies as a function of the condition; 

      a reflecting means for reflecting a portion of 
the electromagnetic radiation back to the first 

antenna coil; 
      a switching means for activating and 

deactivating said reflecting means; 
      a second control processor connected to the 

switching means and to the sensing means; the 
control processor having means for operating the 

switching means in accordance with the condition 
indicating signal, whereby the reflected 

electromagnetic radiation forms an encoded 
signal corresponding to the specified condition. 
The device of claim 1, wherein the signal produced by 
the first receiving means corresponds to the encoded 

signal. 
The device of claim 2, wherein the control processor 
further comprises means for converting the signal from the 

first receiver means into a signal corresponding to the 
condition indicating signal, and wherein the external 

controller portion further comprises a display means, the 
display means connected to the first control processor the 

display means having means for responding to the signal 
from the first control processor for indicating the 

condition of the stimulator portion. 
The device of claim 1, wherein the reflecting means 
comprises a capacitor electrically connected to the second 

antenna coil forming a tuned circuit and a means for short 
circuiting said tuned circuit whereby said short 

circuiting effects the reflection of the electromagnetic 
radiation from the second antenna coil to the first 

antenna coil. 
The device of claim 1, wherein the stimulator further 
comprises a battery means for providing power for the 

stimulator portion and said battery means is rechargeable. 
The device of claim 3, further comprising a full-wave 
bridge rectifier circuit connected to the tuned circuit 

whereby the rectifier circuit has a direct current voltage 
output and said output is connected to the rechargeable 

battery means, and wherein the transmitter and antenna 
coils are sized so that the direct current voltage output 

is sufficient to recharge the battery means. 
The device of claim 6, wherein the stimulator portion 
further comprises a second receiving means connected to 

the second control processor, and wherein the radio 
frequency transmitter of the external controller portion 

comprises a modulator, said modulator connected to the 
first control processor, the first control processor 

having means for generating commands to the stimulator 
portion and to operate the modulator whereby the 

electromagnetic radiation radiated by the first antenna 
coil is modulated in accordance with said commands, the 

second receiving means having means for receiving said 
modulated electromagnetic radiation and means for 

conveying a signal corresponding to said commands to the 
second control processor, and wherein the second control 

processor includes means for responding to said commands. 
A nerve regeneration device of the type comprising an 
external controller portion and an implantable stimulator 

portion that provides electrical stimulus to nerve tissue; 
   the external controller comprising: 

      a first antenna coil; 
      a radio frequency transmitter, the transmitter 

having means for generating a carrier wave, the 
transmitter including a means for modulating 

said carrier wave, the radio frequency 
transmitter connected to the first antenna coil 

whereby the antenna coil radiates the modulated 
carrier wave; and 

      a first control processor which includes a means 
for encoding commands to produce an encoded 

signal to be sent to the stimulator portion, the 
first control processor connected to the 

modulating means of the radio frequency 
transmitter for modulating the carrier wave as a 

function of the encoded signal; and 
   the stimulator portion comprising: 

      a second antenna coil; 
      a capacitor electrically connected to the 

antenna coil forming a tuned circuit whereby a 
coupling effect is created between first antenna 

coil and the second antenna coil when they are 
in proximity to each other, and whereby the 

modulating carrier wave is received by the 
second antenna coil;

 
      a sensing means for detecting a condition of the 

stimulator portion, the sensing means providing 
a condition indicating signal which varies as a 

function of the condition; 
      a switching means connected to the tuned 

circuit, the switching means for short 
circuiting the tuned circuit whereby the carrier 

wave is reflected back to the first antenna 
coil; 

      a receiver means connected to the second antenna 
coil, the receiver means having means for 

receiving the modulated carrier wave and for 
generating an encoded signal corresponding to 

the encoded signal produced by the first control 
processor; 

      a second control processor connected to the 
receiver means for receiving and decoding the 

encoded commands from the external controller 
portion and for responding to said commands; the 

control processor further comprising an 
operating means connected to the switching means 

for short circuiting the tuned circuit 
corresponding to the condition indicating signal 

to be communicated to the external controller 
portion; 

      a rechargeable battery means for providing power 
for the stimulator portion; and 

      a means for converting radio frequency power 
absorbed by the second antenna to recharge the 

battery means. 
The device of claim 8, wherein the controller portion 
further comprises a first receiver means connected to the 

first antenna coil for detecting the carrier wave 
reflected back to the first antenna coil, the receiver 

means generating a signal corresponding to the reflected 
carrier wave. 
The device of claim 9, wherein the means for 
converting the radio frequency power absorbed by the 

second antenna coil is comprised of a full wave bridge 
rectifier electrically connected to the tuned circuit. 
The device of claim 10, wherein the condition is the 
battery temperature. 
The device of claim 11, wherein the stimulator 
portion further comprises a second sensing means for 

monitoring battery voltage and generating a status 
indicating signal, said means connected to the control 

processor. 
The device of claim 11, wherein the stimulator 
portion further comprising a plurality of electrodes to 

provide the electrical stimuli, and whereby electrodes 

have a voltage across them during stimulation and the 
stimulator portion further comprises a sensing means for 

monitoring said voltage and generating a third status 
indicating signal, said means connected to the control 

processor. 
The device of claim 13, further comprising a sensing 
means for monitoring electrical current through said 

electrodes and for generating a condition indicating 
signal corresponding to said current, said means connected 

to the control processor. 
The device of claim 14, wherein the carrier wave has 
a frequency between 1.5 and 2.5 MHz. 
The device of claim 15, wherein the switching means 
is comprised of a metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect 

transistor. 
The device of claim 16, wherein the second control 
processor further comprises a storage means for retaining 

the commands from the external control portion. 
The device of claim 17, wherein the stimulator 
portion further comprises switching means connected to the 

electrodes for controlling a parameter of the electrical 
stimuli, said means controlled by the second control 

processor. 
The device of claim 18, wherein the electrical 
stimuli have a polarity and the parameter controlled by 

the switching means is the polarity of the electrical 
stimuli. 
The device of claim 18, wherein the electrical 
stimuli have an amplitude and the switching means is for 

controlling said amplitude. 
The device of claim 18, wherein the electrical 
stimuli have a frequency and the switching means is for 

controlling said frequency. 
The device of claim 18, wherein the electrical 
stimuli have a pulse width and the analog switching means 

is for controlling said pulse width. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
