<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638133</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANODE-CATHODE ARRANGEMENT FOR ALUMINUM PRODUCTION CELLS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C25C300	C25C308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C25C	C25C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C25C3	C25C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An anode-cathode arrangement (14) of new configuration for the electrowinning of aluminum from alumina dissolved in molten salts, consisting of an anode-cathode double-polar electrode assembly unit or a continuous double polar assembly in which the anode (16) and cathode (18) are bound together and their interelectrode gap is maintained substantially constant by means of connections (15) made of materials of high electrical, chemical, and mechanical resistance. Novel, multi-double-polar cells for the electrowinning of aluminum contain two or more of such anode-cathode double-polar electrode assembly units (14). This arrangement permits the removal of any of the anode-cathode double-polar electrode assembly units during operation of the multi-double-polar cell whenever the anode and or the cathode or any part of the electrode unit needs reconditioning for efficient cell operation, and then reimmersion into the cell to continue normal operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLTECH INVENT SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLTECH INVENT S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE NORA VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKHAR JAINAGESH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE NORA, VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKHAR, JAINAGESH A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns a new and improved electrode assembly system 
or unit for electrolytic cells used for electrolysis in molten salts, especially for 
electrolysis of alumina dissolved in molten cryolite. The technology for the production of aluminum by the electrolysis of alumina, 
dissolved in molten cryolite containing salts, at temperatures around 950°C is more 
than one hundred years old. This process, conceived almost simultaneously by Hall and Heroult, has not 
evolved as many other electrochemical processes. It is difficult to understand why, 
despite the tremendous growth in the total production of aluminum that in fifty years 
has increased almost one hundred fold, the process and the cell design have not 
undergone any great change or improvement. The electrolytic cell trough is typically made of a steel shell provided with an 
insulating lining of refractory material covered by anthracite-based carbon blocks at 
the wall and at the cell floor bottom which acts as cathode and to which the negative 
pole of a direct current source is connected by means of steel conductor bars 
embedded in the carbon blocks. The anodes are still made of carbonaceous material and must be replaced 
every few weeks. The operating temperature is still approximately 950°C in order 
to have a sufficiently high alumina solubility and rate of dissolution which decreases 
rapidly at lower temperatures.  
 The carbonaceous materials used in Hall-Heroult cells as anode and as cell 
lining are certainly not ideal for resistance under the existing adverse operating 
conditions. The anodes have a very short life because during electrolysis the oxygen which 
should evolve on the anode surface combines with the carbon to form CO2 and small 
amounts of CO. The actual consumption of the anode is approximately 450 Kg/Ton 
of aluminum produced which is more than 1/3 higher than the theoretical amount of 
355 Kg/Ton corresponding to that of the stoichiometric reaction. The carbon lining of the cathode bottom has a useful life of a few years after 
which the operation of the entire cell must be stopped and the cell relined at great 
cost. In spite of an aluminum pool having a thickness of more than 20 mm 
maintained over the cathode, the deterioration of the cathode carbon blocks cannot be 
avoided because of penetration of cryolite and liquid aluminum, as well as 
intercalation of sodium ions which causes swelling and deformation of the cathode 
carbon blocks and displacement of such blocks. In addition, when cells are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An anode-cathode double-polar electrode assembly (10) comprising one or 
more anode-cathode electrode assembly units (14) for the production of 

aluminum (13) by the electrolysis of alumina dissolved in molten halide 
electrolyte (11), wherein: 


the materials forming the anode (16) and cathode (18) are electrically 
conductive and the surface or coating of said anodes and cathodes is resistant 

to the electrolyte and to the products of said electrolysis: 
the anode and cathode are held in a spaced part relationship with a gap 
therebetween, wherein said gap has different values along a line at a 90° angle 

with respect to the current path to balance the voltage drop in different current 
paths and to maintain a more uniform current density over the entire active 

surface area of the electrodes, said anode-cathode gap is maintained by means 
of at least one connector element made of material of high electrical, chemical 

and mechanical resistance (15); and 
each said unit (14) is removable from and reimmersible into said molten 
electrolyte (11) during operation of said assembly (10) for the production of 

aluminum, whenever the anode or the cathode or any part of the electrode 
assembly unit needs reconditioning for efficient cell operation. 
An assembly unit according to claim 1 wherein the electrical contacts to the 
anode and cathode of the double-polar electrode assembly unit are both made 

from the top of the multi double-polar cell.  
 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein the electrical contact to the anode 
of the double-polar electrode assembly unit is made from the top and that to the 

cathode is made from the bottom. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein the anodes are made of porous 
material, thereby providing enhanced active surface area, for more efficient 

evolution and removal of the gas produced and its guided displacement to 
promote electrolyte circulation in the space between the anode and cathode 

active surfaces and for enhanced chemical and mechanical resistance. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein the non-conductive connections 
(15 or 27) are made of porous materials to enhance chemical and mechanical 

resistance . 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein the anodes (60) are made of non-carbon, 
substantially non-consumable refractory materials resistant to the 

electrolyte, to the oxygen produced, and to other gases, vapors, and fumes 
present in the cell, selected from the group consisting of metals, metal alloys, 

intermetallic compounds, metal-oxyborides, oxides, oxyfluorides and other 
metal oxycompounds, ceramics, cermets, and mixtures thereof: 


said metals, metal alloys, intermetallic compounds and metal-oxycompounds 
consisting essentially of nickel, cobalt, aluminum, copper, iron, 

manganese, zinc, tin, chromium and lithium and mixtures thereof; and 
said oxyborides, oxides, oxyfluorides and other oxycompounds, ceramics  
 

and cermets consisting essentially of zinc, tin, titanium, zirconium, tantalum. 
vanadium, lithium, cerium, iron, chromium, nickel, cobalt, copper, yttrium, 

lanthanides, and Misch metals and mixtures thereof. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein the anodes (60) comprise an 
electrically conductive structure and an adherent refractory coating selected 

from the group consisting of metals, metal alloys, intermetallic compounds and 
metal-oxyborides, oxides, oxyfluorides and metal oxycompounds other than 

metal-oxyborides, ceramics, cermets, and mixtures thereof: 

said metals, metal alloys, intermetallic compounds and metal-oxycompounds 
consisting essentially of nickel, cobalt, aluminum, copper, iron, 

manganese, zinc, tin, chromium and lithium and mixtures thereof; and 
said oxyborides, oxides, oxyfluorides and other oxycompounds, ceramics 
and cermets consisting essentially of zinc, tin, titanium, zirconium, tantalum, 

vanadium, lithium, cerium, iron, chromium, nickel, cobalt, copper, yttrium, 
lanthanides, and Misch metals and mixtures thereof. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein the cathodes (50) are made of or 
coated with an aluminum-wettable refractory hard metal (RHM) resistant to 

attack by molten cryolite, said RHM being a boride of a metal selected from 
the group consisting of titanium, zirconium, tantalum, chromium, nickel, 

cobalt, iron, niobium, and vanadium and mixtures thereof. 
An assembly according to claim 8 wherein the cathode is selected from the  
 

group consisting of a carbonaceous material, refractory ceramics, cermet, 
metal, metal alloy, intermetallic and metal-oxycompound and an adherent 

refractory coating made of the aluminum-wettable refractory hard metal 
(RHM). 
An assembly according to claim 9 wherein the carbonaceous material is 
selected from the group consisting of anthracite, carbon and graphite. 
An assembly according to claim 6 or 8, wherein doping agents are added 
to the refractory materials used to improve their density, electrical conductivity, 

chemical and electrochemical resistance. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein said connector (15 or 27) is 
made of an electrically non-conductive material resistant to the electrolyte and 

to the products of electrolysis, the material is selected from the group consisting 
of silicon nitride, aluminum nitride, nitrides other than silicon and aluminum 

nitride, alumina, oxides other than alumina and oxynitrides. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the anode, 
cathode and the connector element of the anode-cathode double-polar assembly 

is made of or coated with a refractory material obtained by micropyretic self-sustaining 
reaction. 
An assembly according to claim 13 wherein the micropyretic reactions is  
 

carried out utilizing slurries. 
An assembly according to claim 14 wherein the slurries contain reactants 
and non-reactant fillers. 
An assembly according to claim 15 wherein the non-reactant fillers contain 
particulate powders made of materials obtainable by the micropyretic reaction. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein all anodes and all cathodes are 
connected in parallel inside or outside of the cell. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein the anodes and the cathodes have 
the shape of plates. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein the anodes are substantially 
cylindrical hollow bodies and the cathodes are rods placed inside such bodies. 
An assembly according to claim 1 wherein the anodes have the shape of an 
inverted V and the cathodes have the shape of a prism placed inside the anodes. 
A method of operating an anode-cathode double-polar electrode assembly 
(10) comprising one or more anode-cathode electrode assembly units (14) for 

the production of aluminum (13) by the electrolysis of alumina dissolved in 
molten halide electrolyte (11), wherein the materials forming the anode (16) and  

 
cathode (18) are electrically conductive and the surface or coating of said 

anodes and cathodes is resistant to the electrolyte and to the products of said 
electrolysis, the anode and cathode are held in a spaced part relationship with 

a constant gap therebetween, each said unit are removable from and 
reimmersible into said molten electrolyte during operation of said assembly for 

the production of aluminum, the method comprising the steps of: 

removing any of said units during operation of the multi-double-polar 
cell whenever the anode or the cathode or any part of said unit needs 

reconditioning for efficient cell operation; and 
reimmersing said unit after reconditioning into said assembly to continue 
normal operating conditions. 
The method of claim 21 comprising the further step of:
 
   compensating at least in part, any lowering of bath electrical 

conductivity due to change in bath composition or lowering of the operating 
temperature, by decreasing the anode-cathode gap to an extent, to maintain an 

acceptable current efficiency. 
The method of claim 21 comprising the further step of:
 
   eliminating or substantially reducing the emission of CO
2
. 
The method of claim 21 comprising the further step of: 

regulating by computerized checking, the operating conditions of said 
units; and  

 
automatically executing the removal of any said unit requiring 
reconditioning. 
The method of claim 21, wherein each said unit comprises:
 
   at least two anodes and at least one cathode connected to permit 

electrical current flow therebetween.; 
The method of claim 25 wherein said assembly comprises at least two units. 
The method of claim 21 wherein: 

the anode of each said unit is provided with cooling means; or the 
cathode is provided with cooling means; or 
the cathode of each said unit is provided with cooling means; or 
the anode and the cathode are both provided with cooling means. 
The method of claim 21 wherein:
 
   the anode active surface area of each said unit is continuously 

replaceable (76) during the operation of said unit. 
The method of claim 21 wherein: 

said anode and cathode of each said unit are held by at least one 
connector element (15 or 27) in spaced-apart relationship with a substantially 

constant gap therebetween: 
the anode and the cathode are made of or coated with electrically  
 

conductive materials resistant to the electrolyte and to the products of 
electrolysis; and 
the connector element is made of material of high electrical, chemical 
and mechanical resistance. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the electrical contacts to the anode and 
cathode of the double-polar electrode assembly unit are both made from the top 

of the multi double-polar cell. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the electrical contact to the anode of the 
double-polar electrode assembly unit is made from the top and that to the 

cathode is made from the bottom. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the anodes are made of porous material, 
thereby providing enhanced active surface area, for more efficient evolution and 

removal of the gas produced and its guided displacement to promote electrolyte 
circulation in the space between the anode and cathode active surfaces and for 

enhanced chemical and mechanical resistance. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the non-conductive connections are made 
of porous materials to enhance chemical and mechanical resistance. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the anodes (60) are made of non carbon, 
substantially non-consumable refractory materials resistant to the electrolyte, to  

 
the oxygen produced, and to other gases, vapors, and fumes present in the cell, 

selected from the group consisting of metals. metal alloys, intermetallic 
compounds, metal-oxyborides, oxides, oxyfluorides and other metal 

oxycompounds ceramics, cermets, and mixtures thereof: 

said metals, metal alloys, intermetallic compounds and metal-oxycompounds 
consisting essentially of nickel, cobalt, aluminum, copper, iron, 

manganese, zinc, tin, chromium and lithium and mixtures thereof; and 
said oxyborides, oxides, oxyfluorides and other oxycompounds, ceramics 
and cermets consisting essentially of zinc, tin, titanium, zirconium, tantalum, 

vanadium, lithium, cerium, iron, chromium, nickel, cobalt, copper, yttrium, 
lanthanides, and Misch metals and mixtures thereof. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the anodes comprise an electrically 
conductive structure and an adherent refractory coating selected from the group 

consisting of metals, metal alloys, intermetallic compounds and metaloxyborides, 
oxides, oxyflourides and metal oxycompounds other than metaloxyborides, 

ceramics, cermets, and mixtures thereof:
 
   said metals, metal alloys, intermetallic compounds and metal-oxycompounds 

consisting essentially of nickel, cobalt, aluminum, copper, iron, 
manganese, zinc, tin, chromium and lithium and mixtures thereof; and said 

oxyborides, oxides, oxyfluorides and other oxycompounds, ceramics and 
cermets consisting essentially of zinc, tin, titanium, zirconium. tantalum, 

vanadium, lithium, cerium, iron, chromium, nickel, cobalt, copper, yttrium, 
lanthanides, and Misch metals and mixtures thereof.  

 
The method of claim 21 wherein the cathodes (50) are made of or coated 
with an aluminum-wettable refractory hard metal (RHM) resistant to attack by 

molten cryolite, said RHM is a boride of a metal selected from the group 
consisting of titanium, zirconium, tantalum, chromium, nickel, cobalt, iron, 

niobium, and vanadium and mixtures thereof. 
The method of claim 36 wherein the cathode is selected from the group 
consisting of a carbonaceous material, refractory ceramics, cermet, metal, metal 

alloy, intermetallic and metal-oxycompound and an adherent refractory coating 
made of the aluminum-wettable refractory hard metal (RHM). 
The method of claim 37 wherein the carbonaceous material is selected from 
the group consisting of anthracite, carbon and graphite. 
The method of claim 34 or 36 wherein doping agents are added to the 
refractory materials used to improve their density, electrical conductivity, 

chemical and electrochemical resistance. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the connector is made of an electrically 
non-conductive material resistant to the electrolyte and to the products of 

electrolysis, the material is selected from the group consisting of silicon nitride, 
aluminum nitride, nitrides other than silicon and aluminum nitride, alumina, 

oxides other than alumina and oxynitrides.  
 
The method of claim 21 wherein the at least one of the anode, cathode and 
the connector element is made of or coated with a refractory material obtained 

by micropyretic self-sustaining reaction. 
The method of claim 41 wherein the micropyretic reaction is carried out 
utilizing slurries. 
The method of claim 42 wherein the slurries contain reactants and 
non-reactant fillers. 
The method of claim 43 wherein the non-reactant fillers contain particulate 
powders made of materials obtainable by the micropyretic reaction. 
The method of claim 21 wherein all anodes and all cathodes are connected 
in parallel inside or outside of the cell. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the anodes and the cathodes have the 
shape of plates. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the anodes are substantially cylindrical 
hollow bodies and the cathodes are rods placed inside such bodies. 
The method of claim 21 wherein the anodes have the shape of an inverted 
V and the cathodes have the shape of a prism placed inside the anodes. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
