<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614562</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FIREFIGHTER TRAINING SYSTEM WITH THERMAL AGENT DETECTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09B1900	G09B1900	G09B900	G09B900	A62C9900	A62C9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	A62C	A62C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09B19	G09B19	G09B9	G09B9	A62C99	A62C99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Conventional firefighter training practices
typically provide for the combustion of flammable
materials, such as wood, straw, and other organic
and inorganic materials, which are to be
extinguished by the trainee upon the application
thereon of sufficient quantities of an appropriate
extinguishing agent. The extinguishing agent that
is most commonly utilized is water, due principally
to its availability, cost and widespread usage as a
fire extinguishing material. However, these
conventional training practices have come under
scrutiny in recent years as a result of the
relatively high injury rate, adverse environmental
impact, and limited training effectiveness and
trainee throughput that is associated with such
practices. For example, the National Fire
Protection Association 
(NFPA) reports that in the United States alone, nearly
6,000 training-related injuries were sustained by
firefighters in 1988. Nevertheless, live fire training
is a crucial and necessary component of firefighter
training, for it most closely represents the overall
environment a firefighter is likely to encounter during
a genuine fire emergency. Unfortunately, conventional
live fires that are set for the purpose of firefighter
trainee education suffer from many of the very same
hazards that are associated with genuine fire
emergencies -- unpredictability of fire propagation and
its response to trainee action. As a consequence of
these characteristics, it is often times necessary for
the trainee supervisors to themselves suppress the live
fire prior to rendering perhaps life-saving assistance
to a fallen trainee. Furthermore, because the very
nature of a conventional live fire is unpredictability,
it is not possible to accurately and readily reproduce
a desired fire condition for a succession of
firefighter trainees.In an effort to address the foregoing deficiencies
in firefighter training, live fire simulator systems
have been implemented since the early 1970's which
provide for, among other features, the substitution of
various controllable arrangements of propane and
natural gas-operable burners located within dedicated
"burn rooms" for the prior practice of igniting various
flammable props (i.e., wood or straw bundles) or even
buildings to be razed. Illustrative of the newer
generation of live firefighter training simulators is
that disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,303,396 and
assigned to the United States of America as represented
by the Secretary of the Navy. The simulator disclosed
in this referenced patent, 
provides a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for detecting the presence of a
genuine or simulated fire extinguishing agent and

controlling flame height of a fuel-operable burner
unit (41) of a firefighter trainer (10) in response

thereto, characterised in:

providing a thermally conductive member (200)
exhibiting thermal mass and having a temperature

sensor (204), and positioning said member in
proximity to the burner unit (38);
supplying fuel to the burner unit and igniting
the fuel to produce a fire having flames;
applying one of a fire extinguishing agent or
a simulated fire extinguishing agent to said

thermally conductive member (200) for a period of
time sufficient to effect a decrease in the

temperature of said thermally conductive member;
detecting application of said fire
extinguishing agent or simulated extinguishing agent

by sensing the temperature of said thermally
conductive member using said temperature sensor

(204); and
controlling flame height in accordance with
temperature sensed by said temperature sensor.
The method according to claim 1, wherein flame
height is increasable at a prescribed rate once

signal output from said temperature sensor (204)
indicates attainment of at least a threshold

temperature value.
The method according to claim 2, wherein said
rate of flame height increase is user selectable at

the outset of a training scenario. 
The method according to any preceding claim,
wherein said fire is substantially extinguished upon

application of said extinguishing agent and regenerated
in the absence of a diminution in sensed

temperature to a user selectable threshold
temperature.
The method according to any preceding claim,
wherein flame height is reduced by applying fire

extinguishing agent to an auxiliary temperature
sensor (322) that is positioned remote from the

burner unit (38).
The method according to claim 5, wherein flame
height is reduced upon sensing by said auxiliary

temperature sensor (32a) of a temperature drop of a
user-selectable prescribed minimum temperature

value.
The method according to claim 5, wherein said
auxiliary temperature sensor (32a) is mounted near a

trainer ceiling (80).
The method according to any preceding claim,
wherein said thermally conductive member (200) is

securable to a thermally conductive structure
overlying the burner unit (38).
The method according to any preceding claim,
wherein said temperature sensor data is received by

an automated processing unit (28) operable to
automatically control flame height in accordance

with said received temperature sensor data. 
The method according to any preceding claim
wherein, flame height is controlled by regulating

the rate of fuel delivery to the burner unit (38).
The method according to any preceding claim,
wherein said selected temperature value is reflash

activation temperature.
The method according to any of claims 1 to 10,
wherein said selected temperature value is fire

extinguishment temperature.
The method according to claim 12, further
comprising the step of increasing flame height to a

prescribed maximum level when said extinguishment
temperature is not attained in a prescribed time

interval.
The method according to any preceding claim,
wherein the thermally conductive member (200) is

received within an interior portion of a heat
conductive simulated structure so as to be isolated

from physical contact with the applied extinguishing
agent.
A system for detecting application of a fire
extinguishing agent or a simulated fire

extinguishing agent in the firefighter trainer
containing a burner unit (38), characterised in:


a thermally conductive member (200)
positionable adjacent to the burner unit, said

thermally conductive member having a temperature
sensor (204) that produces an output that is

variable in response to application to said
thermally conductive member of one of a fire 

extinguishing agent or a simulated fire
extinguishing agent for a period of time sufficient

to effect a decrease in the temperature of said
thermally conductive member; and
a burner control system operable to regulate
flame height in the burner unit (38) in accordance

with said sensor signal output.
The system according to claim 15, wherein said
flame control system is operable to decrement burner

flame height in response to a diminution in sensed
temperature of a prescribed rate.
The system according to claim 15 or 16,
wherein said flame control system comprises an

automated processing system that is operable to
receive signal output from said temperature sensor

(204) and to generate signal output responsive
thereto for effecting control of burner flame

height.
The system according to claim 17, wherein said
automated processing system implements flame height

control by regulating fuel supply to the burner unit
(41).
The system according to claim 18, wherein
burner fuel supply (36) is regulated by a valve

assembly (98) having an adjustably positionable
valve mounted within a fuel supply line that extends

between a fuel reservoir (36) and the burner unit
(38), said valve assembly being operable to receive

variable signal output from said automated
processing system and to position said valve in

accordance with said signal output received thereby. 
The system according to claim 17, 18 or 19,
wherein said burner control system comprises an

input device for entry into the system of a user-selectable
operation parameter for affecting signal

output from said automated processing system.
The system according to claim 20, wherein said
operation parameter is reflash activation

temperature for the temperature sensor (204).
The system according to claim 20, wherein said
operation parameter is maximum flame height.
The system according to claim 20, wherein said
operation parameter is reflash delay time.
The system according to claim 20, wherein said
operation parameter is fire extinguishment

temperature.
The system according to any of claims 20 to
24, wherein said flame control system further

comprises an auxiliary temperature sensor (32a) and
said operation parameter is flame suppression

temperature for diminishing flame height upon
sensing by said auxiliary sensor of a temperature

drop in excess of a prescribed value.
The system according to claim 25, wherein said
auxiliary temperature sensor (32a) is mounted in

proximity to a trainer ceiling (56).
The system according to any of claims 15 to
23, wherein said thermally conductive member (200) 

comprises a metallic block and said temperature
sensor comprises a thermocouple (204).
The system according to claim 27, wherein said
thermocouple (204) includes a tip (212) that

protrudes beyond a surface of the thermally
conductive member.
The system according to claim 28, wherein said
tip (212) is oriented substantially transverse to

the surface plane adjacent to said tip.
The system according to any of claims 15 to 26
wherein said thermally conductive member (200) is

comprised of a stainless steel selected from the
group consisting of 306, 314 and Inconnel stainless

steel.
The system according to any of claims 15 to
27, wherein said temperature sensor (204) is

adjustably positionable with respect to said
thermally conductive member.
The system according to any of claims 15 to
28, wherein said thermally conductive member (200)

is adjustably positionable with respect to the
burner unit (38).
The system according to any of claims 15 to
29, wherein the burner unit (38) is provided with an

overlying thermally conductive grating (206) having
a plurality of interstices, said thermally

conductive member (200) being mountable within at
least one of said grating interstices in heat

conducting relation therewith.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
