<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624853</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hybrid on-line handwriting recognition and optical character recognition system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K903	G06K903	G06K922	G06K922	G06K948	G06K948	G06K962	G06K962	G06K964	G06K966	G06K968	G06K968	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The hybrid handwriting recognition method includes the steps 
of (a), in response to a handwriting input from a user, 

providing dynamic, time ordered stroke information; (b) 
determining a first list comprised of at least one probable 

character that the dynamic, time ordered stroke information is 
intended to represent; (c) converting the dynamic, time 

ordered stroke information to static stroke information; (d) 
determining a second list comprised of at least one probable 

character that the static stroke information represents; and 
(e) merging the first list and the second list to provide a 

third, unified list comprised of at least one element 
representing a most probable character that the dynamic, time 

ordered stroke information is intended to represent. The step 
of converting includes the steps of generating a static, bit-mapped 

representation of the dynamic stroke information, and 
generating one or more first stroke features based on contour 

directions of the bit-mapped stroke information. The first 
stroke features are applied as inputs to a plurality of neural 

network recognizers. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJISAKI TETSUNOSUKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MODLIN WILLIAM DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOHIUDDIN KOTTAPPURAM M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI HIROYASU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJISAKI TETSUNOSUKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MODLIN WILLIAM DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOHIUDDIN KOTTAPPURAM M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI HIROYASU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to handwriting recognition 
systems and methods. Two basic approaches to computer-based handwriting recognition 
are known as on-line handwriting recognition (HWR) and off-line 
HWR. The off-line HWR approach is sometimes also referred 
to as optical character recognition (OCR). In general, the on-line 
HWR technique employs dynamic handwriting information, 
while the off-line HWR technique employs static handwriting 
information. These two approaches have historically been 
separately developed for use in different handwriting 
recognition environments. For the case where a handwriting input device provides dynamic 
information, such as stroke direction and stroke order, the 
use of on-line HWR technique has traditionally been preferred 
because, for a given set of input characters, on-line HWR 
generally provides better recognition accuracy than the off-line 
HWR technique. A stylus-based (or pen-based) computer 
that captures strokes from an integrated digitizer tablet is 
one exemplary application that has benefitted from the use of 
on-line HWR. The off-line HWR technique, on the other hand, has 
traditionally been employed for applications where dynamic 
information from a digitizer was not available. By example, 
when documents are scanned from a scanner the input data 
stream does not contain dynamic handwriting information. As 
such, the on-line HWR approach is unsuitable for use, and the  
 
off-line HWR approach provides a viable alternative. While the on-line HWR technique provides superior results when 
dynamic stroke information is available, it has drawbacks as 
well. For example, the on-line HWR technique can exhibit a 
sensitivity to user-dependent letter formation. That is, the 
on-line HWR technique operates best with a well-formed 
presentation of the constituent strokes of a letter or 
numeral. The on-line HWR technique may thus exhibit a 
sensitivity to the order of formation and the number of 
constituent strokes. For example, the on-line HWR technique 
typically expects a user to write the letter "C" with a single 
touch of the pen and with a counter clock-wise stroke. This 
is, however, but one possible way for a user to form the 
letter "C". For example, a multi-stroke, clockwise pen motion 
can also be used. Often complicating the problem presented by user-dependent 
character formation is the unnaturalness that many users 
experience when writing with a conventional stylus/digitizer 
tablet. Because the feel of the stylus on the surface of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A handwriting recognition system, comprising: 
handwriting transducer means (12, 14), responsive to a 

handwriting input from a user, for outputting time 
ordered stroke information; 

first means (16), having an input coupled to an output of 
said handwriting transducer means, for determining a 

first list comprised of at least one probable character 
that the time ordered stroke information is intended to 

represent; 
means (20), having an input coupled to said output of 

said handwriting transducer means, for converting the 
time ordered stroke information to static stroke 

information; 
second means (22), having an input coupled to an output 

of said converting means, for determining at least one 
second list comprised of at least one probable character 

that the static stroke information represents; and 
means (24), having a first input coupled to an output of 

said first determining means and a second input coupled 
to an output of said second determining means, for 

merging said first list and said at least one second list 
to provide a third list comprised of at least one most 

probable character that the time ordered stroke 
information is intended to represent. 
A handwriting recognition system as set forth in claim 1 
wherein said converting means includes first means for 

generating one or more first stroke features based on 
contour directions of the static stroke information. 
A handwriting recognition system as set forth in claim 2 
wherein said converting means further includes second 

means for generating one or more second stroke features 
based on convexity and concavity of the static stroke 

information. 
A handwriting recognition system as set forth in claim 2 
wherein said second determining means is comprised of at 

least one neural network means having a plurality of 
input nodes coupled to said converting means for 

receiving the first stroke features, said at least one 
neural network means having at least one output node for 

outputting at least one probable character in response to 
the first stroke features. 
A handwriting recognition system as set forth in claim 2 
wherein said converting means includes means, responsive 

to the time ordered stroke information, for converting 
the time ordered stroke information to an N by M bit-mapped 

representation thereof, and wherein said first 
generating means is responsive to the bit-mapped 

representation. 
A handwriting recognition system as set forth in claim 5 
wherein said time ordered stroke converting includes 

means for scaling the time-ordered stroke information 
such that the stroke is wholly contained within the N by 

M bit-mapped representation. 
A method for operating a handwriting recognition system, 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) responsive to a handwriting input from a user, 
providing dynamic, time ordered stroke information; 
(b) determining a first list comprised of at least one 
probable character that the dynamic, time ordered stroke 

information is intended to represent; 
(c) converting the dynamic, time ordered stroke 
information to static stroke information; 
(d) determining a second list comprised of at least one 
probable character that the static stroke information 

represents; and 
(e) merging the first list and the second list to provide 
a third, unified list comprised of at least one most 

probable character that the dynamic, time ordered stroke 
information is intended to represent. 
A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the step of 
converting includes a step of generating one or more 

first stroke features based on contour directions of the 
static stroke information (Fig. 4). 
A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the step of 
converting includes a further step of generating one or 

more second stroke features based on convexity and 
concavity of the static stroke information (Fig. 5). 
A method as set forth in claim 8 wherein the step of 
determining a second list is accomplished with at least 

one neural network means (Fig. 6) having a plurality of 
input nodes for receiving the first stroke features, the 

at least one neural network means having at least one 
output node for outputting at least one probable 

character in response to the first stroke features. 
A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the step of 
converting includes a step of mapping the dynamic, time 

ordered stroke information into an N by M bit-mapped 
representation thereof. 
A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein the step of 
mapping includes a step of scaling the dynamic, time-ordered 

stroke information such that a stroke is wholly 
 

contained within the N by M bit-mapped representation. 
A method for recognizing a handwriting, comprising the 

steps of: 
inputting one or more feature vectors representing 

dynamic stroke information; 
converting the one or more feature vectors into an NxM 

representation of the one or more feature vectors; 
counting occurrences of individual ones of a plurality of 

primitive features within the NxM representation; 
generating, in response to the counted occurrences, at 

least one first list comprised of one or more symbols 
that the NxM bit-mapped image may represent; 

generating, in response to the feature vectors, a second 
list comprised of one or more symbols that the feature 

vectors may represent; and 
generating a third list from the at least one first list 

and the second list, the third list including at least 
one most probable symbol that the feature vectors may 

represent. 
A method as set forth in claim 13 wherein the step of 
inputting includes a step of segmenting the feature 

vectors. 
A method as set forth in claim 13 wherein the step of 
generating at least one first list includes a step of 

applying the counted occurrences to inputs of at least 
one neural network means, the at least one neural network 

means having been trained to recognize at least one 
predetermined symbol. 
A method as set forth in claim 13 wherein the step of 
generating at least one first list includes a step of 

applying the counted occurrences to inputs of individual 
ones of a plurality of neural network means, each of the 

plurality of neural network means having been trained to 
recognize at least one predetermined symbol within a 

predetermined class of symbols. 
A method as set forth in claim 13 wherein the step of 
counting occurrences includes the steps of: 

partitioning the NxM bit-mapped image into a plurality of 
slices; 

applying an ixj mask over the NxM bit-mapped image to 
locate instances of primitive features; and 

counting the located instances within each of the 
plurality of slices. 
A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein the step of 
applying includes a step of identifying primitive 

features based on contour direction. 
A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein the step of 
applying includes a step of identifying primitive 

features based on convexity and concavity. 
A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein the step of 
applying includes a step of identifying a first set of 

primitive features based on contour direction and a 
second set of feature vectors based on convexity and 

concavity. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
