<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640003</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW NOx BURNER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5356	B01D5356	F23C600	F23C604	F23C700	F23C700	F23C900	F23C900	F23C9900	F23C9900	F23D1400	F23D1400	F23L700	F23L700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	F23C	F23C	F23C	F23C	F23C	F23C	F23C	F23C	F23D	F23D	F23L	F23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	F23C6	F23C6	F23C7	F23C7	F23C9	F23C9	F23C99	F23C99	F23D14	F23D14	F23L7	F23L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low NOx burner combustion system (10) which may be adjusted for optimum burn rates, temperature and oxygen levels. The burner incorporates a plurality of gas nozzles (34, 36, 38) which individually inspirate a portion of the combustion air and a spin vane diffuser (20) to rotate and mix the gases within the primary combustion zone. The diffuser (20) is axially adjustable in order to vary the distance between the vane (20) and the first combustion zone while the blades of the diffuser (20) can be angularly adjusted to optimize the rotation and mixing of the gases. Air for combustion is supplied through a passage (16) to create distinct combustion zones for complete combustion. The flow rate of the combustion air is controlled through a damper (14) in accordance with the burn characterisitics. Further reductions in noxious emissions are accomplished by recirculating flue gases and mixing such gases directly with combustion fuel prior to introduction into the combustion chamber through eductor nozzles (34, 36, 38). Still further reductions are attained by mixing a secondary compound such as water or a chemical into the recirculated flue gases to optimize burn levels thereby reducing emissions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLMAN BOILER WORKS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLMAN BOILER WORKS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANG JERRY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCOTT DAVID W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANG, JERRY, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCOTT, DAVID, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LOW NOX BURNERThis is a continuation-in-part of copending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/786,869 filed November 1, 1991.Background Of The InventionI. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to a burner having reduced N0X emissions and, in particular, to a burner wherein flow and mix rates may be varied in accordance with the combustion characteristics and demand rate of the burner. The specific adjustments of an existing burner may be retrofitted to vary for optimization with demand.II. Description of the Prior ArtCombustion system burners have come under increased scrutiny for the toxic emissions which are a by-product of the combustion process. Depending upon the extent of combustion, carbon monoxide and NOx may be omitted at unacceptable levels. Carbon monoxide levels can normally be controlled through complete combustion resulting in carbon dioxide. However, three factors contribute to the formation of NOχ in combustion systems. The first and most widely recognized is flame temperature. Most current systems incorporate some method of staging fuel and air to reduce flame concentration and resultant high temperatures. A second factor is excess 02 levels. Higher 0 levels tend to provide more oxygen for combination with nitrogen; however, the higher 02 levels results in excess air which tends to balance the effect of lower temperatures. The laminar mix in most current low NOχ burners requires more 0 for complete combustion. If lower 02 levels are utilized the result is incomplete combustion in the form of carbon monoxide. The third factor is residence time in a critical temperature zone which is virtually ignored 

in modern burners because reduced time means higher velocities producing unacceptable temperatures.One common practice for reducing N0χ levels is to use external, induced or forced flue gas recirculation (FGR) . A common misconception about FGR is that the process is destroying NOχ in the original flue gas. However, recent research has determined that FGR simply reduces or dilutes the flame front thereby reducing the formation of N0X. Further, external flue gas recirculation results in higher temperature and increased volume combustion air producing higher pressure drops through the system requiring more horsepower, the resultant higher velocities also reducing heat transfer thereby reducing the efficiency of the burner.Several burner manufacturers have developed low N0χ systems with mixed results. Although N0χ systems emissions have been reduced many of the systems do not meet
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. In a burner adapted to reduce emission of noxious gases upon combustion of a fuel and air, the burner including a source of combustion air and a source of combustion fuel, at least a portion of the combustion air flowing through a central air passage into which the combustion fuel is supplied for combustion within a combustion zone of the burner creating combustion gases, the improvement comprising: means for combining combustion fuel with combustion gases recirculated from the combustion zone, said combustion fuel and combustion gas being combined prior to mixture with the combustion air and introduction into the combustion zone for optimum combustion and reduction of noxious emissions.
2. The improvement as defined in claim 1 wherein said means comprises a plurality of eductor nozzles radially spaced about the central air passage, said eductor nozzles mixing said combustion fuel with said recirculated combustion gases and directing said mixture into the central air passage for combustion.
3. The improvement as defined in claim 2 wherein said burner includes at least one annular passageway for supply of combustion fuel and at least one annular passageway for recirculation of combustion gases, said eductor nozzles in fluid communication with both said combustion fuel passageway and said combustion gases passageway.
4. The improvement as defined in claim 3 wherein said burner includes a plurality of staged combustion zones axially spaced along said central air passage, each of said combustion zones having a set of radially spaced eductor nozzles for introduction of a mixture of combustion fuel and combustion gases. 


 5. The improvement as defined in claim 3 and further comprising means for introducing a secondary compound into the mixture of combustion fuel and combustion gases prior to combustion within the combustion zone to optimize combustion flame temperature and further reduce noxious emissions.
6. The improvement as defined in claim 5 wherein said secondary compound is combined with said recirculated combustion gases prior to mixing with said combustion fuel.
7. The improvement as defined in claim 5 wherein said secondary compound is selected from the group consisting of methanol, water and steam.
8. The improvement as defined in claim 5 wherein said secondary compound is a chemical waste material.
9. In a burner adapted to reduce emission of noxious gases upon combustion of a fuel and air, the burner including a source of combustion air and a source of combustion fuel, at least a portion of the combustion air flowing through a central air passage into which the combustion fuel is supplied for combustion within a combustion zone of the burner creating combustion gases, the improvement comprising: means for introducing a secondary compound into said combustion gases and recirculating said combustion gases to the combustion zone; and means for combining said recirculated combustion gases and secondary compound with the combustion fuel; said combustion gases being combined with said secondary compound prior to combination with said combustion fuel and said combustion fuel, recirculated combustion gases, and secondary compound being combined prior to mixture with the combustion air and introduction into the combustion zone for combustion thereby optimizing combustion and reducing noxious emissions.
10. The improvement as defined in claim 9 wherein said burner includes a flue gas circulation chamber for recirculation 


of combustion gases from the flue of said burner, said secondary compound being introduced into said flue gas recirculation chamber.
11. The improvement as defined in claim 10 wherein said secondary compound is methanol.
12. The improvement as defined in claim 10 wherein said secondary compound is water.
13. The improvement as defined in claim 10 wherein said secondary compound is a chemical waste material.
14. The improvement as defined in claim 10 wherein said means combining said recirculated combustion gases and said secondary compound with the combustion fuel comprises a plurality of eductor nozzles radially spaced about the central air passage, said eductor nozzles directing said mixture of recirculated combustion gases, secondary compound and combustion fuel into the central air passage for combustion within the combustion zone.
15. The improvement as defined in claim 14 wherein said burner includes at least one annular passageway for supply of combustion fuel and at least one annular passageway in communication with said flue gas recirculation chamber, said eductor nozzles in fluid communication with both said combustion fuel passageway and said combustion gases passageway.
16. A process for optimizing combustion within a burner while reducing N0
X
 emissions as a result of combustion, the burner including a central air passage and a plurality of nozzles for delivering combustion fuel into the central air passage for combustion within a combustion zone of the burner, the process comprising: recirculating combustion gases resulting from combustion within the combustion zone to a flue gas recirculation chamber; 


 mixing said recirculated combustion gases with said combustion fuel prior to delivery into the central air passage for combustion whereby N0
χ
 emissions from the burner are reduced.
17. The process as defined in claim 16 wherein the nozzles are eductor nozzles in communication with said flue gas recirculation chamber and said supply of combustion fuel whereby said mixing occurs within said eductor nozzles prior to delivery into the central air passage.
18. The process as defined in claim 17 and comprising the further step of introducing a secondary compound into said flue gas recirculation chamber for mixture with said recirculated combustion gases prior to mixing with said combustion fuel.
19. The process as defined in claim 18 wherein said secondary compound is methanol.
20. The process as defined in claim 18 wherein said secondary compound is water. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
