<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOAD PROGRAMMABLE OUTPUT BUFFER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05F110	G05F1565	G05F308	G05F324	H03K1716	H03K1716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05F	G05F	G05F	G05F	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05F1	G05F1	G05F3	G05F3	H03K17	H03K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention reduces bounce in the power (VCC) or ground (VSS) supply voltages of an integrated circuit chip by gradually turning output drivers (407b) both on and off, so there is not a sharp discontinuity in current flow to an external device (PAD). Greatest current flow occurs at the middle of a transition period. The gradual turn-off at the end of a transition is achieved by feeding back voltage of the output signal (408) to a device (501) which controls the output driver (407b). As output voltage approaches its final value, the output driver (407b) gradually turns off, preventing a sharp transient in the power (VCC) or ground (VSS) voltage of the integrated circuit chip.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XILINX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XILINX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER ROGER D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIERCE KERRY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER, ROGER, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIERCE, KERRY, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LOAD PROGRAMMABLE OUTPUT BUFFERFIELD OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to output buffers for integrated circuit devices, more particularly to an output buffer which can be programmed differently to drive different types of load devices.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Current process technology allows an output driver to generate rapid changes in output voltage. Fast transitions are desirable, but can lead to unwanted noise on internal power and ground busses. Since power and ground busses are coupled to internal logic signals, noise on the power and ground busses may cause erroneous states to be generated in the internal logic signals. Fast transitions can also cause ringing on the output pin signal, which may cause erroneous data to appear in a receiving device being driven by the output pin signal. The fundamental cause of noise on the power and ground busses is due to the transition of the voltage level driving the load. Fig. 1 shows an output driver circuit 101 in combination with an output load device 106 driven through pad 105 and inductive elements 102 and 107 internal to the integrated circuit and additional inductive elements 103 and 108 comprising bond pads and wires connected to positive and negative power supplies, and printed circuit traces 104 and 109 external to the integrated circuit device. When the pad signal is a logical 1, transistor 101a is on, and a current iTR flows from the positive power supply through trace 104, bond wire 103, integrated circuit power line 102, transistor 101a, pad 105, to load 106. When transistor 101a suddenly shuts off, the induction of elements 104, 103, and 102 causes a voltage buildup, allowing VCCINT, the internal power supply voltage, to be greater than VCCEXT, the external power supply voltage. At this point, load 106 is at a positive voltage 

level, for example 5 volts. When transistor 101b suddenly turns on and current iTF begins to flow, the inductance of elements 107, 108, and 109 limits current flow and causes a voltage buildup across elements 107, 108, and 109, allowing VSSINT to be greater than VSSEXT. Opposite variations in VCC and VSS occur due to opposite transitions of transistors 101a and 101b. When multiple transistors equivalent to transistors 101a and 101b switch simultaneously, the voltage variations on the power and ground busses can be unacceptably large, causing erroneous data to be generated internally. Erroneous data can also be generated at the load device in response to a fast transition. Prior efforts to control power and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS 1. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage in an integrated circuit device comprising: an output driver circuit comprising at least one output drive transistor (407b) having current carrying terminals connected between an output terminal (408) and a first power supply terminal (gnd) having a first power supply voltage; means (Rl or 407a) for supplying a second power supply voltage to said output terminal; means (501 or 502) for controlling said output drive transiεtor, said means for controlling being responεive to an unbuffered output signal (401) and to a voltage at said output terminal (408) .
2. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 1 in which said means (Rl or 407a) for supplying a second power supply voltage to said output terminal comprises a second output drive transistor (407a) .
3. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 2 further comprising means (see Fig. 4H) for controlling said second output drive transiεtor (407a) .
4. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 1 further comprising means (503 and M) for causing said means for controlling said output drive transiεtor to reεpond only to εaid unbuffered output εignal.
5. A εtructure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 4 in which said means for causing said means for controlling said output drive transistor to respond only to said unbuffered output εignal compriεeε: a multiplexer (503); and a logic gate (502) which receives at one terminal an output signal from said output terminal and at another terminal said unbuffered output signal, and 


 provides a signal to said multiplexer; wherein said multiplexer in a first εtate paεεes εaid output signal from said logic gate to a control terminal of said output drive transistor and in a second state passeε said unbuffered output signal to said control terminal of said output drive transistor.
6. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 5 in which said multiplexer is controlled by a memory cell.
7. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 6 in which said memory cell is an SRAM cell.
8. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 6 in which εaid memory cell iε at least one antifuse connected to a voltage εource.
9. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 6 in which said memory cell iε a nonvolatile EPROM cell.
10. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage aε in Claim 6 is which said memory cell is at least one optional via which connects to a voltage source.
11. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 5 in which said logic gate comprises an AND gate, said AND gate comprising: a CMOS transmisεion gate having its control terminal connected to said unbuffered output signal and its input terminal connected to said output terminal of εaid output driver circuit, and having an output terminal; a pull-down tranεistor having a current carrying terminal connected to said output terminal of said 


 CMOS transmisεion gate and another current carrying terminal connected to ground, and a control terminal connected through an inverter to εaid unbuffered output signal.
12. A structure for reducing variation in power supply age as in Claim 1 further comprising: a second output driver circuit comprising: at least one second output driver transistor (417b) having current carrying terminals connected between said output terminal (408) and εaid first power supply terminal and a control terminal controlled by said unbuffered output εignal. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 4 February 1994 (04.02.94); original claims 1-3 cancelled; original claims 4-12 amended; (3 pages)]
4. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage in an integrated circuit device comprising: an output driver circuit comprising at least one output drive transistor (407b) having current carrying terminals connected between an output terminal (408) and a first power supply terminal (gnd) having a first power supply voltage; means (Rl or 407a) for supplying a second power supply voltage to said output terminal; means (501 or 502) for controlling said output drive transistor, said means for controlling being responsive to an unbuffered output signal (401) and to a voltage at said output terminal (408) ; and means (503 and M) for causing said means for controlling said output drive transistor to respond only to said unbuffered output signal.
5. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 4 in which said means for causing said means for controlling said output drive transistor to respond only to said unbuffered output signal comprises: a multiplexer (503); and a logic gate (502) which receives at one terminal an output signal from said output terminal and at another terminal said unbuffered output signal, and provides a signal to said multiplexer; wherein said multiplexer in a first state passes said output signal from said logic gate to a control terminal of said output drive transistor and in a second state passes said unbuffered output signal to said control terminal of said output drive transistor. 


 6. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 5 in which said multiplexer is controlled by a memory cell .
7. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 6 in which said memory cell is an SRAM cell.
8. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 6 in which said memory cell is at least one antifuse connected to a voltage source.
9. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 6 in which said memory cell is a nonvolatile EPROM cell.
10. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 6 is which said memory cell is at least one optional via which connects to a voltage source.
11. A structure for reducing variation in power supply voltage as in Claim 5 in which said logic gate comprises an AND gate, said AND gate comprising: a CMOS transmission gate having its control terminal connected to said unbuffered output signal and its input terminal connected to said output terminal of said output driver circuit, and having an output terminal; a pull-down transistor having a current carrying terminal connected to said output terminal of said CMOS transmission gate and another current carrying terminal connected to ground, and a control terminal connected through an inverter to said unbuffered output signal.
12. A structure for reducing variation in power supply 


voltage in an integrated circuit device comprising: a first output driver circuit comprising at least one output drive transistor (407b) having current carrying terminals connected between an output terminal (408) and a first power supply terminal (gnd) having a first power supply voltage; means (Rl or 407a) for supplying a second power supply voltage to said output terminal; means (501 or 502) for controlling said output drive transistor, said means for controlling being responsive to an unbuffered output signal (401) and to a voltage at said output terminal (408); a second output driver circuit comprising: at least one second output driver transistor (417b) having current carrying terminals connected between said output terminal (408) and said first power supply terminal and a control terminal controlled by said unbuffered output signal. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
