<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613292</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An image processing system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N160	H04N146	H04N726	H04N967	H04N146	H04N967	H04N726	H04N160	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	H04N7	H04N9	H04N1	H04N9	H04N7	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image processing system (10,20) comprises a 
framestore (11) or other source of image data in a first 

colour format (RGB) and is arranged to convert the data 
into data representing at least one colour separation. 

A colour rotator 14, such as a colour transform matrix, 
is provided for rotating on a pixel-by-pixel basis the 

first colour format data (RGB) into data in a second 
colour format (NPQ) selected such that one of the 

colours thereof corresponds to the colour of the at 
least one colour separation. A look-up table (15) 

determines from the most significant parts of the data 
from the rotator (14) a range of colour values in the 

second colour format which includes the value of the 
colour separation pixel. An interpolator (16) receives 

data defining the range of values from the look-up table 
and in response to the least significant parts of the 

data from the colour rotator (14) interpolates the data 
from the look-up table to determine the value of the 

colour separation pixel. One described embodiment is 
concerned with generating separation data representing 

colour separations for use in printing. Another 
described embodiment is concerned with generating 

separation data representing a chroma key signal for use 
in combining two video signals. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUANTEL LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUANTEL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAWLEY ROBIN ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAWLEY, ROBIN ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an image processing
system and to a method of converting image data
representing a colour value in a first plural-colour
format into data representing a separation value of
one or more respective colour separations.In electronic image processing system images are
normally defined by data representing an array of
picture elements with each picture element being
defined in terms of its red, green and blue content.
Any three colour components could in fact be used to
represent a picture element but red, green and blue
are chosen because in electronic image processing
systems a television-type monitor is usually provided
for display of an image and the colours red, green and
blue correspond to the three colour phosphors used in
a TV-type monitor. The screen of a monitor is usually
dark (black) and during the display of an image the
phosphors are stimulated to emit red, green and blue
light components which are summed in the eye of a
person viewing the monitor and thereby seen as the
appropriate colour by the viewer. Thus, the red,
green, blue (RGB) colour format is an additive colour
format.Electronic image processing systems are also used
to process images prior to printing. Images are 
usually printed onto white paper and in order to
achieve the correct colour when the printed image is
viewed inks are used to absorb light which would
otherwise reflect from the white paper, thereby
leaving only the unabsorbed light to be seen as the
appropriate colour by the viewer. In printing, cyan,
magenta and yellow inks are used with cyan ink
absorbing the colour red, magenta ink absorbing the
colour green and yellow ink absorbing the colour blue.
The cyan, magenta, yellow (CMY) colour format is a
subtractive colour format.In theory any colour can be represented
completely in terms of RGB components or CMY
components and can be converted between the RGB and
CMY formats, without any loss of colour or other
information, by way of a matrix transform of the form:
(CMY) = (a b c) (R)
    (d e f) (G)
    (g h i) (B)
   where a to i are constants.
Electronic integrated circuits designed to perform
such a transform at high speed are readily available.In practice there are several limitations in the
printing process which will result in true CMY data
not producing a printed image containing the correct
colour. Firstly, the cyan, magenta and yellow inks
that are available for printing are not perfect
absorbers of red, green and blue light respectively. 
As a result darker areas of the image will not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital image processing system for converting
image data representing a colour value in a first

plural-colour format (RGB) into data representing a
separation value of one or more respective colour

separations, the data defining a multiplicity of pixels
which together form a colour image, the system

comprising:

first transforming means (14) for transforming
pixel-by-pixel said image data in said first plural-colour

format (RGB) to produce data in a second plural-colour
format (NPQ) different than said first plural-colour

format and selected such that one or more of the
colours of the second plural-colour format respectively

corresponds substantially with one or more colours of
the one or more colour separations; and
second transforming means (15, 16, 22, 24) for
determining for each pixel from most significant parts

(MSB) of the data in said second plural-colour format
range data defining a range of values, and for

calculating from the range data using least significant
parts of the data in the second plural-colour format

separation data, the second transforming means thereby
producing on a pixel-by-pixel basis a separation value

for the one or more colour separations.
An image processing system as claimed in claim 1,
further comprising a data library (17) for supplying

transformation data to said first transforming means
(14) and calculation data to said second transforming

means (15, 16), said data library containing
transformation and calculation data for a multiplicity

of different conversions.
An image processing system as claimed in claim 1
or 2, wherein the data in said first plural-colour

format comprises plural-colour component values, said
first transforming means comprises a transformation

matrix (14), and said data in said second plural-colour
format is produced by multiplication of said first

plural-colour component values by respective constant
values in said transformation matrix.
An image processing system as claimed in claim 1,
2 or 3, wherein the second transforming means comprises

a look-up table (15) containing data arranged to
identify for each value of data in said second plural-colour

format which can be input thereto a range of
values including the output separation value. 
An image processing system as claimed in any
preceding claim, wherein the second transforming means

(15, 16, 22, 24) is arranged to produce the range data
as two values with one value being greater than and the

other value being less than the output separation
value, and the second transforming means comprises an

interpolator (16) arranged to interpolate between the
two values.
An image processing system as claimed in any
preceding claim, wherein said colours in said first

plural-colour format are orthogonal.
An image processing system as claimed in any
preceding claim, wherein said first plural-colour

format comprises three additive colour components.
An image processing system as claimed in any
preceding claim, wherein said colours in said second

plural-colour format are orthogonal.
An image processing system as claimed in any
preceding claim, wherein said second plural-colour

format comprises at least three subtractive colour
components. 
An image processing system as claimed in claim 9,
wherein said second plural-colour format further

comprises a black component.
An image processing system as claimed in any
preceding claim, wherein the colour separations

correspond to the colours of inks to be used in
printing the image.
An image processing system as claimed in claim 11,
wherein the first and second transforming means are

arranged to create respective separation data for each
colour of ink to be used in printing the image.
An image processing system as claimed in any
preceding claim, wherein one of the colour separations

corresponds to the colour of a chroma key to be used in
combining a portion of another image with the image.
An image processing system as claimed in claim 13,
wherein the image and the other image are corresponding

frames in respective video clips.
An image processing system as claimed in any
preceding claim, further comprising means (22, 23, 24) 

for offsetting data in said second plural colour format
and for multiplying said offset data such that said

data occupies a maximised range.
An image processing system as claimed in claim 15,
wherein said means comprises a subtractor (22) for

subtracting an offset value held in a register (23)
from said data and a shift register (24) for

multiplying said offset data by a predetermined amount.
A method of converting image data representing a
colour value in a first plural-colour format into data

representing a separation value of one or more
respective colour separations, the data defining a

multiplicity of pixels which together form a colour
image, the method comprising:


transforming pixel-by-pixel said image data in
said first plural colour format to produce data in a

second plural-colour format different than said first
plural-colour format and selected such that one or more

of the colours of the second plural colour format
respectively corresponds substantially with one or more

colours of the one or more colour separations; 
determining for each pixel from most significant
parts of the data in said second plural-colour format

range data defining a range of values; and
calculating from the range data using least
significant parts of the data in the second plural-colour

format separation data, thereby producing a
separation value for the one or more colour separations

on a pixel-by-pixel basis.
A method as claimed in claim 17, wherein said
colours in said first plural-colour format are

orthogonal.
A method as claimed in claim 17 or 18, wherein
said first plural-colour format comprises three

additive colour components.
A method as claimed in claim 17, 18 or 19, wherein
said colours in said second plural-colour format are

orthogonal.
A method as claimed in any of claims 17 to 20,
wherein said second plural-colour format comprises at

least three subtractive colour components. 
A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said
second plural-colour format further comprises a black

component.
A method as claimed in any of claims 17 to 22,
wherein the colour separations correspond to the

colours of inks to be used in printing the image.
A method as claimed in any of claims 17 to 23,
wherein one of the colour separations correspond to the

colour of a chroma key to be used in combining a
portion of another image with the image.
A method as claimed in any of claims 17 to 24,
wherein the separation value is calculated from the

range data by interpolation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
