<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653352</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Incrementally variable transmission between prestretching rollers in a stretch-film wrapping machine
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B1100	B65B1104	B65B1102	B65B1100	B65B1102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B11	B65B11	B65B11	B65B11	B65B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An incrementally variable transmission (16) for transmitting torque 
between input and output rollers (4,6) in a prestretching device (2) 

of a stretch-film wrapping machine achieves a selectable prestretching 
of a plastic film with a predetermined yield point, running in contact 

with the rollers. The input roller (4) is caused to rotate at lower 
rpm than the output roller (6), and the transmission (16) comprises a 

multiratio gear train (22) between an input shaft (28) and an output 
shaft (26), said gear train (22) being arranged in a housing (18), and 

a device (24) engaging and disengaging the input shaft (28) to or from 
the gear train. The input and output shafts (28,26) of the gear train 

are coaxial. The coupling device is a free-wheel clutch (20) which is 
in its engaged position when the input roller (4) is imparted, due to 

tension in the film between the rollers, a torque from the output 
roller (6), and the clutch (20) assumes its released position when 

said torque is absent. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BURTECH AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BURTECH AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDH JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDH, JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to 
a stretch-film wrapping machine with 
an incrementally variable transmission for 
transmission of a torque between input and output rollers in a prestretching 
device for a stretch-film wrapping machine, to achieve 
selected prestretching of a plastic film with a predetermined yield 
point. The input roller is caused to rotate at lower rpm than the output 
roller. The transmission comprises a shifting mechanism arranged 
in a housing with various gearing increments between an input and an 
output shaft, and has a device for engaging and disengaging the input 
shaft to or from the shifting mechanism. Stretch-film wrapping machines with prestretching for stationary or 
rotating goods 
according to the preamble of Claim 1 
are known 
and an illustration is described in US-A-4,336,679. 
Stretch-film, possibly supplemented with top-film 
or topsheets, can provide a universal protecting covering for the 
goods at the same time as non-uniform goods are held together. Stretch-film 
wrapping is a good protector for foodstuffs and chemical technical 
products, for example. A known stretch-film wrapping machine comprises essentially a film roll 
or thin plastic film, e.g. a cast film of 20 µ, a prestretching device comprising 
two parallel rollers, which are caused to rotate at different 
rpm, and a driven rotatable turntable which supports the goods to be 
wrapped and which are suitably stacked on a pallet. The first roller, 
to which the film comes from the plastic film roll, is caused to rotate 
at relatively low rpm, e.g. 10 rpm, and this determines the speed at 
which the film will leave the film roll. The second roller, via which 
the film after prestretching leaves the prestretching device, is caused 
to rotate in the opposite direction, and at a higher rpm than the first 
roller, e.g. 30 rpm, depending on the speed at which the film is wrapped 
around the goods. Since the rollers have friction-increasing elements 
and/or coatings on their surfaces and the plastic film runs in 
an S-shape in contact with the counter-rotating rollers, the film will 
leave the prestretching device at a higher speed than the feeding 
speed. This achieves a prestretching of the film in the transition 
portion between the two rollers which results in a film thickness of 
about 3 µ, which is desirable for economic reasons among other things.  
 In order to reduce the risk of film breakage in the space between the 
prestretching device and the goods, it is suitable to equip the machine 
with a drive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Stretch-film wrapping machine with an 
incrementally variable transmission (16) for transmitting torque 

between input and output rollers (4,6) in a prestretching device (2) 
of the stretch-film wrapping machine, to achieve selectable prestretching 

of a plastic film running in contact with said rollers and having a 
predetermined yield point, the input roller (4) being caused to rotate 

at a lower rotational speed than the output roller (6), said transmission 
(16) comprising a multiratio gear train (22) between an input 

shaft (28) and an output shaft (26), said gear train (22) being 
arranged in a housing (18), and a device (20) for engaging and disengaging 

the input shaft (28) to and from said gear train (22), 

characterized
 in that the input shaft (28) and the output 
shaft (26) of the gear train (22) are coaxial, that the engaging and 

disengaging device is a free-wheel clutch (20) which assumes its 
engagement position when the input roller (4), by means of the tension 

in the film between the rollers, is imparted a torque from the output 
roller (6), and that the clutch (20) assumes a free-wheel position when 

said torque is absent. 
Machine according to Claim 1, 

characterized
 in that the housing (18) has two cylindrical, 
mutually concentric and interengaging components: an outer main 

component (26) constituting the output shaft of the gear train, and an 
inner housing component (28) forming the input shaft of the gear train, 

between said components (26,28) the free-wheel clutch (20) and the 
majority of the active components of the gear train (22) being 

enclosed. 
Machine according to Claim 1 or 2, 

characterized
 in that the gear train (22) has a center 
through-shaft (30) which is concentrically arranged relative to the 

housing (18), the shaft ends (32,34) of which projecting outside individual 
end pieces of the housing, and that the shaft end (32) projecting 

from the inner housing component (28) is non-rotatably anchored 
in a mounting plate (44) of the prestretching device. 
Machine according to Claim 3, 

characterized
 in that the shaft end (34) projecting 
from the opposite endpiece of the main component (26) is non-rotatably 

anchored in one end of a rod shaft (46) of relatively small diameter,  
 

that the rod shaft extends through the center of the output roller (6) 
rotatably mounted on the same, and that the other end of the rod shaft 

(46) is non-rotatably anchored (8,50) in the bottom portion of the 
prestretching device. 
Machine according to Claims 1 - 4, 

characterized
 in that the gear train (22) has at least 
four gear speed increments. 
Machine according to Claims 1 - 4, 

characterized
 in that the gear train (22) has seven 
different gear speed increments. 
Machine according to one of Claims 
2 - 6, 
characterized
 in that the main component (26) of 
the housing has adjacent its distal end (38) an annular flange (52), 

to which one end of the output roller (6) is securely fixed. 
Machine according to one of the preceding 
claims, 
characterized
 in that the output roller 
(6) is joined to a drive device (58) which imparts a positive torque 

to the roller as a function of a predetermined value of the rotational 
direction of the roller and rotational speed for a given running speed 

of the plastic film as it leaves the prestretching device. 
Machine according to Claim 8, 

characterized
 in that the drive device (58) comprises 
a pulley (24) fixed to the periphery of the main component (26) of 

the housing, said pulley being connectable via a drive belt to a 
corresponding pulley on a drive motor mounted in the prestretching 

device (2). 
Machine according to Claim 9, 

characterized
 in that the gear train (22), the free-wheel 
clutch (20) and the pulley (24) are built together into a transmission 

unit (16). 
Machine according to one of the preceding 
claims, 
characterized
 in that the gear train (22) 
consists of at least one planetary gear train.  

 
Machine according to one of the preceding 
claims, 
characterized
 in that the transmission 
unit (18) is equipped with a bicycle hub of a type known per se. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
