<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653913</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO THE STORAGE OF POTATOES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23B714	A23B7144	A23B7144	A23B7152	A23B7157	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23B	A23B	A23B	A23B	A23B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23B7	A23B7	A23B7	A23B7	A23B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to potato storage arrangements and is particularly advantageous in arrangements substantially sealed against the surrounding atmosphere. In one embodiment the arrangement includes means for circulating the atmosphere in the store upwardly through the potatoes and samples of the atmosphere are examined by analytical techniques to monitor one or more volatiles in said atmosphere. When the level of the monitored volatile(s) falls below or rises above a predetermined level the potatoes are exposed to a treatment material, for example a sprout growth regulator or a pest disease treatment material, preferably a volatile treatment material released into the atmosphere to pass upwardly through the potatoes. The application of the treatment material continues until a calculated volume has been released or as the value of the monitored volatile material reaches a predetermined level. In a preferred embodiment the monitored volatile is dimethylnaphthalene and the treatment material is dimethylnaphthalene and/or diosopropylnaphthalene.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OULTON RICHARD JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OULTON, RICHARD JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVERST-TODD SELWYN INGS FARM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVERST-TODD, SELWYN INGS FARM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO THE STORAGE OF POTATOES"This invention relates to a method of, and apparatus for, storing potatoes and has particular application to the long term storage of ware and seed potatoes.It is well known in the art to keep potatoes in long term storage dormant by maintaining the potatoes at low temperature but such storage requires purpose-built storage facilities, which are expensive to to build and equip, and such storage facilities are expensive to operate.It is also well known in the art to keep potatoes dormant by dosing the potatoes with chemicals, which may kill off the sprouting organs of the potatoes or simply delay the sprouting of the potatoes.A further problem with potatoes stored for prolonged periods is attack by pests and disease and in conventional methods for storing this threat is countered by applying pest and disease control chemicals to the stored potatoes.Such sprout control, pest control and disease control chemicals as have been used todate have been contact chemicals, applied to the potatoes as a dust, spray, or the 

 condensates of a vapour, and which methods of application inevitably lead to localised underdosing or overdosing of the stored potatoes.Such prior art chemicals as are commercially used to- date are foreign to the potato chemistry and the residues of many of such chemicals in the potatoes have been found to be detrimental to the end user.In the event, public opinion is strengthening against the use of contact chemicals, particularly when the stored potatoes are intended for human consumption.The potato, in its natural dormant period, is now known to emit volatile materials and the present applicant became aware that the said emissions included certain alkyl naphthalenes, including dimethylnaphthalene. Experiments showed the value of dimethylnaphthalene as a sprout growth regulator and the applicant's discovery was published in European Patent Publication No.0168094.In subsequent experiments the applicant proved the value of di-isopropylnaphthalene as an effective sprout growth regulator and this discovery was published in the P.C.T. Patent Publication No.888249.In both the above identified publication the proposal was to apply the chemical to the potatoes by conventional methods.Potatoes in storage are also susceptible to attack by pests and diseases and it is known to treat the potatoes with chemical compositions to slow down or eradicate the pests or disease by one of the above contact methods.The present invention seeks to provide a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C AIMS
1. A method for storing potatoes comprising the steps of monitoring the level of at least one volatile in the atmosphere surrounding the potatoes and exposing said potatoes to a treatment material when the level of the monitored volatile material rises above, or falls below, a predetermined value or range of values.
2. Amethod according to claim 1, comprising the steps of exposing said potatoes to a volatile treatment material by releasing the volatile treatment material into the atmosphere surrounding the potatoes.
3. A method according to claims 1 or 2, characterised by the steps of identifying the onset of volatiles produced by the potatoes in the atmosphere surrounding the potatoes and thereafter monitoring the level of at least one volatile in the said atmosphere and exposing said potatoes to a treatment material when the level of the monitored volatile material rises above, or falls below, a predetermined value or range of values. 


 4. A method according to claims 1, 2 or 3, characterised by the steps of selecting the treatment material to be a sprout growth regulator and exposing said potatoes to the said treatment material when the level of the monitored volatile material falls below a predetermined value.
5. A method according to claims 1, 2, 3 or 4, characterised by the steps of selecting the said treatment material to be a pest or disease control material and exposing the potatoes to said treatment material when the level of the monitored volatile material rises above a predetermined level.
6. A method according to claims 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, characterised by the steps of exposing the potatoes to the treatment material or materials by any one or more of the conventional methods for applying treatment materials to potatoes in store.
7. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised by the steps of selecting the treatment material to be identical to the monitored volatile material.
8. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised by the steps of exposing the potatoes simultaneously to a treatment material identical to the monitored volatile material and at least one other treatment material.
9. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised by the steps of selecting the monitored volatile material to comprise one or more alkyl naphthalene materials and selecting the treatment material to comprise one or more of the alkyl naphthalenes. 


 10. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised by the steps of selecting the monitored volatile material to comprises dimethylnaphthalene.
11. Amethod according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised by the steps of selecting the treatment material to comprise, or include, dimethylnaphthalene.
12. A method according to any one of the claims 1 to 10 inclusive characterised by the steps of selecting the treatment material to comprises, or include, di-isopropylnaphthalene.
13. Amethod according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised by the steps of selecting the said predetermined level of the monitored volatile material at which the potatoes are to be exposed to the treatment material to be below 10 mg 

14. A method according to claim 3, characterised by the steps of selecting the said predetermined level of the monitored volatile material at which the potatoes are to be exposed to the treatment material to be below 5 mg m~
3
15. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised by the steps of terminating the supply of treatment material to the potatoes when the level of the monitored volatile material reaches a predetermined level.
16. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, characterised by the steps of terminating the supply of treatment material to the potatoes when a predetermined volume of said treatment material has been released into the potatoes,
17. A method according to claim 16, characterised by the steps of calculating said predetermined volume of treatment 


material to be applied by a calculation based on the volume of the potatoes.
18. A method according to any one of the preceding claims characterised by the steps of storing the potatoes in a store substantially sealed from the surrounding atmosphere, causing the atmosphere in the store to circulate upwardly through the stored potatoes and introducing the treatment material into the circulating atmosphere in the lowermost regions of said circulating atmosphere.
19. Apparatus for storing potatoes characterised by monitoring means for monitoring the level of a volatile material in the atmosphere surrounding the potatoes and means for exposing the potatoes to a treatment material when the level of the monitored volatile material rises above, or falls below, a predetermined value or range of values.
20. Apparatus according to claim 19, characterised by a potato storage facility including means for generating circulating air flows in the atmosphere surrounding the potatoes, said air flows passing upwardly through the stored potatoes.
21. Apparatus according to the claim 20 or 21, includes means for extracting samples of the atmosphere surrounding the potatoes and supplying said samples to said monitoring apparatus.
22. Apparatus according to claim 21 characterised in that the means for extracting samples of the atmosphere surrounding the potatoes comprises at least one aspiration tube arranged with one of its ends buried in the stored potatoes.
23. Apparatus according to claim 21 characterised by means for placing the, or each, aspiration tube under a negative 


 pressure whereby atmosphere surrounding the potatoes is drawn into the, or each, aspiration tube at a substantially constant rate.
24. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the monitoring arrangement is arranged to monitor its level of the monitored volatile by anylitical techniques.
25. Apparatus according to claim 24 characterised in that said monitoring means comprises, apparatus for practising gas chromatographic analysis techniques on samples of the atmosphere surrounding the potatoes.
26. Apparatus according to claim 24 characterised in that said monitoring means comprises a photofluorimetric apparatus.
27. Apparatus according to claim 24 characterised in that the said monitoring means comprises an optical sensing apparatus.
28. Apparatus, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
