<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629122</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPUTER DISPLAY SCREEN SIMULATION FOR OPTOMETRIC EXAMINATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B302	A61B302	A61B3032	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B3	A61B3	A61B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved vision tester apparatus and method are disclosed for use in conducting optometric examinations of patients who use video display terminals (VDTs). Specifically, the tester simulates images that are displayed to the patient by a typical VDT, so as to facilitate prescribing corrective lenses that will perform well for the patient when used with an actual VDT. The tester (10) includes a flat-panel electroluminescent light source (32) for illuminating a screen (14) without hot spots. The screen includes a colored ink layer (78, 80, 82) and an opaque ink mask (70) for forming pixel-like light elements (24). Lensing structures (52, 56, 58, 60) degrade the image such that each light element exhibits a generally Gaussian light amplitude curve (Fig. 5B) characteristic of a pixel of an actual VDT. A rechargeable battery (34) coupled to an inverter circuit (30) provides portable power for the EL panel to complete a compact, portable tester.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRIO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRIO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALIBELLO COSMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORREY JONATHAN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALIBELLO, COSMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORREY, JONATHAN, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMPUTER DISPLAY SCREEN SIMULATION FOR OPTOMETRIC EXAMINATIONThis application is a continuation-in-part of application serial number 07/665,903, filed March 7, 1991 , now U.S. Patent No. which is a continuation-in-part of application number 07/282,596, filed December 12, 1988, now U.S. Patent No. 4,998,820.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to vision testing equipment and more specifically to instruments and methods for use in conducting optometric examinations.As use of the video display termina' ("VDT") has become more widespread, for example in connection v iih computers, so too have certain ophthalmological problems associated v '< <ts use become more common. A recent survey of optometrists, reported ir. me J. Am. Optom. Assoc. 1992 (vol. 63, pp 687-92), shows that more than 14% of optometric patients present with symptoms primarily associated with use of the VDT, or almost 10 million examinations annually when projected to the U.S. population. Responding optometrists were unable to confidently arrive at a diagnosis and treatment more frequently for VDT patients (20.87%) compared to non-VDT patients (14.05%).Alphanumeric characters displayed on video display screens are made up of dots or pixels which do not have well defined borders and therefore are difficult for the eye to focus upon. Further, since video screens are maintained at a constant distance of about 50 cm from the user's eyes, the same eye muscles are in constant use in focusing on the screens. These factors cause significant amounts of stress and fatigue on the eyes of video display terminal users which are often aggravated by the fact that many such 

users utilize their computers for extended periods on a daily basis. The stress associated with video display use frequently results in peculiar types of eye problems requiring special corrective prescriptions in the spectacles selected for the users suffering from these problems.In order to accurately diagnose these problems, appropriate test equipment and test procedures must be provided. In accordance with the process currently used by medical practitioners to determine the spectacle requirements of typical patients, an apparatus (phoropter) is placed in front of the eyes of the patient which enables the doctor to rapidly change a wide selection of lenses while the patient views a set of test images through the lens changing apparatus. As the patient focuses on the test images, the doctor assesses the status of the muscles inside the patient's eyes and judges
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A vision tester for use in conducting optometric examinations of patients who use video
,
 display terminals, said system comprising: a light source; a substantially transparent, generally planar substrate having first and second sides, the first side exposed to the light source; a mask layer of substantially opaque ink applied to the second side of the substrate, the mask layer having a predetermined pattern of small, circular openings through which colored light is transmitted from the light source toward the patient, for forming an image consisting of pixel-like light elements, each light element formed by one of said openings; and means disposed between the mask layer and the patient for degrading the quality of the image provided by said light elements by selectively reducing the higher order spatial frequencies associated with the light transmitted through said openings so that light elements transmitted to the patient exhibit a generally Gaussian light amplitude curve for simulating a VDT screen image.
2. A vision tester according to claim 1 wherein the light source comprises a substantially flat electro-luminescent panel for providing uniform illumination without a diffusion layer overlying the light source.
3. A vision tester according to claim 2 further comprising a battery pack for providing portable DC power and an inverter circuit coupled to receive the DC power for providing AC power to drive the electro-luminescent panel. 


 4. A vision tester according to claim 1 further comprising a layer of substantially translucent ink applied to the second side of the substrate for coloring light that passes through the substrate from the light source.
5. A vision tester according to claim 4 wherein: the translucent layer comprises a first region of ink having a first color and a second region of ink of a second color, the second region non- overlapping the first region; and the mask layer of opaque ink includes a first pattern of openings positioned over the first region of the first layer and a second pattern of openings positioned over the second region, so that a first image formed by the first pattern exhibits a first color determined by the first region ink color and a second image formed by the second pattern exhibits a second color deteπnined by the second region ink color, whereby the vision tester displays at least two different colored images for simulating two different types of VDT.
6. A vision tester according to claim 1 wherein the first layer includes a region of ink tinted so that light transmitted through the first layer from the light source is perceived by a normal human eye as having a mid-saturation green hue whereby the tester simulates a green background type of VDT screen.
7. A vision tester according to claim 1 wherein the first layer includes a region of ink tinted so that light transmitted through the first layer from the light source is perceived by a normal human eye as having a mid-saturation yellow-orange hue whereby the tester simulates an amber background type of VDT screen.
8. A vision tester according to claim 1 wherein: 


 the mask layer includes a reverse image region in which the opaque ink is generally absent, except for selected dots of ink, the dots being arranged in a predetermined pattern so as to form the image; and the first layer ink in a region underlying the reverse image region of the mask layer is a pale blue color so that the image as displayed to the patient simulates a black-on-white type of VDT display image.
9. A vision tester according to claim 4 wherein: the first layer comprises a third region of ink having a third color different from the first and second colors, the third region non-overlapping the first and second regions; and the mask layer of opaque ink includes a third pattern of openings positioned over the third region of the first layer whereby the tester apparatus simultaneously simulates three different types of video displays.
10. A vision tester apparatus comprising: a generally flat, rigid housing (16) having front and back sides; a flat EL panel light source (32) disposed within the housing for providing illumination toward the front of the housing; a substantially planar screen (14) disposed within the housing over the EL panel so that the EL panel illuminates the screen; a bezel (16) extending generally along a periphery of the front of the housing overlapping a periphery of the screen (14) and coupled to the housing (16) so as to secure the screen in place within the housing; and power means ( 34) in the housing coupled to the EL panel for powering the EL panel to illuminate the screen.
11. A vision tester apparatus according to claim 10 wherein: the housing includes a central viewing tunnel (18) extending between the front and back sides; 


 the EL panel includes a central aperture registered with the viewing tunnel; and the screen includes a central aperture also registered with the viewing tunnel, whereby a user can observe a patient while the tester is in use by peering through the viewing tunnel from the back side of the housing.
12. A vision tester apparatus according to claim 10 further comprising a support arm (20) coupled to the housing (16) for supporting the housing so as to present the screen to a patient; and means for rotating the housing about a vertical axis, whereby either one of the front and back sides of the housing may be presented to a patient as desired without adjusting the support arm.
13. A vision tester apparatus according to claim 10 further comprising a printed eye-chart mounted onto the back side of the housing, so that the eye-chart may be used by reversing the tester orientation relative to a patient.
14. An optical system according to claim 10 wherein the screen includes a polycarbonate cover layer (60) and an intermediate polycarbonate layer (56) interposed between the EL panel and the polycarbonate cover layer; and wherein the light elements are formed by a thin ink mask (54) formed on a surface of the intermediate polycarbonate layer (56) facing the EL panel, the ink mask comprising a layer of substantially opaque ink (70) and having a plurality of pixel openings in it for transmitting light from the EL panel through the intermediate polycarbonate layer and the polycarbonate cover layer so as to form corresponding pixels (24) as seen by a patient facing the screen.
15. An optical system according to claim 14 wherein the screen further includes a first bonding layer (52) disposed intermediate the EL panel (50) 


and the intermediate polycarbonate layer (56), the first bonding layer having a substantially lower index of refraction than the intermediate polycarbonate layer (56), for refracting light transmitted through the ink mask pixel openings so as to reduce higher-order spacial frequencies of said transmitted light.
16. An optical system according to claim 15 wherein the screen further includes a second bonding layer (58) disposed intermediate the cover layer (60) and the intermediate polycarbonate layer (56), the second bonding layer having a substantially lower index of refraction than the polycarbonate layer (56), for refracting light transmitted through the pixel means so as to reduce higher-order spacial frequencies.
17. An optical system according to claim 16 wherein the polycarbonate cover layer (60), intermediate polycarbonate layer (56) and first and second bonding layers are selected to have optical properties such that in combination they provide the refracting means to reduce higher-order spacial frequencies so that light transmitted from the light source through the screen to the patient exhibits a substantially Gaussian light amplitude curve.
18. An optical system according to claim 14 wherein the intermediate polycarbonate layer is coated with a thin layer of a substantially transluscent, tinted ink so as to color light transmitted through the said layer for simulating a color of a video display terminal.
19. A vision tester according to claim 10 wherein the screen includes: means in the ink mask defining a predetermined pattern of small, circular openings through which light travels from the light source toward the patient as pixel-like light elements, each light element being formed by one of said openings, for simulating VDT pixels; and lensing means in the screen for refracting the light elements and reducing higher order spacial frequencies in the light elements such that the 


light elements exhibit a substantially Gaussian light amplitude curve to the patient to emulate light emitted by pixels in a VDT.
20. An optical display method for use in conducting optometric examinations comprising: providing a flat-panel electroluminescent light source for illumination substantially without hot spots; coloring light emitted by the electroluminescent light source; transmitting the colored light through a screen having sets of openings which function to cooperatively define a predetermined image in terms of pixel-like light elements; and degrading the quality of the image formed by the light elements by reducing higher order spatial frequencies associated with the colored light transmitted through said openings so that light elements transmitted from the light source through the screen to a patient exhibit a generally Gaussian light amplitude curve for simulating a video display terminal image. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
