<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617113</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fluidized process for improving the quality of a particulate regenerated solid.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10G1100	C10G1118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10G	C10G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10G11	C10G11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fluidized solid process for upgrading or converting a 
hydrocarbon feedstock wherein carbonaceous deposits accumulate on 

a particulate fluidized solid and are burned in a regenerator to 
regenerate the solid, the regenerated solid and entrained 

combustion products are introduced into a vertical lift pipe, a 
fluid lift medium is introduced into the lift pipe and the 

regenerated solid is separated from the lift medium and combustion 
products-to improve the quality of the regenerated solid contacted 

with the hydrocarbon feedstock. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAR CO PROCESSES JOINT VENTURE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAR-CO PROCESSES JOINT VENTURE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARTHOLIC DAVID B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARTHOLIC, DAVID B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the processing of hydrocarbon 
feedstocks wherein the hydrocarbon feedstock is contacted with a 
fluidized particulate solid which accumulates carbonaceous 
deposits thereon, is regenerated by burning the deposits and the 
regenerated solid is returned to a contacting zone. More 
particularly, this invention relates to a method for improving the 
quality of such regenerated solid returned to the contacting zone. Since the fluidized catalytic cracking (FCC) process was 
first introduced in the 1940s, the FCC process hydrocarbon feed 
has been used as the fluidizing media in the reactor and also to 
convey the regenerated catalyst from the bottom of the reactor 
riser up to the reactor cyclone or disengaging vessel. In the 
typical riser cracking FCC system that is used worldwide today, 
the hot regenerated catalyst is mixed at or near the base of the 
reactor riser with feed. The hot regenerated catalyst acts as the 
heat source for vaporizing the feed and also acts as a catalyst to 
convert the feed to lower molecular weight product. This 
vaporization and conversion of the feed results in vapors which 
are used to convey the catalyst up the riser to the spent 
catalyst-reactor vapor disengaging vessel where the reactor vapors 
and spent catalyst are separated from each other. After 
separation, the spent catalyst flows downwardly into a catalyst 
stripper, then into the regenerator where it is regenerated and 
then back to the base of the riser to complete the circuit. The  
 
reactor vapors, after separation from the majority of the spent 
catalyst, are fractionated into the desired products. The hydraulics of the typical FCC process are very well known 
and are based upon the fact that a dense bed of fluidized catalyst 
will develop a higher pressure differential than a dilute phase of 
fluidized catalyst. As an example, the normal fluidized dense 
bed, as employed in regenerators, reactor beds or strippers that 
have upward velocities of between 0.5 and 3.5 feet per second 
(fps) superficial velocity will have densities of between 15 and 
40 pounds per cubic foot (#/ft³) which equates to 0.10 to 0.28 
pounds per square inch (psi) per foot of dense bed height. The 
catalyst circulating lines, such as regenerated catalyst and spent 
catalyst standpipes, which normally have little or no added 
fluidizing media or no significant upward gas superficial velocity 
will have densities between 25 and 50 #/ft³ which equates to 0.17 
to 0.35 psi per foot of height. The reactor riser
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a fluidized solid process wherein a fluidized 
particulate solid is contacted in a contacting zone with a 

hydrocarbon feedstock and becomes spent as a result of 
accumulating carbonaceous deposits thereon, fluidized spent solid 

is circulated to a regenerator in which the carbonaceous deposits 
are burned so as to regenenerate the solid and regenerated solid is circulated 

to the contacting zone, characterised in that the process includes the steps of: 

(a) withdrawing hot fluidized regenerated solid and 
entrained combustion products from the regenerator; 
(b) introducing the withdrawn regenerated solid and 
entrained combustion products into a lower portion of an elongated 

vertical lift pipe; 
(c) introducing a fluid lift medium into a lower 
portion of said lift pipe to intimately contact the regenerated 

solid therein; 
(d) passing a stream of the fluidized regenerated 
solid, entrained combustion products and lift medium upwardly in 

said lift pipe to an upper portion thereof; 
(e) passing said stream to a separation zone and 
separating therein regenerated solid from said lift medium and 

combustion products; 
(f) passing the separated regenerated solid having a 
reduced amount of entrained combustion products to said contacting 

zone for contact therein with said hydrocarbon feedstock; and 
(g) recycling separated lift medium to said lift pipe 
to intimately contact the regenerated solid therein. 
The process of claim 1, wherein said contacting zone is a fluidized 
catalytic cracking reactor and the particulate solid is a finely divided cracking catalyst. 
The process of claim 2, wherein said reactor is a riser reactor wherein 
the separated regenerated catalyst and hydrocarbon feedstock are passed upwardly in an 

elongated reactor or the separated regenerated catalyst is dispersed downwardly into a 
substantially horizontal stream of atomized hydrocarbon feedstock. 
The process of claim 2 or claim 3, wherein said separated regenerated 
solid passed to said contacting zone has been modified in activity. 
The process of claim 2, claim 3 or claim 4, wherein said lift medium 
comprises steam or water, the separated lift medium is condensed, the resulting 

condensate is treated to remove catalyst fines, and the resulting treated condensate is 
vaporized and injected into said lift pipe. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the particulate solid is substantially inert 
and substantially no activity for the conversion of hydrocarbons under the conditions of 

said process occurs in said reactor. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said lift medium is a 
fluid selected from steam, water, and mixtures of steam or water with hydrocarbon 

gases or hydrocarbon liquids. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 7, when conducted in an existing 
fluidized solid process system which has been modified to permit the practice of said 

process therein. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said separated 
regenerated solid passed to said contacting zone is substantially free of said combustion 

products. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein said separated 
regenerated solid passed to said contacting zone is substantially free of fines. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein said separated 
regenerated solid passed to said contacting zone is substantially free of lift medium. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein said separation zone 
comprises one or more cyclone separators. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said separated lift 
medium is heat exchanged with boiler feed water to produce steam. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said separated lift 
medium is heat exchanged with condensed separated lift medium to produce 

superheated lift medium for recycle back to the bottom of the lift pipe. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said lift medium is 
water and is employed to cool said separated regenerated solid and to increase the solid 

to oil ratio in said contacting zone. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein said separated lift 
medium is comprised of hydrocarbon gas. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the residence time of 
said solid in the lift pipe is less than 10 seconds. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the residence time of 
said solid in said lift pipe is less than 4 seconds. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein the superficial 
velocity of said stream in said lift pipe is less than 120 fps. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein the density of said 
stream in said lift pipe is less than 15 pounds per cubic foot. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein the weight ratio of 
said regenerated solid to said hydrocarbon feedstock in said contacting zone is greater 

than 10 to 1. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein the temperature of 
said regenerated solid withdrawn from said regenerator is not greater than about 732°C 

(1350°F). 
The process of claim 22, wherein said regenerated solids temperature is 
not greater than about 677°C (1250°F). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
