<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611412</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CEMENTING PLUG.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B3313	E21B3316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B33	E21B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAFLEUR PETROLEUM SERVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAFLEUR PETROLEUM SERVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAFLEUR KARL K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAFLEUR, KARL, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CEMENTING PLUGBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to cementing plugs for use in the cementing of casing in oil and gas wells. More specifically, the present invention relates to cementing plugs that are particularly well suited for use with a polycrystalline diamond compact (PDC) drill bit. The cementing plugs of the present invention may be configured as bottom cementing plugs or top cementing plugs.Description of the Prior ArtIt is well known in the art to conduct oil and gas well cementing procedures with a cementing plug container assembly that is designed to contain one or more cementing plugs for injection into the casing of a well. Typically, a first cementing plug is injected prior to the introduction of cement into the casing and a second cementing plug is injected to displace the cement through the casing and to cement the casing in the well. Conventional cementing plugs are made of an aluminum or plastic core and a finned outer shell made of rubber. 

 Typically, drilling operations are resumed after the casing is cemented in the well. When drilling operations are resumed, the drill bit must first pass through the cementing plugs which are lodged at the lower end of the cemented casing. Conventionally, the cementing plugs and any residual cement are drilled out and removed from the casing with tooth-type rock bits. The teeth on a conventional rock bit are effective in drilling through the conventional cementing plugs made of aluminum and rubber even though the.plugs are free to rotate within the casing.A polycrystalline diamond compact (PDC) drill bit has been introduced to the drilling bit art that advantageously replaces tooth-type rock bits under certain conditions. PDC drill bits, however, do not drill through conventional cementing plugs made of aluminum and rubber as effectively as conventional tooth-type rock bits. Instead, PDC drill bits tend to spin the cementing plugs within the casing. To overcome this problem it has been proposed to use a non-rotating plug set as disclosed in U.S. Patents Nos. 4,836,279 and 4,858,687. These attempts, however, to overcome the incompatibility, from a drilling standpoint, of PDC drill bits and cementing plugs have been largely unsuccessful.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe cementing plugs of the present invention overcome the above-mentioned drawbacks and disadvantages which are characteristic of the prior art.The cementing plugs of the present invention comprise a cylindrical body having a bore extending
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A cementing plug for insertion in the bore of a casing, comprising: a cylindrical body having a bore extending therethrough; a coating disposed about a portion of said body member and retained thereon for wiping said bore of said casing as said plug traverses said casing; and a removable septum disposed and retained within said bore of said cylindrical body for controlling the flow of fluid through said plug.
2. A cementing plug according to claim 1, wherein said cylindrical body comprises a first member and a second member, wherein said second member is disposed about said first member.
3. A cementing plug according to claim 2, wherein said first member and said second member define said bore of said cylindrical body.
4. A cementing plug according to claim 2, wherein said second member is resilient and comprises polycrystalline diamond compact drillable solid foam material.
5. A cementing plug according to claim 4, wherein said solid foam material comprises polyurethane foam.
6. A cementing plug according to claim 3, wherein said first member is rigid and comprises polycrystalline diamond compact drillable plastic material.
7. A cementing plug according to claim 6, wherein said rigid polycrystalline diamond compact drillable plastic material comprises thermosetting plastic material. 


 8. A cementing plug according to claim 7, wherein said thermosetting plastic material comprises the reaction product of phenol and formaldehyde.
9. A cementing plug according to claim 6, wherein said rigid polycrystalline diamond compact drillable plastic material comprises instant set polymer material.
10. A cementing plug according to claim 9, wherein said instant set polymer material comprises a mixture of a- resin and an isocyanate.
11. A cementing plug according to claim 10, wherein said mixture comprises a polymethylene resin and a polyphenylisocyanat .
12. A cementing plug according to claim 3, wherein said bore comprises a first bore portion and a second bore portion, said first bore portion and said second bore portion being divided by an inward protruding shoulder formed on said first member.
13. A cementing plug according to claim 12, wherein said inward protruding shoulder supports said septum.
14. A cementing plug according to claim 1, wherein said septum is rigid and comprises polycrystalline diamond compact drillable plastic material.
15. A cementing plug according to claim 14, wherein said rigid polycrystalline diamond compact drillable material comprises thermosetting plastic material.
16. A cementing plug according to claim 15, wherein said thermosetting plastic material comprises the reaction product of phenol and formaldehyde. 


 17. A cementing plug according to claim 14, wherein said rigid polycrystalline diamond compact drillable material comprises instant set polymer material.
18. A cementing plug according to claim 17, wherein said instant set polymer material comprises a mixture of a resin and an isocyanate.
19. A cementing plug according to claim 18, wherein said mixture comprises a polymethylene resin and a polyphenylisocyanate.
20. A cementing plug according to claim 12, wherein said first bore portion and said second bore portion are cylindrical.
21. A cementing plug according to claim 2, wherein said first member comprises an upper portion, a middle portion and a lower portion; and wherein said lower portion has a greater outside diameter than said upper portion and said middle portion extends between said upper and lower portions and has an outside diameter that continuously decreases from said lower portion to said upper portion.
22. A cementing plug according to claim 2, wherein said second member of said cylindrical body comprises a nose.
23. A combination, comprising: a) an oil or gas well casing; and b) a cementing plug for insertion in the bore of said casing, comprising:
1) a cylindrical body having a bore extending therethrough; 


 2) a coating disposed about a portion of said body member and retained thereon for wiping said bore of said casing as said plug traverses said casing; and
3) a removable septum disposed and retained within said bore of said cylindrical body for controlling the flow of fluid through said plug.
24. A combination according to claim 23, wherein said casing comprises a locking collar comprising radially spaced inward protruding bristles.
25. A combination according to claim 24, wherein said bristles prevent rotation of said cementing plug within said casing.
26. A combination according to claim 23, wherein said cylindrical body comprises a first member and a second member, wherein said second member is disposed about said first member wherein said first member and said second member define said bore of said cylindrical body, and wherein said second member comprises a nose; and wherein said casing further comprises a receptacle, said receptacle sealingly engaging with said nose.
27. A cementing plug comprising: - a) a cylindrical body comprising a rigid first portion and a resilient second portion, said resilient second portion being disposed about said rigid first portion; and b) a rigid nose engaged with said rigid first portion.
28. A cementing plug according to claim 27, wherein said rigid nose is threadedly engaged with said rigid first portion. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
