<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643862</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A MUSIC LEARNING AID
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09B1500	G09B1500	G09B1502	G09B1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09B15	G09B15	G09B15	G09B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A music learning aid (1) has a base (2) and a sliding template (3). The template (3) has windows which allow viewing of musical information imprinted on the base (2) at different positions. Each position is selected by being able to view a keynote through a window (5) so that the cut-out slots (4) in the template (3) then show the musical information for that keynote and scale or chord. The musical information may include the musical notation and the musical instrument playing instructions. In another embodiment, a learning aid takes the form of an electronic calculator where different information sets may be displayed on a liquid crystal display according to instructions inputted on a keypad.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HESNAN JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HESNAN, JOHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESNAN JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESNAN, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a music learning aid. In this 
specification, the term "learning aid" means not only 
learning but also teaching whereby the aid may be used as 
an aid for teaching or for learning. In addition, the 
term "music" when used in this context means music theory 
or practice with reference to playing musical instruments. Learning how to play a musical instrument involves a 
number of stages, one of the most difficult of which is 
memorizing how each note is produced on the instrument. 
The note, scale and chord conversions for the instrument 
must also be learned. The relationship between keys, 
buttons or strings of a particular instrument and their 
associated note name and staff position involves in-depth 
referral to a theoretical base in order to calculate 
scales and chords. Similar difficulties are also 
encountered by people learning music theory. A music teaching aid is described in German patent 
specification no. DE 4002361 (Kuffer, P.). This comprises 
a display panel straddled by a slider, upon operation of 
which Major and Minor keynotes in alphabetic music 
notation are displayed for a selected fundamental. 
Accordingly, it appears that this aid would be of some 
benefit to skilled musicians in that it "calculates" Major 
and Minor scales for a particular keynote in alphabetic 
notation. However, this teaching aid is apparently of little or no 
benefit to beginners or to moderate musicians in learning 
how to play instruments or learning music theory. There 
is still a requirement to refer to music books to obtain 
the necessary music theory information and information as  
 
to how to play the relevant musical instrument. In many 
cases, this puts people off learning music. British Patent Specification No. GB 2,228,136 (Wilson) 
also describes a music learning aid. This aid has a 
sleeve with a number of apertures on staff lines. A slide 
which can move within the sleeve has indicia marked on it, 
which can be viewed through the sleeve apertures. It 
appears that there are few positions at which the 
apertures on the sleeve are in alignment with the relevant 
dots on the slide and useful information is obtained. According to the invention, there is provided a music 
learning aid comprising a planar base member extending in 
a longitudinal direction and having indicia representing 
musical information marked on a face thereof, and a 
sliding template having means for sliding on the base 
member and windows to allow selective viewing of the 
indicia, characterised in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A music learning aid (1) comprising a planar base 
member (2) extending in a longitudinal direction 

and having indicia representing musical 
information marked on a face thereof, and a 

sliding template (3) having means for sliding on 
the base member and windows (4) to allow selective 

viewing of the indicia, characterised in that:- 

(a) the planar base member indicia comprises:- 
indicia (7) representing musical staff lines 

extending in the longitudinal direction, 

musical note indicia (7) representing 
individual musical notes located on the staff 

lines at different positions in the 
longitudinal direction and in a transverse 

direction perpendicular to the longitudinal 
direction, and 
a plurality of sets of additional information 
indicia (8,9), each set being associated with 

indicia representing an individual musical 
note and being in alignment in the transverse 

direction with the associated musical note 
indicia; and 
(b) the sliding template (3) comprises:- 

a plurality of elongate windows (4) each 
extending in the transverse direction, the 

relationship between the length of each 
window (4) and the indicia on the base member 

(2) being such that the windows allow viewing 
of indicia for musical notes at different  

 
transverse locations on the staff lines upon 

sliding of the template to different 
longitudinal positions on the base member, 
and to allow viewing of indicia for 
associated additional information at each 

longitudinal position, and wherein the 
windows are located with respect to each 

other to allow viewing of musical note 
indicia representing a musical note 

calculation so that the longitudinal 
direction is a calculation direction and the 

transverse direction is an additional 
information direction. 
An aid as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one 
of the elongate windows (4) is sufficiently wide 

in the calculation direction to allow viewing of 
indicia for two or more musical notes adjacent to 

each other. 
An aid as claimed in claims 1 or 2, wherein the 
elongate windows (4) have a substantially equal 

spacing therebetween. 
An aid as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the sliding template (3) also comprises a guide 

window (5) which allows viewing of indicia for a 
calculation key, and wherein the base member 

indicia (6,7,8,9) and the template windows (4) are 
located with respect to each other so that 

registry of the guide window (5) with a 
calculation key indicia causes the elongate 

windows (4) to allow viewing of the relevant 
musical note calculation and the associated 

additional information.  
 
An aid as claimed in claim 4, wherein the guide 
window (5) is located adjacent to a first elongate 

window (4). 
An aid as claimed in claim 5, wherein the musical 
note indicia (7) are located substantially 

centrally on the base member, the additional 

information indicia (8,9) are located beneath the 
musical note indicia, and the key indicia (6) are 

located above the musical note indicia, as viewed 
by a user. 
A music learning and instrument playing aid 
comprising:- 


a display device (81); 
a programmable controller (91,52-55,96); and 
a user interface (84-87), wherein the 
controller is programmed to automatically 

generate display of musical note calculations 
(82) on staff lines extending in a 

calculation direction, and display of 
additional information (83) including playing 

instructions associated with the musical 
notes, the additional information being 

displayed in transverse alignment with the 
associated musical notes in an additional 

information direction. 
An aid as claimed in claim 7, wherein the display 
device is a single liquid crystal display (81) 

having dimensions sufficient to allow viewing of 
calculations in the calculation direction and of  

 
the additional information in the additional 

information direction. 
An aid as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8, wherein 
the controller is programmed to generate displays 

for a plurality of different musical instruments. 
An aid as claimed in any of claims 7 to 9 wherein 
the controller comprises a read only memory 

circuit which stores musical information. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
