<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626033</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROTARY FLUID DISPLACEMENT APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01C100	F01C110	F01C1100	F01C1100	F01C2000	F01C2014	F01C2020	F01C2100	F01C2102	F01C2108	F01C2110	F01C2118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	F01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01C1	F01C1	F01C11	F01C11	F01C20	F01C20	F01C20	F01C21	F01C21	F01C21	F01C21	F01C21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rotary fluid displacement apparatus (100) with an orbiting toothed ring member (30) is shown with an improved casing (60) and rolling support between the faces of the valve discs (46, 47) and the first and second fluid transfer elements (21, 35). Particularly, needle bearings (106, 112) are sandwiched between thrust washers (108, 114) and then between the valve discs (46, 47) and the fluid transfer elements (21, 35), with one of the needle bearings (106) being piloted in an annular groove (110) formed in the annular plate (23) of the first fluid transfer element (21) and the other of the needle bearings (112) being piloted on the hub (35') of the second fluid transfer element (35). The casing (60) includes two pieces, i.e. a generally cylindrical portion (62) and an end cap (64). The portion (62) includes four cavities (70, 72, 74, 76), with the hub (35') of the second fluid transfer element (35) being in a sliding, rotatable, and sealing relation with the axially inner cavity (76) and the end cap (64) being in sliding and sealing relation with the axially outer cavity (70). The end cap (64) includes a cavity (90) for slideably, rotatably, and sealing receipt of the hub (24) of the first fluid transfer element (21). Fluid communication is allowed axially through the end cap (64) by an axially extending fluid conduit (94) intersecting with the cavity (90) of the end cap (64) and by an axially extending fluid port (98) which intersects with first and second axially extending fluid bores (82, 96) formed in the generally cylindrical portion (62) and the end cap (64) which in turn intersects with a radially extending fluid conduit (80) terminating in the axially inner cavity (76).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HORTON MFG CO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HORTON MANUFACTURING CO.,INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENNESSY DAVID R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LECLAIRE JAMES P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENNESSY, DAVID, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LECLAIRE, JAMES, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Rotary Fluid Displacement ApparatusBACKGROUNDThe present invention relates generally to rotary fluid displacement apparatus such as pumps, motors, or combination motor-pumps or metering devices, and particularly to improvements to such rotary fluid displacement apparatus which increase product life and efficiency.The most important interface between parts in a rotor stack assembly of a rotary fluid displacement apparatus with an orbiting toothed ring member occurs between the valve discs including the fluid passages and the elements including the fluid transfer passageways. This interface 

is crucial because it can affect timing and efficiency and is where the largest wear problems occur. Specifically, the valve discs formed of torlon tend to wear into the elements typically formed of zinc and including the fluid transfer passageways. In addition to affecting the valving operation, such wear causes the rotor stack assembly to loosen which may accelerate wear in other parts. Also, the elements including the fluid transfer passageways tend to wear away in very fine grains which spread throughout the apparatus. The lubrication for the many moving parts inside the casing of prior rotary fluid displacement apparatus mixed with the zinc particles to form a slurry which was very abrasive to other moving parts of the apparatus. Also, the casing can play a significant role in the life and performance of the apparatus. Specifically, if a perfect seal is not achieved between casing parts, oil and air are allowed to leak, the effects of which are recognizable in both efficiency and aesthetics. Prior casings of rotary fluid displacement apparatus were formed from multiple parts which often promoted air leaks because of the mere number of potential leak paths, the difficulty of sealing, and the type of seals required. Prior casings were difficult and expensive to manufacture and assemble with high repeatability, were prone to wear, and tended to accentuate the noise and vibration problems inherent in an eccentric drive.Thus, a need exists for an improved rotary fluid displacement apparatus with an orbiting toothed ring member which overcomes the problems and shortcomings of prior apparatus. SUMMARYThe present invention solves this need and other problems in the field of rotary fluid displacement apparatus by providing, in the preferred form, rolling support between the faces of the valve disc and the fluid 

transfer element, with fluid passages in the valve disc being movable into and out of registration with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
-16-
1.. In a rotary fluid displacement apparatus including at least a first valve disc having a face and a plurality of fluid passages therethrough, and a fluid transfer element having a face and a plurality of fluid passageways therethrough, with the valve disc being rotatable relative to the fluid transfer element with the fluid passageways being movable into and out of registration with the fluid passages, with the valve disc blocking fluid communication through the fluid passageways when the fluid passageways are out of registration with the fluid passages, the improvement comprising means for providing a rolling support between the faces of the valve disc and the fluid transfer element.
2. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the rolling support providing means comprises, in combination: a first thrust washer for abutting with the face of the fluid transfer element; a second thrust washer for abutting with the face of the valve disc; and needle bearings sandwiched between the first and second thrust washers.
3. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 2 wherein the fluid transfer element comprises, in combination: a hub; and an annular plate extending radially from the hub, with the fluid passageways extending axially through the hub.
4. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 3 further including a casing having a cylindrical cavity, wherein the hub is cylindrical and of a size for slideable and rotatable receipt in the cavity of the casing; and O-ring sealing means between the cavity and the hub to define a fluid chamber in the casing in fluid communication with the fluid passageways.
5. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 4 wherein the needle bearings and the thrust washers are piloted on the hub.
6. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 4 wherein the face of the annular plate of the fluid transfer element includes an annular groove of a size for receipt of the needle bearings and the thrust washers. 


 7. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 4 further including a rotor having external tooth elements and rotatable with the fluid transfer element; and a cooperating ring member encompassing the rotor eccentric therewith for rotary and orbital movement relative thereto, with the ring member having internal tooth elements one more in number than the tooth elements of the rotor, with the tooth elements of the ring member and the rotor having substantially sealing engagement with each other and cooperating to define inner and outer walls of successively expanding and contracting fluid chambers during said rotary and orbital movement of the ring member, and with the valve located intermediate the fluid transfer element and the rotor and the cooperating ring member, with the fluid passages being in fluid communication with the expanding and contracting fluid chambers.
8. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 7 further including means operatively connecting the valve disc to the ring member for imparting rotary movement to the valve disc responsive to rotary movement of the ring member during said orbital movement thereof.
9. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 4 wherein the casing further includes a fluid conduit extending from the exterior of the casing to the cavity.
10. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 9 wherein the fluid conduit extends generally perpendicular to the rotation axis of the valve disc relative to the fluid transfer element; and wherein the casing further comprises at least a first fluid bore extending generally parallel to the rotation axis of the valve disc relative to the fluid transfer element and intersecting with the fluid conduit; and means for plugging the fluid conduit at the exterior of the casing.
11. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 10 wherein the casing further comprises a second fluid bore spaced from and parallel to the first fluid bore, with the first and second fluid bores terminating within the casing; and a single fluid port extending from the exterior of the 


casing and intersecting with the first and second fluid bores and extending in a direction parallel to the first and second fluid bores.
12. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fluid transfer element comprises, in combination: a hub; and an annular plate extending radially from the hub, with the fluid passageways extending axially through the hub.
13. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 12 wherein the face of the annular plate of the fluid transfer element includes an annular groove of a size for receipt of the rolling support providing means.
14. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim l further comprising, in combination: a casing having a cylindrical cavity, with the fluid transfer element including a cylindrical hub of a size for slideable and rotatable receipt in the cavity of the casing; and O-ring sealing means between the cavity and the hub to define a fluid chamber in the casing in fluid communication with the fluid passageways.
15. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 14 wherein the fluid transfer element includes an annular groove of a size for receipt of the rolling support providing means.
16. The rotary fluid displacement apparatus of claim 1 further comprising, in combination: a rotor stack assembly including a shaft, first and second fluid transfer elements rotatably fixed on the shaft, and an externally toothed gear; and a casing comprising, in combination: a generally cylindrical portion including a first, generally axially extending annular member integral with a second, generally radially extending annular member, with the second, generally radially extending annular member of the generally cylindrical portion including a bore for passage and rotatable support of the shaft, with the first, generally axially extending annular member of the generally cylindrical portion including at least a first axially outward cylindrical cavity which terminates in a second axially inner cylindrical cavity which terminates in a third 


 axially inner cylindrical cavity which terminates in the bore, with the generally cylindrical portion including a first fluid conduit extending from the exterior of the generally cylindrical portion to the third cavity, with the second cavity including an integrally formed internal gear for gearing engagement with the externally toothed gear of the rotor stack assembly, with the third cavity being of a size for rotatable and slideable receipt of the first fluid transfer element and including an O-ring seal for engagement with the first fluid transfer element; an end cap including a first, generally axially extending annular member integral with a second, generally radially extending annular member, with the outer surface of the first, generally axially extending annular member of the end cap being of a size for slideable receipt in the first cavity and including an O-ring seal for engagement with the first cavity, with the inner surface of the first, generally axially extending annular member of the end cap being of a size for rotatable and slideable receipt of the second fluid transfer element and including an O-ring seal for engagement with the second fluid transfer element, with the end cap including a second fluid conduit extending from the exterior of the end cap to the inner surface of the first, generally axially extending annular member of the end cap; and means for removably securing the end cap to the generally cylindrical portion.
17. A casing for a rotary fluid displacement apparatus including a rotor stack assembly including a shaft, first and second fluid transfer elements rotatably fixed on the shaft, and an externally toothed gear, comprising, in combination: a generally cylindrical portion including a first, generally axially extending annular member integral with a second, generally radially extending annular member, with the second, generally radially extending annular member of the generally cylindrical portion including a bore for passage and rotatable support of the shaft, with the first, 
•
 generally axially extending annular member of the generally cylindrical portion including at least a first axially 


outward cylindrical cavity which terminates in a second axially inner cylindrical cavity which terminates in a third axially inner cylindrical cavity which terminates in the bore, with the generally cylindrical portion including a first fluid conduit extending from the exterior of the generally cylindrical portion to the third cavity, with the second cavity including an integrally formed internal gear for gearing engagement with the externally toothed gear of the rotor stack assembly, with the third cavity being of a size for rotatable and slideable receipt of the first fluid transfer element and including an O-ring seal for engagement with the first fluid transfer element; an end cap including a first, generally axially extending annular member integral with a second, generally radially extending annular member, with the outer surface of the first, generally axially extending annular member of the end cap being of a size for slideable receipt in the first cavity and including an O-ring seal for engagement with the first cavity, with the inner surface of the first, generally axially extending annular member of the end cap being of a size for rotatable and slideable receipt of the second fluid transfer element and including an O-ring seal for engagement with the second fluid transfer element, with the end cap including a second fluid conduit extending from the exterior of the end cap to the inner surface of the first, generally axially extending annular member of the end cap; and means for removably securing the end cap to the generally cylindrical portion.
18. The casing of claim 17 wherein the first fluid conduit extends generally perpendicular to the shaft of the rotor stack assembly; and wherein the generally cylindrical portion of the casing further comprises, in combination: at least a first fluid bore extending generally parallel to the shaft of the rotor stack assembly and intersecting with the first fluid conduit; and means for plugging the first fluid conduit at the exterior of the generally cylindrical portion.
19. The casing of claim 18 wherein the generally cylindrical portion further comprises, in combination: a 


second fluid bore spaced from and parallel to the first fluid bore, with the first and second fluid bores terminating in the free end of the first, generally axially extending annular member of the generally cylindrical portion; and wherein the end cap comprises, in combination: first and second fluid bores parallel to the shaft of the rotor stack assembly and in communicative alignment with the first and second bores of the generally cylindrical portion, with the first and second fluid bores extending to a point spaced from the axially outer surface of the end cap; and a single fluid port extending from the axially outer surface of the end cap and intersecting with the first and second fluid bores of the end cap.
20. The casing of claim 19 wherein the single fluid port extends in a direction parallel to the first and second fluid bores of the end cap and the shaft of the rotor stack assembly, with the second fluid conduit being parallel to and spaced from the single fluid port. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
