<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613062</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for characterization of photosensitive color proofing systems
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1501	G03F300	G03F310	G01J352	H04N146	G03G1500	G03G1501	G01J346	G03F310	G03F300	G03G1510	G01J346	G03F500	H04N160	H04N146	G03F500	G03G1502	G03G1510	G03G1500	H04N160	G03G1502	G03F308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03F	G03F	G01J	H04N	G03G	G03G	G01J	G03F	G03F	G03G	G01J	G03F	H04N	H04N	G03F	G03G	G03G	G03G	H04N	G03G	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03F3	G03F3	G01J3	H04N1	G03G15	G03G15	G01J3	G03F3	G03F3	G03G15	G01J3	G03F5	H04N1	H04N1	G03F5	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	H04N1	G03G15	G03F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method for characterizing a 
full color gamut of a digital photosensitive color proofing 

system having at least two separately controllable process 
parameters uses a one page color standard (100) for calibrating 

the full color gamut. The one page color standard (100) includes 
a plurality of color density test areas (110a-e) on the page, with 

each color density test area having a test patch for each 
colorant printed at a selected color density that is within 

a range of color densities, and a plurality of tone 
rendition test areas (102a-e) on the same page. There is one tone 

rendition area for each of the color density test areas, 

and each tone rendition test area has a plurality of test 
tints for each colorant as a primary color and a plurality 

of test patches for a set of secondary colors composed from 
combinations of the primary colors. The method for 

producing the one page color standard (100) includes the steps of 
adjusting a first process parameter to produce the 

plurality of color density test areas (110a-e), adjusting a second 
process parameter to produce the plurality of tone 

rendition test areas (102a-e), and then printing the single color 
standard or test pattern page. The characterization 

process of the present invention involves the steps of 
measuring selected ones of the test patches and test tints 

to define or characterize the full color gamut, including 
a primary color gamut, a secondary color gamut and tone 

renditions, for the range of color densities. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWADLO GREGORY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWADLO, GREGORY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the printing of off-press, digital 
color proof images by a digital photosensitive color proofing system. In 
particular, this invention relates to an improved method and apparatus for 
characterizing a full color gamut for photoelectric color proofing systems in 
order to more accurately calibrate and match digital color proof images 
produced by such systems. Color proofing systems are well known in the printing art. The proofs 
that are generated by a color proofing system are used in the printing 
process to predict the appearance of a final printed image prior to making a 
production press run. By observing and analyzing the proof, the printer can 
make necessary changes to the press set up without wasting expensive 
press time, paper and ink. To better understand color proofing systems, it is important to 
understand the actual printing systems which the proofs are attempting to 
emulate. Commercial color reproduction in large quantities, such as color 
printing of newspapers or catalogs, is accomplished almost exclusively 
through a plate printing process. In a plate printing process, the image to 
be printed is produced once on a plate that is then inked and transferred or 
printed on a press to produce the number of copies desired. When color 
reproduction is desired, the plate printing process uses a color separation  
 
process based on the three color theory of light that separates an image into 
the three primary colors and then recombines the color separations in order 
to generate a full color gamut. In the plate printing process for color 
separation, three color separation plates are created using filters of the three 
additive primary colors red, green and blue (RGB). These color separation 
plates are then inked with the colors of the three subtractive primary colors, 
yellow, magenta, and cyan (YMC), and are printed over and next to each 
other on successive steps in order to reproduce the full color gamut. A 
fourth color plate with black ink (K) is usually used in addition to the three 
subtractive primary colors to extend the tone range of the printed colors. 
An excellent background of color proofing systems is set forth in Bruno, M., 
Principles of Color Proofing, GAMA Communications (1986). Proofing systems are divided into two general types: press proofs and 
off-press proofs. So called "press proofs" are proofs made on a printing 
press, and require the making of plates, mounting of the plates on the press, 
making the press ready for a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of characterizing a full color gamut of 
a digital photosensitive color proofing system having at 

least two separately controllable process parameters that 
control color density and tone reproduction of three or 

more colorants used to produce a color print image from a 
digital image, the method characterized by the steps of: 


(a) altering a first process parameter to produce a 
plurality of color density test areas, each color density 

test area having a test patch for each colorant printed at 
a selected color density that is within a range of color 

densities capable of being printed by the digital 
photosensitive color proofing system; 
(b) altering a second process parameter to produce 
a plurality of tone rendition test areas, one for each of 

the color density test areas, each tone rendition test area 
having a plurality of test tints for each colorant as a 

primary color and a plurality of test patches for a set of 
secondary colors composed from combinations of the primary 

colors; 
(c) printing a single test pattern page, the test 
pattern page including both the plurality of color density 

test areas and the plurality of tone rendition test areas; 
and 
(d) measuring selected ones of the test patches and 
test tints and using the results of said measuring of both test patches and test tints in a predetermined model of the relationship of each colorant, corresponding each to a primary color, to the set of secondary colors to characterize the full color gamut in terms of 

a primary and secondary color gamut and tone renditions for 
the range of color densities. 
The method of claim 1 further characterized by 
the steps of: 


(e) determining a desired set of target conditions 
for the color density and tone rendition of the color print 

image; and 
(f) using the primary and secondary color gamut and  
 

tone renditions for the range of color densities to 
establish a required first process parameter and a required 

second process parameter that will provide for accurate 
color reproduction of the predetermined set of target 

conditions for the color density and tone rendition of the 
color print image. 
The method of claim 2 wherein step (f) is 
accomplished by extrapolation of the measurements taken in 

step (d) to predict the required first process parameter 
and the required second process parameter. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the digital 
photosensitive color proofing system is an 

electrophotographic color proofing system and wherein the 
first process parameter selectively determines color 

density by altering a grid voltage of the 
electrophotographic color proofing system. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the digital 
photosensitive color proofing system is an 

electrophotographic color proofing system and wherein the 
first process parameter selectively determines color 

density by altering a laser intensity of the 
electrophotographic color proofing system. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the second process 
parameter selectively determines tone rendition by varying 

the tone reproduction percentage of the test tints in each 
tone rendition test area to allow for the modeling of a 

tonal rendition curve for each colorant for each tone 
density test area.  

 
The method of claim 1 wherein the test pattern 
page comprises:
 
   a generally planar support member; and where 


the plurality of color density test areas and 
the plurality of tone rendition test areas are printed on the support member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
