<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621912</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR FIBROUS ARTICLE ENGAGEMENT AND DISENGAGEMENT - INCLUDINNG TWO DIFFERENT NEEDLE TYPES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D04H146	F16D6902	F16D6902	D04H1800	D04H146	D04H1800	D04H310	D04H308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D04H	F16D	F16D	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D04H1	F16D69	F16D69	D04H18	D04H1	D04H18	D04H3	D04H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A succession of fibrous sheet segments (10) are supplied from a rotary magazine (12) to a rotating bowl (14). Segments are added tot the bowl with their adjacent radial edges abutting each other and are passed beneath a reciprocating needle board (20), whereby filaments from the segments in upper layers are displaced into segments in lower layers to bind the segments together and form a self-supporting preform. Two needle heads (22) are able to move up and down and rotate in order to pick up a segment from the store and deposit that segment on the bowl. A few barbed needles (22A) pick up the segment and more grooved needles (22B) push through fibre to tack the segments down. A conical roller (28) bears against the top of the segments after they leave the needle board to bear against the preform to compress the fibres and also to provide a monitor of the distance between the needle board or the mounting block and the top layer of the preform.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AEROSPACE PREFORMS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AEROSPACE PREFORMS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWTON PETER GEOFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH NORMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWTON, PETER GEOFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, NORMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of, and 
apparatus for engaging and disengaging a fibrous article. 
The present invention is particularly, although not 
exclusively, applicable to fibrous articles which are to 
be made into fibrous assemblies or polyacrylonitrile 
filaments which are subsequently heated and transformed 
into a carbon-carbon product for use with brakes. According to one aspect of the present invention a 
method of engaging and disengaging a fibrous article from 
a first type of needle comprises causing relative movement 
between a first support for the article and the first type 
of needle such that the first type of needle is caused to 
extend into the article; causing relative movement between 
the first support and the first type of needle such that 
the first type of needle now provides the support for the 
article by engaging the fibres of the article, and then 
engaging the article with a second support by causing 
relative movement between the second support for the 
article and a second type of needle such that the second 
type of needle is caused to extend through the fibrous 
article and to take fibres out of the general extent of 
the article into the second support to engage those fibres 
with the second support. After the fibres have been engaged with the second 
support, the method may further comprise causing relative 
movement between the second type of needle and the article 
such that the second type of needle comes back through the 
article and the article remains engaged with the second 
support and is disengaged from the needles.  
 The method may comprise causing relative movement 
between the first and second type of needles and the 
support or article simultaneously. The method may comprise the second type of needle 
extending into but not through the article when the first 
type of needle supports the article. The method may comprise moving the first and second 
type of needles to cause the relative movement. The method may comprise engaging the article with the 
first type of needle from an upwardly facing first support 
and, alternatively or additionally, disengaging the 
article from the needles by engaging fibres of the article 
with an upwardly facing second support. The method may comprise reorientating the article 
when the first type of needle supports the article. The 
reorientating of the article may be achieved by moving the 
article about a pivot axis. The method may comprise using less of the first type 
of needle than the second type. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of engaging and disengaging a fibrous 
article (10) from a first type of needle comprising 

causing relative movement between a first support (12) for 
the article (10) and the first type of needle (22A) such 

that the first type of needle is caused to extend into the 
article; causing relative movement between the first 

support and the first type of needle (22A) such that the 
first type of needle now provides the support for the 

article by engaging the fibres of the article, and then 
engaging the article with a second support (14) by causing 

relative movement between the second support for the 
article and a second type of needle (22B) such that the 

second type of needle is caused to extend through the 
fibrous article (10) and to take fibres out of the general 

extent of the article into the second support to engage 
those fibres with the second support. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 in which, after the 
fibres have been engaged with the second support, relative 

movement between the second type of needle and the article 
is caused such that the second type of needle (22B) comes 

back through the article (10) and the article remains 
engaged with the second support and is disengaged from the 

needles. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 comprising 
causing relative movement between the first and second 

type of needles and the support or article simultaneously. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising 
the second type of needle extending into but not through 

the article when the first type of needle supports the 
article.  

 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising 
moving the first and second type of needles to cause the 

relative movement. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising 
engaging the article with the first type of needle from an 

upwardly facing first support. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising 
disengaging the article from the needles by engaging 

fibres of the article with an upwardly facing second 
support. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising 
reorientating the article when the first type of needle 

supports the article. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim 
comprising using less of the first type of needle than the 

second type. 
A method as claimed in Claim 9 comprising the density 
of the first type of needle being greater towards an edge 

region of the article than in a central region of the 
article. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising 
the second type of needle causing the article to engage 

with the second support with that second support 
comprising a fibrous support. 
A method as claimed in Claim 11 in which the fibrous 
support is provided by a fibrous article which has itself 

previously been engaged with another support by a second 
type of needle.  

 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which 
the first type of needle engages an article from a stack 

of such articles. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising 
a first set of first and second type of needles and a 

second set of first and second type of needles operating 
such that, when the first type of needle from the first 

set is engaging the fibres of a first article the second 
type of needles of the second set is able to extend 

through the fibres of a second article to engage fibres of 
said second article with another support. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising 
causing relative movement between the two types of 

needles. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which 
the fibrous article is used in forming a fibrous assembly 

from a plurality of fibrous layers comprising forming a 
stack of layers by rotating the stack during formation and 

needling the stack such that fibres from a more recently 
added layer extend into the previous layer, and tacking 

the most recently added layer to the previous layer prior 
to needling that most recently added layer whereby the 

tacking force is sufficient to substantially prevent 

radial inwards movement of the layer as it passes into the 
needling, the first type of needle being used to locate a 

fibrous article to the stack and the second type of needle 
being used to engage and tack the most recently added 

article to a previous layer. 
Fibrous article engagement and disengagement 
apparatus comprising a first type of needle (22A) which is 

arranged to engage and support fibres of an article and a  
 

second type of needle (22B) which is arranged to move 
relative to a fibrous article to push fibres through the 

general extent of that article to allow the first type of 
needle to be removed and disengaged from the article. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 17 in which the first 
and second type of needle are fixed relative to each 

other. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 17 or 18 in which the 
portion of the first type of needle which is arranged to 

engage with fibres of the article is arranged to be 
located nearer to an article which apparatus is arranged 

to approach than the portion of the second type of needle 
which is arranged to push fibres through the general 

extent of the article. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of Claims 17 to 19 in 
which the first type of needle has a greater density 

towards an outer region than towards an inner region. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of Claims 17 to 20 in 
which there are more needles of the second type than first 

type. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of Claims 17 to 21 in 
which the second type of needle is generally evenly 

distributed. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of Claims 17 to 22 
including a first set of first and second types of needle 

and a second set of first and second types of needle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
