<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638132</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR RECOVERING SOLID SODIUM BICARBONATE FROM DIAPHRAGM CELL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01D700	C01D700	C01D707	C01D718	C25B100	C25B114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01D	C01D	C01D	C01D	C25B	C25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01D7	C01D7	C01D7	C01D7	C25B1	C25B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method and process for recovering solid sodium bicarbonate, from the effluent (I), of the cathode compartment of a diaphragm cell (D-C) that contains sodium hydroxide and sodium chloride. The effluent is treated with carbon dioxide and ammonia (T1) to essentially convert the sodium hydroxide to sodium bicarbonate. Thereafter, the effluent (2) is treated to decompose the ammonium chloride to evolve and recycle ammonia without the formation of pollutants (S1), the treated effluent, free of NH3, CO2 and alkali, is resaturated (S) and sent to the anode compartment of the diaphragm cell. In preferred embodiments, all of the steps are interconnected and the materials produced are recycled, such that the only products produced are chlorine, hydrogen and sodium bicarbonate, without waste products in a continuous process.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUIZ VILLA JOSE RAYMUNDO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUIZ-VILLA, JOSE RAYMUNDO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUIZ-LUNA RAYMUNDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUIZ-LUNA, RAYMUNDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
PROCESS FOR RECOVERING SOLID SODIUM BICARBONATE FROM DIAPHRAGM CELLField of the Invention The present invention relates generally to the field of carbonation processes; more specifically, it relates to a system and method for the recovery of solid sodium bicarbonate from the effluent of a diaphragm cell containing sodium hydroxide and sodium chloride.Background of the Invention Chlorine is commonly produced through electrolytic decomposition of sodium chloride in an electrolytic cell. An equivalent amount of sodium hydroxide and chlorine is produced in this decomposition. World-wide demand for chlorine has been increasing rapidly. However, as a consequence of satisfying this demand for chlorine, an increasing amount of sodium hydroxide is also produced that exceeds its market demand. Consequently, it would be highly desirable to convert excess sodium hydroxide into products for which a higher demand exists. Traditionally, there has been little economic incentive for conversion of the sodium hydroxide because the cost of Na20 as sodium 

hydroxide was much more expensive than Na20 as other products, such as sodium carbonate. However, the acute disposal problems presented by the excess of sodium hydroxide has effected the price relationship between these commodities, and the price of Na20 in sodium hydroxide has become relatively less expensive than the price of Na20 in sodium carbonate. This excess of concentrated, commercially available sodium hydroxide solutions, with concentrations as high as 50-70%, has placed a strong impetus on the art to modify its perception. Λs a result, various processes have arisen to carbonate concentrated NaOH solutions with carbon dioxide (C02) , producing sodium carbonate monohydrate or anhydrous sodium carbonate. These processes, however, have not resulted in a commercially feasible conversion, despite the fact that some eliminate the need for further evaporation.In the production of chlorine from sodium chloride, chlor-alkali electrolytic cells are often used. However, two different cell types may be used, each with differing results: the mercury cell and the diaphragm cell. The purity of the chlorine produced by either cell is the same. However, the mercury cell has the advantage of producing sodium hydroxide of a very high purity, unequaled by the product from the diaphragm cell. Further, the mercury cell produces highly concentrated solutions (50-70%) . In contrast, only a dilute effluent is produced from the cathode compartment of the diaphragm cell, i.e., 100-120 g
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I M S 1. A method for converting sodium chloride and sodium hydroxide in an effluent stream from a chlor-alkali diaphragm cell, said chlor-alkali diaphragm cell having an anode compartment and a cathode compartment, to sodium bicarbonate, comprising the steps of:
(a) treating the effluent of the diaphragm cell with carbon dioxide to form a solution-containing equivalent amounts of bicarbonate and hydroxide ions;
(b) treating the solution from step (a) with ammonia and carbon dioxide to form a solution containing more equivalents of bicarbonate ions than of hydroxide ions;
(c) mixing the solution of step (b) with solid sodium bicarbonate causing a substantial portion of the sodium bicarbonate produced in step (b) to crystallize from solution to form a first suspension;
(d) treating the first suspension of step (c) with carbon dioxide to produce a second suspension containing the crystallized sodium bicarbonate of step (c) and additional crystallized sodium bicarbonate;
(e) reacting the sodium chloride from the diaphragm cell effluent that is contained in the second suspension of step (d) in a double decomposition reaction with ammonium bicarbonate formed in steps (b) and (d) to give ammonium chloride and additional sodium bicarbonate that crystallizes;
(f) separating the solid sodium bicarbonate from the suspension of step (e) to produce a mother liquor comprising saturated sodium bicarbonate with ammonium chloride in solution; 


 (g) adding sodium bicarbonate to the mother liquor of step (f) to form a suspension;
(h) heating the suspension of step (g) to evolve ammonia gas and carbon dioxide gas, and removing the ammonia and carbon dioxide gases, thereby producing an aqueous solution; and
(i) cooling the aqueous solution of step (h) , resaturating with sodium chloride and recycling the aqueous solution as a sodium chloride compartment of the diaphragm cell. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the temperature of the effluent in step
(a) is kept below 40°C. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the carbon dioxide used in step (a) has a concentration of 10-100% by volume.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the ammonia and carbon dioxide used in step (b) comprise the gases evolved in step (g) .
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the ammonia used in step (b) is less than 1.5% by weight of the effluent from the diaphragm cell. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the temperature of the solution in step
(b) is kept below 30°C.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the solid sodium bicarbonate added in step (c) is taken from the solid sodium bicarbonate separated in step (f) .
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the temperature of the suspension in step (d) is kept below 40°C. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the carbon dioxide used in step (d) is produced by calcining sodium bicarbonate to 


sodium carbonate.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein in step (e) , the double decomposition reaction is allowed to proceed until the concentration of ammonium chloride in solution is higher than that of sodium bicarbonate.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein in step (g) , sodium bicarbonate yielded in step (f) is added in an amount equivalent to the difference of equivalency of the ammonium chloride contained in the mother liquor of step (f) minus the equivalency of the sodium bicarbonate contained in the mother liquor of step (f) . 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the mother liquor of step (f) is filtered before adding the sodium bicarbonate.
13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sodium bicarbonate separated in step (f) is calcined to give carbon dioxide gas and sodium carbonate.
14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the carbon dioxide gas produced in step
(h) is recycled to step (d) . 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (h) comprises: heating the suspension to the boiling point in one or more heat exchangers; and sending the heated suspension to a stripping tower; and further heating the suspension.
16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the heat exchangers used are counter-current heat exchangers. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein heating is carried out with steam to the boiling point of the suspension. 


18. The method according to claim 1, wherein in step (i) , the aqueous solution of step (h) is cooled.
19. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cooled aqueous solution is alkaline-free and free of ammonia and carbon dioxide.
20. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (i) comprises restoring the volume of the aqueous solution to the volume the solution had prior to entering the diaphragm cell.
21. The method according to claim 1, wherein the process is carried out as a continuous process. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
