<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647962</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Physical vapor deposition employing ion extraction from a plasma
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J2302	H01L2102	C23C1435	H01L21203	H01L21285	H01J3732	H01J2310	H01J3734	C23C1435	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01L	C23C	H01L	H01L	H01J	H01J	H01J	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J23	H01L21	C23C14	H01L21	H01L21	H01J37	H01J23	H01J37	C23C14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sputter magnetron ion source for producing an intense 
plasma in a cathode container (2) which ionizes a high and 

substantial percentage of the sputter cathode material (5,5') and means 
for extracting the ions of the cathode material in a beam. The 

ion extraction means is implemented by a magnetic field cusp 
configuration with a null region (1) adjacent to the open end of the 

cathode container. Ions so produced are able to be directed at 
right angles to a substrate being coated for efficient via 

filling. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VARIAN ASSOCIATES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VARIAN ASSOCIATES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELMER JOHN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAI KWOK FAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON, ROBERT L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELMER, JOHN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAI, KWOK FAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of thin film deposition, 
and is particularly related to physical vapor deposition of solid 
materials in connection with the fabrication of semiconductor 
integrated circuits. Deposition of a metallization layer, typically of aluminum, 
is a common processing step in the fabrication of very large 
scale integrated (VLSI) circuits on semiconductor substrates or 
wafers. Usually, a large number of discreet devices, sometimes 
referred to as integrated circuit "chips", are formed on a single 
wafer. Metal layers are typically used as device interconnects 
which are deposited only after a complex device structure has 
already been formed on the wafer. Frequently, it is also desired 
to fill small holes, known as vias, with metallization to 
provide electrical connection between device layers; and/or to 
fill narrow grooves in such devices. Presently, the most common method of depositing thin films 
of aluminum or other metallization layers is by the well known 
process of sputtering, a form of physical vapor deposition. In a 
sputtering system, a plasma of an inert gas at relatively low  
 
pressure, typically argon, is created in the vicinity of a target 
cathode made of the material to be deposited. Ions from the 
plasma strike the target cathode causing atoms of the target 
material to be ejected. These atoms travel through the 
sputtering chamber and are deposited onto the semiconductor 
substrate. In so-called magnetron sputtering systems a magnetic 
field is created in the vicinity of the target to confine the 
electrons and intensify the plasma, thereby increasing the 
efficiency of the sputter source. In modern commercial 
sputtering systems substantially all of the atoms released from the 
target remain neutral i.e. approximately 98% or greater are un-ionized 
as they travel through the sputter chamber to the 
substrate. Also, the vast majority of the 2% of ionized target 
ions which may be formed would usually be confined by the fields 
along with the electrons and would not reach the substrate. An ongoing trend in semiconductor device design is towards 
ever-smaller device geometries, such that the vias and grooves 
that must be filled with metal are now frequently less than a 
micron in width. This has presented a problem in connection with 
sputtering. It is generally understood that atoms ejected from 
the surface of a sputter target leave at a variety of angles and 
that, at the vacuum levels typically employed in sputtering 
systems, the mean-free-path of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sputter magnetron comprising: 

a. high intensity plasma inducing means, said high 
intensity plasma inducing means including, 


i) a sputter cathode (120), said sputter 
cathode being a particle confining container 

(123-5) having walls and one open side to 
permit extraction of ions from said container, 

said walls having an inner surface being of a 

selected target material, said sputter cathode 
including means to apply a voltage to said 

sputter cathode; 
(ii) means (128) to provide and maintain 
electrons in said particle confining container; 
(iii) magnetic field generating means 
(150-2) for providing a null magnetic field 

value at a region adjacent to said open side of 
said sputter cathode container and for 

providing magnetic field lines which extend 
along said sputter cathode walls thereby 

providing forces, in operation, for retaining 
said electrons adjacent to at least a portion 

of said sputter cathode walls; and 
b. ion extraction means (140), wherein said null magnetic 
field value region comprises a portion of said extraction 

means said ion extraction means cooperating, in operation, 
with ions near said null value region to induce those said  

 
ions to exit said cathode container and to follow a path 

determined by said ion extraction means. 
The sputter magnetron of claim 1 whereby said ion extraction 
means includes; 


a. in operation, a plasma, said plasma being within said 
sputter cathode, wherein said plasma reaches a steady state 

condition and wherein said plasma in said sputter cathode 
has a first positive plasma potential as a result of 

electron leakage from said plasma; and 
b. means to establish an electric field sheath potential 
between said plasma and a first surface remote from said 

container, said electric field sheath potential being of a 
polarity to attract positive ions from said plasma to said 

first surface, and wherein said plasma in the region of said 
first surface remote from said container has a second plasma 

potential, said second plasma potential being less positive 
than said first positive potential. 
The sputter magnetron of claim 2 including means for 
providing at said first remote surface a semiconductor 

wafer to be plated with positive metal ions from said 
plasma. 
The sputter magnetron of claim 3 wherein said electric 
field sheath potential between said plasma and a said 

semiconductor wafer is more negative than said second 
plasma potential. 
The sputter magnetron of claim 2 including
  
 

   means for further increasing the concentration of 
ions of the material of said sputter cathode in said 

sputter cathode container, said means for further 
increasing the concentration of ions in said sputter 

cathode container being means for causing an 
electromagnetic wave interaction with said plasma which 

provides energy to said plasma and decreases the mean free 
path of neutral atoms of said sputter cathode material 

after said neutral atoms have been knocked off the surface 
of said cathode by ion bombardment from said plasma. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 5 including an 
electromagnetic wave transmission means to introduce said 

electromagnetic wave energy to the vicinity of said plasma. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein said vicinity 
of said plasma encompasses said null region. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 7 
wherein said high intensity plasma is at least 10
13
 
particles/cc. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 8 
wherein, in operation, said high intensity plasma contains 

a percentage of ions of said target material greater than 
2.0 per cent. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 
comprising means to support a semiconductor substrate to be 

plated with said target material ions exiting said cathode 
container from near said null value region. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 
further comprising gas port means, said gas port means 

being an aperture through a wall of said sputter cathode 
confining container, said aperture being in a wall portion  

 
remote from said open side for passage of a plasma 

initiating gas into said container thereby permitting lower 
operating pressure. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 
further comprising input and output fluid conduits for 

conducting coolant fluid arranged in a heat exchange 
relationship with said cathode particle confining 

container. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said fluid 
conduits are connected to a turbulence producing heat 

exchanger. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims comprising means for causing said ions to contact a 

workpiece in a given orientation in a workpiece position, 
whereby ions of the target material to be deposited are 

directed towards said workpiece position at an angle which 
is generally normal to a workpiece surface in said given 

orientation. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein more than 
ten (10) per cent of the sputtered atoms of said target 

cathode being directed toward said workpiece are ionized. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15 
wherein said confining container comprises a groove. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein said 
confining container comprises a groove having a width W at 

most 2.5 cm. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 or claim 17 wherein 
said confining container comprises a plurality of grooves.  

 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 19 wherein said grooves 
are interconnected so that only one simultaneous continuous 

plasma loop exists, in operation. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 or claim 17 wherein 
said groove forms an annulus. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 or claim 17 wherein 
said groove forms a labyrinth. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15 
wherein said particle confining container is cup shaped 

having a diameter W at most 2.5 cm. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 22 
wherein the sputter cathode has a generally planar face. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 23 
further comprising means for cooling said target cathode. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 24 
comprising an anode, said anode being spaced from and 

electrically isolated from said sputter cathode by 
insulation means; and
 
   means to shield said insulation means from being 

plated by sputtered cathode material by blocking the line 
of sight from said sputtered cathode to said insulation 

means to prevent shorting the cathode to the anode. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
