<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0829113</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIPLE BAND PRINTED MONOPOLE ANTENNA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q500	H01Q930	H01Q904	H01Q501	H01Q500	H01Q138	H01Q138	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q5	H01Q9	H01Q9	H01Q5	H01Q5	H01Q1	H01Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A printed monopole antenna (10) is disclosed including a printed circuit board (12) having a first side (14) and a second side (16), a monopole radiating element in the form of a conductive trace (18) formed on one side of the printed circuit board, wherein the conductive trace has an electrical length in which primary resonance occurs within a first specified frequency band, and a parasitic element (20) formed on the opposite side of the printed circuit board, wherein the parasitic element is designed to tune the conductive trace to a secondary resonance within a second specified frequency band. No direct electrical connection between the monopole radiating element and the parasitic element exists, but the coupling between such elements causes the secondary resonance of the radiating element to occur within the second frequency band.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYES GERARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYES, GERARD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to monopole
antennas for radiating electromagnetic signals and, more
particularly, to a printed monopole antenna including at
least one radiating element formed on one side of a
printed circuit board having an electrical length where
the radiating element has a primary resonance within a
first frequency band and a parasitic element formed on
the opposite side of the printed circuit board designed
to tune a secondary or higher mode resonant response of
the radiating element within a second frequency band.It has been found that a monopole antenna
mounted perpendicularly to a conducting surface provides
an antenna having good radiation characteristics,
desirable drive point impedance, and relatively simple
construction. As a consequence, monopole antennas have
been utilized with portable radios, cellular telephones,
and other personal communication systems. To date,
however, such monopole antennas have generally been
limited to wire designs (e.g., the helical configuration
in U.S. Patent 5,231,412 to Eberhardt et al.), which
operate at a single frequency and associated bandwidth.In order to minimize size requirements and
permit multi-band operation, microstrip and lamina
antennas have been developed for use with certain
communication applications. More specifically, U.S.
Patent 4,356,492 to Kaloi discloses a microstrip antenna
system including separate microstrip radiating elements
which operate at different and widely separated
frequencies while being fed from a single common input 
point. However, these radiating elements are directly
connected with each other and require a ground plane
which fully covers the opposite side of a dielectric
substrate from such radiating elements. Clearly, this
design is impractical for monopole antenna applications,
and indeed functions in a completely different manner.
Likewise, the lamina antennas disclosed by U.S. Patents
5,075,691 and 4,800,392 to Garay et al. require both a
direct connection between radiating elements and a ground
plane in order to provide multi-band operation.Further, U.S. Patent 5,363,114 to Shoemaker
discloses a planar serpentine antenna which includes a
generally flat, non-conductive carrier layer and a
generally flat radiator of a preselected length arranged
in a generally serpentine pattern secured to the surface
of the carrier layer. One form of this antenna has a
sinuous pattern with radiator sections in parallel spaced
relation in order to provide dual frequency band
operation. However, it is seen that the two
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A printed monopole antenna including a printed
circuit board (12) having a first side (14) and a second side

(16), and a monopole radiating element comprising a conductive
trace (18) formed on said printed circuit board first side

(14), said conductive trace (18) having an electrical length so
as to have a primary resonance within a first specified

frequency band, further 
characterized by
:

a non-resonating parasitic element (20) formed on said
printed circuit board second side (16), said parasitic element

(20) covering a specified area so as to tune said conductive
trace (18) to have a secondary resonance within a second

specified frequency band.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, said
conductive trace (18) having a physical length from a feed end

(22) to an opposite end (24) that is substantially equivalent
to said electrical length of said conductive trace (18).
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, said
conductive trace (18) having a physical length from a feed end

(22) to an opposite end (24) that is less than said electrical
length of said conductive trace (18).
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
first specified frequency band is approximately 800 MegaHertz

to approximately 1000 MegaHertz.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
second specified frequency band is approximately 1800 MegaHertz

to approximately 2000 MegaHertz.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
electrical length of said conductive trace (18) is

substantially equivalent to a quarter wavelength for a
frequency within said first
 specified frequency band. 
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
electrical length of said conductive trace (18) is

substantially equivalent to a half wavelength for a frequency
within said first specified frequency band.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, further
comprising a feed port (30) including a signal feed portion

(32) and a ground portion (34), said signal feed portion (32)
being coupled only to said conductive trace (18).
The printed monopole antenna of claim 8, wherein said
feed port (30) comprises a coaxial connector.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
printed circuit board (12) is made of a flexible dielectric

material.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
printed circuit board (12), said conductive trace (18), and

said parasitic element (20) are overmolded.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
parasitic element (20) is made of a conductive material.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein. said
parasitic element (20) has a physical length approximately ten

percent or less of said conductive trace electrical length.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
parasitic element (20) is positioned on said printed circuit

board (12) at an end (24) opposite a conductive trace feed end
(22).
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
parasitic element (20) has a physical length approximately ten

percent or less than a physical length of said conductive trace
(18). 
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
parasitic element (20) substantially covers said printed

circuit board second side (16) from a first point (26) to a
second point (28) on its surface.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
parasitic element (20) partially covers said printed circuit

board second side (16) from a first point (26) to a second
point (28) on its surface.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
second specified frequency band does not include an integer

multiple of said primary resonance frequency within said first
specified frequency band.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 1, wherein said
parasitic element (20) is positioned and configured to tune a

secondary or higher mode resonant response of said conductive
trace (18) to a second specified frequency which does not

include an integer multiple of a frequency within said first
specified frequency band.
The printed monopole antenna according to claim 1,
wherein the printed circuit board (12) is substantially planar

and includes a feed end (22) and an open end (24), further

characterized by
:

a plurality of monopole radiating elements, each said
monopole radiating element comprising a conductive trace (18,

36) formed on said printed circuit board first side (14),
wherein each conductive trace has a specified electrical length

so as to have a primary resonance within a first designated
frequency band.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein
said conductive traces (18, 36) are oriented substantially

parallel to each other. 
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein
said conductive traces (18, 36) have substantially equivalent

physical lengths.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein at
least one of said conductive traces (18, 36) has a unique

physical length.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein no
direct electrical connection exists between said plurality of

monopole radiating elements.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, further
comprising a feed port (30) including a signal feed portion

(32) and a ground portion (34), said signal feed portion being
coupled to only one of said conductive traces (18, 36).
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein at
least one of said conductive traces (18, 36) has a physical

length less than its electrical length.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein at
least one of said conductive traces (18, 36) has a physical

length substantially equivalent to its electrical length.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein
said parasitic element (20) is positioned on said printed

circuit board (12) at said open end (24).
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein
said parasitic element (20) substantially covers said printed

circuit board second side (16) from a first point (26) to a
second point (28) on its surface.
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein
said parasitic element (20) partially covers said printed

circuit board second side (16) from a first point (26) to a
second point (28) on its surface. 
The printed monopole antenna of claim 20, wherein
said secondary resonance for each said conductive trace occurs

at a frequency which is not an integer multiple of said
respective primary resonance frequency.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
