<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639582</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polynucleotide assay reagent and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	A61K4748	C07H2100	C07K1400	C07K1400	A61K4748	C07H2100	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	A61K	C07H	C07K	C07K	A61K	C07H	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	A61K47	C07H21	C07K14	C07K14	A61K47	C07H21	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a use of a morpholino subunit of the formula (I) 

where P is a purine or pyrimidine base-pairing moiety, and T is H or an N-protective 
group, 

for the production of a polymer capable of hydrogen-bonding to complementary bases in a 
polynucleotide, where in said polymer (i) the subunits are joined predominantly by 

substantially uncharged, achiral linkages, and (ii) each linkage joins the morpholino nitrogen 
of one subunit to the 5' exocyclic carbon of an adjacent subunit. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANTIVIRALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANTIVIRALS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMMERTON JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMMERTON, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a
polynucleotide polymer composed of morpholino subunits and its method
of preparation and use.Two general types of polynucleotide diagnostic
systems, both based on hybridization between
complementary segments of a polynucleotide probe and a
single-strand.polynucleotide analyte, have been
developed. In the first type, the polynucleotide
analyte is made single stranded and fixed to a solid
support, such as a nitrocellulose filter. The support
is then reacted, under complementary-strand annealing
conditions, with a reporter-labeled probe which is
complementary to a target base-sequence region of the
analyte. After washing several times to remove unbound
probe, the solid support is analyzed for the presence of
reporter. This system has not been entirely
satisfactory, particularly in clinical situations, where
assay simplicity and sensitivity are required. The
procedure used in fixing single-strand polynucleotide
material to the solid support is somewhat involved and
time consuming. The sensitivity of the system is
limited because, in the usual case, each analyte
molecule hybridizes with a single probe molecule and
each probe generally contains roughly one hundred
reporter moieties.A second type of polynucleotide diagnostic
system involves two analyte-specific probes which are
each complementary to a distinct region of the analyte
polynucleotide. The first probe is linked to a solid
support, and the second probe is free in solution and 
carries multiple reporter molecules. In practice, the
analyte is mixed with the two probes under conditions
which allow annealing of complementary polynucleotide
strands, including annealing of both the immobilized and
reporter-carrying probes to the polynucleotide analyte,
to attach the reporter to the solid support by means of
the analyte.Although the dual-probe system avoids the
problem of having to fix the test nucleic acid material
to a solid support, nevertheless, the method has a
number of limitations. First, when the test nucleic
acid is derived from duplex nucleic acid, as is often
the case, hybridization between the analyte
polynucleotide and its complementary strand competes
with the hybridization between the analyte and the two
probes. Further, since the two-probe system relies on
higher order kinetics than is the case for single-probe
systems, it is inherently slower than a single-probe
system. Also, the need for two different probes
increases the cost of the system. Finally, in terms of
test sensitivity, the dual-probe system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims for the following Contracting States : BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE
Use of a morpholino subunit of the formula (I)


where P is a purine or pyrimidine base-pairing moiety, and T is H or an N-protective group,
for the production of a polymer capable of hydrogen-bonding to complementary bases in a

polynucleotide, where in said polymer (i) the subunits are joined predominantly by
substantially uncharged, achiral linkages, and (ii) each linkage joins the morpholino nitrogen

of one subunit to the 5' exocyclic carbon of an adjacent subunit.
Use of the subunit according to claim 1, where P is:


where X is F, Cl, Br, or I.
Use of the subunit according to claim 1, where P contains an N-protected
exocyclic amine.
A polymer comprising purine or pyrimidine base-pairing moieties, said
polymer being capable of hydrogen bonding to complementary bases in a polynucleutide,

wherein said polymer contains morpholino subunits of the formula:


where P is the purine or pyrimidine base-pairing moiety, and the subunits are joined
predominantly by substantially uncharged, achiral linkages. 
A polymer according to claim 4 wherein P is:


where X is F, Cl, Br, or I.
A polymer according to claim 4 where P contains an N-protected exocyclic
amine. 
A polymer according to any one of claims 4 to 6 wherein the uncharged
achiral linkages are -C(X)- where X is O or S, or -NH-E- where the group E is joined to the

5' exocyclic carbon of the subunit and is C(O) or S(O)
2
.
A polymer according to any one of claims 4 to 7 which further includes a
moiety at one or both termini which is effective to enhance the solubility of the polymer in

aqueous medium.
A polymer according to claim 8, wherein the terminal moiety is polyethylene
glycol.
A polymer according to any one of claims 4 to 9 composed of at least 3
morpholino subunits.
A polymer according to any one of claims 4 to 10 wherein at least one of
the base-pairing moieties P is a 2,6-diaminopurine.
A polymer according to any one of claims 4 to 11 wherein at least one of
the base-pairing moieties P is a 5-halouracil.
A polymer according to any one of claims 4 to 12 wherein at least 70% of
the base-pairing moieties P are 2-amine containing purines.
A process for preparing a polymer as defined in any one of claims 4 to 13
which comprises coupling, in a controlled, sequential manner, individual subunits to the

unprotected nitrogen of a polymer composition comprising two or more linked morpholino
subunits as defined in claim 4.
Claims for the following Contracting State : AT
Use of a morpholino subunit of the formula (I)


where P is a purine or pyrimidine base-pairing moiety, and T is H or an N-protective group,
for the production of a polymer capable of hydrogen-bonding to complementary bases in a

polynucleotide, where in said polymer (i) the subunits are joined predominantly by
substantially uncharged, achiral linkages, and (ii) each linkage joins the morpholino nitrogen

of one subunit to the 5' exocyclic carbon of an adjacent subunit.
Use of the subunit according to claim 1, where P is:


where X is F, Cl, Br, or I.
Use of the subunit according to claim 1, where P contains an N-protected
exocyclic amine.
A process for preparing a polymer comprising purine or pyrimidine base-pairing
moieties, said polymer being capable of hydrogen bonding to complementary bases

in a polynucleotide, wherein said polymer contains morpholino subunits of the formula:


where P is the purine or pyrimidine base-pairing moiety, and the subunits are joined
predominantly by substantially uncharged, achiral linkages, which comprises coupling, in a

controlled, sequential manner, individual subunits to the unprotected nitrogen of a polymer
composition comprising two or more linked morpholino subunits as defined above. 
A process according to claim 4 wherein P is:


where X is F, Cl, Br, or I.
A process according to claim 4 where P contains an N-protected exocyclic
amine. 
A process according to any one of claims 4 to 6
wherein the uncharged achiral linkages are -C(X)-

where X is O or S, or -NH-E- where the group E is
joined to the 5' exocyclic carbon of the subunit and

is C(O) or S(O)
2
.
A process according to any one of claims 4 to 7
wherein the polymer obtained further includes a

moiety at one or both termini which is effective to
enhance the solubility of the polymer in aqueous

medium.
A process according to claim 8, wherein the terminal
moiety of the polymer obtained is polyethylene

glycol.
A process according to any one of claim 4 to 9

wherein the polymer obtained is composed of at least
3 morpholino subunits.
A process according to any one of claims 4 to 10
wherein at least one of the base-pairing moieties P

in the polymer obtained is a 2,6-diaminopurine.
A process according to any one of claims 4 to 11
wherein at least one of the base-pairing moieties P

in the polymer obtained is a 5-halouracil.
A process according to any one of claims 4 to 12
wherein at least 70% of the base-pairing moieties P

in the polymer obtained are 2-amine containing
purines.
A polymer comprising purine or pyrimidine base-pairing
moieties, said polymer being capable of 

hydrogen bonding to complementary bases in a
polynucleotide, wherein said polymer contains

morpholino subunits of the formula:


where P is the purine or pyrimidine base-pairing
moiety, and the subunits are joined predominantly by

substantially uncharged, achiral linkages.
A polymer according to claim 14 wherein P is:


wherein X is F, Cl, Br, or I.
A polymer according to claim 14 where P contains an
N-protected exocyclic amine.
A polymer according to any one of claims 14 to 16
wherein the uncharged achiral linkages are -C(X)-

where X is O or S, or -NH-E- where the group E is
joined to the 5' exocyclic carbon of the subunit and

is C(O) or S(O)
2
.
A polymer according to any one of claims 14 to 17
which further includes a moiety at one or both

termini which is effective to enhance the solubility
of the polymer in aqueous medium.
A polymer according to claim 18, wherein the
terminal moiety is polyethylene glycol. 
A polymer according to any one of claims 14 to 19
composed of at least 3 morpholino subunits.
A polymer according to any one of claims 14 to 20
wherein at least one of the base-pairing moieties P

is a 2,6-diaminopurine.
A polymer according to any one of claims 14 to 21
wherein at least one of the base-pairing moieties P

is a 5-halouracil.
A polymer according to any one of claims 14 to 22
wherein at least 70% of the base-pairing moieties P

are 2-amine containing purines.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
