<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613953</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fructose and dextrose containing liquid sweetener
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L1236	C13F100	C13K1300	C13F112	C13K110	C13K100	C13K1300	C13F102	A23L1236	C13K300	C13K1100	A23L109	C13K1100	C13K300	A23L109	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	C13F	C13K	C13F	C13K	C13K	C13K	C13F	A23L	C13K	C13K	A23L	C13K	C13K	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	C13F1	C13K13	C13F1	C13K1	C13K1	C13K13	C13F1	A23L1	C13K3	C13K11	A23L1	C13K11	C13K3	A23L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is provided a procedure whereby a dextrose solution feed 
stream can be processed to yield both crystalline fructose and a 

fructose and dextrose containing liquid sweetener. Fructose is 
preferably crystallized out of solution under a controlled cooling 

rate which is decreased for the temperature band 46 ± 3
°
C before 
being increased again. After separation of the crystalline 

fructose a liquid sweetener is produced using the mother liquor and 
a dextrose containing solution, advantageously a solution also 

derived from the original feed stream. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a process for the preparation of a
fructose and dextrose containing liquid sweetener and of
crystalline fructose. More particularly, it relates to a process
wherein the fructose is obtained by the isomerization of dextrose
and a process for the concurrent production of anhydrous
crystalline fructose and a syrup consisting essentially of fructose
and dextrose.In preferred embodiments, the process involves crystallizing
fructose by cooling a solution of fructose such that differing
levels of supersaturation are produced during different periods of
crystal growth. Moreover the process may be employed to produce
a purified and concentrated fructose syrup.Fructose is a monosaccharide highly valued as a nutritive
sweetener. The vast majority of fructose sold in the USA is
derived from corn starch with the principal form of the product
being High Fructose Corn Syrup (HFCS). The commercially available
and used syrups contain from 42% to 90% by weight fructose on a dry
solids basis (dsb) with the remainder predominately being dextrose.
The HFCS commonly used as a sucrose replacement in soft drinks
typically comprises 55% fructose, 41% dextrose, and 4% higher
saccharides (all percentages dsb). The solids content of such a
syrup is usually about 77% by weight.On an industrial scale, the production of HFCS commences with
the enzymatic liquefaction of a purified starch slurry. The
principal source of raw material in the United States is corn
starch obtained by the wet milling process. However, starches of
comparable purity from other sources can be employed.In the first step of a typical process a starch slurry is
gelatinized by cooking at high temperature. The gelatinized starch
is then liquefied and dextrinized by thermostable alpha-amylase in
a continuous two-stage reaction. The product of this reaction is
a soluble dextrin hydrolysate with a dextrose equivalent (DE) of
6-15, suitable for the subsequent saccharification step.Following liquefaction-dextrinization, the pH and temperature
of the 10-15 DE hydrolysate is adjusted for the saccharification 
step. During saccharification the hydrolysate is further
hydrolyzed to dextrose by the enzymatic action of glucoamylase.
Although saccharification can be carried out as a batch reaction,
a continuous saccharification is practised in most modern plants.
In the continuous saccharification reaction, glucoamylase is added
to a 10-15 DE hydrolysate following pH and temperature adjustment.
The carbohydrate composition of typical high-dextrose
sacch
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for producing a liquid sweetener comprising
fructose and dextrose,

said process comprising crystallising fructose from a fructose
containing aqueous solution, and adding dextrose to the fructose

depleted solution.
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein a fructose and
dextrose containing aqueous solution stream is split into a first

and a second stream, said first stream is fractionated to produce
a high fructose stream, fructose is crystallized from said high

fructose stream and at least part of the fructose depleted high
fructose stream is combined with said second stream.
A process as claimed in claim 2 wherein a dextrose
containing aqueous solution is treated to isomerize a portion of

the dextrose therein to yield said fructose and dextrose containing
aqueous solution.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein
crystallization of fructose is effected in a single pass.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein
fructose crystallization is effected at pH of 3.7 to 4.3.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein
fructose crystallization is effected by cooling the fructose

containing solution from a temperature above 54.4
°
C.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein
fructose crystallization is effected by cooling the fructose

containing solution from a temperature of about 60
°
C to a
temperature of about 48.9
°
C at a rate of 0.56 to 2.22C
°
/hour.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein
prior to the fructose crystallization therefrom the fructose

containing aqueous solution is subjected to carbon-treatment and
then solvent evaporation steps.
A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the fructose
containing aqueous solution subjected to said carbon treatment has

a fructose concentration of greater than 75% dsb and is subjected
to said carbon treatment by contact with activated carbon.
A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the frutose
containing aqueous solution subjected to carbon treatment has a dry 

solids concentration of less than 40% and wherein after carbon
treatment the solution is subjected to solvent evaporation to yield

a fructose containing aqueous solution having a dry solids
concentration of greater than 40%.
A process as claimed in either of claims 9 and 10 wherein
said fructose containing solution has a dry solids concentration

of less than 50% and is at a temperature of above 60
°
C when
contacted with said activated carbon.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 wherein
a fructose and dextrose containing aqueous solution is fractionated

to yield a dextrose enriched solution, a first fructose containing
solution and a second fructose containing solution, said second

fructose containing solution having a fructose content which is
greater than that of said first fructose containing solution, and

wherein fructose is crystallized from said second solution or a
solution derived therefrom and wherein the resulting fructose

depleted solution is added to said first solution and to a dextrose
containing aqueous solution having a greater dextrose concentration

(dsb) than said first solution.
A process as claimed in claim 12 wherein fractionation
is so effected as to yield a said second fructose containing

solution having a fructose content of at least 90% d.s.b.
A process as claimed in either of claims 12 and 13
wherein a fructose and dextrose containing solution is split into

a first and a second stream, wherein said first stream is subjected
to fractionation and fructose crystallization, and wherein said

second stream is added to said first solution and said fructose
depleted solution as said dextrose containing aqueous solution.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13 wherein
the liquid fructose and dextrose containing sweetener so produced

has a fructose content of at least 55% d.s.b.
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein a dextrose
containing aqueous solution is mixed with said fructose depleted

solution and the resulting mixture is subjected to carbon treatment
and solvent evaporation to yield a dextrose and fructose containing

aqueous solution.
A process as claimed in claim 16 wherein said dextrose
containing aqueous solution is a high fructose corn syrup and the 

resulting mixture has a fructose concentration of about
55% dsb.
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein fructose crystallization is effected by

cooling and wherein during cooling the rate of temperature
reduction is decreased and subsequently increased.
A process as claimed in claim 18 wherein the
rate of temperature reduction is decreased at about 48.8°C

and is subsequently increased at about 43.3°C.
A process as claimed in either of claims 18 and
19 wherein the rate of temperature reduction is decreased

from a figure in the range 0.55 to 2.22C°/hour to a figure
in the range 0.28 to 1.67C°/hour and subsequently increased

to a figure in the range 0.55 to 3.89C°/hour.
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein subsequent to the fructose crystallization,

the crystallized fructose is removed from the fructose
depleted solution and fructose crystallization in said

depleted solution is inhibited.
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein crystallization of fructose is effected by

a method comprising:

fractionating a stream comprising dextrose and
fructose to produce a high-fructose stream having greater

than 90% (dsb) fructose;
contacting said high-fructose stream with activated
carbon to produce a purified fructose stream;
evaporating said purified fructose stream to produce
a solution of fructose; and
crystallizing fructose in said solution of fructose.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
21 comprising:


crystallizing fructose in a solution of fructose to
produce a mixture comprising crystalline fructose and

mother liquor comprising fructose;
separating crystalline fructose from the mother
liquor;
mixing at least a portion of the fructose of said
mother liquor with an aqueous liquid to form a lower

solids solution of fructose;
contacting said lower solids solution of fructose
with activated carbon; and
evaporating said lower solids solution of fructose to
form a higher solids solution of fructose.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
21 wherein crystallization of fructose from a fructose

solution is effected by a method comprising:

cooling said solution through an initial temperature
range at an initial rate of cooling;
then cooling said solution through an intermediate
temperature range at an intermediate rate that is slower

than the initial rate; and
then cooling said solution through a final
temperature range at a final rate that is faster than the

intermediate rate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
