<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655943</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VENTURI SCRUBBER, SYSTEM AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D4710	B01D4712	B01D4700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D47	B01D47	B01D47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A venturi scrubbing system (50) optimized for removing the most optically active sized particles from a gaseous effluent stream is disclosed. Before entering the venturi the effluent stream is subcooled (20) to cause condensation of water vapor and other condensibles, thereby greatly reducing the volume of the effluent stream. In the venturi stage a scrubbing liquid is added in the form of droplets having a median diameter which optimized to remove the optically active particles. Preferably, the median diameter of the scrubbing liquid droplets is between 10 and 200 microns. A two-fluid nozzle (80) may be used to efficiently form the droplets. After passing through the scrubbing stage, which may also comprise one or more impingement plates (90), the cleansed effluent may be passed through an afterburner (100) to remove combustible materials such as organic vapors.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENVIROCARE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENVIROCARE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWAB JAMES J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWAB, JAMES, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of air pollution control, and is
particularly directed to an improved venturi wet scrubbing system for removing
contaminants from a gaseous effluent stream, such as the output of a incinerator.Over the past several decades the control of air pollution has become
a priority concern of society. The United States, and other countries, have developed
highly elaborate regulatory programs aimed at requiring factories, and other major
sources of air pollution, to install the best available control technology (BACT) for
removing contaminants from gaseous effluent streams released into the atmosphere.
The standards for air pollution control are becoming increasingly stringent, so that
there is a constant demand for ever more effective pollution control technologies. In
addition, the operating costs of running pollution control equipment can be substantial,
and so there is also a constant demand for more efficient technologies.Concerns about pollution control are directed to more than air pollution,
and removing contaminants from one medium frequently results in their introduction
into another. For example, the treatment of municipal wastewater under the Clean
Water Act has resulted in a enormous increase in the amount of sewage sludge that
must be disposed of. Many communities lack adequate disposal sites to discard sludge
that is generated by their municipal wastewater treatment plants in landfills, and are
turning to incineration as an alternative method of disposal. Incineration of sludge,
or other waste products, while greatly reducing the volume of material that must be
disposed of on land, may result in the release of contaminants in the sludge into the
atmosphere. In this regard, it is noted that the sludge generated by many
municipalities is contaminated by highly toxic heavy metals and organic compounds,
as well as acidic compounds such as chlorides and sulfates. The release of such
compounds into the atmosphere is highly regulated, and sludge incineration systems
are required to use BACT for controlling the release of contaminants into the
atmosphere.One well known type of device for removing contaminants from a
gaseous effluent stream is a venturi scrubber. Venturi scrubbers are generally 
recognized as having the highest fine particle collection efficiency of available
scrubbing devices. As the name implies, in a venturi scrubber the effluent gas is
forced or drawn through a venturi tube having a narrow "throat" portion. As the gas
moves through the throat it is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A venturi scrubber, comprising: venturi inlet means (40) for introducing a flow of a
contaminated gas containing particles into said venturi; venturi throat means (60) for causing

said contaminated gas flow to accelerate as it passes through said throat means, said venturi
throat means having a reduced diameter relative to said venturi inlet means, means for causing

said contaminated gas to flow through said venturi; and nozzle means (80), positioned
upstream of said throat portion, for introducing a spray of liquid droplets into said

contaminated gas flow at a velocity which is approximately the same as the velocity of the
particles in said contaminated gas flow upstream of said venturi throat, said droplets having

a median volume diameter in the range of 10 to 200µm.
A venturi scrubber according to claim 1 wherein the median volume diameter of said liquid
droplets is between 100 to 500 times greater than the median diameter of optically active

particles in the contaminated gas flow entering said venturi scrubber.
A venturi scrubber according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said nozzle comprises means
for flowing a mixture of said liquid and a gas under pressure through an orifice such that said

liquid is atomized prior to being introduced into said contaminated gas flow.
A venturi scrubber according to claim 3 further comprising means for independently
adjusting the gas flow to said nozzle and the liquid flow to said nozzle so that the total volume

of liquid and median diameter of liquid droplets sprayed into said contaminated gas flow may
be independently varied.
A venturi scrubber according to any preceding claim further comprising an impingement
surface (90) downstream of said throat portion to intercept said liquid droplets in said gas

flow.
A venturi scrubber according to any preceding claim further comprising means (20) for
pre-cooling the contaminated gas flow before said contaminated gas flow reaches the region

where said liquid spray is introduced. 
A venturi scrubber according to claim 6 wherein said pre-cooling means is adapted to
reduce the temperature of said contaminated gas flow to a temperature less than about 50°C (120°F).
A venturi scrubber according to claim 1 wherein there are a plurality of nozzles.
An air pollution control system for removing contaminants from a flow of high temperature
gas, comprising: a pre-cooling stage (20) for reducing the temperature of flow of

contaminated gas introduced at an input port thereof, such that at least some of the
condensible contaminants within said gas flow are changed from a vaporized state to a particle

state within said pre-cooling stage, at least some of said particles being optically active; a
venturi stage (50) having an input end (40) in communication with the output of said pre-cooling

stage, said venturi stage comprising at least one throat portion (60) and at least one
nozzle (80) for creating a spray of liquid droplets upstream of said throat portion and

introducing said spray of liquid droplets into said contaminated gas flow at a velocity which
is approximately the same as the velocity of the particles in said contaminated gas flow

upstream of said venturi throat, the volume median diameter of said liquid droplets created by
said nozzle being in the range of 10 to 200 µm; and fan means for causing said gas to flow

through said air pollution control system.
An air pollution control system according to claim 9 wherein said at least one nozzle
comprises means for flowing a mixture of gas under pressure and a liquid through an orifice.
An air pollution control system according to claim 10 further comprising means for
independently adjusting the pressure of the gas in said mixture.
An air pollution control system according to claim 10 further comprising means for
independently adjusting the flow rate of the liquid in said mixture.
An air pollution control system according to any of claims 9 to 12 further comprising
afterburner means (100) downstream of said venturi stage such that volatile vapors remaining

in said gas flow will be combusted. 
An air pollution control system according to any of claims 9 to 13 wherein said venturi
stage comprises a plurality of individual venturis mounted on a plate and a plurality of nozzles,

each nozzle being positioned upstream and near the input end of an individual venturi.
An air pollution control system according to claim 14 further comprising at least one
impingement surface (90) positioned downstream of said venturi plate.
An air pollution control system according to any of claims 9 to 15 wherein said pre-cooling
stage is adapted to reduce the temperature of said contaminated gas entering said

venturi stage to a temperature which is less than about 50°C (120°F).
A venturi scrubber or system according to claim 6 or claim 9 wherein said contaminated gas flow
includes water vapor and wherein said contaminated gas flow is pre-cooled to a temperature

at which substantial condensation of said water vapor occurs. 
A venturi scrubber or system according to claim 6 or claim 9 wherein said means for pre-cooling
the contaminated gas flow includes an impingement plate. 
A method of scrubbing a flow of contaminated gas containing particles, comprising the
steps of introducing said contaminated gas flow into the input end (40) of a venturi scrubber

(50), forming a spray of liquid droplets having a predetermined median diameter which is in
the range of 10-200 µm and between 100 and 500 times larger than the median diameter of

optically active particles in said contaminated gas flow, and introducing said spray into the
venturi scrubber at a velocity which is approximately the same as the velocity of the particles

in said contaminated gas flow upstream of the throat of said scrubber.
A method according to claim 17 further comprising the step of pre-cooling said
contaminated gas flow prior to introducing it into said venturi scrubber.
A method according to claim 17 wherein said liquid droplets are formed by forcing a
mixture of said liquid and a gas through an orifice.
A method according to claim 18 further comprising the step of passing said gas flow
through an afterburner stage downstream of said venturi scrubber, such that remaining

combustible material in said gas flow is burned. 
A method according to claim 18 wherein said contaminated gas flow includes water vapor
and wherein said pre-cooling step comprises cooling the contaminated gas flow to a

temperature at which substantial condensation of said water vapor occurs.
A method according to claim 18 wherein said step of pre-cooling said contaminated gas
flow comprises the step of passing said contaminated gas flow through an impingement plate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
