<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616653</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC CYCLE TERMINATOR FOR DRYERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06F5828	D06F5828	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06F	D06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06F58	D06F58	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A control device is constructed in the form of a plug adaptor and a control means that can interrupt the power to a dryer when the load is dry. The pattern of the power consumption of the dryer is used, together with a control algorithm, to provide the information needed for the control decision. The device provides a superior means of determining the cycle termination point which could also be incorporated directly into dryers at the point of manufacture. In addition, the invention provides a means of correlation between the moisture level and character of the laundry load with the pattern of power consumption of the clothes dryer. This correlation may be used to further optimize the performance of the drying cycle or to provide load-specific control and termination procedures.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HART DOUGLAS ROBINSON SANFORD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JONES DAVID M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HART, DOUGLAS ROBINSON SANFORD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JONES, DAVID, M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART DOUGLAS ROBINSON SANFORD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES DAVID M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART, DOUGLAS ROBINSON SANFORD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, DAVID, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOMATIC CYCLE TERMINATOR FOR DRYERSThis invention relates to the control of dryers in general and in particular to electrically powered clothes dryers for residential use. BACKGROUND OF THIS INVENTION Many electric clothes dryers have an automatic setting for the purpose of terminating the cycle when the clothes are dry, to save energy. However, many of the dryers now in use do not have this feature, and independent tests indicate that many models incorporating automatic termination still overdry the clothes, thereby wasting up to 20% of the electricity or more. Conventional automatic termination systems in dryers today may use the dryer temperature or the humidity of the air or the electrical conductivity of the load itself to determine when to terminate the cycle. Frequently, the decision is made by allowing a given amount of heater-on or heater-off time to elapse after a predetermined threshold is reached. This elapsed time is usually determined by a user set point on the control dial of the dryer.Consumer reports and tests by others indicate that while these automatic shut-off mechanisms are somewhat effective, they frequently overdry the loads, in many cases running longer than necessary, after the load is dry. This not only wastes energy, but it causes unnecessary wear on the fabric and to the dryer itself. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THIS INVENTIONThis invention seeks to improve upon the current means of control and in addition to provide a simple retrofit means whereby this improved control can be extended to existing clothes dryers, without modification to the interior wiring of the dryer itself. The improved means of control derives from two sources. First, it is recognized that since dryers seek to maintain an average air temperature in the drum during the drying cycle, then as the load dries, less and less power is required by the dryer to maintain this temperature as the quantity of water evaporating is reduced. This creates a relationship between the pattern of power used by the dryer and the moisture level and character of the load being dried. Hence by monitoring the power used by the dryer a means can be provided to 

 deteπnine the end point of the drying cycle, which is not vulnerable to the drift of a sensor or to variations in any other external input.Secondly, in this invention, the determination of dryness is not based on one or two input variables or thresholds (such as a humidity threshold, or a user set point), but rather on a series of data derived from the energy used by the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION IN WHICH AN EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OR PRIVILEGE IS CLAIMED ARE DEFINED AS FOLLOWS: 1. A method of controlling a drying machine to which energy is fed along at least one conduit, the drying machine having means establishing a variable energy consumption, such that, as the contents of the drying machine approach a dry condition, the amount of energy consumed per unit time changes in a pattern which depends upon the amount and nature of the contents and the characteristics and operating conditions of the drying machine, the method comprising the steps: a) monitoring the said pattern of energy consumption, and b) through analysis of the pattern of energy consumption with respect to time, determining when a desired level of dryness is achieved and thereupon reducing the flow of energy used by the drying machine.
2. The method claimed in claim 1, in which the energy is contained in a fluid fuel, in which there is a single said conduit along which said fuel is fed. 3. The method claimed in claim 2, in which the means establishing a variable energy consumption does so by causing the energy flow to cycle on-off, the reduction under b) being a reduction to zero, and the timing of the reduction being close to the end of an "off" phase in the duty cycle, in order to take advantage of heat stored in the drying machine and its contents. 4. The method claimed in claim 1, in which the energy flow reduction under b) is a reduction to zero, the energy being electrical energy, said at least one conduit being an electrically conductive wire, and in which the drying machine has a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy in said wire whenever there is an interruption in the availability of said electrical energy, such that, whenever the flow of energy is shut off under step b) at least one function of the machine is terminated.
5. The method claimed in claim 1, in which the machine is a clothes dryer, and in which the conduit is one of the two "live" electrical wires of a 220-volt electrical supply which also includes a neutral wire, the machine having an electrical resistance type heating means, an air blower and a drum rotated by an electrical motor, the heating means receiving the full 220 volts across the two "live" wires, the motor being run on 110 volts from one of the "live" wires to the 


 neutral wire, the machine having a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy in the motor and in the heating means whenever there is an interruption in the availability of electrical energy to the motor, the said step b) being carried out by interrupting the electrical energy in that one of the two "live" wires which does not power the motor, thus terminating the heating while allowing the motor to continue, whereby the motor-driven drum and blower will continue to operate after shut-off of the power to said heating means, thus making use of the heat in the drum and its contents and reducing the creasing of the contents. 6. The method claimed in claim 1 , in which the machine is a clothes dryer, and in which the conduit is one of the two "live" electrical wires of a 220- volt electrical supply which also includes a neutral wire, the machine having an electrical resistance type heating means and a drum rotated by an electrical motor, the heating means receiving the full 220 volts across the two "live" wires, the motor being run on 110 volts from one of the "live" wires to the neutral wire, the machine controlling the amount of heat energy supplied per unit time by cycling the heating means through an on-off duty cycle, the machine having a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy in the motor and the heating means whenever there is an adequate interruption in the availability of electrical energy to the motor, the said step b) being carried out by interrupting the electrical energy at least that one of the "live" wires which feeds the motor, thus terminating the heating and the motor, the interruption being done close to the end of an "off portion of the duty cycle, thus making use of the heat in the drum and its contents. 7. The method claimed in claim 1, in which, at the time of the reduction of energy flow, an audible and/or visible signal is produced.
8. The method claimed in claim 1, in which, shortly before the reduction of energy flow, a first audible and/or visible "warning" signal is produced, and when the energy flow is actually shut off, a second audible and/or visible signal is produced.
9. The method claimed in claim 6, in which, at the time of the interruption, an audible and/or visible signal is produced. 


 10. The method claimed in claim 6, in which, shortly before the interruption, a first audible and/or visible "warning" signal is produced, and upon the actual occurrence of interruption, a second audible and/or visible signal is produced.
11. The method claimed in claim 5, in which, after shut-off of the power to the heating means, the motor is allowed to continue for a length of time adequate to allow the drum and its contents to cool, whereupon the electrical energy in the other of the "live" wires is interrupted, thus halting the motor.
12. For use in conjunction with a drying machine to which energy is fed along at least one conduit, the drying machine having means establishing a variable energy consumption such that, as the contents of the drying machine approach a dry condition, the amount of energy used per unit time changes, in a pattern which depends upon the amount and nature of the contents and the characteristics and operating conditions of the drying machine, a control device comprising: a) first means for monitoring the pattern of energy used per unit time, and b) second means receiving data from said first means and adapted, through analysis of the pattern of energy consumption with respect to time, to determine when a desired level of dryness is achieved, whereupon the second means reduces the flow of energy along said at least one conduit. 13. The control device claimed in claim 12, in which the energy is a fluid fuel, and in which there is a single said conduit along which said fuel is fed.
14. The control device claimed in claim 13, in which there is a control valve in said conduit, in which the means establishing a variable energy consumption does so by cycling the said valve through an on-off duty cycle, in which the reduction in energy flow accomplished by the second means is a reduction to zero, and in which the second means times the reduction to be close to the end of an "off" phase in the duty cycle, in order to take advantage of heat stored in the drying machine and its contents.
15. The control device claimed in claim 12, in which the energy is electrical energy, said at least one conduit being an electrically conductive wire, and in which the drying machine has a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy in said wire whenever there is an adequate

 interruption in the availability of said electrical energy, such that, when analysis o the pattern of energy use with respect to time indicates a desired level of dryness as under step b) at least one function of the machine is terminated.
16. The control device claimed in claim 12, in which the machine is a clothes dryer, and in which the conduit is one of the two "live" electrical wires of a 220- volt electrical supply which also includes a neutral wire, the machine having an electrical resistance type heating means, a drum rotated by an electrical motor and an air blower operated by the electric motor, the heating means receiving the full 220 volts across the two "live" wires, the motor being run on 110 volts from one of the "live" wires to the neutral wire, the machine having a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy to the motor and heater whenever there is an adequate interruption in the availability of electrical energy to the motor, said second means interrupting the electrical energy in that one of the two "live" wires which does not power the motor, thus terminating the heating while allowing the motor to continue, whereby the motor-driven drum will continue to rotate after shut-off of the power to said heating means, thus making use of the heat in the drum and its contents and reducing creasing of the contents.
17. The control device claimed in claim 12, in which the machine is a clothes dryer, and in which the conduit is one of the two "live" electrical wires of a 220- volt electrical supply which also includes a neutral wire, the machine having an electrical resistance type heating means, a drum rotated by an electrical motor and an air blower operated by the motor, the heating means receiving the full 220 volt across the two "live" wires, the motor being run on 110 volts from one of the "live" wires to the neutral wire, the machine controlling the amount of heat energy supplied per unit time by cycling the heating means through an on-off duty cycle, the machine having a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy by whenever there is an adequate interruption in the availability of electrical energy to the motor, the said second means being adapted to accomplish the said reduction in energy flow by interrupting the electrical energy at least to the motor, thus terminating the heating and the motor, the shutting down being done at the end of an "off portion of the duty cycle, thus making use of the heat in the drum and its contents. 


 18. The control device claimed in claim 12, further comprising third means fo producing an audible and/or visible signal when the flow of energy is shut off.
19. The control device claimed in claim 12, further comprises third means which, shortly before the shut-off of energy flow, produces a first audible and/or visible "warning" signal, and when the energy flow is actually shut off, produces second audible and/or visible signal.
20. The control device claimed in claim 17, further comprising third means which, at the time of the interruption, produces an audible and/or visible signal.
21. The control device claimed in claim 17, further comprising third means that, shortly before the interruption, produces a first audible and/or visible
"warning
1
' signal, and upon the actual occurrence of interruption, produces a second audible and/or visible signal.
22. The control device claimed in claim 16, in which, after shut-off of the power to the heating means, the motor is allowed to continue for a length of time adequate to allow the drum and its contents to cool, whereupon the electrical energy in the other of the "live" wires is interrupted, thus halting the motor.
23. In combination:
A. a drying machine to which energy is fed along at least one conduit, the drying machine having means establishing a variable energy consumption such that, as the contents of the drying machine approach a dry condition, the amount of energy used per unit time changes in a pattern which depends upon the amount and nature of the contents and the characteristics and operating conditions of the drying machine, and
B. a control capability comprising: a) first means for monitoring the pattern of energy consumption per unit time, and b) second means receiving data from said first means and adapted, when the pattern of energy consumption with respect to time indicates a desired level of dryness, to reduce the flow of energy along said at least one conduit, the control capability being built into the drying machine.
24. The combination claimed in claim 23, in which the energy is a fluid fuel, and in which there is a single said conduit along which said fuel is fed. 


 25. The combination claimed in claim 24, in which there is a valve in said conduit, in which the means establishing a variable energy consumption does so by cycling the said valve through an on-off duty cycle, and in which the second means accomplishes the said reduction in energy flow by shutting down the valve, and times the valve shut-down to be close to the end of an "off phase in the duty cycle, in order to take advantage of heat stored in the drying machine and its contents.
26. The combination claimed in claim 23, in which the energy is electrical energy, said at least one conduit being an electrically conductive wire, and in which the drying machine has a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy in the heater and the motor whenever there is an adequate interruption in the availability of said electrical energy to the motor, such that, when analysis of the pattern of energy use with respect to time indicates a desired level of dryness as under step b) at least one function of the machine is terminated.
27. The combination claimed in claim 23, in which the machine is a clothes dryer, and in which the conduit is one of the two "live" electrical wires of a 220- volt electrical supply which also includes a neutral wire, the machine having an electrical resistance type heating means and a drum rotated by an electrical motor, the heating means receiving the full 220 volts across the two "live" wires, the motor being run on 110 volts from one of the "live" wires to the neutral wire, the machine having a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy to the motor and to the heater whenever there is an adequate interruption in the availability of electrical energy to the motor, said second means accomplishing the said reduction in energy flow by interrupting the electrical energy in that one of the two "live" wires which does not power the motor, thus terminating the heating while allowing the motor to continue, whereby the motor-driven drum will continue to rotate after shut-off of the power to said heating means, thus making use of the heat in the drum and its contents and reducing creasing of the contents.
28. The combination claimed in claim 23, in which the machine is clothes dryer, and in which the conduit is one of the two "live" electrical wires of a 220- 


 volt electrical supply which also includes a neutral. wire, the machine having an electrical resistance type heating means and a drum rotated by an electrical motor the heating means receiving the full 220 volts across the two "live" wires, the motor being run on 110 volts from one of the "live" wires to the neutral wire, th machine controlling the amount of heat energy supplied per unit time by cycling the heating means through an on-off duty cycle, the machine having a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy to the motor and heater whenever there is an adequate interruption in the availability of electrical energy to the motor, the said second means being adapted to accomplish the reduction in energy flow by interrupting the electrical energy at least to that one of the "live" wires that powers the motor, thus terminating the heating and the motor, the interruption being done at the end of an "off portion of the duty cycle, thus making use of the heat in the drum and its contents.
29. The combination claimed in claim 23, in which the control device further comprises third means for producing an audible and/or visible signal when the flow of energy is shut off.
30. The combination claimed in claim 23, in which the control device further comprises third means which, shortly before the shut-off of energy flow, produces a first audible and/or visible "warning" signal, and when the energy flow is actually shut off, produces a second audible and/or visible signal.
31. The combination claimed in claim 28, in which the control device further comprises third means which, at the time of the interruption, produces an audible and/or visible signal.
32. The combination claimed in claim 28, in which the control device further comprises third means that, shortly before the interruption, produces a first audible and/or visible "warning" signal, and upon the actual occurrence of interruption, produces a second audible and/or visible signal.
33. The combination claimed in claim 27, in which, after shut-off of the power to the heating means, the motor is allowed to continue for a length of time adequate to allow the drum and its contents to cool, whereupon the electrical energy in the other of the "live" wires is interrupted, thus halting the motor.
34. In combination: 


 A. a clothes drying machine incorporating a heater, a drum, a motor rotating the drum, and an air blower run by said motor, electrical energy being fed to the heater and the motor along two "live" electrical wires of a 220-volt electrical supply which further includes a neutral wire and a ground wire, all wires proceeding from a plug having prongs for insertion into an appropriate receptacle, the machine having a built-in safety feature whereby it shuts down the machine's use of the electrical energy by the heater and motor whenever there is an interruption in the availability of sufficient electrical energy to the motor, the drying machine having means establishing a variable energy consumption such that, as the contents of the drying machine approach a dry condition, the amount of energy used per unit time decreases in a pattern which depends upon the amount and nature of the contents and the characteristics of the drying machine, and
B. a control device comprising: a) first means for monitoring the pattern of energy consumption, and b) second means receiving data from said first means and adapted, when analysis of the pattern of energy consumption with respect to time indicates a desired level of dryness, to reduce the flow of electrical energy in at least one of said "live" wires, the control device being separate from the drying machine, and incorporated into an adaptor unit having prongs for insertion into an appropriate receptacle, and itself defining a receptacle for the prongs on the said plug for the said drying machine, said adaptor unit also containing said first and second means. 35. The combination claimed in claim 34, in which the machine has an electrical resistance type heating means and a drum rotated by an electrical motor, the heating means receiving the full 220 volts across the two "live" wires, the motor being run on 110 volts from one of the "live" wires to the neutral wire, said second means reducing the flow of electrical energy by interrupting the electrical energy in that one of the two "live" wires which does not power the motor, thus terminating the heating while allowing the motor to continue, whereby the motor- driven drum will continue to rotate after shut-off of the power to said heating 


 means, thus making use of the heat in the drum and its contents and reducing the creasing of the contents.
36. The combination claimed in claim 34, in which the heater is an electrical resistance type heating means receiving the full 220 volts across the two "live" wires, the motor being run on 110 volts from one of the "live" wires to the neutra wire, the machine controlling the amount of heat energy supplied per unit time by cycling the heating means through an on-off duty cycle, the said second means being adapted to reduce said flow of electrical energy by interrupting the electrical energy at least to that one of the "live" wires that powers the motor, thus terminating the heating and the motor, the interruption being done close to the end of an "off portion of the duty cycle, thus making use of the heat in the drum and its contents.
37. The combination claimed in claim 34, in which the control device further comprises third means for producing an audible and/or visible signal when the flow of electrical energy is shut off.
38. The combination claimed in claim 34, in which the control device further comprises third means which, shortly before the shut-off of energy flow, produces a first audible and/or visible "warning" signal, and when the energy flow is actually shut off, produces a second audible and/or visible signal. 39. The combination claimed in claim 35, in which, after shut-off of the power to the heating means, the motor is allowed to continue for a length of time adequate to allow the drum and its contents to cool, whereupon the electrical energy in the other of the "live" wires is interrupted, thus halting the motor.
40. The method claimed in claim 1, in which air passes through the drying machine to remove moisture from the contents thereof, the method further including determining the rate of drying of the contents and controlling the rate of air throughput in order to increase the moisture content of the air and thus improve the efficiency of the machine.
41. The control device claimed in claim 12, wherein air passes through the drying machine to remove moisture from the contents thereof, the device further comprising means for determining the rate of drying of the contents and means for 


 determining and controlling the rate of air throughput in order to increase the moisture content of the air and thus improve the efficiency of the machine.
42. The combination claimed in claim 23, wherein air passes through the drying machine to remove moisture from the contents thereof, the combination further comprising means for determining the rate of drying of the contents and means for determining and controlling the rate of air throughput in order to increase the moisture content of the air and thus improve the efficiency of the machine.
43. The combination claimed in claim 34, wherein said air blower blows air through the drying machine to remove moisture from the contents thereof, the combination further comprising means for determining the rate of drying of the contents and means for determining and controlling the rate of air throughput in order to increase the moisture content of the air and thus improve the efficiency of the machine. 44. A method of controlling a drying machine to which energy is fed along at least one conduit, the drying machine having means establishing a variable energy consumption, such that, as the contents of the machine dry, the amount of energy consumed per unit time changes in a pattern which depends upon the amount and nature of the contents and the characteristics and operating conditions of the drying machine, the method comprising the steps: a) monitoring the said pattern of energy consumption, b) analysing the pattern of energy consumption to identify the occurrence of an energy flow surplus with respect to the condition and drying pattern of the contents, and c) when such surplus occurs, reducing the flow of energy used by the machine.
45. The method claimed in claim 44, in which air passes through the machine in order to carry moisture away, and in which the reduction in the flow of energy is accomplished by reducing the flow of said air to increase the moisture content of the air and thus improve the efficiency of the machine. 


46. The method claimed in claim 44, in which the analysis under b) determines the satisfactory dryness of the contents, and the reduction of energy flow under c) brings about the ultimate termination of the drying cycle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
