<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658943</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SOLAR CELL MODULE HAVING EXCELLENT WEATHER RESISTANCE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L31048	H01L31042	H01L31048	H01L3104	H01L31042	H01L3104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A solar cell module in which at least the light receiving surface of a photovoltaic element is coated with a 
filler containing a vinylidene fluoride copolymer and acrylic resin. This module is weather proof, heat-resistant and 

scratchproof, and it has good adhesion to the photovoltaic elements (solar cells). Further, the module can maintain a 
desired photoelectric conversion efficiency over a long period by min
imizing the performance deterioration caused by 
moisture permeation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITOYAMA SHIGENORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAOKA ICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORI TAKAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMADA SATORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITOYAMA, SHIGENORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAOKA, ICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORI, TAKAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMADA, SATORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a solar cell module having excellent weather resistance. More particularly, the present invention concerns an improved solar cell module in which at least the light receiving surface of a photovoltaic element (or solar cell) in the solar cell module is coated with a composition containing vinylidene fluoride copolymer and acrylic-resin for achieving a desirable photoelectric conversion efficiency over a long period of time even in a severe environment.Conventionally, a number of thin film solar cells have been proposed. An amorphous silicon thin film solar cell (a-Si thin film solar cell) is representative of these thin film solar cells. As the a-Si thin film solar cell, there has been known a solar cell having a-construction in which an a-Si semiconducting film as a photoelectric conversion element is provided on a conductive substrate made of a metal layer and a transparent conductive layer is provided on the semiconducting film. In the case where the a-Si thin film solar cell having such a construction is used as a power supplying means, differently from a solar cell of a type in which a glass plate is used as a substrate, a light coming-in side surface of the a-Si thin film solar cell is provided with a protective means for protecting the surface, that is, a transparent coating material. As the protective means, there has been known a construction in which a transparent surface resin layer composed of a fluoride polymer thin film such as a fluororesin film or fluororesin plaint is provided on the outermost surface side, and a filler composed of various transparent thermoplastic organic resins is provided inside the surface resin layer.More specifically, as the above surface resin layer, there is used a fluororesin film such as a tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer film or a polyvinyl fluoride film. The above filler is interposed between the surface resin layer and the solar cell. As the filler, there is used a resin such as EVA (ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer) or butyral resin. A back face film is provided on the back face of the above conductive substrate of the solar cell by way of the filler. As the back face film, there is used a nylon film, aluminum laminated tedlar film or the like. In addition, the practical solar cell module has a supporting member provided under the back face film by way of the filler.Accordingly, with respect to the filler interposed between the surface resin layer and the photovoltaic element, the filler interposed between the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A solar cell module comprising a photovoltaic element (102) in which at least a light receiving side of said photovoltaic element (102) is coated with a filler (103),
characterised in that
 said filler (103) is formed of a composition containing vinylidene fluoride copolymer and acrylic resin, and is provided with a transparent surface resin layer (104) on the outermost surface.
The solar cell module according to claim 1, wherein the mixing ratio (by weight) of vinylidene fluoride copolymer /acrylic resin in said filler (103) is in the range of from 1/9 to 4/6.
The solar cell module according to claim 1, wherein-the acid value of said filler (103) is in the range of from 5 to 50.
The solar cell module according to claim 1, wherein said filler (103) contains a graft copolymer or block polymer as an acid component.
The solar cell module according to claim 1, wherein said filler (103) is cross-linked.
The solar cell module according to claim 1, wherein said filler (103) contains a coupling agent.
The solar cell module according to claim 1, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is a fluororesin film containing fluorine in an amount of 38 to 60%.
The solar cell module according to claim 1, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is formed of tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer.
The solar cell module according to claim 8, wherein said tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer is not oriented.
The solar cell module according to claim 1, wherein said photovoltaic element (102) is formed by lamination of a semiconductor photoactive layer and a transparent conductor layer on a conductor substrate (101).
The solar cell module according to claim 1, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is subjected to corona treatment or plasma treatment.
The solar cell module according to claim 5, wherein said cross-linking agent is isocyanate, melamine or organic peroxide.
A method for manufacturing a solar cell module comprising a photovoltaic element (102), comprising the steps of:

heat-melting a mixture of vinylidene fluoride copolymer and acrylic resin;
forming said mixture in a film-shape;
laminating said film on said photovoltaic element (102);
melting said film; and
hardening it, wherein said filler (103) is provided with a transparent surface resin layer (104) on the outermost surface.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 13, wherein the mixing ratio (by weight) of vinylidene fluoride copolymer/acrylic resin in said mixture is in the range of from 1/9 to 4/6.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 13, wherein the acid value of said filler (103) is in the range of from 5 to 50.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 13, wherein said filler (103) contains a graft copolymer or block polymer as an acid component.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 13, wherein said filler (103) is cross-linked.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 13, wherein said filler (103) contains a coupling agent.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 13, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is a fluororesin film containing fluorine in an amount of 38 to 60%.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 13, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is formed of tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 20, wherein said tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer is not oriented.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 13, wherein said photovoltaic element (102) is formed by lamination of a semiconductor photoactive layer and a transparent conductor layer on a conductor substrate (101).
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 13, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is subjected to corona treatment or plasma treatment.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 17, wherein said cross-linking agent is isocyanate, melamine or organic peroxide.
A method for manufacturing a solar cell module comprising a photovoltaic element (102), comprising the steps of:

dissolving vinylidene fluoride copolymer and acrylic resin by solvent;
coating the surface of said photovoltaic element (102) with said mixed solution, thereby forming a composition of vinylidene fluoride copolymer and acrylic resin; and
hardening said composition, wherein said filler (103) is provided with a transparent surface resin layer (104) on the outermost surface.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 25, wherein the mixing ratio (by weight) of vinylidene fluoride copolymer /acrylic resin in said filler (103) is in the range of from 1/9 to 4/6.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 25, wherein the acid value of said filler (103) is in the range of from 5 to 50.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 25, wherein said filler (103) contains a graft copolymer or block polymer as an acid component.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 25, wherein said filler (103) is cross-linked.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 25, wherein said filler (103) contains a coupling agent.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 25, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is a fluororesin film containing fluorine in an amount of 38 to 60%.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 25, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is formed of tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 32, wherein said tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer is not oriented.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 25, wherein said photovoltaic element (102) is formed by lamination of a semiconductor photoactive layer and a transparent conductor layer on a conductor substrate (101).
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 25, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is subjected to corona treatment or plasma treatment.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 29, wherein said cross-linking agent is isocyanate, melamine or organic peroxide.
A method for manufacturing a solar cell module comprising a photovoltaic element (102) comprising the steps of:

forming a film using a mixed solution of vinylidene fluoride copolymer and acrylic resin;
laminating said film on said photovoltaic element (102);
melting said film; and
hardening it, wherein said filler (103) is provided with a transparent surface resin layer (104) on the outermost surface.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 37, wherein the mixing ratio (by weight) of vinylidene fluoride copolymer /acrylic resin in said filler (103) is in the range of from 1/9 to 4/6.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 37, wherein the acid value of said filler (103) is in the range of from 5 to 50.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 37, wherein said filler (103) contains a graft copolymer or block polymer as an acid component.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 37, wherein said filler (103) is cross-linked.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 37, wherein said filler (103) contains a coupling agent.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 37, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is a fluororesin film containing fluorine in an amount of 38 to 60%.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 37, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is formed of tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 44, wherein said tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer is not oriented.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 37, wherein said photovoltaicelement (102) is formed by lamination of a semiconductor photoactive layer and a transparent conductor layer on a conductor substrate (101).
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 37, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is subjected to corona treatment or plasma treatment.
The solar cell module according to claim 41, wherein said cross-linking agent is isocyanate, melamine or organic peroxide.
A method for manufacturing a solar cell module comprising photovoltaic element (102), comprising the steps of:

depositing a mixed powder of powdery vinylidene fluoride copolymer and powdery acrylic resin on said photovoltaic element (102);
heat-melting said mixed powder; and
hardening it, wherein said filler (103) is provided with a transparent surface resin layer (104) on the outermost surface.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein the mixing ratio (by weight) of vinylidene fluoride copolymer /acrylic resin in said filler (103) is in the range of from 1/9 to 4/6.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein the acid value of said filler (103) is in the range of from 5 to 50.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein said filler (103) contains a graft copolymer or block polymer as an acid component.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein said filler (103) is cross-linked.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein said filler (103) contains a coupling agent.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein said surface resin layer
 (104) is a fluororesin film containing fluorine in an amount of 38 to 60%.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is formed of tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 56, wherein said tetrafluoroethylene-ethylene copolymer is not oriented.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein said photovoltaic element (102) is formed by lamination of a semiconductor photoactive layer and a transparent conductor layer on a conductor substrate (101).
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein said surface resin layer (104) is subjected to corona treatment or plasma treatment.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 53, wherein said cross-linking agent is isocyanate, melamine or organic peroxide.
The method for manufacturing a solar cell module according to claim 49, wherein said mixed powder is deposited on said photovoltaic element (102) by electrostatic powder coating.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
