<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638202</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-ALIGNED THIN-FILM TRANSISTOR CONSTRUCTED USING LIFT-OFF TECHNIQUE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21027	H01L21336	H01L2966	H01L2978	H01L29786	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thin-film field-effect transistor is fabricated by forming an electrically insulative island (23) between the source and the drain. A cap (61) is formed on the island with a brim that overhangs the island. A layer of source-drain metal (64, 65), which will subsequently constitute the source and drain contacts, is then deposited upon the source, the drain, and the cap (61), but the overhang creates an exposed region which can be attacked by an etchant. When the etchant is applied, it etches away the cap (61), thereby lifting off the source-drain metal (64, 65) which coated the cap, leaving the fully formed source and drain contacts separated by the island.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWASNICK ROBERT FORREST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POSSIN GEORGE EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWASNICK, ROBERT, FORREST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POSSIN, GEORGE, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SELF-ALIGNED THIN-FILM TRANSISTOR CONSTRUCTED USING LIFT-OFF TECHNIQUEThis invention relates to the manufacture of thin-film field-effect transistors and, in particular, concerns a process for patterning the source-drain contacts in such transistors.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn some types of imaging and display devices, a thin-film field-effect transistor (TFT) is associated with each pixel. The TFT must be small for several reasons. One, it consumes space within the pixel, which would otherwise be devoted to light collection or light control. Two, the TFT must be small because the pixels themselves are small; over one million pixels may be constructed on a plate measuring 8 x 8 inches. Three, the TFT must be small to minimize (a) the total gate capacitance, (b) the gate-to-source capacitance, and (c) the gate-to-drain capacitance.The total gate capacitance should be small in order to reduce the total capacitance of the address line (i.e., scan line) which controls a row of TFTs in the imaging or display device. The charging time of this address line is controlled by the product of the line resistance and line capacitance. The total gate capacitance is added to the line capacitance in determining the address line charging time.The source-to-drain and source-to-gate capacitances should be small to minimize the coupling capacitance between the input address line, which is connected to the gate, and the imaging or display element connected to the source or drain. 

 Pri or ArtIn pursuit of reduced capacitances, the gate-to- drain and gate-to-source overlaps in the TFT should be kept minimal. However, it can be difficult to manufacture small TFTs in which the overlap is exactly a desired amount. One reason is that a photolithographic process is commonly used to form the source and drain. In such process, there is a typical positioning misalignment of about 2 microns or more which must be accounted for in the device layout. This amount of misalignment requires that the regions where the gate overlaps the source and drain be made larger than otherwise required, to allow for this misalignment. These enlarged sizes increase the capacitances discussed above, which is undesirable.One approach to reducing this misalignment is found in commonly-assigned G. Possin et al. patent 5,010,027, issued April 23, 1991. This patent, which discusses a self-alignment technique for constructing thin-film transistors, is hereby incorporated by reference.OBJECTS OF THE INVENTIONOne object of the invention is to provide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. In the manufacture of a field-effect transistor which includes a source contact and a drain contact, the improvement comprising: a) forming an island on a semiconductor layer between source and drain regions on said layer; b) forming a cap on the island; c) applying a conductive coating to the source and drain regions and the cap; and d) removing the cap so as to ensure electrical disconnection of the conductive coating between the source and drain regions so as to form the source and drain contacts.
2. The process according to claim 1 in which the conductive coating comprises a layer of N+ silicon and a layer of metal on the layer of N+ silicon.
3. The process according to claim 2 wherein the step of removing the cap comprises etching away the cap.
4. An intermediate structure for use in manufacture of a field-effect transistor, comprising: a) a semiconductor layer; b) a gate electrode situated at one side of said semiconductor layer; c) source and drain contacts situated on either side of said gate electrode in proximity to said semiconductor layer, said source and drain contacts being formed of a conducting material; and c) a conductive layer i) bearing an accumulation of the conducting material and 


 ii) being located between the source and drain contacts and at the opposite side of said semiconductor layer.
5. Apparatus according to claim 4 in which the source and drain contacts are situated adjacent said one side of said semiconductor layer and the conductive layer is situated at a different distance from said semiconductor layer than said source and drain contacts, the conductive layer being configured such that it can be etched away and thereby effectuate removal of said accumulation.
6. Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said gate electrode is insulated from said semiconductor layer, said apparatus further including an island upon said semiconductor layer and a cap on the island having an overhang extending beyond the perimeter of the island.
7. An intermediate structure for use in the manufacture of a field-effect transistor, comprising: a) a semiconductor layer having a channel region therein; and b) an island on said semiconductor layer located above said channel region such that when conductive material for forming source and drain contacts is deposited over the semiconductor layer and the island, electrically discontinuous source and drain contacts are formed.
8. In the manufacture of a transistor, the improvement comprising: a) applying photoresist to a layer of metal; and 


 b) exposing the photoresist by light whi ch pas se s th rough the l aye r o f met a l .
9 . In the manuf acture of a f ie ld-e f f ect transistor, the improvement comprising : a) providing a gate electrode on a substrate transparent to a predetermined wavelength of light ; b) applying a layer of dielectric over said gate electrode and said substrate; c) applying a semiconductor layer over said layer of dielectric; d) applying a layer of metal over the semiconductor layer, said layer of metal being sufficiently thin to be transmissive to said predetermined wavelength of light; e) applying photoresist over the layer of metal; f) exposing a portion of the photoresist to light of said predetermined wavelength transmitted through said substrate but only around said gate electrode, said light passing through the layer of metal; g) removing exposed photoresist so as to leave unexposed photoresist on the layer of metal; h) removing the metal layer where unprotected by the unexposed photoresist; i) removing the dielectric layer where unprotected by the remaining metal layer so as to expose portions of the semiconductor layer and to form an island of dielectric above the gate electrode; j) applying an electrode layer over the island of dielectric and onto the exposed portions of the semiconductor layer so as to form source and drain electrodes which abut the island; and 


 k) removing the layer of metal on the island together with the portion of the electrode layer thereon.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of applying an electrode layer over the island of dielectric and the exposed portions of the semiconductor layer is performed so as to cap said island while leaving free access, for etchant, to said layer of metal beneath said electrode layer on said island of dielectric.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of removing the metal layer where unprotected by the unexposed photoresist comprises etching said metal layer, the step of removing the dielectric layer where unprotected by the remaining metal layer comprises etching the dielectric layer, and the step of removing the layer of metal on said island of dielectric comprises etching said layer of metal on said island of dielectric.
12. In the manufacture of a field-effect transistor, the improvement comprising the steps of: a) providing a gate electrode on a carrier which is transmissive to light in the near ultraviolet spectrum; b) applying a layer of insulator over the gate electrode; c) applying a layer of amorphous silicon over the layer of insulator; d) applying a layer of dielectric over the layer of amorphous silicon; e) applying a lift-off layer over the layer of dielectric, said lift-off layer being 


transmissive to light in the near ultraviolet spectrum; f) applying a layer of photoresist over the lift-off layer; g) exposing the photoresist by projecting light in the near ultraviolet spectrum through the carrier and the lift-off layer material, causing the gate electrode to shadow the photoresist; h) developing the photoresist; i) removing the photoresist except in the region where the gate electrode shadowed the photoresist; j) etching away the lift-off layer, except beneath the remaining photoresist, so as to leave a cap beneath the remaining photoresist; k) etching away the layer of dielectric, except beneath the cap, so as to leave an island beneath said cap;
1) applying a layer of N+ silicon on said layer of amorphous silicon and said cap, said N+ silicon layer being discontinuous at said cap; m) applying a layer of SD metal upon the
N+ silicon, said SD metal being discontinuous at the edge of said cap; and n) etching away said cap so as to cause the N+ silicon and SD metal upon the cap to lift off.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the lift-off layer is etched such that the cap is formed with its bottom surface overhanging part of the island.
14. The method of claim 12 wherein the layer of insulator is applied to a thickness of about 50 to 500 nanometers . 


 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the layer of amorphous silicon is applied to a thickness of about 20 to 100 nanometers.
16. The method of claim 12 wherein the layer of dielectric is applied to a thickness of about 100 to 1000 nanometers.
17. The method of claim 12 wherein the lift-off layer is applied to a thickness of about 25 to 300 nanometers.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the lift-off layer comprises a metal.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein the lift-off layer comprises molybdenum.
20. The method of claim 17 wherein the lift-off layer comprises indium tin oxide. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
