<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639863</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Covered electrode for electrochemical cells
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M476	H01M474	H01M216	H01M614	H01M472	H01M614	H01M402	H01M402	H01M466	H01M618	H01M470	H01M216	H01M616	H01M618	H01M475	H01M616	H01M412	H01M466	H01M406	H01M406	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M4	H01M4	H01M2	H01M6	H01M4	H01M6	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M6	H01M4	H01M2	H01M6	H01M6	H01M4	H01M6	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In an electrochemical cell, especially an alkali metal-halogen or oxyhalide cell, 
wherein an anode, preferably lithium, has a surface in operative contact with an electrolyte 

or cathode/electrolyte including a solvent if necessary, an electrode covering, preferably 
applied on the anode surface comprises a film of ion impermeable substrate material 

which is perforated to provide for ion flow therethrough and is coated with organic 
electron donor material. The thin film substrate material preferably comprises a perforated 

synthetic polyester film material, and the film may be prepared by contacting the substrate 
material with a solution of the organic material and solvent followed by drying. The 

resulting coated thin film is flexible and is applied to the operative surface of the electrode 
thereby covering the same, preferably adhered to the surface by pressing. The flexible 

film can be applied equally well to electrode surfaces which are either smooth and flat or 
irregular. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREATBATCH W LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILSON GREATBATCH LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUFFOLETTO BARRY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NESSELBECK NEIL N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPAULDING JOSEPH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUFFOLETTO, BARRY C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NESSELBECK, NEIL N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPAULDING, JOSEPH E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the art of electrochemical cells
and more particularly to a new and improved electrode covering
for alkali metal-halogen and alkali metal-oxyhalide cells.The recent growth in small-sized electronic devices has
required electrochemical cells having high energy density and
current delivery capability. As a result of this need, alkali
metal-halogen and alkali metal-oxyhalide cells have been
developed wherein the anode typically is lithium and the
electrolyte in operative contact with the anode and the cathode
element is either solid or liquid. In the development of such
cells it has been found advantageous to coat the operative
electrode surfaces, and particularly the anode surface with
organic electron donor material. For example, in alkali metal-oxyhalide,
solid electrolyte cells, such an electrode covering
beneficially results in a greater utilization of the lithium
anode and a reduction in cell impedance. In alkali metal-oxyhalide,
liquid electrolyte cells, an organic electron donor
material electrode covering advantageously inhibits the formation
of compounds on the anode surface that otherwise would cause
passivation giving rise to a voltage delay after storage at
elevated temperatures.The prior art has developed a variety of techniques for
applying coatings including painting or brushing a solution of
organic electron donor material dissolved in solvent onto the
anode surface. Another method comprises forming a sheet of the
organic electron donor material such as by hot pressing and then
applying the preformed sheet onto the anode surface, often in
conjunction with an adhesive. WO 92/10860 discloses the use of an ion permeable polymeric organic donor film which has been perforated for covering a lithium anode surface. The film is formed by extrusion. These methods are well known to
those of ordinary skill in the art. However, they are often time 
consuming and do not necessarily result in a uniform layer of organic material being applied
to the anode surface.As a solution, US Patent No. 4,812,376 issued March 14 1989 to Rudolph and entitled
Anode Coating For Lithium Cell, which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention
and is incorporated herein by reference, discloses an improved anode coating for use in an
alkali metal halogen or oxyhalide electrochemical cell comprising a thin film of synthetic
open mesh fabric material having the organic electron donor material impregnated therein.
The film is prepared by contacting the fabric substrate material with a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrochemical cell comprising anode and cathode electrodes and an
operatively associated electrolyte and including an electrode covering at one or more

interfaces of the electrodes and the electrolyte 
characterised in that
 the covering is
obtainable by perforating a film of ion impermeable, synthetic polymeric substrate

material to provide for ion flow therethrough and coating the resultant perforated
substrate material with an organic electron donor material,
An electrochemical cell as claimed in claim 1 in the form of an alkali metal-halogen
electrochemical cell.
An alkali metal-halogen electrochemical cell as claimed in claim 2 including an alkali
metal anode with a surface in contact with a solid electrolyte and a said covering on

said anode surface.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in claim 3 further including a cathode
comprising a charge transfer complex formed from iodine and poly-2-vinylpyridine.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in claim 1 in the form of an alkali metal-oxyhalide
electrochemical cell.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in claim 5 including an alkali metal anode
having a surface in operative contact with a liquid cathode/electrolyte and a said

covering on said anode surface.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in any one of claims 3, 4 and 6 
characterised in
that
 the covering is pressure-bonded to the anode surface. 
An electrochemical cell as claimed in any one of claims 3, 4, 6 and 7 
characterised
in that
 the anode surface is relatively flat and the covering is adhered to the surface.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in any one of claims 3, 4, 6 and 7 
characterised
in that
 the anode surface is provided with formations to increase the surface area
thereof and the covering is adhered to the surface.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein said anode
is a lithium anode.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 
characterised in
that
 the organic electron donor material comprises poly-2-vinylpyridine.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 
characterised in
that
 the substrate material is a flexible material.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in claim 12 
characterised in that
 the substrate is
a polyester material.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in claim 13 
characterised in that
 the polyester
material is polyethylene terephthalate.
An electrochemical cell as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14 wherein the
covering is in the form of a unitary body,
An anode for an alkali metal-halogen electrochemical cell comprising:

a) an anode body of alkali metal having a surface for operative contact with a
solid electrolyte of the cell;
b) an electrical conductor means operatively associated with the anode body;
and 
(c) a covering on the anode surface wherein the covering is obtainable by
perforating a film of ion impermeable, synthetic polymeric substrate material

to provide for ion flow therethrough and coating the resultant perforated
substrate material with an organic electron donor material.
An anode for an alkali metal-oxyhalide electrochemical cell comprising:

a) an anode body of alkali metal having a surface for operative contact with a
liquid electrolyte of the cell;
b) anode electrical conductor means operatively associated with the anode
body; and
c) a covering on the anode surface wherein the covering is obtainable by
perforating a film of ion impermeable, synthetic polymeric substrate material

to provide for ion flow therethrough and coating the resultant perforated
substrate material with an organic electron donor material.
An anode as claimed in claim 16 or claim 17 
characterised in that
 the body is of
lithium.
An anode as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 18 
characterised in that
 the
substrate material is flexible.
An anode as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 19 
characterised in that
 the
substrate material is a polyester material.
An anode as claimed in claim 20 
characterised in that
 the polyester material is
polyethylene terephthalate.
An anode as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 21 
characterised in that
 the
organic electron donor material comprises poly-2-vinylpyridine, 
An anode as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 22 
characterised in that
 the
covering is pressure-bonded to the anode surface.
An anode as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 23 
characterised in that
 the anode
surface is relatively flat and the covering is adhered to the surface.
An anode as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 23 
characterised in that
 the anode
surface is provided with formations to increase the surface area thereof and the

covering is adhered to the surface.
An anode as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 25 
characterised in that
 the
covering is in the form of a unitary body.
A method of forming an anode as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 26
comprising the steps of:


a) perforating a film of ion impermeable, synthetic polymeric substrate material
to provide for ion flow therethrough;
b) coating the film with an organic electron donor material; and
c) applying the coated film to the anode operative surface.
A method as claimed in claim 27 
characterised in that
 the step of coating the film
of perforated substrate material, comprises dipping the film into a solution of the

organic material and solvent, removing the film from the solution, and drying the
film.
A method as claimed in claim 27 or claim 28 
characterised in that
 the step of
applying the coated film to the anode operative surface is done by pressing.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
