<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621722</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image reading device and related image scanning method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N1028	H04N1028	H04N104	H04N104	H04N138	H04N138	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image reading device that detects the edge of the image 
to be read and 

masks the areas outside the edge during the read. The image 
reading device includes 

a light transmittance modification device 
(23), e.g. a controllable light obturating device, 

in the optical path between the image 
illumination source (16) and the photoelectric conversion device (21). 

During a pre-scan of the 
image, the position of the edge of the image is stored in a 

memory unit. During the 
actual scan of the image to be read, the edge data is fed to 

the modification device (23) for 
each position of the scanner. The modification device (23) blocks 

out those portions of the 
area being scanned that are outside the image. In this manner, 

the image is read while the border area is masked. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON KOGAKU KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON KOGAKU KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEDA YOSHIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEDA YOSHIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image reading device that converts light 
passed through an original image into electrical signals using a photoelectric conversion 
element, such as a CCD (Charged Coupled Device) camera, and, more particularly, to 
such an image reading device capable of masking a specified range of the original 
image. In the aforementioned field, it is known to use devices such as shading sheets to 
block out unwanted portions of image light being projected from a translucent original, 
such as a negative or a transparency. Borders and excess image areas are typically 
blocked out in this manner. Conventionally, such as shown in FIG. 10, several shading 
sheets are cut so as to block out these unwanted areas when placed on and around the 
original. The user would then stack the shading sheets on the original before 
transmitting light therethrough. Most image reading devices use an original cassette glass for holding the image. 
An original holding glass is typically placed over top of the original to secure it in place. 
Light is transmitted through the original and recorded as electrical signals by a 
photoelectric conversion element, such as a CCD output. Currently, equipment 
designed to digitize originals must rely on shading sheets to eliminate excess areas. 
The shading sheets are held between the cassette glass and the holding glass with the 
image. As the light cannot pass through the shielding, the camera only sees those 
regions of the image which the user wishes to be recorded. Each image to be processed in the aforementioned manner requires a different 
set of shields to achieve the desired results. Even if only the clear borders of each  
 
image are masked, there is still a need for multiple shading sheets, one for each size of 
original to be processed. There is a practical limit to the different types of shielding 
sheets that can be prepared, thus limiting the user to a defined number of formats and 
shading schemes. It is also difficult to maintain the full set of shielding sheets due to the 
inevitable damage and loss of such sheets. As such, there exists a need for an 
apparatus and a method for masking an area of an original without using light shielding 
sheets. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a light shielding 
device capable of shielding a variable area of an original image. It is another object of the present invention to provide a light shielding device 
capable of shielding a portion of an original image based upon
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A shielding device for use in an image reading device for reading a 
transmitting original, the image reading device having an transparent platform for holding 

the transmitting original, an illumination source to illuminate the transmitting original, and 
a photoelectric conversion device to read the image of the original at a selected position 

upon illumination of the original by the illumination source, the shielding device 
comprising: 

   a light transmittance modification device positioned in the optical path 
between the illumination source and the photoelectric conversion device, said 

transmittance modification device being adapted to alter the transmittance of light 
passing therethrough; 

   a reading position modification device to modify the position at which the 
original is read by the conversion device; 

   a storage unit to retain the reading position of the original read by the 
conversion device and the position of the edge of the original at the reading position; 

and 
   a control unit to alter the transmittance of said light transmittance 

modification device in response to the position of the edge of the original at the reading 
position retained in the storage unit. 
The shielding device, as recited in claim 1, further comprising: 
   the reading position of the original read by said conversion device and the 

position of the edge of the original for each reading position being stored in said storage 
unit during a preliminary scan prior to an actual scan; and 

   said control unit alters the light transmittance of said transmittance 
modification device such that the light transmittance for an area outside the edge of the 

original is lowered during said actual scan. 
The shielding device, as recited in claim 1, further comprising: 
   said light transmittance modification device being positioned between the 

platform and the illumination source. 
The shielding device, as recited in claim 2, further comprising: 
   said reading position modification device being adapted to move the 

platform. 
The shielding device, as recited in claim 2, further comprising: 
   said reading position modification device being adapted to move the 

illumination source and said light transmittance modification device. 
An image reading device for reading an translucent original comprising: 
   a platform adapted to hold the original; 

   an illumination source to illuminate the original on said platform; 
   a transfer device to transfer the original along a sub-scan path; 

   a reading device to detect the light from the illuminated original, said 
reading device detecting the light along a main-scan path transverse to the sub-scan 

path; and 
   a modification device to modify the transmittance of the light at a specified 

position on the main-scan path, said modification device being positioned in the optical 
path from said illumination source to said reading device. 
An image reading device, as recited in claim 6, further comprising: 
   a storage unit to store an edge position of the original along said main-scan path 

for each specified position along said sub-scan path; and 
   a control unit to control said modification device in response to the 

contents of said storage unit. 
An image reading device, as recited in claim 6, further comprising: 
   said transfer device transferring the original along the sub-scan path prior to the 

reading of the original to detect the position of the edges of the original on the main-scan 
path. 
An image reading device, as recited in claim 6, further comprising: 
   said modification device being positioned near the original. 
An image reading device, as recited in claim 6, further comprising: 
   said modification device being positioned between said illumination source 

and the original. 
An image reading device, as recited in claim 6, further comprising: 
   said modification device having a plurality of light transmittance elements, 

said elements adapted to have their light transmittance adjusted independently of the 
other elements. 
An image reading device, as recited in claim 6, further comprising: 
   said modification device having a light shielding device adapted to shade 

the light from said illumination device; and 
   a position control device to control the position of said light shielding 

device. 
An image reading device, as recited in claim 6, further comprising: 
   said transfer device being adapted to transfer said platform. 
A method of scanning an area containing an image smaller than the area 
to be scanned comprising: 

   pre-scanning the image to determine the position of the scanning area 
outside of the image;

 
   scanning the image in a selected direction; and 

   masking the area outside the image during the step of scanning the image. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein the step of pre-scanning the 
image comprises: 


(a) illuminating a portion of the scanning area; 
(b) scanning the portion of the scanning area; 
(c) determining if the portion of the scanning area contains a part of the 
image; 
(d) storing a record of the position of the portion of the image and position 
of any areas in the scanning area outside the image contained in the portion; 
(e) determining whether the entire image has been pre-scanned; and 
(f) if the entire image has not been pre-scanned repeating steps (a) through 
(f) on a different portion of the scanning area until the entire scanning area has been 

read. 
A method according to claim 15, wherein the portion of the image is a pixel 
line. 
A method according to claim 15, wherein the step of masking the area 
outside the image during the step of scanning the image comprises: 


(a) providing a light transmittance modification device adapted to alter the 
transmittance of light passing therethrough, the modification device being at least as 

wide as the area to be scanned and at least as long as the portion of the image to be 
scanned; 
(b) positioning the light transmittance modification device in the optical path 
of the portion of the image to be read; and 
(c) altering the transmittance of the light using the light transmittance device 
to approximately 0% in those areas of the scan corresponding to areas outside the 

image. 
A method according to claim 17, wherein the 
step of positioning the light transmittance 

modification device comprises placing the device 
between the source of illumination and the image. 
An image scanning device for reading an 
image from a document comprising: 

   a platform adapted to hold the document; 
   an illumination source to illuminate the 

document; 
   a reading device to detect light from the 

illuminated document; 
   transfer means which causes successive portions 

of said image to be scanned; and 
   modification means positioned in the optical path 

between said illumination means and said reading 
device to modify the intensity of light received by 

said reading device from one or more regions of said 
image. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the 
extent of masking in a direction transverse to the 

direction of scanning is adjusted for each scan 
line. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
