<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619253</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for positioning and transporting micro-mechanical parts
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G5101	B65H2014	H02K5700	B65H5100	B65H2014	A61B1706	H02K4103	H02K5700	H02K4103	B65G5402	B65H5100	A61B1706	A61B1700	A61B1700	B65G5400	B65G5100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65H	H02K	B65H	B65H	A61B	H02K	H02K	H02K	B65G	B65H	A61B	A61B	A61B	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G51	B65H20	H02K57	B65H51	B65H20	A61B17	H02K41	H02K57	H02K41	B65G54	B65H51	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	B65G54	B65G51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method of transporting small micro-mechanical parts, wherein 
a small micro-mechanical part (1) is placed on the surface 

(2) of a still liquid and held there on account of the 
surface tension, wherein a predetermined path (5) is formed 

and wherein the small micro-mechanical part (1) is subjected 
to external forces, by means of which forces the small 

micro-mechanical part is transported along the predetermined 
path (5) on the surface (2) of the liquid. Furthermore, a 

method of positioning a small micro-mechanical part (1), 
wherein a small micro-mechanical part is placed on a liquid 

surface and held there on account of the surface tension, 
wherein the geometry of the liquid surface is formed in such 

a manner that the small micro-mechanical part is 
definitively aligned in terms of its spacial orientation, 

and wherein means are provided by means of which the spacial 
position of the small micro-
mechanical part can be 
definitively set. Apparatus for carrying out the methods of 

transporting and positioning and an apparatus wherein a 
platform is held on the surface of a liquid, is transported 

and positioned there, wherein within the platform a small 
micro-mechanical part is positioned on the surface of a 

liquid with respect to the platform. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SONDEREGGER MARCEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SONDEREGGER, MARCEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to methods and apparatus for 
transporting and positioning micro-mechanical parts. In terms of micro-mechanical parts, preformed parts are to 
be understood, and therefore not naturally occurring parts. 
The term "micro-mechanical part" includes both "oblong" as 
well as "planar" parts. In respect of oblong 
micro-mechanical parts, such manufactured parts are to be 
understood which have a cross-sectional dimension in the 
order of micrometers or millimeters, but the longitudinal 
dimensions thereof can be desirably longer. Such oblong 
micro-mechanical parts can, for example, be micro-surgical 
needles, threads or wires. The cross section of such 
manufactured parts can be circular, elliptical, oval, 
rectangular, triangular or polygonal and also have any 
desired open or hollow geometries. The cross section can 
also vary as appropriate along the longitudinal length of 
the part. In respect of planar micro-mechanical parts, such 
manufactured parts are to be understood which are 
substantially planar, namely plate- or disc-shaped, for 
example. Their thickness dimensions are in the order of 
micrometers or millimeters, while the length and width 
dimensions can be substantially greater. The planar 
micro-mechanical parts can have the most varying surface and 
edge contours. The micro-mechanical parts can be metallic or 
parts consisting of plastics or of natural materials such 
as, for example, natural textile fibers.  
 Up to now, during the individual processing steps within a 
production and packaging process, micro-mechanical parts are 
either transported and positioned by means of a mechanical 
gripper or handled manually, for example, by means of a 
pincer. In the case of manual handling, the transport or 
positioning of micro-mechanical parts previously required 
the use of microscopes and, in the case of machine handling, 
the use of very complex mechanical and optical systems. The 
main problem with current handling methods consists in that 
the micro-mechanical parts are mechanically gripped and can 
be easily damaged as the thickness of, for example, a 
micro-surgical needle can be only 70 µm, for example. As the 
handling forces are often very large, very slight but 
undesirable plastic deformation of the manufactured part can 
occur. Furthermore, positioning of a micro-mechanical part in the 
micrometer range is particularly difficult, as the moving 
mechanical gripper means must be precisely positioned with 
respect to a micro-mechanical part. In previous handling 
m
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of positioning a small elongate micro-mechanical part (1) in a desired 
orientation when supported by surface tension at the surface of a still liquid, the 

method comprising the steps of: 

i. defining the desired orientation by boundary members (12); 
ii. selecting the respective materials of the boundary members (12) forming a 
channel section (16) provided with such a dimension that the part assumes a 

stable orientation therein and the liquid to create an upwards concave 
meniscus in the liquid surface adjacent the boundary members (12); and 
iii. placing the small micro-mechanical part on the surface of the liquid. 
Method according to claim 1, for transporting small micro-mechanical parts, 

characterized in that
 for said small micro-mechanical part (1) placed on the 
surface (2) of a still liquid and held there on account of the surface tension, a 

predetermined path (5) is formed, and in that the small micro-mechanical part (1) is 
subjected to external forces, and in that the small micro-mechanical part is 

transported along the predetermined path (5) on the surface (2) of the liquid (3) by 
means of the external forces. 
Method according to claim 2, 
characterized in that
 the small micro-mechanical 
part (1) is transported along the predetermined path (5) by means of 

electromagnetic forces. 
Method according to claim 2, 
characterized in that
 the small micro-mechanical 
part (1) is transported along the predetermined path (5) by means of gravity. 
Method according to claim 2, 
characterized in that
 the small micro-mechanical 
part (1) is transported along the predetermined part (5) by means of aerodynamic 

forces.  
 
Method according to claim 2, wherein the part (1) is a thread, and the method is 
effective to connect the thread with a needle itself supported by surface tension on 

said liquid surface. 
Method according to claim 1, including the step of definitively setting the spacial 
position of the small micro-mechanical part. 
Apparatus for maintaining a small elongate micro-mechanical part (1) in a desired 
orientation when the part is supported, in use of the apparatus, by surface tension at 

the surface of a still liquid, the apparatus comprising: 

liquid meniscus boundary surfaces (12) forming a channel section (16) 
provided with such a dimension that the part assumes a stable orientation 

therein which define the desired orientation of the part (1) by an upwardly 
concave meniscus adjacent the boundary surfaces. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, including a channel (4) along which the part (1) 
can be transported. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9, including means to purposefully subject the small 
micro-mechanical part to external forces to urge the part along the channel. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the urging means define at least one 
transport path (5, 15) on the liquid surface. 
Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the means for purposefully subjecting 
the small micro-mechanical part to external forces comprises the stator (10) of a 

synchronous linear motor, such that the stator follows the transport path (5, 15) in 
its longitudinal extension. 
Apparatus according to claim 12, 
characterized in that
 the stator (10) is arranged 
beneath the transport path (5, 15) in the base (9) of the channel. 
Apparatus according to claim 10 or 11, 
characterized in that
 the means for 
purposefully subjecting the small micro-mechanical part (1) to external forces 

comprise an air-stream generator effective in the transport direction of the small 
micro-mechanical part.  

 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 14, 
characterized in that
 the 
channel width increases in the transport direction at least in one channel section 

(13b) along the predetermined path.  
 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, for orienting oblong, small micro-mechanical 
parts 
characterized in that
 a channel section (16) is provided which is limited in 
its longitudinal dimension by means of two channel end walls (8). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 and 
characterized by
: 

the channel end wall at the end of the channel (17) closes the channel in the 
transport direction, 
an opening (18) in the channel end wall (8) approximately at the level of the 
liquid surface (2) and in the extension of the predetermined path (5) of the 

small micro-mechanical part (1), 
an electromagnet or permanent magnet (21) arranged outside the channel at 
the distance behind the opening (18) of the channel end wall, and 
a stop (20) for the small micro-mechanical part between the opening (18) 
and the electromagnet or permanent magnet (21). 
Apparatus according to claim 17, 
characterized in that
 the opening (18) has an 
inlet (19) at the side of the channel end wall (8) facing the channel interior which 

widens in the direction towards the channel (17). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 or 9, including 

a basin filled with liquid (3), 
a platform (22) which in use is floating on the liquid surface (2) in the basin 
on account of hydrostatic buoyancy and/or surface tension, and 
means for subjecting the platform (22) to external forces, 
wherein a positioning basin (23) is formed in the platform for receiving the 
small micro-mechanical part (1), the positioning basin bounding a liquid 

surface, so that, before placement of the small micro-mechanical part, and 
on account of adhesion and cohesion forces between the liquid, the edges of 

the positioning basin and the medium above the liquid, a concavely curved 
liquid surface is formed at least at the edges of the positioning basin (23). 
Apparatus according to claim 19, 
characterized in that
 the means for subjecting 
the platform (22) to external forces include a synchronous linear motor, 


the stator (10) of which defines the path (5) of the platform on the surface 
(2) of the liquid (3) by means of its longitudinal extension and is arranged 

adjacent to the desired path (5), and  
 
the rotor of which is formed by at least a magnetic part (24) of the platform 
(22). 
Apparatus according to claim 19 or 20, 
characterized in that
 the positioning basin 
(23) in the platform (22) bounds a partial surface of the liquid surface of the basin 

within which the platform floats. 
Apparatus according to claim 19 or 20, 
characterized in that
 the positioning basin 
(23) is formed within the platform (22) as a closed bath wetted with liquid. 
Method according to claim 7, 
characterized in that
 a boundary member is 
arranged in a basin filled with liquid on the surface of the liquid and bounds an 

area of the liquid surface, wherein 

the proportions of the area substantially correspond to the small micro-mechanical 
part to be positioned, and 
the geometric dimensions of the area are only slightly greater than those of 
the small micro-mechanical part. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
