<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMMUNOASSAY FOR DETERMINING BLOOD CELL ACTIVATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33536	G01N33536	G01N33569	G01N33569	G01N3386	G01N3386	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for determining the activation level of platelets and other types of blood cells that undergo activation by ELISA and other immunosassay techniques includes the step of reacting a sample containing the blood cells in a liquid phase with an excess quantity of an activation-specific primary antibody prior to allowing the cells in the sample to bind to a solid surface. This differs from typical ELISA proceduces, wherein the cells are bound to the surface of a plastic test tube or microtiter plate prior to addition of the primary antibody. It has been discovered according to the invention that binding the cells to a surface prior to reaction with the primary antibody changes the activation level of the cells, making the assay less accurate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MILWAUKEE HEART RES FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MILWAUKEE HEART RESEARCH FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMRANI DAVID L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMRANI, DAVID, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMMUNOASSAY FOR DETERMINING BLOOD CELL ACTIVATIONTECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to an immunoassay, particularly an enzyme-linked im unoabsorbent assay (ELISA) for monitoring activation of platelets and other types of blood cells which undergo activation.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In the past five years, the use of fluorescent-activated flow cytometry with specific activating antibodies has allowed investigators to directly monitor platelet activation and subsequent microaggregate formation. While accurate and specific, flow cytometry is extremely expensive, requiring an expensive machine and maintenance, and a dedicated technician. Platelet assay methods using other well- known assay systems, such as ELISA, radioimmunoassay(RIA) and Western blot analysis have been described in Berman et al., Methods in Enzvmoloqy 169:314, 1989. Berman et al. discuss an ELISA assay which involves fixing platelets and placing the fixed platelets directly in a microtiter plate for the purpose of screening for activation specific antibodies.Current assays for monitoring platelet activation in patients who may be at risk for thrombosis or thrombosis-related conditions involve indirect assessment of this activation by measuring systemic released platelet products (factors present in the circulation) . Such products include platelet 

factor 4 and β-thromboglobulin, or the thromboxane B2, a stable product of platelet activating factor thromboxane A . Unfortunately, circulating levels of these factors can undergo metabolically-produced changes, and as such these factors are considered indirect measures of platelet activation. As such, a need remains for a direct platelet activation assay which can be carried out on patient samples without undue complexity or expense.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONA method according to the invention for determining the activation level of blood cells by an i munoassay of the type wherein a primary antibody undergoes specific binding with the blood cells and a labelled secondary antibody undergoes specific binding with the primary antibody-blood cell comple r such as ELISA, includes the step of reacting a sample containing the blood cells in a liquid phase, e.g. an aqueous suspension, with an excess quantity of an activation-specific primary antibody prior to allowing the cells in the sample to bind to a solid surface. This differs from typical ELISA procedures, wherein the cells are bound to the surface of a plastic test tube or microtiter plate prior to addition of the primary antibody. It
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. In a method for determining the activation level of blood cells that undergo activation by an immunoassay of the type wherein a primary antibody undergoes specific binding with the blood cells and a labelled secondary antibody undergoes specific binding with the primary antibody-blood cell complex, the improvement which comprises reacting a sample containing the blood cells in a liquid phase with an excess quantity of an activation-specific primary antibody prior to allowing the cells in the sample to bind to a solid surface.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the blood cells are platelets.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the step of reacting the blood cells with the primary antibody is conducted in aqueous suspension in a vessel having a relatively low binding affinity for the blood cells.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the vessel has an inner surface made of polypropylene onto which the aqueous suspension is placed.
5. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the immunoassay is an enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay.
6. The method of claim 2, further characterized in that the method for determining platelet activation level comprises the steps of:
(A) obtaining a sample of platelets having an unknown level of activation from a living subject;
(B) adding an excess quantity of a platelet activation-specific primary antibody to the platelets in an aqueous suspension, which primary antibody binds 


to platelets to an extent which correlates with the degree of activation of the platelets, and allowing the primary antibody to react with the platelets for a time sufficient to allow substantially complete specific binding between the antibody and activated platelets;
(C) forming a complex between the platelets bound to the primary antibody, a secondary antibody, and an enzyme, which secondary antibody reacts with and specifically binds to the primary antibody, and which enzyme is linked to the secondary antibody;
(D) adding a substrate to the platelet complexes, which substrate reacts with the enzyme to produce a visible indicator;
(E) measuring the extent to which the visible indicator is present; and
(F) comparing the results with a standard that correlates the extent to which the visible indicator is present with degree of platelet activation to determine the degree of activation of the platelets prior to the assay.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the primary antibody includes FC regions, and further characterized by a step, prior to step (B) , of adding a calcium inhibitor to an aqueous suspension of the platelets in an amount effective to chelate calcium ions in the aqueous suspension.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein step (C) further comprises: adding an excess quantity of a labelled secondary antibody to the suspension which reacts with and specifically binds to the primary antibody, wherein the label is one of a pair of specific binding substances; separating the platelets from unbound secondary antibody; 


 adding an excess quantity of an enzyme to the platelets, which enzyme is labelled with the other of the pair of specific binding substances, so that the enzyme specifically binds to the labelled secondary antibody; and separating the platelets from unbound enzyme.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the separating steps each further comprise centrifuging the platelet suspension.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the pair of specific binding substances are biotin and streptavidin.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein step (C) further comprises: adding an excess quantity of the secondary antibody to the suspension, which secondary antibody reacts with and specifically binds to the primary antibody, wherein the secondary antibody has the enzyme pre-linked thereto; and separating the platelets from unbound secondary antibody-enzyme.
12. The method of claim 6, wherein the enzyme is a peroxidase or alkaline phosphatase.
13. The method of claim 6, wherein the standard comprises a standard curve generated using platelets from normal human blood samples activated to predetermined levels with a platelet activating agent. 


 14. The method of claim 13, wherein step (F) further comprises generating the standard curve by repeating steps (B) through (D) using standards comprising platelets activated at different, predetermined levels.
15. A test kit for use in determining the activation level of a sample of platelets having an unknown level of activation by ELISA, comprising: standards containing fixed platelets activated at different, predetermined levels for generating a standard curve; a platelet activation-specific primary antibody which binds to specific activation binding sites of platelets to an extent which correlates with the degree of activation of the platelets; a secondary antibody that binds specifically to the primary antibody; an enzyme bound to the secondary antibody or bindable thereto by means of labels on each of the secondary antibody and enzyme; directions for the performance of a protocol for the determination of platelet activation level in the platelet sample by ELISA and correlation to a standard curve generated using the standards.
16. The test kit of claim 15, wherein the platelets of the standards are in a frozen form which can be effectively thawed prior to use.
17. A set of separate standard platelet samples each containing fixed platelets activated at different, predetermined levels. 


 18. The set of claim 17, wherein each sample consists essentially of the fixed platelets and an aqueous medium, and the platelets of each standard have been obtained from blood, activated using a different amount of an agonist for each standard, and then fixed using a fixing agent.
19. The set of claim 18, wherein the fixing agent is para-formaldehyde.
20. The set of claim 18, wherein each sample is in frozen form.
21. The set of claim 20, wherein the aqueous medium is a platelet resuspension buffer formulated to maintain the platelets in a stable condition by maintaining salt concentrations and pH at normal plasma levels.
22. A method for preparing a set of fixed platelets having a predetermined level of activation, comprising:
(a) obtaining platelets from normal blood; (b) activating the platelets to a predetermined level using a predetermined amount of an agonist;
(c) fixing the platelets using a fixing agent; (d) storing the fixed platelets prior to use; and
(e) repeating steps (a) to (d) using a different predetermined amount of agonist to prepare the set. 


 23. The method of claim 22, wherein step (d) further comprises freezing the platelets in an aqueous medium and storing the platelets in frozen form.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the medium is a buffer solution formulated to maintain the platelets in a stable condition by maintaining salt concentrations and pH at normal plasma levels.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein step (a) further comprises: separating platelets from whole blood; washing the platelets; suspending the washed platelets in a buffer solution formulated to maintain the platelets in a stable condition by maintaining salt concentrations and pH at normal plasma levels.
26. The method of claim 22, wherein step (a) further comprises washing the platelets, and the agonist is thrombin.
27. The method of claim 22, wherein the agonist is collagen.
28. The method of claim 22, wherein the fixing agent is para-formaldehyde.
29. The method of claim 22, wherein step (c) further comprises adding the fixing agent to an aqueous suspension containing the activated platelets, then centrifuging and washing the platelets.
30. A method of using the set of claim 18 in a platelet assay, which comprises repeating the platelet assay using the fixed platelet samples to obtain standard values. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
