<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617863</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXTERNALLY CONTROLLED CALL PROCESSING SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q300	H04Q300	H04L2908	H04L1202	H04L2906	H04L1202	H04L2906	H04L2908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q3	H04Q3	H04L29	H04L12	H04L29	H04L12	H04L29	H04L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELOQUENT COMM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELOQUENT COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDREWS G WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIED JEFFREY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GECHTER JERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POKRESS ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDREWS, G., WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIED, JEFFREY, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GECHTER, JERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POKRESS, ROBERT, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to control of call processing systems via
an external computer application.Telephone switch vendors and computer vendors have
introduced products having the objective of allowing a telephone subscriber's
data processing applications to control telecommunications switches, e.g., at
central offices of the public telephone network. Architecturally these products
tend to be similar and employ an application programming environment on a
computer platform which allows a data processing application to interact with
one or more switch products via some form of switch control link made
available by the switch. The objective is to allow the computer to control and
participate in the establishment of connections by the switch and to monitor
selected actions taking place on the switch.US-A-4 713 806 discloses a multi-service digital network
including a control complex for controlling switch controllers, which in turn
control respective switches. Subscribers are provided with narrowband and
wideband channels. According to the system disclosed, the subscribers are
able to request and manipulate calls and conferences.US-A-5 042 027 relates to a communication network comprising
a network controller and a number of call controllers. Subscribers are
connected to nodes associated with the call controllers by lines. The network
controller controls routing for communication messages between nodes. The
traffic on the network is monitored, and the results stored in a database. This
allows optimisation of the routing.According to the present invention, a system for controlling call
processing comprises:
a network controller that is connected to receive a control
message regarding a call operation to be executed by a line controller, the
network controller being programmed to respond to the control message to
determine what steps need to be taken by the line controller to execute a call
connection operation, to generate control messages to carry out steps, and 
to send the control messages over a message transfer interface to the line
controller, andplural line controllers, each of the line controllers being
connected to a network via a message transfer interface to receive the control
messages and being programmed to execute the control messages on behalf
of itself on a network via a call control interface in order to execute the call
operation,characterised in that
   the control of call processing involves external control of call
processing on a call connection network, said external control being
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for controlling of call processing comprising a network
controller (18) that is connected to receive a control message regarding a call

operation to be executed by a line controller (20,22), the network controller
(18) being programmed to respond to the control message to determine what

steps need to be taken by the line controller (20,22) to execute a call
connection operation, to generate control messages to carry out the steps,

and to send the control messages over a message transfer interface (16) to
the line controller (20,22), and plural line controllers (20,22), each of the line

controllers (20,22) being connected to a network (14) via a message transfer
interface to receive the control messages and being programmed to execute

the control messages on behalf of itself on a network (14) via a call control
interface (16) in order to execute the call operation, is 
characterised in that
:

the control of call processing involves external control of call
processing on a call connection network (14), said external control being

external of the call connection network (14);
the message transfer involves message transfer on a message transfer
network (14), the message transfer network (14) being the same as or

different from the call connection network (14);
the control message received by the network controller (18) is an
external party control message regarding a call connection operation to be

executed by and involving one or more line controllers (20,22) each
connected to the call connection network (14) by a call connection interface

(16);
the network controller (18) is programmed to respond to the external
party control message to determine what steps need to be taken by the line

controller or controllers (20,22) to execute the call connection operation, to 
generate line controller control messages to carry out the said steps, and to

send the line controller control messages over the message transfer network
(14) via message transfer interfaces (16) to one or more of the line controllers

(20,22);
each line controller (20,22) is connected to the call connection network
(14) via the call connection interface (16) permitting the line controller (20,22)

to participate in a call over the call connection network (14) with another line
controller (20,22) or other terminal device connected to the network (14);
each line controller (20,22) is connected to the message transfer
network (14) via one of the message transfer interfaces (16) to receive the

line controller control messages;
each line controller (20,22) is connected to the call connection network
(14) via a call control interface (16) permitting the line controller (20,22) to

request the call connection network (14) to execute the call connection
operation; and,
each line controller (20,22) is programmed to execute the line controller
control messages on behalf of itself on the call connection network (14) in

order to execute the call connection operation on the call connection network
(14).
The system of claim 1, wherein the call connection network (14) is a
public telephone network.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the call connection network (14) is a
private telephone network.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the call connection network (14) is part
of a combination of networks. 
The system of Claim 4, wherein the combination includes private and
public telephone networks.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, including a single
network for sending the line controller control messages and executing the

call operations.
The system of Claim 6, wherein the line controllers (20,22) and network
controller (18) are connected to the network (14) via an ISDN interface.
The system of Claim 6, wherein the line controllers (20,22) and network
controller (18) are connected to the network (14) via an FDDI interface.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the network
(14) over which the line controller control messages are sent is a local area

network.
The system of Claim 9, wherein the local area network is an Ethernet
network.
The system of Claim 9, wherein the local area network is a token ring
network.
The system of Claim 9, wherein the local area network is an FDDI
network.
The system of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein a network (14) over
which the line controller control messages are sent is a wide area network.
The system of Claim 13, wherein the wide area network is an X.25
network.
The system of Claim 13, wherein the wide area network is an SMDS
network. 
The system of Claim 13, wherein the wide area network is a B-ISDN
network.
The system of Claim 13, wherein the wide area network is a QPSX
network.
The system of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the network (14) over
which the line controller control messages are sent is part of a combination of

networks.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller (20,22) is implemented on a personal computer or a workstation.
The system of any one of Claims 1 to 18, wherein the line controller
(20,22) is implemented on a device that has the dedicated function of control

of communication via the message transfer interface.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the network
controller (18) is implemented on a personal computer or a workstation.
The system of any one of Claims 1 to 20, wherein the network
controller (18) is implemented on a mainframe or a minicomputer.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an
automated agent connected to the line controller (20,22).
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller (20,22) further comprises an interactive display terminal for

interacting with a human.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an
external host processor (34) containing applications programs (200) relating

to call processing and information as to the business supported by the system 
for external control of call processing, the processor (34) being connected to

provide external control messages to the network controller (18).
The system of any one of Claims 1 to 24, wherein the same platform
implementing the network controller (18) contains applications programs (200)

relating to call processing and generates the external control messages.
The system of any one of Claims 1 to 24, wherein the same platform
implementing a line controller (20,22) contains applications programs (200)

relating to call processing and generates the external control messages, the
platform being connected to provide external control messages to the network

controller (18).
The system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a
system operator station (43) connected to receive information as to the

operation of the system for external control of call processing from the
network controller (18) and to provide control signals to the network controller

(18).
The system of Claim 28, wherein the system operator station (43)
includes an interactive display for displaying the system information and

receiving inputs to generate the control signals.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the call
controlling operation is arranged to provide a connection for communication

involving transmission of digital data signals.
The system of any one of Claims 1 to 30, wherein the call controlling
operation is arranged to provide a connection for communication involving

transmission of voice, image or video signals. 
The system of any one of Claims 1 to 30, wherein the call controlling
operation is arranged to provide a circuit-switched connection, packet-switched

connection, frame-relay connection, or cell-relay connection.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the network
controller (18) includes a communications layer (44), a network interface (46),

and an event handler (52).
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller (20,22) includes a communications layer (44), a network interface

(46), and a line controller state machine (48).
The system of Claim 34, wherein the line controller state machine (48)
includes call states of a null state, a dialling state, an incoming state, a

releasing state, and a traffic state.
The system of Claim 35, wherein the state machine (48) includes call
states of a three-way state and a hold state.
The system of Claim 25, wherein the external processor (34) includes
an API library accessed by the application program (200) to generate the

external control messages.
The system of Claim 26, wherein the platform includes an API library
accessed by the application program (200) to generate the external control

messages.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an
electronic device attached to the line controller (20,22), and wherein the

network controller (18) is programmed to generate messages transmitted over
the message transfer interface (16) to the line controller (20,22) to control the

electronic device. 
The system of Claim 39, wherein the electronic device is a voice
response unit.
The system of Claim 39, wherein the electronic device is a telefax
message.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller (20,22) includes an interactive display for interacting with a human,

and wherein the network controller (18) is programmed to generate messages
transmitted over the message transfer interface (16) to the line controller

(20,22) to control or monitor actions of a human at the interactive display.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller control messages include initiating an outgoing call over the

network.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller control messages include receiving an incoming call over the

network.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller control messages include transferring a call to another destination.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller control messages include putting a call on hold.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller control messages include retrieving a call.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the line
controller control messages include clearing a connection.
The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the network
controller (18) is connected to receive status messages from the line 

controllers (20,22) via the message transfer interfaces (16) and to provide
information on status of calls and line controllers (20,22) to the application

programs (200).
The system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a
plurality of external host processors (34) containing applications (200)

programs relating to call processing, the processors (34) being connected to
provide external control messages to the network controller (18).
The system of Claim 50, wherein the network controller (18) is
arranged to mediate between competing requests from the external host

processors (34) by first-come first-serve logic.
The system of Claim 50, wherein the external host processors (34)
each have an interactive display for interacting with a human.
The system of Claim 52, wherein the network controller (18) is
arranged to receive status messages from the line controllers (20,22)

indicating availability of the line controllers (20,22) for call processing.
The system of Claim 53, wherein the network controller (18) is
arranged to mediate between competing requests from the external host

processors (34).
The system of Claim 27, further comprising an interactive display for
interacting with a human.
The system of Claim 55, wherein a plurality of the line controllers
(20,22) contain applications programs relating to call processing and

generating the external control messages, the platforms being connected to
provide external control messages to the network controller (18) and each

having an interactive display for interacting with a human. 
The system of Claim 56, wherein the network controller (18) is
arranged to receive status messages 
from the line controllers (20,22)
indicating availability of the line controllers (20,22) for call processing.
The system of Claim 57, wherein the network controller (18) is
arranged to mediate between competing requests from the application

programs associated with different line controllers (20,22).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
