<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642612</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PROCESS FOR RECOVERING CHEMICALS AND ENERGY FROM CELLULOSE WASTE LIQUOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D21C1112	D21C1112	F01K2100	F01K2104	F01K2306	F01K2306	F02C100	F02C104	F02C326	F02C328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D21C	D21C	F01K	F01K	F01K	F01K	F02C	F02C	F02C	F02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D21C11	D21C11	F01K21	F01K21	F01K23	F01K23	F02C1	F02C1	F02C3	F02C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention is a process for recovering chemicals and energy from cellulose waste liquors by partial oxidation of the cellulose waste liquor in a gas generator operating in a temperature range of 600-1500  DEG C and a pressure in the range of 1-100 bar, generating a combustible gas and molten alkali compounds, which alkali compounds are withdrawn from the combustible gas and used for preparation of cooking liquors wherein an indirectly fired gas turbine is used.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEMREC AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEMREC AKTIEBOLAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STIGSSON LARS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STIGSSON, LARS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A PROCESS FOR RECOVERING CHEMICALS AND ENERGY FROM CELLULOSE WASTE LIQUORBackground of the inventionThe kraft process is currently the dominant chemical pulping process. During pulping large quantities of recoverable energy in the form of black liquor are generated. Worldwide some 2.8 billion GJ (780 TWh) of black liquor was produced in 1990 at kraft pulp mills.The kraft recovery system has two principal functions:i) Recovery and recure of the inorganic pulping chemicals.ii) Recovery of the energy value of the organic material, mainly as process steam and electrical power.The chemical recovery process contributes significantly to the capital intensity of the kraft process. About 35% of the capital cost of a modern pulp mill is attri¬ butable to the recovery process.The predominant method today for recovery of chemicals and energy from black liquor is the Tomlinson recovery boiler, a technology which was introduced well over fifty years ago. Although an established technology, there are some wellknown disadvantages with conventional recovery technology. 

Most often the recovery boiler with its inherent in¬ flexibility constitutes the main production bottleneck in the pulp mill. Economics of scale dictate large capacity units.Other disadvantages include the low thermal efficiency and risk of smelt water explosions which in turn consti¬ tute a safety problem.These and other areas of concern have been the driving force for development of new methods and principles for recovering chemicals and energy from black liquor. One of the more promising routes is gasification of the liquor in entrained or fluidized beds. In some cases these alternative processes can be intalled as incremen¬ tal capacity boosters, providing an opportunity to eliminate the recovery boiler bottleneck.One of the major driving forces for development of new recovery technology has been to improve thermal effi¬ ciency accompanied with higher power to steam output ratios. The present invention relates to a major improvement in this area, using technology based on gasification and energy recovery in an externally fired gas turbine cycle (EFCC) .Gasification of black liquor can be performed at various temperatures and pressures, resulting in different forms of the recovered inorganic constituents and different calorific values of the combustible process gas.The inorganics, mainly alkali compounds, are withdrawn from the gasification system and solubilized to form an 

aqueous alkaline liquid, which liquor is used for cooking liquor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
PATENT CLAIMS
1. A process for recovering chemicals and energy from cellulose waste liquors by partial oxidation of the cellulose waste liquor in a gas generator operating in a temperature range of 600-1500 C and a pressure in the range of 1-100 bar, generating a combustible gas and molten alkali compounds, which alkali com¬ pounds are withdrawn from the combustible gas and used for preparation of cooking liquors, the improvement comprising the steps of;
passing hot combustible gas to fuel an indirectly fired gas turbin plant;
compressing air to a predetermined pressure, said compressed air used partly or fully as motive fluid in a gas turbine expander;
preheating said compressed air by indirect heat exchange in one or more heat exchangers with hot gas generated in the gas generator;
using gas turbine exhaust air as oxidant in the gas generator and/or use of gas turbine exhaust air for oxidation of the combustible gas generated in the gas generator
separating alkali components from said hot com¬ bustible gas stream before the gas entering said 


 heat exchangers, which alkali components are dissolved, in an aqueous liquid, which liquid is used for preparation of cooking liquor.
- withdrawal a substantial portion of the sulfurous compounds entering the reactor as sulfides.
2. The process according to claim 1, wherein the compressed air stream is contacted by water or steam before or during expansion in the gas turbine.
3. The process according to claim 2, wherein compressed air is bled off from the compressed air stream for use as oxidant in the gas generator and/or for use as oxidant for final oxidation of the combustible gas.
4. The process according to claim 3, wherein said indirectly fired gas turbine plant is integrated with a steam cycle for generating process steam and/or electricity.
5. The process according to claim 4, wherein said steam cycle comprises one or more steam turbines.
6. The process according to claim 5, wherein at least one heat exchanger zone, wherein compressed air is preheated, uses a ceramic material heat transfer surface.
7. The process according to claim 6, wherein steam is generated in a heat exchange zone following the 


 heat exchange zone wherein the compressed air is preheated.
8. The process according to claim 7, wherein said gas generator operates in a temperature range of 900- 1200°C and at a pressure in the range of 1-10 bar.
9. The process according to any preceeding claim 8, wherein compressed air is humidified to a relative humidity exceeding 10%, by injection of water or steam.
10. The process according to claim 9, wherein the humidification is performed in one or more countercurrent multistage contactors.
11. The process according to claim 9, wherein the water or steam injected in the compressed air has a temperature above 100 C.
12. The process according to claim 11, wherein water injected in the compressed air is warmed to a temperature above 100 C by heat exchange with compressed air in a compressor intercooler.
13. The process according to claim 11, wherein water injected in the compressed air is warmed to a temperature above 100°C by indirect heat exchange with hot condensate, green liquor, quench liquids and/or scrubbing liquids.
14. The process according to claim 11, wherein water injected in the compressed air is heated to a 


 temperature above 100°C by indirect heat exchange with turbine exhaust heat.
15. The process according to claim 11, wherein water injected in the compressed air is warmed to a temperature above 100°C by indirect heat exchange with waste heat generated in the gasification system or in the mill.
16. The process according to any of the preceeding claims, wherein the humidified compressed air is heated by indirect heat exchange with turbine exhaust to a temperature above 150°C.
17. The process according to claim 1, wherein compressed air is heated by heat exchange with gas turbine exhaust in one or more heat exchangers.
18. The process according to any of the preceeding claims, wherein humidified compressed air is heated by heat exchange with gas turbine exhaust in a countercurrent recuperative heat exchanger, in which heat exchanger water is injected, at one or several locations, into the air stream.
19. The process according to any of the claims, wherein high pressure steam is injected in the gaseous stream or streams entering the gas turbine expander or in the gas expander.
20. The process according to any of the preceeding claims, wherein the temperature of the compressed air stream used as motive fluid in the gas turbine 


 expander is increased by firing an external clean fuel in said air stream.
21. The process according to any of the preceeding claims, wherein the combustor is arranged after heat exchange to compressed motive fluid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
