<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635203</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A construction for automatically milking animals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01J500	A01K100	A01K500	A01J5017	A01K112	A01K501	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01J	A01K	A01K	A01J	A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01J5	A01K1	A01K5	A01J5	A01K1	A01K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a construction for automatically 
milking animals, such as cows, provided with a 

milking robot (14). The construction comprises a shed (1) or 
any other space where the animals are allowed to move freely. 

The shed (1) or other space is designed such that the milking 
robot (14) moves to an animal to be milked and performs the 

milking on the spot. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY, CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a construction
according to the preamble of claim 1.Such a construction is known from DE-A-37 02 465.
In this construction, the animals are allowed to move about
freely, while the animals can go to a milking parlour which
comprises milking boxes and a robot for automatically milking
an animal in one of said milking boxes. Each time when an
animal is to be milked, the animal itself has to walk to one
of the milking boxes of the milking parlour. This can have
the disadvantage that when many animals walk to the milking
parlour the animals crowd round the milking parlour.
Furthermore it has been found that not all the animals go to
the milking parlour at their own free will. This has the
disadvantage that the farmer must lead these animals to the
milking parlour. Especially in an automatized system with a
milking robot the manual labour must be minimized. This
method of milking may cause delay. Finally, these milking
boxes require extra space and the costly facility of doors
for the animals to enter and exit the milking box.It is an objective of the invention to obviate
these drawbacks. Therefore, the construction according to the
invention comprises a shed in which the milking robot and the
positioning construction are transportably arranged within
the shed in such a manner that an animal can be milked on the
spot in or near a compartment designed as a resting box
where said animal is staying, while said positioning
construction obstructs rearward and sideward movements of the
animal. This offers the advantage of a greater certainty that
an animal will be milked at a particular time, because the
milking robot moves to the relevant animal and does not
require the expensive and spacious facility of a milking box. According to another feature of the invention, the
computer system decides which cow is to be milked. According
to still another feature of the invention, the construction
comprises a number of compartments designed as resting boxes
which are also suitable to serve as milking parlours and/or
feeding places.According to another feature of the invention, the
construction comprises a transmitter and a receiver, by means
of which the presence of a cow in a resting box can be
detected. Whether an animal is present in a resting box can
be recorded by means of the computer system and transponders
provided on the animals' necks, according to a further
feature of the invention. With the computer system it is also
feasible to identify which animal is in which resting box.
Accor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A construction for automatically milking animals,
such as cows, provided with a shed (1) or any other space

where the animals are allowed to move about freely, which
shed (1) comprises a number of compartments designed as

resting boxes (6) and which construction is furthermore
provided with a milking robot (14) and a positioning

construction (40), characterized in that the milking robot
(14) and the positioning construction (40) are transportably

arranged within the shed (1) in such a manner that an animal
can be milked on the spot in or near a compartment designed

as a resting box (6) where said animal is staying, while said
positioning construction (40) obstructs rearward and sideward

movements of the animal. 
A construction according to claim 1, characterized
in that it comprises a computer and process control system,

through which the milking robot (14) is automatically moved
to an animal to be milked.
A construction according to claim 1 or 2,
characterized in that it comprises a computer system, through

which the milking robot (14) is capable of moving
automatically to an animal which, compared to other animals,

has not been milked for a longer period of time than the
period in which other animals have been milked.
A construction according to claim 4, characterized
in that the computer system decides which cow is to be

milked.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a

transmitter (46) and receiver suitable for detecting the
presence of a cow in a resting box (6).
A construction according to claim 5, characterized
in that the transmitter (46) is mounted on a collar for

attachment to an animal. 
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the resting boxes (6)

are suitable to serve as milking parlours.
A construction according to claim 7, characterized
in that the resting box (6) is provided with means (5)

suitable for the supply of feed to the animal.
A construction according to claim 8, characterized
in that said means comprise a feed through (5) disposed to

the floor.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a

concentrates dispensing system (18), through which the
animals can be individually given concentrates, while there

are also provided signalling means which serve to draw the
attention of an animal to the supply of concentrates.
A construction according to claim 10, characterized
in that the concentrates dispensing system (18) comprises a

feed trough (19).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a

detection device suitable for deciding whether the animal is
standing or lying.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a device

suitable for stimulating automatically the animal to be
milked to get up.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the positioning

construction (40) is pivotable in a vertical plane.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the positioning

construction (40) comprises a tripod limiting device (43,
44).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the computer system 

controls the milking robot (14) such that the construction is
capable of milking e.g. five animals disposed side by side as

well as five animals disposed at random distances from each
other.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the milking robot

(14) is transportably arranged within a herd and is capable
of automatically milking an animal at the option of the

computer system.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the milking robot

(14) is movable along a robot line (13) provided in the shed
(1).
A construction according to claim 18, characterized
in that the robot line (13) comprises a beam (15) mounted

above and near the front of the resting boxes (6).
A construction according to any one of claims 17 to
19, characterized in that the robot arm (30) is attached to

the beam (15) in such a way that, with respect to the beam
(15), it is movable both in a horizontal plane and in a

vertical plane.
A construction according to claim 20, characterized
in that the robot arm (30) comprises a robot head (31)

equipped with teat cups (32) and also comprises a sensor (33)
which enables to determine the positions of the teats of an

animal to be milked.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the resting box (6)

comprises tubular side walls (25, 27) and also a tubular
front wall (20) which is placed near a feed trough (19).
A construction according to claim 21, characterized
in that the milking robot (14) comprises a first quadrangular

hinge mechanism (34) which enables the robot head (31) to be
moved in a horizontal plane, and a second quadrangular hinge

mechanism (37) which enables the robot head (31) to be moved 
in a vertical plane.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the resting box (6)

comprises a first space in which an animal is allowed to take
its place, and a second space (29) which is inaccessible to

the animal, with the milking robot (14) being movable in a
vertical plane along the latter space.
A construction according to claim 24, characterized
in that the second space (29) is bounded by one side wall

(25) of the resting box (6) and a further partition (27) wall
which at least partly extends in the longitudinal direction

of the resting box (6).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that in the longitudinal

direction of the shed (1) two rows of resting boxes (6) are
provided, with these rows being at a certain distance from

each other and having a feeding passage (4) in between them.
A construction according to claim 26, characterized
in that the two rows of resting boxes (6) are approachable by

at least one milking robot (14).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that at least one milking

robot (14) is available for each row of resting boxes (6).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a manure

channel (7) for manure removal.
A construction according to claim 29, characterized
in that the manure channel (7) for manure removal is provided

near the rear side of the resting boxes (6).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that on the floor of the

shed (1) there is provided a cross conveyor (11) which serves
to carry off the manure to the manure channel (7).
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that in the manure channel 

(7) there is provided a longitudinal conveyor (8) which
carries off the manure in one direction.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the moving parts of

the construction are controlled by pneumatic or electric
drives.
A construction according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that every resting box

(6) is provided with a concentrates dispensing system (18)
including a feed trough (19) movable in height and pivotable

on a virtually vertical shaft.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
