<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619053</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CIRCUITRY FOR DECODING HUFFMAN CODES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M740	H03M740	H03M742	H03M742	H04N141	H04N141	H04N726	H04N726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	H03M	H03M	H03M	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	H03M7	H04N1	H04N1	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A variable-length decoder system decodes a variable-length code having different code prefixes in an input bit stream. A code prefix is located in the bit stream and used to determine a number of bits to be selected from the input bit stream according to an access of a code book. Additionally, a pointer, directing access to a different code book, may also be indicated by the access of the first code book according to the located code prefix. A determination is made in this decoder system whether to perform the operation of determining a number of bits to be selected from the input stream or accessing a second code prefix table. If the code value is valid, the number of bits is selected and appended to the code prefix to form a code word which is later decoded by the system of the present invention. If another table is indicated a further code prefix is located in the input stream and the further lookup table is accessed in accordance with the further code prefix.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEITH MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEITH, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CIRCUITRY FOR DECODING HOFFMAN CODESBackground of The Invention1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to the field of circuitry for decoding variable-length encoded data and in particular to circuitry for decoding variable-length encoded data having an unrestricted set of code words.2. Background ArtAdvances in the field of digital data processing have generated a demand for systems which can transfer, process, and store relatively large amounts of digital data. It is therefore often desirable that this digital data be compressed so that it may be more efficiently transmitted and so that it may be stored in a relatively small amount of memory.An example of a digital data processing system requiring the transfer, processing, and storage of a relatively 

 large volume of digital data is a video signal processing system. For example, a conventional video signal processing system may provide an image broken down into two hundred forty lines. Each line of the image may contain two hundred fifty six eight-bit independent pixel values. A video signal processing system of this type therefore requires 61,440 bytes for each image frame. Assuming an image display rate of thirty frames per second, this video processing system has a data rate of 1,843,200 bytes per second.It is well known that the number of bytes per frame in a video signal processing system may be reduced by encoding in order to compress the video data. A prior art system of this type for encoding video data is described,, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 4,125,861, entitled "Video Signal Encoding", which is incorporated by reference herein. In the video processing system described in this reference, the digital video data are first compressed using a differential pulse code modulation technique. The compressed data are then encoded using a variable-length code. In variable-length codes of this type the statistically more frequently occurring data values are assigned to the shorter code words and less frequently occurring data values are assigned to the longer code words. Thus fewer bits are required to encode the data. As used in this application, this type of encoding is referred to as statistical encoding. 

 One method known in the prior art for statistically encoding data in this manner is the use of an optimal variable- length code such as a Huffman code. To use a Huffman code, the data to be transmitted is put in order, from the most frequently occurring data values to the least frequently occurring ones. A Huffman code is then
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A variable-length decoder system for decoding a variable-length code having a plurality of code values representing encoded data and a plurality of differing code prefixes in a variable-length encoded input bit stream, comprising:
means for determining a first code prefix of said plurality of cod-v prefixes in said input bit stream;
first code book means for determining a first number of first selected bits to be fetched from said input bit stream in accordance with said first code prefix;
second code book means for determining a second number of second selected bits to be fetched from said input bit stream; and,
said first code book means having first indicating means for indicating said second code book means in accordance with said first code prefix.
2. The variable-length decoder system of Claim 1, comprising means for further determining in accordance with said first code prefix whether to fetch said first selected bits from said input bit stream. 


 3. The variable-length decoder system of Claim 2, wherein said first selected bits comprise a code value of said plurality of code values.
4. The variable-length decoder system of Claim 1, comprising means for further determining in accordance with said first code prefix whether to access said indicated second code book means.
5. The variabls-length decoder system of Claim 1, further comprising means for selecting a second code prefix of said plurality of code prefixes in said input bit stream.
6. The variable-length decoder system of Claim 5, wherein said second code book means is adapted to determine said number of said second selected bits in accordance with said second code prefix.
7. The variable-length decoder system of Claim 5, having third code book means wherein said second code book means comprises second indicating means for indicating said third code book means.
8. The variable-length decoder system of Claim 1, wherein said second indicating means further comprises means for indicating said third code book means in accordance with said second code prefix. 


 9. A method for variable-length decoding of a variable-length code having a plurality of code values representing encoded data and a plurality of differing code prefixes in a variable-length encoded input bit stream, comprising the steps of:
(a) -determining a first code prefix of said plurality of code prefixes in said input bit stream;
(b) determining by first code book means a first number of first selected bits to be fetched from said input bit stream in accordance with said first code prefix;
(c) determining by second code book means a second number of second selected bits to be fetched from said input bit stream; and,
(d) first indicating said second code book means in accordance with said first code prefix by said first code book means.
10. The method for variable-length decoding of Claim 9, comprising the step of further determining in accordance with said first code prefix whether to fetch said first selected bits from said input bit stream.
11. The method for variable-length decoding of Claim 10, wherein said first selected bits comprise a code value of said plurality of code values. 


 12. The method for variable-length decoding system of Claim 11, comprising the step of further determining in accordance with said first code prefix whether to access said second code book means.
13. The method for variable-length decoding of Claim 9, comprising the further step of selecting a second code prefix of said plurality of code prefixes in said input bit stream.
14. The method for variable-length decoding of Claim 13, wherein said second code book means is adapted to determine said second number of said second selected bits in accordance with said second code prefix.
15. The method for variable-length decoding of Claim 13, in a system having third code book means further comprising the step of second indicating by said second means third of code book means in accordance with said second code prefix.
16. The method for variable-length decoding of Claim 13, wherein said second indicating means comprises means for indicating said third code book means in accordance with said second code prefix.
17. The method for variable-length decoding of Claim 15, wherein said first code book means and said third code book means are identical. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
