<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656863</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR PACKING SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65F300	B65F300	B65F302	B65F308	B65F320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65F	B65F	B65F	B65F	B65F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65F3	B65F3	B65F3	B65F3	B65F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for packing separated refuse materials includes a refuse receiving container (12) having at least one horizontal longitudinally extending partition (40) subdividing the container (12) into upper and lower compartments (42, 44). The container (12) is provided with a packing device (70) for simultaneously compacting the refuse materials in the upper and lower compartments (42, 44). The packing device (70) includes a lower packing platen (74) mounted to lower swing arms (72) pivotally mounted for pendular movement within the lower compartment (44), an upper packing platen (78) mounted to upper swing arms (76) pivotally mounted for pendular movement within the upper compartment (42), and swing links (82) pivotally connecting the upper and lower swing arms (76, 72) so that the upper and lower packing platens (78, 74) move simultaneously.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEIL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE HEIL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATLEDGE RALPH H JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATLEDGE, RALPH, H., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
APPARATUS FOR PACKING SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to refuse vehicles having a refuεe-receiving container with one or more longitudinally extending compartments for separating recyclable waste material, such as newsprint, from non-recyclable waste material. More particularly, the invention relates to an improved apparatus for packing the separated waste materials into the longitudinal co partment .Refuse vehicleε having compartments for separating the waste material are known. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,425,070 to Howells et al. discloεeε a conventional, rear-loading trash compactor having an intermediate space between the front cab and the rear compactor which contains separate compartments for recyclable materials. Howells et al. do not, however, disclose any means for compacting the recyclable materials in the separate compartments.Another prior art reference, German Patent No. DE 3537546 Al, discloses a partitioned refuse vehicle that employs a hydraulically actuated packing platen in each longitudinally extending compartment. The packing platens slide lengthwise of the refuse compartment along longitudinal guide rails or tracks εecured to the εidewalls or bottom wall of the refuse compartments.The rail or track system for guiding the packing platens presents several disadvantages. The rails or tracks are subject to heavy wear because of the strong forces needed to slide the packing platens along. Thiε, in turn, leads to higher maintenance costs and downtime for the refuse vehicle. In addition, the rails or tracks add significantly to the gross weight of the refuse vehicle, resulting in a vehicle that iε undeεirably 

heavy and expenεive, an 2d significantly reduces the net payload the refuse vehicle can haul.The present invention is directed to overcoming these and other disadvantages inherent in a track system for guiding the packing platens. In the present invention, the packing platens are carried by εwing arms that are pivotally linked together and supported on pins and bearings rather than tracks. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the invention iε to provide an improved packing apparatus in a partitioned refuse vehicle that overcomes the deficiencies of prior art designs.Another object of the invention is to provide a packing apparatus that is relatively lightweight in order to maximize the net payload the refuse vehicle can haul. A further object of the invention is to provide a packing apparatus that is subject to reduced wear,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM:
1. An improved storage and packing apparatus for refuse material comprising: a refuse material-receiving container having a bottom wall, two opposed sidewalls, a discharge end and a non-diεcharge end, and at least one partition subdividing the container into first refuse material-receiving compartment and a second refuse material- receiving compartment, with the first and second refuse material-receiving compartments each having a refuse material-discharge end and a refuse material-non-discharge end, and with the refuse material-receiving container further having a refuse material-receiving opening and a normally closed refuse material-discharge opening; a firεt packer blade diεposed within the first refuse material-receiving compartment, and moveable between a first poεition adjacent to the non-discharge end of the first compartment along a non-linear path to a second position so as to compact refuse material; a second packer blade disposed within the second refuse-receiving compartment, and moveable from between a first position adjacent to the non-discharge end of the second compartment to a second position so as to compact refuse material; means for moving the first packer blade between its first and second positions; means for moving the second packer blade between its first and second positions.
2. The improved refuse material storage and packing apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the refuse material-receiving container includes at least one 


horizontally longitudinally extending partition that defines the first and second compartments in the refuse material-receiving container so that the first and second compartments are arranged in the container one on top of the other.
3. The improved refuse material storage and packing apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the second packer blade moves along a non-linear path as the second packer blade is moved between its first position and its second poεition.
4. The improved refuεe material storage and packing apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the moving means for the first and second packing blades are operated such that first and second packer blades in the first and second compartmentε are moved εimultaneouεly between their firεt and εecond positions; and wherein the moving means for the first and second packer blades also move the first and second packer blades, respectively, from their second to their first positions.
5. The improved refuse material storage and packing apparatus of Claim 1 which includes means for introducing refuse material into the first compartment and the second compartment.
6. The improved refuεe material εtorage and packing apparatuε of Claim 1 wherein the diεcharge endε of the first and second compartments are each adjacent to the discharge end of the refuse material-receiving container; and wherein the discharge end of the refuse material-receiving container is normally cloεed when the first and second packer blades are moved between their first and second positions.
7. The improved refuse material storage and packing apparatus of Claim 6 which includes means for opening the discharge end of the refuεe material-receiving container so that compacted 


refuse material may be discharged from at least one of the first and second compartmentε.
8. The improved refuse material storage and packing apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the means for moving the first packer blade includes a first packing platen connected with a first pair of swing arms for pendular movement therewith; and wherein the means for moving the second packer blade includes a second packing platen connected with a second pair of swing armε for pendular movement therewith.
9. The improved refuεe material storage and packing apparatus of Claim 8 wherein the refuse material-receiving container also includes a top wall; and wherein the first pair of swing arms are each pivotably mounted adjacent to the top wall of the refuse material-receiving container; and wherein the second pair of swing arms are each pivotably mounted adjacent to the top wall of the refuse material-receiving container.
10. An improved storage and packing apparatus for refuse material comprising: a refuse material-receiving container having a bottom wall, two lateral side walls, a top wall having a refuse material-receiving opening and a cover for the opening, a discharge end and a non- discharge end, and at least one horizontal longitudinally extending partition subdividing the container into upper and lower separate compartments; a packing device within the container for compacting the refuse simultaneously within the compartments, the packing device comprising a first pair of swing arms, each of which is pivotally mounted adjacent the top wall for pendular movement toward and away from the diεcharge end and extendε 


downward toward the bottom wall, with one of the swing arms being adjacent to one of the side walls and the other swing arm being adjacent to the other side wall, a lower packing platen mounted at its sides to the first pair of swing armε for pendular movement therewith and having a εubεtantially vertical lower packing face plate, the lower packing platen εerving to compact the refuεe received in the lower compartment, a second pair of swing arms each of which is pivotally mounted adjacent the top wall rearward of the firεt pair of swing arms for pendular movement toward and away from the discharge end and extends downward toward the horizontal partition, with one of the swing arms being adjacent to one of the side wallε and the other εwing arm being adjacent to the other εide wall, an upper packing platen mounted at its sides to the second pair of swing arms for pendular movement therewith and having a subεtantially vertical upper packing face plate, and connecting linkε pivotally mounted to the first and second pairs of swing arms for connecting the first pair of εwing armε to the εecond pair of εwing armε for simultaneous pendular movement; and power operated means for causing reciprocal pendular movement of the packing device to compact the refuse received in the container.
11. The refuse storage and packing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the lower packing platen includes a forwardly extending, upwardly curved portion that terminates at its rearward end in the lower packing face plate.
12. The refuse storage and packing apparatuε according to claim 10, wherein the lower packing platen includeε inner and outer laterally εpaced apart εide panels at each side of the packing 


platen, the side panels extending rearward of the lower packing face plate.
13. The refuse storage and packing apparatus according to claim 12, wherein each member of the first pair of swing arms has an outer surface adjacent the side wall of the container and an inner surface away from the εide wall, and the lower packing platen iε mounted on the swing arms, with the inner side panels mounted on the inside surfaces of the swing arms and the outer εide panels mounted on the outside surfaces of the swing arms.
14. The refuse εtorage and packing apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the power operated means comprises a pair of expandable hydraulic cylinders, each of which iε pivotally connected to a member of the firεt pair of εwing arms and is sandwiched between the inner and outer side panels.
15. The refuse εtorage and packing apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the hydraulic cylinders cause reciprocal pendular movement of both the lower packing platen and the upper packing platen.
16. The refuse εtorage and packing apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the top wall of the container has a material receiving opening through which the container receives refuse material, and the container is provided with a lateral divider mounted adjacent the top wall, for laterally dividing the material receiving opening into a forward section, through which the lower compartment receives refuse material, and a rearward section, through which the upper compartment receives refuse material.
17. The refuse storage and packing apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the lower compartment includes a lower material chute aligned with the forward section of the material receiving opening 


for guiding refuse material into the lower compartment.
18. The refuse storage and packing apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the upper compartment includeε an upper material chute aligned with the rearward section of the material receiving opening for guiding refuse material into the upper compartment.
19. The refuse storage and packing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the lower material chute includes a rearwardly inclined front wall, the base of which is aligned with the lower packing face plate when the lower packing platen is in its forward-most position.
20. The refuse storage and packing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the refuse material- receiving container is εupported on a vehicle including an elongated vehicle chassis and wheels supporting the chassis. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
