<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653032</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VALVE SEAT FOR HIGH TEMPERATURE VALVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K300	F16K322	F16K500	F16K506	F16K506	F16K520	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K3	F16K3	F16K5	F16K5	F16K5	F16K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Valve (10) such as a ball valve with a metal seat ring assembly (25) comprising an outer ring (27) seated in the valve body and an inner ring (28) seated in the outer ring (27). The outer ring (27) is formed with a lip (30) projecting inwardly and presenting a sealing surface for contact with the valve closure member (14). The inner ring is formed with a lip (40) behind which is an annular groove (14) which permits flexing of such lip. The inner ring is seated within the outer ring. There is a small clearance between the lip and the outer ring which causes sealing between the closure member and the inner ring following by sealing between the closure member and the outer ring. The configuration and clearances of such lips is such that in initial closing the valve closure member contacts the lip of the inner ring causing it to flex and on final closing it contacts the lip of the outer ring causing it to flex.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GROVE VALVE 
&
 REGULATOR CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GROVE VALVE AND REGULATOR COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAMBERS JAMES F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAMBERS, JAMES, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VALVE SEAT FOR HIGH TEMPERATURE VALVEThis invention relates to a valve and valve seat which are suitable for high temperature service, for example, at temperatures above 450βF. The invention is especially applicable to ball valves and more particularly to what are called "rising stem" or "dual action" ball valves, such as that illustrated in U.S. Patent No. 4,917,354. In such a valve the valve stem is turned while it is moving axially and in so doing it causes the ball to unseat from closed position. The invention is however, applicable to other types of valves such as quarter-turn ball valves and globe valves.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn rising stem or dual action ball valves such as those described in U.S. Patent No. 4,917,354 a ball formed with an opening extending through it is rotated 90° between closed position wherein it closes the valve and open position wherein it opens the valve. The valve includes a valve stem which is caused to move up and down by a handwheel or other actuator and during such vertical motion, it is rotated. Cooperating cam surfaces on the lower end of the stem and on the upper portion of the ball cause the ball to move into 

and away from the valve seat during closing and opening of the valve. This action facilitates opening and closing the valve.When the ball is turned to closed position it seats against a seat ring which is fitted into the valve body surrounding the ball. For secure sealing of the valve when in closed position, an organic substance such as Teflon or Nylon may be used as a component of the seat ring and which yields under pressure sufficiently to conform to the mating surface of the ball, thereby creating an effective seal. However, such organic materials deteriorate when subjected to high temperatures.Expedients that are presently in use are various forms of metallic seat which require very accurate machining and finishing processes. Because of the rigidity of such materials, the machining and finishing must be done very accurately, and even so wear during use and the effect of high temperature will cause defects in the mating surfaces of the ball (or other closure) and the seat.OBJECTS OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the invention to provide improved seat sealing capability for valves which is reliable at high temperatures, e.g., above 450°F.It is a particular object of the invention to provide metallic seating means which avoids or diminishes the need for highly accurate machining and finishing and which is effective and durable in use.These and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS:
1. In a valve comprising a valve body having a flow passage for flow of fluid through the valve and a valve closure member movable between an open position allowing such flow and a closed position preventing such flow, the improvement which comprises a valve seat of metal construction retained in said valve body and surrounding said flow passage, said valve seat having a sealing surface which is in sealing contact with said closure member when the latter is in closed position, said valve seat being flexible such that it flexes under pressure exerted by the closure member thereby accommodating irregularities in the sealing surfaces of the valve seat and the closure member.
2. The improvement of Claim 1 wherein said valve seat includes a lip portion having a sealing surface which bears against the closure member when the latter is in closed position, there being a groove in the valve seat inwardly of said lip to allow flexing of the lip.
3. The improvement of Claim 1 wherein said valve seat comprises an outer ring seated in said valve body and an inner ring seated in said outer ring, said inner ring having a sealing surface which seals against the closure member when the latter is in its closed position, there being a groove formed in said inner ring inwardly from said sealing surface to form a lip which flexes under pressure from said closure member.
4. A valve comprising a valve body having a flow passage for flow of fluid through the valve and a valve closure member movable between an open position allowing such flow and a closed position preventing such flow, and a seat ring assembly for sealing contact with said closure 


member when it is in closed position, said seating assembly comprising:
(a) an outer ring seated in said valve body surrounding said flow passage, said outer ring being formed with a lip extending radially inwardly and surrounding said flow passage, said lip presenting a sealing surface to said closure member when the latter is in closed position,
(b) an inner ring seated within said outer ring and surrounding said flow passage, said inner ring being formed with a lip having a sealing surface which contacts the closure member when the latter is in closed position, there being a groove formed in said inner ring inwardly of said lip to permit flexing of the lip.
5. The valve of Claim 4 wherein said lips are so configured that the valve closure member, during initial closing of the valve, contacts the lip of said inner ring causing it to flex and form a first seal and during further closing of the valve contacts the lip of said outer ring causing it flex and form a second seal.
6. The valve of any of Claims 1 to 5 in which the valve is a ball valve and the closure member is a ball.
7. The valve of any of Claims 1 to 6 wherein the valve is a rising stem, dual action ball valve. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 20 December 1993 (20.12.93); original claims 1-7 replaced by amended claims 1-7 (2 pages)]
1. In a valve comprising a valve body having a flow passage for flow of fluid through the valve and a valve closure member of metal construction movable between an open position allowing such flow and a closed position preventing such flow, the improvement which comprises a valve seat of metal construction retained in said valve body and surrounding said flow passage, said valve seat having a metallic sealing surface which is in sealing contact with said closure member when the latter is in closed position, said valve seat being flexible such that it flexes under pressure exertedbythe closure memberthereby accommodating irregularities in the sealing surfaces of the valve seat and the closuremember, said scaling surfaces beingmetallic and constituting the entire seal of the valve.
2. The improvement of Claim 1 wherein said valve seat includes a lip portion having a metallic sealing surface which bears against the closure member when the latter is in closed position, there being a groove in the"valve seat inwardly of said lip to allow flexing of the lip.
3. The improvement of Claim 1 wherein said valve seat comprises an outer ring seated in said valve body and an inner ring seated in said outer ring, said inner ring having a metallic sealing surface which seals against the closure member when the latter is in its closed position, there being a groove formed in said inner ring inwardly from said sealing surface to form a lip which flexes under pressure from said closure member.
4. A valve comprising a valve body having a flow passage for flow of fluid through the valve and a valve closure member of metal construction movable between an open position allowing such flow and a closed position preventing such flow, and a seat ring assembly for sealing contact with 


said closure member when it is in closed position, said seating assembly comprising:
(a) an outer, metallic ring seated in said valve body surrounding said flow passage, said outer ring being formed with a lip extending radially inwardly and surrounding said flow passage, said lip presenting a metallic sealing surface to said closure member when the latter is in closed position,
(b) an inner ring seated within said outer ring and surrounding said flow passage, said inner ring being formed with a lip having a metallic sealing surface which contacts the closure member when the latter is in closed position, there being a groove formed in said inner ring inwardly of said lip to permit flexing of the lip,
(c) the metallic sealing surfaces of the outer and inner rings constituting the entire seal against the closure member.
5. The valve of Claim 4 wherein said lips are so configured that the valve closure member, during initial closing of the valve, contacts the lip of said inner ring causing it to flex and form a first seal and during further closing of the valve contacts the lip of said outer ring causing it flex and form a second seal.
6. The valve of any of Claims 1 to 5 in which the valve is a ball valve and the closure member is a ball.
7. The valve of any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein the valve is a rising stem, dual action ball valve. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
