<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634073</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REAL TIME COMPRESSION AND DECOMPRESSION OF A DIGITAL MOTION VIDEO SIGNAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T900	G06T900	H04N726	H04N726	H04N728	H04N730	H04N730	H04N732	H04N732	H04N736	H04N736	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T9	G06T9	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bitstream (100) representative of at least one digital video image is decoded in real time by providing a code-book index from the bitstream (110), applying the code-book index to an index table to determine an index value (120), and comparing the index value to a first predetermined threshold (130). If the index value is greater than the predetermined threshold, then at least one current pixel is determined by copying a corresponding previous pixel into the location of at least one current pixel (140); otherwise the index value is applied to a vector table to determine at least one vector value (150) and a current pixel is determined from the vector value and a corresponding previous pixel (160). A digital video image is encoded in real time by selecting at least one pixel for encoding and determining at least one difference value between the selected pixel and at least one corresponding previous pixel (344). An index value corresponding to the location in a first table of the difference value is calculated (346). If the index value is equal to a first predetermined value then a run-length counter is incremented by a second predetermined value and the process is repeated until the index value is not equal to the first predetermined value. The run-length counter is then encoded. If the index value is not equal to the first predetermined value then the index value is encoded.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEITH MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEITH, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REAL TIME COMPRESSION AND DECOMPRESSION OF A DIGITAL MOTION VIDEO SIGNALField Of The Invention This invention relates to video signal processing generally and particularly to systems for providing a compressed digital video signal representative of a full color video signal.Background Of The InventionIn real time video systems, compression and decompression are typically done using the same or similar hardware at roughly the same speed. Real time video systems have often required hardware that is too expensive for a single user, or such systems have sacrificed picture quality in favor of lower cost hardware. This problem has been bypassed by the use of presentation level video systems where the compression is performed on expensive hardware, but the decompression is done by low cost hardware. This solution works only in situations where the single- user system needs only to playback compressed video which has been prepared ahead of time.It is an object of the present invention to provide a system for compressing and decompressing motion video in real time which may operate on lower cost hardware while maintaining acceptable picture quality.Further objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description of the invention which follows. 

 Summary Of The Invention A method and apparatus for real time compression and decompression of a digital motion video signal is disclosed. According to the present invention, a bitstream representative of at least one digital video image is decoded in real time by first providing a code- book index from the bitstream. The code-book index is applied to an index table to determine an index value which is compared to a first predetermined threshold. If the index value is greater than the predetermined threshold, then at least one current pixel is determined by copying a corresponding previous pixel into the location of at least one current pixel; otherwise, the index value is applied to a vector table to determine at least one vector value and at least one current pixel is determined from the vector value and a corresponding previous pixel.In accordance with the present invention, at least one digital video image is encoded in real time by selecting at least one pixel for encoding and determining at least one difference value between the selected pixel and at least one corresponding previous pixel. An index value corresponding to the location in a first table of the difference value is calculated. If the index value is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 What is claimed is:
1. A method for decoding in real time a bitstream representative of at least one digital video image comprising the steps of:
(A) providing a code-book index from said bitstream;
(B) applying said code-book index to an index -table to determine an index value;
(C) comparing said index value to a first predetermined threshold;
(D) if said index value is greater than said predetermined threshold then determining at least one current pixel by copying a corresponding previous pixel into the location of said at least one current pixel otherwise applying said index value to a vector table to determine at least one vector value, and determining said at least one current pixel from said at least one vector value and said corresponding previous pixel.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein said corresponding previous pixel is positioned directly above said at least one current pixel. 


 3. The method of Claim 1, wherein said corresponding previous pixel is in a frame preceding said at least one current pixel.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (D) comprises the following steps:
(D) if said index value is greater than said predetermined threshold then (i) calculating a counter from the magnitude said index value exceeds said predetermined threshold; (ii) determining two current pixels by copying two corresponding previous pixels into the respective locations of said two current pixels; and (iii) repeating step (ii) counter minus one times; otherwise (iv) applying said index value to a vector table to determine first and second vector values; and (v) determining said two current pixels from said first vector value, said second vector value and said two corresponding previous pixels.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said code-book index is provided in step (A) from Huffman decoding of said bitstream. 

6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
(E) repeating steps (A)-(D) until each current pixel in said at least one digital video image has been determined;
(F) determining whether said at least one digital video image was compressed at a lower level of resolution; and
(G) if said at least one digital video image was compressed at a lower level of resolution then scaling the result of step (E) up to full resolution.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein step (D) (iv) comprises the steps of:
(a) selecting a vector table from a plurality of vector tables; and
(b) applying said index value to said selected vector table to determine first and second vector values.
8. A method for encoding at least one digital video image in real time comprising the steps of:
(A) selecting at least one pixel for encoding;
(B) determining at least one difference value between said at least one selected pixel and at least one corresponding previous pixel; 


 (C) calculating an index value corresponding to the location in a first table of said at least one difference value;
(D) if said index value is equal to a first predetermined value then
(i) incrementing a run-length counter by a second predetermined value; (ii) repeating steps (A) - (D) (i) until said index value is not equal to said first predetermined value; (iii) incrementing said run-length counter by a third predetermined value; (iv) encoding said run-length counter; and
(E) if said index value is not equal to said first predetermined value then encoding said index value.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein huffman encoding is used to encode said run-length counter in step (D) (iv) and said index value in step (F) .
10. The method of claim 8, wherein said first predetermined value is zero.
11. The method of claim 8 wherein step (A) comprises selecting first and second pixels for encoding, step (B) comprises the steps of: 


 (i) determining a first difference value between said first selected pixel and a first corresponding previous pixel; (ii) determining a second difference value between said second selected pixel and a second corresponding previous pixel; and step (C) comprises quantizing said first and second difference values into an index value corresponding to the location of said first difference value in a first table, wherein said first and second difference values are adjacent to each other in said first table. 12. An apparatus for decoding in real time a bitstream representative of at least one digital video image comprising:
(A) means for providing a code-book index from said bitstream;
(B) means for applying said code-book index to an index table to determine an index value;
(C) means for comparing said index value to a first predetermined threshold;
(D) means for determining at least one current pixel by copying a corresponding previous pixel into the location of said at least one current pixel if said index value is greater than said predetermined threshold;
(E) means for applying said index value to a first vector table to determine at least one vector value 


 if said index value is not greater than said predetermined threshold; and (F) means for determining said at least one current pixel from said at least one vector value and said corresponding previous pixel. 13. The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein said corresponding previous pixel is positioned directly above said at least one current pixel.
14. The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein said corresponding previous pixel is in a frame preceding said at least one current pixel.
15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said means for determining at least one current pixel by copying a corresponding previous pixel comprises:
(i) means for calculating a counter from the magnitude said index value exceeds said predetermined threshold; (ii) means for determining two current pixels by copying two corresponding previous pixels into the respective locations of said two current pixels; said means for applying said index value to a first vector table to determine at least one vector value comprises means for applying said index value to a vector table to determine first and second vector values; and 


 said means for determining said at least one current pixel from said at least one vector value and said corresponding previous pixel comprises means for determining said two current pixels from said first vector value, said second vector value and said two corresponding previous pixels.
16. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising:
(G) means for determining whether said at least one digital video image was compressed at a lower level of resolution; and
(H) means for scaling a lower resolution image up to full resolution.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising:
(G) means for selecting a vector table from a plurality of vector tables; and (H) means for applying said index value to said selected vector table to determine first and second vector values.
18. An apparatus for encoding at least one digital video image in real time comprising:
(A) means for selecting at least one pixel for encoding;
(B) means for determining at least one difference value between said at least one selected pixel and at least one corresponding previous pixel; 


 (C) means for calculating an index value corresponding to the location in a first table of said at least one difference value;
(D) means for comparing said index value to a first predetermined value;
(E) means for incrementing a run-length counter by a second predetermined value if said index value is equal to said first predetermined value;
(F) means for encoding said run-length counter; and
(G) means for encoding said index value if said index value is not equal to said first predetermined value.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising means for huffman encoding said run-length counter and said index value.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said first predetermined value is zero.
21. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said means for selecting at least one pixel for encoding comprises means for selecting first and second pixels for encoding, said means for means for determining at least one difference value comprises:
(i) means for determining a first difference value between said first selected pixel and a first corresponding previous pixel; 


 (ii) means for determining a second difference value between said second selected pixel and a second corresponding previous pixel; and said means for calculating an index value comprises means for quantizing said first and second difference values into an index value corresponding to the location of said first difference value in a first table, wherein said first and second difference values are adjacent to each other in said first table. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
