<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638053</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR PREPARING HIGH SOLIDS BENTONITE SLURRIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01B3300	C01B3326	C01B3340	C01B3900	C01B3906	C04B3302	C04B3304	C04B3318	C04B3518	C04B3518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01B33	C01B33	C01B33	C01B39	C01B39	C04B33	C04B33	C04B33	C04B35	C04B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for preparing a time-stable, low viscosity, pumpable high solids aqueous bentonite slurry which has good application properties upon dilution and use. An aqueous solution of at least first and second salt components is prepared in which there is dispersed at least 8 % by weight of the resultant slurry of a powdered bentonite. The first salt component is selected to give if used alone an acceptably low viscosity to the slurry at said high solids and at least good application properties upon the dilution and use. The second salt component is selected to act in combination with the first salt component to substantially further decrease the acceptably low viscosity at a specified high solids content or to enable increase of the solids content while maintaining the acceptably low viscosity, while not substantially impairing the application properties. The high solids pumpable slurry product is also claimed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOUTHERN CLAY PROD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOUTHERN CLAY PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARROLL PAUL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARROLL, PAUL, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR PREPARING HIGH SOLIDS BENTONITE SLURRIESField of the InventionThis invention relates generally to smectite clays, and more specifically relates to a method for preparing a time-stable, low viscosity, high solids aqueous bentonite slurry which has good application properties upon dilution and use.Background of the InventionSmectite clay is a commercially important mineral. With appropriate processing, smectite clays, both synthetic and from naturally occurring bentonites, find extensive application, e.g. as viscosifiers, binders, film formers, fabric softeners and retention aid additives in paper making. These clays are platey-type materials having a micaceous structure. They are highly colloidal and readily swell in water to form viscous, thixotropic gels which renders these clays useful as viscosity builders in the foregoing and in many additional industries and applications, including, for example, in foundry molding compositions, as suspension aids in agricultural sprays, and for thickening cosmetics and personal care products.Most smectite clays are manufactured and sold as fine powders. As with most minerals, however, these powders are difficult and expensive to handle. They also are subject to considerable "dusting", i.e. evolution of dust during handling, so that they can, in some cases, cause environmental problems, and even health risks. To minimize these problems, many minerals are sold by the manufacturer as high solids aqueous slurries. Such high solids slurries can be easily stored, shipped, transferred, e.g. pumped and metered, with significantly less capital expenditures and many fewer problems than 

are associated with powdered minerals, as mentioned above.In most applications, nevertheless, it is not economical to ship smectite clay slurries because of the large quantity of water present in shippable slurries. Since smectites are indeed good viscosifiers, it has not heretofore been practical to produce and ship high solids slurries by the usual methods. In general, only about 8% - 10% solids slurries of good quality swelling smectite can be produced in water. Indeed, at solids contents greater than about 8%, the viscosities of the slurries can become so high that they cannot readily be pumped by conventional equipment and gelling upon standing becomes a problem. At higher solids it becomes virtually impossible to form a uniform paste without special equipment.Thus, there is a need for slurries containing substantially greater than 8% by weight of smectite clay, which have
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for preparing a time-stable, low viscosity, high solids aqueous bentonite slurry which has good application properties upon dilution and use; said method comprising:
preparing an aqueous solution of at least first and second salt components in which there is dispersed at least 8% by weight of the resultant slurry of a powdered bentonite;
said first salt component being selected to give if used alone an acceptably low viscosity to said slurry at said high solids and at least good application properties upon said dilution and use; and said second salt component being selected to act in combination with said first salt component to substantially further decrease the said acceptably low viscosity at a specified high solids content or to enable increase of the solids content while maintaining said acceptably low viscosity, while not substantially impairing said application properties.
2. A method in accordance with claim 1, in which the powdered bentonite is dispersed by low shear intermixing of same with said solution.
3. A method in accordance with claim 2, wherein said first salt component is selected from one or more members of the group consisting of sodium salts and lithium salts; and said second salt component is selected from one or more members of the group consisting of potassium salts and dispersant salts having a monovalent cation. 


 4. A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the sodium salts in the group for said first salt component are sodium chloride, sodium carbonate, sodium nitrate, sodium citrate, sodium sulfate, sodium acetate and trisodium phosphate.
5. A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein said first salt component comprises lithium chloride.
6. A method in accordance with claim 4, wherein the potassium salts in the group for said second salt component are potassium chloride, potassium carbonate, potassium acetate and tripotassium phosphate.
7. A method in accordance with claim 6, wherein the dispersant salts in the group for said second salt component are sodium silicate and tetrasodium pyrophosphate, and low molecular weight sodium polyacrylate.
8. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said aqueous solution is prepared as an initial step, and said bentonite powder is then added to said solution with concurrent low shear mixing.
9. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said preparation of said aqueous salt solution and said dispersion of said bentonite are carried out as substantially simultaneous steps.
10. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the powdered bentonite dispersed in said aqueous solution is a calcium bentonite.
11. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the powdered bentonite dispersed in said aqueous solution 


is a sodium bentonite, which is added to said solution as from 8 to 50% by weight of the slurry.
12. A method in accordance with claim 11, wherein said sodium bentonite is added in the range of from 15 to 40% by weight.
13. A method in accordance with claim 11, wherein said first salt component is sodium chloride, and comprises 5 to 35% by weight of said slurry.
14. A method in accordance with claim 11, wherein said first salt component is sodium carbonate, and comprises 5 to 25% by weight of said slurry.
15. A method in accordance with claim 13, wherein said second salt component is sodium silicate, which is present as from .01 to 1.5% by weight of said slurry.
16. A method in accordance with claim 14, wherein said second salt component is sodium silicate, which is present as from .01 to 1.5% by weight of said slurry.
17. A method in accordance with claim 13, wherein said second salt component comprises sodium silicate which is present as 0 to 1.5% by weight, and said potassium salt as 1 to 3% by weight.
18. A method in accordance with claim 14, wherein said second salt component comprises sodium silicate which is present as 0 to 1.5% by weight, and said potassium salt as 1 to 3% by weight.
19. A method for shipping a bentonite from a manufacturing point to a utilization point, and providing at the utilization point an aqueous swelled bentonite slurry; comprising the steps of: 


 preparing at said manufacturing point a high solids, low viscosity slurry comprising an aqueous solution of at least first and second salt components in which is dispersed at least 8% by weight of the resultant slurry of a powdered bentonite;
said first salt component being selected to give if used alone an acceptably low viscosity to said slurry at said high solids and at least good application properties upon said dilution and use; and said second salt component being selected to act in combination with said first salt component to substantially further decrease the said acceptably low viscosity at a specified high solids content or to enable increase of the solids content while maintaining said acceptably low viscosity, while not substantially impairing said application properties;
shipping said slurry to the said utilization point; and
activating and swelling the bentonite at the utilization point by diluting the high solids slurry with fresh water.
20. A method in accordance with claim 19, wherein said first salt component is selected from one or more members of the group consisting of sodium salts and lithium salts; and said second salt component is selected from one or members of the group consisting of potassium salts and dispersant salts having a monovalent cation.
21. A method in accordance with claim 20, wherein the sodium salts in the group for said first salt component are sodium chloride, sodium carbonate, sodium nitrate, sodium citrate, sodium sulfate, sodium acetate and trisodium phosphate. 


 22. A method in accordance with claim 21, wherein the potassium salts in the group for said second salt component are potassium chloride, potassium carbonate, potassium acetate and tripotassium phosphate.
23. A method in accordance with claim 22, wherein the dispersant salts in the group for said second salt component are sodium silicate, tetrasodium pyrophosphate, and low molecular weight sodium polyacrylate.
24. A method in accordance with claim 19, wherein the powdered bentonite dispersed in said aqueous solution is a calcium bentonite.
25. A method in accordance with claim 24, wherein the powdered bentonite-'dispersed in said aqueous solution is a sodium bentonite, which is present in the high solids slurry as from 8 to 50% by weight.
26. A method in accordance with claim 25, wherein the dilution of the high solids slurry at the utilization point brings said clay solids to from 1 to less than 8% solids.
27. A method in accordance with claim 25, wherein said sodium bentonite is present in the range of from 15 to 40% by weight.
28. A method in accordance with claim 25, wherein said first salt component is sodium chloride in an amount of from 5 to 35% by weight of said aqueous slurry.
29. A method in accordance with claim 27, wherein said first salt component comprises sodium carbonate in an amount of from 5 to 25% by weight of said aqueous slurry. 


 30. A method in accordance with claim 29, wherein said second salt component comprises sodium silicate in an amount of from about 0 to 1.5%, and said potassium salt in an amount of from about 1.0 to 3.0% by weight of said aqueous slurry.
31. A method in accordance with claim 29, wherein said second salt component comprises 0.1 to 0.5% sodium silicate and 0 to 3% of said potassium salt, by weight of said aqueous slurry.
32. A method in accordance with claim 29, wherein said second salt component comprises 1.0 to 3.0% by weight of said potassium salt.
33. A method in accordance with claim 32, wherein said potassium salt is potassium chloride and/or potassium carbonate.
34. A method for preparing a time-stable, low viscosity, high solids aqueous smectite slurry which has good application properties upon dilution and use; said method comprising:
preparing an aqueous solution of at least first and second salt components in which there is dispersed at least 8% by weight of the resultant slurry of a powdered smectite;
said first salt component being selected to give if used alone an acceptably low viscosity to said slurry at said high solids and at least good application properties upon said dilution and use; and said second salt component being selected to act in combination with said first salt component to substantially further decrease the said acceptably low viscosity at a specified high solids content or to enable increase of the solids 


content while maintaining said acceptably low viscosity, while not substantially impairing said application properties.
35. A method in accordance with claim 34, wherein said first salt component is selected from one or more members of the group consisting of sodium salts and lithium salt; and said second salt component is selected from one or more members of the group consisting of potassium salts and dispersant salts having a monovalent cation.
36. A method for preparing a time-stable, low viscosity, high solids aqueous bentonite slurry which has good application properties upon dilution and use; said method comprising:
preparing an aqueous solution of a salt including a sodium cation in which there is dispersed at least 8% by weight of the resultant slurry of a powdered calcium bentonite, by low shear intermixing of said powder with said solution.
37. A method in accordance with claim 36 wherein said salt is sodium chloride and/or sodium carbonate.
38. A high solids, low viscosity pumpable smectite slurry, comprising an aqueous phase in which is dissolved from 5 to 25% by weight of said slurry of a first salt component selected from one or more members of the group consisting of sodium salts and lithium salts, and .01 to 3% by weight of said slurry of a second salt component selected from one or more members of the group consisting of potassium salts and dispersant salts having a monovalent cation, and in which there is dispersed at least 8% by weight of said slurry of a powdered smectite. 


 39. A slurry in accordance with claim 38, in which said first salt component is sodium chloride, and comprises 5 to 35% by weight of said slurry.
40. A slurry in accordance with claim 39, in which said first salt component is sodium carbonate, and comprises 5 to 25% by weight of said slurry.
41. A slurry in accordance with claim 38, in which said second salt component is sodium silicate, which is present as from .01 to 1.5% by weight of said slurry.
42. A slurry in accordance with claim 39, in which said second salt component is sodium silicate, which is present as from .01 to 1.5% by weight of said slurry.
43. A slurry in accordance with claim 38, in which said second salt component comprises sodium silicate which is present as 0 to 1.5% by weight, and said potassium salt as 1 to 3% by weight.
44. A slurry in accordance with claim 39, in which said second salt component comprises sodium silicate which is present as 0 to 1.5% by weight, and said potassium salt as 1 to 3% by weight. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
