<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642463</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISPENSING APPARATUS HAVING IMPROVED VALVING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F1300	B01F1310	B01F1502	B01F1502	B67D540	B67D552	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F13	B01F13	B01F15	B01F15	B67D5	B67D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sealing valve arrangement (70) for dispensing apparatus having a turntable (14) rotatably mounted on a support (104) includes a valve (134) with an outwardly protruding operator member (152) with a free end remote from the valve and a valve mount (90) for mounting the valve to the turntable mount for travel with the turntable. A cam block (110) mounted stationary on the turntable support defines a channel (180) for receiving the free end of the operator member and, with rotation of the turntable, moves the operator member so that the valves move from one position to another.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLUID MANAGEMENT LP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLUID MANAGEMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELLENBERG LEENDERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOSKIUL MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELLENBERG, LEENDERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOSKIUL, MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DISPENSING APPARATUS HAVING IMPROVED VALVINGBackground of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThe present invention pertains to dispensing apparatus for liquid and pulverulent materials, and more particularly to such apparatus which is suitable for a manual or only partially automated dispensing operation. The present invention also pertains to valve sealing or closing apparatus.2. Description of the Related ArtMany commercially important materials in use today are dispensed in accurate portions accordingly to carefully controlled formulations. Such materials include liquid materials such as food flavorings and chemical additives as well as pulverulent materials such as paints, paint colorants, and inks, for example.Commercial opportunities have arisen for small quantity, often one-of-a-kind formulation, as well as mass-produced formulations. The assignee of the present invention has provided a number of important advances to promote the art of dispensing relatively small quantities of materials in an accurate, but yet repeatable manner. As with other commercial enterprises, dispensing apparatus must be quickly and easily adaptable to change, especially changes in materials being dispensed, and specific formulations for those materials. As will be discussed further herein, a change common to many types of commercially important materials is that the materials are faster drying, and to be commercially successful, dispensing apparatus must be able to accommodate such fast drying materials.Broadly speaking, dispensing apparatus used in the food, printing and paint industries, as well as other 

industries, may be broadly classified as offering either manual or (fully) automatic operation, as well hybrid apparatus performing semi-automatic operation. Examples of manual dispensing apparatus include those disclosed in United States Letters Patent No. 4,813,785 and 4,953,785, assigned to the assignee of the present invention. This manual dispensing apparatus has met with immediate commercial acceptance and is valued for its simple operation and low cost of acquisition and maintenance. This dispensing apparatus employs manually operated dispensing pumps of the type disclosed in United States Letters Patent No. 4,027,785 also assigned to the assignee of the present invention.Depending upon the application, if only a small number of different materials are required, the dispensing pumps and their associated storage canisters may be mounted in a stationary form, with a receptacle for receiving one or more of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A sealing valve mechanism for mounting to an exit opening of a discharge valve carried on a turntable which is rotatably supported on a turntable support, comprising: a valve assembly having a valve body, a valve member movably mounted within the valve body and an operator member coupled to the valve member, the operator member having a free end protruding outside the valve body and movable between first and second positions to operate the valve member between closed and open positions, respectively;
mounting means for sealingly mounting the valve assembly in sealing engagement with portions of the discharge valve adjacent its exit opening so as to be carried on the turntable for travel therewith so as to move the operator free end along a preselected path of travel; a cam block mounted to the turntable support adjacent a point on the path of travel; and said cam block defining a channel having a first channel portion extending generally along the path of travel and a second channel portion extending from the first channel portion, away from the path of travel so as to displace the operator free end as the turntable is rotated, to thereby move the valve member between said closed and said open positions and to open the valve member in preparation for dispensing a material from said discharge valve.
2. The valve mechanism of claim 1 wherein said operator member is elongated, extending in a substantially horizontal direction. 


 3. The valve mechanism of claim 1 wherein the channel includes first and second channel portions which are vertically offset from one another.
4. The valve mechanism of claim 3 wherein the first and second channel portions are generally linear.
5. The valve mechanism of claim 4 wherein the first and second channel portions are coupled together by at least one intermediate channel portion which is also generally linear.
6. The valve mechanism of claim 1 wherein the valve member is spring biased toward one of said closed and said open positions.
7. The valve mechanism of claim 1 wherein the cam block is formed from a unitary monolithic body.
8. The valve mechanism of claim l wherein the free end of said operator member is a roller of generally right circular cylindrical configuration.
9. The valve mechanism of claim 1 wherein the cam block comprises a mounting member having a body with an exposed face, and first and second channel-forming members outwardly protruding from the exposed face and disposed one above the other, said first and second channel-forming members spaced from one another and cooperating with the exposed face so as to form the channel.
10. The valve mechanism of claim 9 wherein one of the channel-forming members includes a pair of spaced-apart lobes and the other channel-forming member 


includes a single lobe disposed thereabove, so that the lobes lie at the points of a triangle disposed parallel to the exposed face.
11. The valve mechanism of claim 10 wherein the lobes are of generally trapezoidal shape.
12. Dispenser apparatus, comprising: a turntable rotatably supported on a turntable support; a dispensing valve carried on the turntable and having an exit opening through which material is dispensed; a dispensing station adjacent the turntable at which material is dispensed; a valve assembly having a valve body, a valve member movably mounted within the valve body and an operator member coupled to the valve member, the operator member having a free end protruding outside the valve body and movable between first and second positions to operate the valve member between closed and open positions, respectively; mounting means for sealingly mounting the valve assembly to the exit opening of the dispensing valve in sealing engagement therewith so as to be carried on the turntable for travel therewith so as to move the operator free end along a preselected path of travel; a cam block mounted to the turntable support adjacent a point on the path of travel; and said cam block defining a channel having a first channel portion extending generally along the path of travel and a second channel portion extending therefrom, away from the path of travel so as to displace the operator free end as the turntable is 



rotated, to thereby move the valve member between said closed and said open positions.
13. The valve mechanism of claim 12 wherein said operator member is elongated, extending in a substantially horizontal direction.
14. The valve mechanism of claim 12 wherein the first and second channel portions are vertically offset from one another.
15. The valve mechanism of claim 14 wherein the first and second channel portions are generally linear.
16. The valve mechanism of claim 15 wherein the first and second channel portions are coupled together by at least one intermediate channel portion which is also generally linear.
17. The valve mechanism of claim 12 wherein the valve member is spring biased toward one of said closed and said open positions.
18. The valve mechanism of claim 12 wherein the cam block is formed from a unitary monolithic body.
19. The valve mechanism of claim 12 wherein the cam block comprises a
'
 mounting member having an exposed face, and first and second channel-forming members outwardly protruding from the exposed face and disposed one above the other, said first and second channel-forming members spaced from one another and cooperating with the exposed face so as to form the channel. 


 20. The valve mechanism of claim 19 wherein one of the channel-forming members includes a pair of spaced-apart lobes of generally trapezoidal shape and the other channel-forming member includes a single lobe disposed thereabove, so that the lobes lie at the points of a triangle disposed parallel to the exposed face. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
