<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624872</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetic recording and/or reproducing apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B5008	G11B15467	G11B5008	G11B1546	H04N57824	G11B5592	G11B5588	G11B2014	H04N57826	G11B1512	G11B5588	G11B5592	G11B553	G11B15467	G11B553	G11B1512	G11B1546	G11B2014	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B15	G11B5	G11B15	H04N5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B20	H04N5	G11B15	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B15	G11B5	G11B15	G11B15	G11B20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magnetic recording/reproducing apparatus includes a 

rotary drum (11) that has a magnetic tape (MT) wound around the drum 
and first and second magnetic heads (HA,HB) mounted on the drum (11) 

for scanning the magnetic tape as the tape is advanced to reproduce an 
information signal recorded in successive oblique tracks on the tape. 

The first magnetic head (HA) has a magnetic gap that is inclined in a 
clockwise direction, relative to a line that is normal to a scanning 

direction of the magnetic heads, when viewed from the rotary drum. The 
second magnetic head (HB) has a magnetic gap that is inclined in a 

counterclockwise direction, relative to the line that is normal to the 
scanning direction. A tracking control circuit (6) controls the 

scanning locus of the first magnetic head (HA) relative to an oblique 
track which the first magnetic head reproduces. The first head (HA) is 

selected for control because it inherently has a weaker signal due to 
the greater inclination of its azimuth angle from the direction of 

orientation of the magnetic material on the tape. Also, a tracking 
control pilot signal is generated by adding respective control bits to 

subdivisions of predetermined length of a digital recording signal. In 
this way, a low frequency component is superimposed on the digital 

signal to form the tracking control pilot signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAGUCHI MORIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SENSHU YOICHIROU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAGUCHI, MORIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SENSHU, YOICHIROU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to magnetic recording and/or reproducing 
apparatus, and in particular to rotary head magnetic 
recording/reproducing devices such as video tape recorders. It is well known to provide a video tape recorder (VTR) for 
recording or reproducing a video signal on or from a magnetic tape 
wound around a rotary head drum. In such a device, successive oblique 
tracks are formed on the magnetic tape as the tape is advanced. Figs. 13A-13C of the accompanying drawings illustrate an overall 
arrangement of a rotary drum and associated structure in a known VTR. 
Fig. 13A is a top view of the rotary drum, Fig. 13B is a side view of 
the rotary drum, and Fig. 13C shows the magnetic heads mounted on the 
drum as viewed from outside the drum. Fig. 14 is illustrative of a 
track pattern formed on the magnetic surface of the tape by the VTR. Referring to Figs. 13A and 13B, a magnetic tape MT is supplied 
from a supply reel (not shown) and is wound around the periphery of a 
rotary drum 81 with a winding angle of approximately of 180°. The tape 
MT is advanced in a direction indicated by arrow A1 and is taken up by 
a take-up reel (not shown). The rotary drum 81 is formed of a rotating 
upper drum 81a (Fig. 13B) and a stationary lower drum 81b. The upper 
drum 81a rotates in a counterclockwise direction, as indicated by arrow 
A2 (Fig. 13A), and has mounted thereon a pair of magnetic heads HA and 
HB arranged in diametrically opposed positions on the periphery of the 
upper drum. As shown in Fig. 13C, the heads HA and HB respectively 
have gaps with mutually different azimuth angles. Tape guides 82 and 85 define a path along which the magnetic tape 
MT travels between the supply and take-up reels, while tape guides 83 
and 84 guide the magnetic tape MT so that it travels with an inclined 
orientation relative to the rotary drum 81. As shown in Fig. 14, in a VTR of the type just described, the 
magnetic heads HA and HB respectively form alternate recording tracks 
on the magnetic tape MT. In particular, tracks T1(A), T3(A), T5(A), 
T7(A), and so on are formed by the magnetic head HA, while tracks 
T2(B), T4(B), T6(B), T8(B) and so on are formed by the magnetic head 
HB. The symbol  is indicative of the "track angle", which is the 
angle between the direction in which the tape is advanced and the  
 
direction in which the heads scan the tape to form the recording 
tracks. Figs. 15A-15C illustrate the overall arrangement of a rotary drum 
and magnetic heads, and a track pattern, of another known VTR,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A recording and reproducing 
apparatus of the type that comprises a rotary drum (11), a magnetic tape (MT) having a 

magnetic orientation in a direction substantially along the length of the tape wound 
around said rotary drum, and at least first and second magnetic heads (HA, HB) 

mounted on said rotary drum (11) and operative in recording and reproducing modes of 
the apparatus to record and reproduce information signals in successive first and second 

oblique tracks (T1, T2 etc) scanned by said first and second magnetic heads (HA, HB), 
respectively, as said magnetic tape (MT) is advanced in said direction along its length, 

with each of said first oblique tracks being next adjacent to at least one of said second 
oblique tracks and each of said oblique tracks extending at an angle  with respect to 

said direction of magnetic orientation of said magnetic tape (MT), said first and second 
magnetic heads (HA, HB) having mutually different azimuth angles, said first magnetic 

head (HA) having a magnetic gap (GA) that is inclined with respect to said direction of 
magnetic orientation of said magnetic tape (MT) at an angle  + α that is greater than 

said angle  and said second magnetic head (HB) having a magnetic gap (GB) that is 
inclined with respect to said direction of magnetic orientation of said magnetic tape 

(MT) at an angle  - β that is less than said angle  + α so that, in said reproducing 
mode of the apparatus, the level of information signals reproduced by said first magnetic 

head (HA) from said first oblique tracks scanned thereby is lower than the level of 
information signals reproduced by said second magnetic head (HB) from said second 

oblique tracks scanned by said second head by reason of the difference between said 
angles ( + α) and ( - β); said recording and reproducing apparatus comprising: 


means (20) operative in said recording mode for generating predetermined low 
frequency tracking control signals having first and second different frequencies (f
1
, f
2
) 
and for supplying said tracking control signals only to said second magnetic head (HB) 

for recording by the latter only in said second oblique tracks; 
means (61 - 71) connected only with said first magnetic head (HA) in said 
reproducing mode and being then operative for detecting reproduction by said first 

magnetic head (HA), in scanning one of said first oblique tracks, of said tracking control 
signals as cross-talk from each of said second oblique tracks which is next adjacent said 

one of the first oblique tracks; and  
 
scanning control means (6) operative in said reproducing mode for controlling 
only scanning by said first magnetic head (HA) in respect to said oblique tracks in 

response to said tracking control signals reproduced as cross-talk only by said first 
magnetic head (HA). 
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said tracking control signals comprising 
at least two different frequency signals are changed between respective ones of said at 

least two different frequency signals in the form of a variation in a digital sum value of 
said information signals. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said predetermined tracking control signal 
includes first and second signals at respective different frequencies (f1, f2) and said first 

and second signals are recorded in alternating ones of said oblique tracks formed by said 
second magnetic head (HB). 
Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said information signals comprises 
frames of a video signal and each of said frames is divided for recording among a 

plurality of said oblique tracks, said plurality consisting of a number of tracks that is 
evenly divisible by two. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 3 to 4, wherein said information signal is a 
digital signal and said means (20) for generating a predetermined tracking control signal 

includes means (18) for dividing said digital signal into units of 24 bits each and means 
(19) for adding a control bit to each of said units of 24 bits each. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first magnetic head (HA) has a 
magnetic gap (GA) that is inclined in a clockwise direction, relative to a line (N) that is 

normal to a scanning direction of said magnetic heads, when viewed from said rotary 
drum, said second magnetic head (HB) having a magnetic gap (GB) that is inclined in a 

counterclockwise direction, relative to the line (N) that is normal to said scanning 
direction of said magnetic heads, when viewed from said rotary drum. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said angle  is  
 

substantially 10° and α = β = 20°. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, having a pilot signal generating circuit 
comprising: 


means (18) for dividing said digital signal into control units, all of said control 
units consisting of an equal number of bits of said digital signal; and 
means (19) for adding a control bit to each of said control units to superimpose a 
low-frequency component on said digital signal. 
Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein each of said control units consists of 24 
bits before said control bit is added thereto. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said pilot signal generating circuit 
selectively generates said tracking control pilot signal at first and second different 

frequencies (f1, f2) said pilot signal being recorded by said second (HB) magnetic head 
such that said first and second frequencies (f1, f2) are recorded in alternating fashion in 

respective oblique tracks formed by said second (HB) of said magnetic heads. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, having a pilot signal generating circuit 

comprising; 

means for dividing said digital signal into a sequence of control units, all of said 
control units consisting of an equal number of bits of said digital signal; 
first, second , third and fourth precoder circuits (26-29); 
means for supplying said sequence of control units in parallel to said first to 
fourth precoder circuits (26-29); 
each of said precoder circuits including means (19) for adding a respective 
control bit to each of the control units supplied thereto and means for performing 

interleaved NRZI coding on said control units including said respective control bits to 
form respective output signals; 
first, second, third and fourth calculating circuits (36-39) for respectively 
receiving said output signals from said first to fourth precoder circuits (26-29) and for 

calculating a respective Codeword Digital Sum (CDS) for each control unit in said 
output signals; and  

 
signal selection means (34-35), responsive to said first to fourth calculating 
circuits (36,39), for selecting one of said output signals, with respect to each said control 

unit, for recording on said magnetic tape (MT). 
Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein each of said first to fourth precoder 
circuits (26-29) adds a different respective sequence of control bits to the sequence of 

control units. 
Apparatus according to claim 11 or claim 12, wherein said signal selection 
means includes reference generator means (34) for generating a Digital Sum Value 

(DSV) having a value that varies periodically, said signal selection means selecting for 
recording, with respect to each control unit, the output signal having a Codeword Digital 

Sum that is nearest to said Digital Sum Value generated by said reference generator 
means (34). 
Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said reference generator means (34) 
selectively generates said Digital Sum Value according to one of a first pilot signal 

frequency and a second pilot signal frequency. 
Apparatus according to claim 14, comprising first, second, third and fourth run-length 
calculating circuits (36-39) for respectively receiving said output signals from 

said first to fourth precoder circuits (26-29) and for calculating a respective run-length 
for each of said output signals, said signal selection means (34-35) for responding to 

said first to fourth run-length calculating circuits (36-39) by selecting for recording an 
output signal having a run-length that is less than or equal to an upper limit unless all of 

said output signals have a run length that is greater than said upper limit. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein each of said control 
units consists of 24 bits before said control bit is added thereto. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
