<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626703</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetically anisotropic spherical powder.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22F100	B22F100	H01F1032	H01F1057	H01F106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22F	B22F	H01F	H01F	H01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22F1	B22F1	H01F1	H01F1	H01F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of forming a magnetically anisotropic powder includes 
the steps of forming a substantially spherical powder having a 

major magnetic phase and an average particle size of less than 
about 200 microns, diffusing hydrogen into the spherical powder at 

elevated temperatures in an amount sufficient to disproportionate 
the major magnetic phase, and desorbing the hydrogen by heating the 

disproportionated powder under vacuum. The magnetic material from 
which the spherical powder is formed may be a rare earth-transition 

metal-boron alloy including at least one element from the iron 
group, at least one rare earth element, and boron. A method of 

forming a bonded magnet containing magnetically anisotropic 
particles further includes the steps of mixing the dehydrogenated 

powder with a binder to form a mixture, and aligning and magnetizing 
the powder particles in the mixture in a magnetic field. 

Bonded magnets containing spherical, magnetically anisotropic 
particles of the invention have intrinsic coercivities in excess of 

7kOe. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RHONE POULENC SPEC CHIM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RHONE POULENC SPEC CHIM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIANG YU-LAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU WAN-LI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MA BAO-MIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIANG YU-LAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU WAN-LI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MA BAO-MIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to magnetic materials exhibiting 
high intrinsic coercivity and, more particularly, to such materials 
in powder form. The magnetic properties of rare earth-transitional metal-boron 
alloys such as NdFeB-type alloys are well known to those in the 
art. One of the applications in which NdFeB alloys are used is the 
production of bonded magnets. Bonded magnets consist of magnetic 
particles agglomerated in a binder, such as an organic polymer, and 
exhibit strong magnetic properties. NdFeB alloy powders for use in the production of bonded 
magnets have been commercially prepared by crushing melt-spun 
ribbons into powder. The flake-like particles formed by crushing 
melt-spun ribbons generally exhibit isotropic behavior and 
relatively poor flowability. Consequently, they do not achieve 
their full potential as magnetic materials and are somewhat 
difficult to form into bonded magnets using conventional injection 
molding equipment. In addition, the mechanical strength of bonded 
magnets formed of such flake-like particles is relatively poor 
because of stress concentrations arising from the sharp edges of 
the flake-like particles. NdFeB alloy powders have been prepared by crushing and 
pulverizing cast ingots of NdFeB alloys. Powders prepared in this 
manner typically display intrinsic coercivity, Hci, values of less 
than 5kOe because of their large-grained microstructures formed  
 
during relatively slow cooling and metallurgical defects or 
oxidation on the particle surfaces. As a consequence of the low 
Hci values they display, crushed and pulverized NdFeB alloy powders 
have not been used in the preparation of bonded magnets. Hydrogen processing of NdFeB alloys in ingot and powder form 
is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,981,532 to Takeshita et al. and 
a publication by I.R. Harris and P.J. McGuiness ("Hydrogen: its use 
in the processing of NdFeB-type magnets and the characterization of 
NdFeB-type alloys and magnets," Proceedings of the Eleventh 
International Workshop on Rare Earth Magnets and Their 
Applications, October 1990, Carnegie Mellon University Press, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania). Using a technique known as hydrogen 
disproportionation, desorption, and recombination (HDDR), coercive 
NdFeB alloy powders have been prepared by heating an NdFeB alloy in 
a hydrogen atmosphere and removing the hydrogen in a desorption 
step. Powders prepared by subjecting a cast NdFeB alloy, either in 
ingot or powder form, to HDDR have irregularly shaped, i.e. non-spherical, 
pa
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming a magnetically anisotropic 
powder, said method comprising the steps of: 

   forming a substantially spherical powder having a 
major magnetic phase and an average particle size of less 

than about 200 µm (microns), said powder being comprised of 
at least one element from the iron group, at least one rare 

earth element, and boron; 
   diffusing hydrogen into said powder at elevated 

temperatures in an amount sufficient to disproportionate 
said major magnetic phase; and 

   desorbing said hydrogen by heating the 
disproportionated powder under vacuum. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 including the further 
step of: 

   heating the dehydrogenated powder to increase the 
intrinsic coercivity of the powder. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 in which 
the disproportionated powder maintains the original size and 

the substantially spherical shape of the as-formed powder. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-3 
characterized in that the steps of diffusing hydrogen and 

desorbing hydrogen are carried out at elevated temperatures 
within the range of 500°C to 1000°C preferably from about 

900°C to 950°C. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-4 
characterized in that the element from the iron group is 

selected from the group consisting of Fe, Ni, Co, and 
mixtures thereof. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-5 
characterized in that rare earth element is selected from 

the lanthanide group consisting of Nd, La, Sm, Pr, Dy, Tb, 
Ho, Er, Tm, Yb, Lu, Y, mixtures thereof, and mischmetal. 
A method as claimed in claim 5 characterized in that 
the major magnetic phase consists essentially of (Nd1-xRx)₂ 

Fe₁₄B, where R is one or more of La, Sm, Pr, Dy, Tb, Ho, Er, 
Tm, Yb, Lu, and Y, and x is from 0 to 1. 
A method as claimed in claim 7 characterized in that 
said major magnetic phase consists essentially of tetragonal 

Nd₂Fe₁₄B. 
A method as claimed in claim 8 characterized in that 
said powder contains at least one refractory element 

selected from the group consisting of Co, Nb, V, Mo, Ti, Zr, 
Cr, W, and mixtures thereof to minimize the secondary 

recrystallization of Nd₂Fe₁₄B grains. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-9 
characterized in that said powder contains at least one 

grain boundary modifier selected from the group consisting 
of Cu, Al, and Ga to increase the coercivity of said powder. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-10 further 
comprising the step of: 

   subjecting said anisotropic powder to a magnetic field to 
form a magnetic powder wherein said magnetic powder has an 

intrinsic coercivity greater than about 7 kOe. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-11 
characterized in that the step of forming said substantially 

spherical powder comprises inert gas atomization. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-12 
characterized in that the spherical powder has an average 

particle size of less than about 150 µm (microns), 
preferably in the range from about 10 µm (microns) to about 

150 µm (microns), and more preferably within the range from 
about 10 µm (microns) to about 70 µm (microns). 
A method of forming a bonded magnet consisting 
essentially of magnetically anisotropic powder, said method 

comprising the steps of: 
   forming a substantially spherical powder having a major 

magnetic phase and an average particle size of less than 
about 200 µm (microns) by inert gas atomization, said powder 

being comprised of at least one element from the iron group, 
at least one rare earth element, and boron; 

   diffusing hydrogen into said substantially spherical 
powder at elevated temperatures in an amount sufficient to 

disproportionate said major magnetic phase;
 

   desorbing said hydrogen by heating the disproportionated 
powder under vacuum; 

   mixing the dehydrogenated powder with a suitable binder 
to form a mixture comprised of powder particles dispersed in 

said binder; and 
   aligning and magnetizing the powder particles in said 

mixture in a magnetic field. 
A method as claimed in claim 14 characterized in 
that after the desorbing step and before the mixing step, 

the method further comprises the step of: 
   heating the dehydrogenated powder to increase the 

intrinsic coercivity of the powder. 
A method as claimed in claim 14 or claim 15 
characterized in that recrystallized grains in said powder 

subdivide said powder into individual magnetic domains. 
A method as claimed in claim 16 characterized in 
that said magnetic domains have an average size of less than 

0.5 µm (micron). 
A method as claimed in any of claims 14-17 
characterized in that the disproportionated powder maintains 

the substantially spherical shape and average particle size 
of less than about 200 µm (microns) of the as-atomized 

powder. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 14-18 
characterized in that the substantially spherical powder has 

an average particle size of less than about 150 µm (microns) 
preferably within the range of about 10 to about 70 µm 

(microns). 
A bonded magnet comprising: 
   a plurality of substantially spherical particles 

consisting essentially of at least one element from the iron 
group, at least one rare earth element, and boron, said 

particles being magnetically anisotropic, magnetized, and 
aligned; and 

   a binder agglomerating said particles into said bonded 
magnet, said magnet having an intrinsic coercivity in excess 

of 7 kOe. 
A magnet as claimed in claim 20 characterized in 
that the magnetic particles include a plurality of 

recrystallized grains, which preferably subdivide said 
particles into magnetic domains having an average size of 

less than 0.5 µm (micron). 
A magnet as claimed in claim 20 or claim 21 
characterized in that said spherical particles have an 

average particle size of less than about 200 µm (microns). 
A magnet as claimed in any of claims 20-22 

characterized in that the magnetic particles consist 
essentially of 28 to 35 weight % of said rare earth element, 

0.9 to 1.3 weight % boron, and the balance of an element 
from the iron group. 
A magnet as claimed in any of claims 20-23 
characterized in that said element from the iron group is 

selected from the group consisting of Fe, Ni, Co, and 
mixtures thereof. 
A magnet as claimed in any of claims 20-24 
characterized in that the rare earth element is selected 

from the lanthanide group consisting of Nd, La, Sm, Pr, Dy, 
Tb, Ho, Er, Tm, Yb, Lu, Y, mixtures thereof, and mischmetal. 
A magnet as claimed in any of claims 20-25 
characterized in that the magnetic particles include an 

additional element selected from the 3d or 4d metal groups 
consisting of Co, Nb, V, Mo, Ti, Zr, Cr, W, and mixtures 

thereof to minimize secondary recrystallization during 
thermal treatment. 
A magnet as claimed in any of claims 20-26 
characterized in that the magnetic particles include a grain 

modifier selected from the group consisting of Cu, Al, and 
Ga to increase the coercivity of said powder. 
A magnet as claimed in any of claims 20-27 
characterized in that the spherical particles have an 

average particle size of less than about 150 µm (microns), 
preferably in the range from about 10 µm (microns) to about 

150 µm (microns), and more preferably in the range from 
about 10 µm (microns) to about 70 µm (microns). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
