<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624112</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SNOWBOARD BOOT BINDING SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63C918	A63C500	A63C900	A63C900	A63C500	A63C902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63C	A63C	A63C	A63C	A63C	A63C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63C9	A63C5	A63C9	A63C9	A63C5	A63C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BURTON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BURTON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER JAKE BURTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DODGE DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARPENTER, JAKE, BURTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DODGE, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to boot binding systems for snowboards. More
specifically, the invention relates to a snowboard binding having multiple degrees of
freedom and adjustability.A recently popular sport, snowboarding presents operating conditions and physical
demands not found in other skiing-type sports. In snowboarding, the operator stands with
both feet on the snowboard, somewhat similar to a slalom water ski. However, in water-skiing,
the operator is pulled in a single direction by a power boat. The strength and
positioning requirements of the attachment apparatus used for securing the operator's feet
to the ski are therefore quite limited.In snowboarding, since the motive force is provided by gravity as the rider travels
down a hill, the rider is able to and often must assume body positions not often found in
other sports. Specifically, the angle between the midline of the foot and the midline of the
snowboard is often greatly altered for different snowboarding styles, such as acrobatics or
simple travelling, and for different athletes.It is often the case that either a boot worn by the rider or the binding itself will be
provided with a support for the lower leg just above the ankle. However, when the angle
of the midline of the foot with respect to the board is changes, this can also change the
angle between the leg and the foot. Currently, a simple, rigid support that is merely
perpendicular to the board and aligned along the midline of the foot is used. Some of
these supports have the capability to fold down against the snowboard surface. Other
degrees of freedom are available, but only by disassembly and reassembly of the binding
and snowboard.Different riders also have differing requirements as to the distance between the two
bindings on the board as well as the binding's position with respect to the lateral
dimension of the board.Within the state of the art, EP-A-396133 Meyer discloses a binding for snow sport
boots which includes a disc for attachment to a snowboard with six screws arranged at 
equal intervals around a circle co-axial with the disc. There is a similar disclosure in FR-A-2627097.DE-U-9108513.6 also discloses a binding for snowboards with a disc having
through apertures for attachment of the disc to the board. The apertures are arranged at
the corners of a square concentric with the disc. There is an extra aperture at the centre of
the square, but this is only a sight window. All five apertures are elongated into slots and
all five slots are mutually
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A snowboard including first and second sets of three binding attachment points
(44) each set defining an equilateral triangle, the sets serving as alternative

attachment locations for a first single snowboard binding (18, 20, 28, 30) and
spaced apart in the longitudinal direction of the snowboard close enough together

to provide a rider with increments of adjustment of the lengthwise position of the
snowboard binding on the snowboard (10), by translating the binding across the

face of the snowboard from a first attachment location to a second alternative one.
A snowboard according to claim 1 wherein the second set of three attachment
points overlaps with the first set of attachment points, in that one of the points of

the second set lies inside the triangle defined by the three points of the first set.
A snowboard according to claim 2, characterised in that one (E) of the binding
attachment points of the second set of binding attachment points is disposed at the

centre of the circumcircle of the equilateral triangle of the first set of binding
attachment points.
A snowboard according to claim 1, 2 or 3, characterised in that the first set of
binding attachment points is an inverted image of the second set of binding

attachment points.
A snowboard according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that it
further includes a third set of binding attachment points adapted to mount the

binding in a third attachment location on the snowboard, the third location spaced
apart from the first and the second location, the third set of binding attachment

points including two binding attachment points of the first set and a third binding
attachment point.
A snowboard according to claim 5, characterised in that the first, second and third
sets of binding attachment points are arranged so that a circle passes through the

two binding attachment points common to the first set and the third set, through a 
binding attachment point of the second set and through the third binding

attachment point of the third set.
A snowboard according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that
the attachment points are arranged in three lines all parallel to the longitudinal

direction of the snowboard.
A snowboard according to any one of the preceding claims and including
attachment points for a second single snowboard binding, each of said first and

second single binding attachment points being for a different foot of a rider, at first
and second attachment positions, respectively.
A snowboard according to claim 8, characterised in that the pattern of attachment
points in said second attachment position is the same as the pattern of the

attachment points at the first attachment position.
A snowboard according to any one of the preceding claims including a plurality of
attachment elements, each to engage with one of the attachment points.
A snowboard binding hold down plate (30) to engage with a snowboard binding
and comprising a plurality of through holes (42) each defining at least one hold

down location where an attachment element is receivable for attaching the hold
down plate, and thereby the binding, to the top surface of a snowboard, said hold

down locations being located at the vertices of a first equilateral triangle, each said
vertex being spaced from the centre of the plate and the centre of the hold down

plate lying within a first circle passing through the vertices of the said first
equilateral triangle, for use of the snowboard with the hold down plate attached to

the snowboard at the hold down locations at the vertices of the said triangle; but the
snowboard binding hold down plate not including a binding plate having at least

six through apertures arranged at equal intervals on the perimeter of a common
circle at the perimeter of the binding plate for holding a binding to a board with at

least six attachment elements, one in each of the apertures.
A plate according to claim 11, in which the centre of said first equilateral triangle is
coincident with the centre of the plate. 
A plate according to claim 11 or 12, which includes second hold down locations
defined by the through holes at each of the three vertices of a second equilateral

triangle, a second circle passing though said second hold down locations, with the
centre of the second circle being laterally shifted on the hold down plate relative to

the centre of the first triangle.
A plate according to claim 13, also including a third such triangle of hold down
locations.
A plate according to any one of claims 11 to 14, together with another such
plate to provide a pair of the plates, one for each binding in a pair of bindings.
A plate according to any one of claims 11 to 15, including a circumferential wall
(38) which tapers inwardly whereby the plate is frusto-conical.
A plate according to any one of claims 11 to 16 and having a circumferential wall
(38) which is provided with ridges (32) for step-wise rotational adjustment of the

plate relative to a co-operating ridged wall of an aperture.
A plate according to claim 16 or 17, characterised in that the circumferential wall
(38) extends around an unbroken circular path for its entire circumference.
A plate according to any one of claims 11 to 18, characterised in that each of the
plurality of through holes includes at least two bores (42).
A plate according to claim 19, characterised in that the bores at a first vertex of the
triangle are substantially in-line with one another, and the bores at a second vertex

of the triangle are substantially in a line with one another and with the line of bores
at the first vertex.
A plate according to claim 20, characterised by a line of bores at the third vertex of
the triangle, which line is parallel to the lines of bores at the first and second

vertices.
A plate according to claim 20 or 21, characterised in that in each line the
bores (42) are joined to form an oblong hole at the respective vertex, the oblong

hole being capable of receiving a screw in at least two spaced positions. 
A plate according to any one of claims 19 to 21, characterised in that the hold-down
plate is round.
A plate according to any one of claims 11 to 23, and provided with a plurality of
attachment elements, each to engage with one of the hold down locations.
A snowboard binding for a snowboard boot, including an undersurface to overlie
the top surface of a snowboard, and including a hold down plate (30) according to

any one of claims 11 to 24.
A binding according to claim 25, comprising a binding for each boot of the rider.
A binding according to claim 25 or 26, characterised in that each binding includes
a base plate (18) which defines an aperture (36) relative to which the hold down

plate (30) is co-axial.
A binding according to claim 27, characterised in that the circumference of the
aperture (30) extends around an unbroken circular path for its entire length.
A binding according to either of claims 27 and 28, characterised in that the base
plate has a first mating surface (40) that mates with the hold-down plate (30) and

the circumferential wall of the hold-down plate (30) has a second mating surface
(38) that mates with the base plate (18), wherein each of the first and second

mating surfaces is frusto-conical in shape.
A binding according to any one of claims 27 to 29, as dependent on claim 16,
characterised in that the aperture (30) has a circumferential wall surface with ridges

which engage with the ridges on the hold down plate.
A binding according to any one of claims 25 to 30, characterised in that the binding
includes a support (28) for the back of the leg of the rider.
A snowboard binding having a plate (30) within which is a plurality of through
holes (42) each defining at least one hold down location where an attachment

element is receivable for attaching the plate, and thereby the binding, to the top
surface of a snowboard, said hold down locations being located at the vertices of a 

first equilateral triangle, each said vertex being spaced from the centre of the plate,
and the centre of the plate lying within a first circle passing through the vertices of

the said first equilateral triangle, for use of the snowboard with the plate being
attached to the snowboard at the hold down locations at the vertices of the said

triangle; but the snowboard binding plate not including a binding plate having six
and only six through apertures arranged at equal intervals on the perimeter of a

common circle at the perimeter of the binding plate for holding a binding to a
board with six attachment elements, one in each of the apertures.
A binding as claimed in claim 32, in which the centre of the first equilateral
triangle is coincident with the centre of the plate.
A binding as claimed in claim 32 or 33, which includes second hold down
locations defined by the through holes at each of the three vertices of a second

equilateral triangle, a second circle passing through said second hold down
locations with the centre of the second circle being laterally shifted on the plate

relative to the centre of the first triangle.
A binding as claimed in claim 34, also including a third such triangle of hold down
locations.
A binding according to claims 32 to 35, characterised in that each of the plurality of
through holes (42) includes at least two bores.
A binding according to claim 36, characterised in that the bores at a first vertex of
the triangle are substantially in-line with one another, and the bores at a second

vertex of the triangle are substantially in a line with one another and with the line
of bores at the first vertex.
A binding according to claim 37, characterised by a line of bores at the third vertex
of the triangle, which line is parallel to the lines of bores at the first and second

vertices.
A binding according to claim 37 or 38, characterised in that in each line the
bores (42) are joined to form an oblong hole at the respective vertex, the oblong

hole being capable of receiving a screw in at least two spaced positions. 
A binding according to any one of claims 32 to 39, comprising a binding for each
boot of the rider.
A binding according to any one of claims 32 to 40 and provided with a plurality of
attachment elements, each to engage with one of the hold down locations.
A binding according to any one of claims 32 to 41, characterised in that the binding
includes a support (28) for the back of the leg of the rider.
A binding as claimed in claim 31 or 42, which includes a plate (18) adapted to be
mounted to the snowboard, the plate having a portion thereof to receive the boot

and define an orientation of the boot relative to the snowboard; wherein

said leg support (28) is mounted to the plate for supporting the back of the
legs of the user;

the binding being characterised by:
means to enable rotational adjustment (50, 52) of the leg support (28) with
respect to the portion of the plate (18) that defines the orientation of the boot, about

an axis that is not parallel to the plane of the plate (18).
A binding as claimed in claim 43, wherein said axis is substantially normal to the
plate.
A binding as claimed in claim 43 or 44 characterised in that the leg support (28) is
mounted to the plate at first and second adjustable attachment points (26).
A binding as claimed in claim 45, the plate (18) having first and second sidewalls
(20) one on each of the opposing sides of the plate and wherein the first and second

adjustable attachment points (26) are respectively disposed on the first and second
sidewalls.
A binding as claimed in claim 46, characterised in that each of the first and second
sidewalls is adapted to receive a screw (26) to mount the highback leg support (28)

thereto in one of a plurality of adjustable positions.
A binding as claimed in any one of claims 45, 46, 47, wherein the adjustment of the
first and second attachment points (26) is forward and rearward along the length of

the plate. 
A binding as claimed in any one of claims 45 to 48 characterised in that the
adjustment is by a pin and slot construction.
A binding as claimed in claim 49 characterised in that the first and second
sidewalls (20) extend along the length of the plate, and wherein each of the first

and second sidewalls includes an elongated screw hole (50) extending along the
length of the plate.
A binding as claimed in any of claims 45 to 50, wherein the leg support includes an
upright portion (46) and two forward extending arms (48) each of which is

mounted to a respective one of the first and second adjustable attachment points
(26).
A binding as claimed in any one of claims 43 to 51, characterised in that the
mounting of the leg support (28) to the plate permits rotation of the support about

an axis that is parallel to the plate.
A binding as claimed in claim 52, characterised in that rotation of the leg support
(28) about said plate-parallel axis permits rotation of the support into a folded

down position.
A binding as claimed in claims 43 to 53, wherein the plate includes a semi-circular
heel wall (24).
A binding as claimed in claim 54, as dependent on claim 51 and 46, wherein the first and
second adjustable attachment points (26) 
are disposed on the first and second
sidewalls (20) and below the heel wall (24).
A binding as claimed in claim 54 or 55, in which the heel wall (24) includes a
semi-circular contacting surface adapted to contact the highback leg support (28)

and the leg support (28) has a complementary semi-circular contacting surface
adapted to contact the contacting surface of the heel wall (24).
A binding as claimed in claim 56, characterised in that the contacting surfaces of
the highback leg support (28) and the heel wall (24) have substantially the same

radii. 
An assembly of snowboard and binding, wherein the snowboard is as claimed in
any one of claims 1 to 10.
An assembly of snowboard and binding, wherein the binding is as claimed in any
one of claims 25 to 57.
An assembly of snowboard and binding, wherein the snowboard is as claimed in
any one of claims 1 to 10, and the binding is as claimed in any one of claims 25 to

57.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
