<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630042</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of high mass resolution scanning of an ion trap spectrometer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2762	G01N2762	H01J4934	H01J4942	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	H01J49	H01J49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of using a quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer for high resolution 
mass spectroscopy is disclosed. High resolution of a mass spectrum of a desired 

species is achieved by first using a slow scanning rate and by first ridding the trap of 
unwanted ions. Accurate mass calibration is achieved by using a reference compound 

of known mass and using a second supplemental AC dipole voltage to eject the 
reference ions at nearly the same time as the sample ions of interest are ejected from 

the trap. This eliminates the need to scan the trap between the masses of the sample 
and reference ions. Space charge in the trap is held constant, thereby eliminating a 

major source of mass axis instability, by using the results of one scan to control the 
ionization time during the next scan. Preferably, during ionization a broadband 

supplemental dipole voltage is applied to the ion trap to rid it of unwanted ions. 
During a portion of the ionization time the broadband signal is constructed to retain 

only sample ions in the ion trap, and during the remainder of the ionization time the 
broadband signal is constructed to retain both sample and reference ions in the ion trap. 

By adjusting the relative lengths of the two portions of the ionization time the total 
space charge in the ion trap can be held constant notwithstanding variations in sample 

ion concentration. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of mass spectrometry, and is 
particularly related to methods for obtaining very high mass resolution from a three-dimensional 
quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer. A number of different types of mass spectrometers are known to those skilled in 
the art, each having its own set of advantages and disadvantages. The present 
invention relates to methods of using the three-dimensional quadrupole ion trap mass 
spectrometer ("ion trap") which was initially patented in 1960 by Paul, et al. In recent 
years the ion trap mass spectrometer has grown in popularity in part due to its 
relatively low cost, ease of manufacture, and its unique ability to store ions over a 
large range of masses for relatively long periods of time. Nonetheless, the most 
common methods presently employed for using the ion trap do not yield very high 
mass resolution. The quadrupole ion trap comprises a ring-shaped electrode and two end cap 
electrodes. Ideally, both the ring electrode and the end cap electrodes have hyperbolic 
surfaces that are coaxially aligned and symmetrically spaced. By placing a combination 
of AC and DC voltages (conventionally designated "V" and "U", respectively) on these 
electrodes, a quadrupole trapping field is created. This may be simply done by 
applying a fixed frequency (conventionally designated "f") AC voltage between the ring 
electrode and the end caps to create a quadrupole trapping field. The use of an 
additional DC voltage is optional, and in commercial embodiments of the ion trap no 
DC voltage is normally used. It can be shown that by using an AC voltage of proper 
frequency and amplitude, a wide range of masses can be simultaneously trapped. The mathematics of the quadrupole trapping field created by the ion trap are  
 
electrode of a given radius equatorial r₀, end caps displaced from the origin at the center 
of the trap along the axial line r = 0 by a distance z₀, and for given values of U, V and f, 
whether an ion of mass-to-charge ratio (m/e, also frequently designated m/z) will be 
trapped depends on the solution to the following two equations: 
az = -16eUm 
(r20+ 2z₀2) 
Ω²qz = +8eVm (r20+ 2z₀2) Ω²   where Ω is equal to 2πf. Solving these equations yields values of az and qz for a given ion species having 
the selected m/e. If the point (az,qz) maps inside the stability envelop, the ion will be 
trapped by the quadrupole field. If the point (az,qz) falls outside the stability envelop, the 
ion will not be trapped and any such ions that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of using a quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer comprising the 
steps of: 


(a) establishing a trapping field within the ion trap such that ions in a range of 
interest are stably held within the ion trap; 
(b) introducing a sample compound into the ion trap; 
(c) introducing a reference compound into the ion trap; 
(d) ionizing the sample compound and the reference compound, such that 
sample ions and reference ions are trapped within the ion trap; 
(e) applying first and second supplemental AC dipole voltages to the ion trap, 
and 
(f) scanning the ion trap such that the reference ions are resonantly ejected from 
the ion trap by said first supplemental AC dipole voltage and the sample ions are 

resonantly ejected from the ion trap by said second supplemental AC dipole voltage. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of ejecting unwanted ions 
from the ion trap prior to step (f) of scanning the ion trap. 
The method of claim 2 further comprising the step maintaining a desired 
constant space charge condition of said sample ions and said reference ions. 
The method of claim 3 wherein steps (a) through (f) of claim 1 are repeated 
such that first and second scans are performed, and said step of maintaining the desired 

space charge condition of said sample and reference ions comprises using information 
from said first scan to adjust the conditions during said second scan. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the ions of higher mass-to-charge ratio are 
scanned from the trap before the ions of lower mass-to-charge ratio. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said first and second supplemental AC 
dipole voltages are selected such that when said ion trap is scanned, the reference 

ions and the sample ions are ejected within a relatively short time span. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said reference ions and sample ions are 
scanned from the trap within a time interval which is less than one second. 
A method of using an ion trap mass spectrometer comprising the steps of: 

(a) establishing a trapping field within the ion trap such that ions in a range of 
interest are stably held within the ion trap; 
(b) introducing a sample matrix into the ion trap and ionizing the sample matrix 
such that sample ions are trapped within the ion trap; 
(c) resonantly ejecting all ions within the trap that do not fall within a selected 
narrow mass range, thereby eliminating sources of space charge which interfere with 

high resolution mass analysis; 
(d) slowly scanning the ion trap to sequentially eject ions within said selected 
narrow mass range; and, 
(e) detecting the ions ejected from the ion trap. 
The method of claim 8 further comprising repeating steps (a) through (e) a 
second time, using the information obtained during the first performance of step 

(e) to adjust the quantity of ions held within the ion trap after the second performance 
of step (c), such that the space charge of the ions within said selected narrow mass 

range is held at a desired level. 
The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of introducing a 
reference compound into the ion trap. 
The method of claim 2 or claim 10 wherein a 
first broadband ejection signal is applied to said 

ion trap during a first ionization period t₁, said 
first broadband signal having 

 
frequency components necessary to eject all but said sample ions from the ion trap, and 

wherein a second broadband ejection signal is applied to said ion trap during a second 
ionization period t₂, said second broadband signal having frequency components 

necessary to eject all but said sample ions and said reference ions from the ion trap. 
The method of claim 11 wherein the relative durations of t₁ and t₂ are 
adjusted to maintain a constant space charge within the ion trap notwithstanding 

variations in the level of sample introduced into the ion trap. 
A method of using a quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer comprising 
the steps of: 


(a) establishing a trapping field within the ion trap such that ions in a range of 
interest are stably held within the ion trap; 
(b) introducing a sample matrix into the ion trap; 
(c) introducing a reference compound into the ion trap; 
(d) ionizing the sample matrix and the reference compound, such that sample 
ions and reference ions are trapped within the ion trap; 
(e) resonantly ejecting all ions from the ion trap that do not fall within any of at 
least two selected narrow mass ranges, said first selected mass range including the mass 

of sample ions of interest and said second mass range including the mass of said 
reference compound, thereby eliminating sources of space charge which interfere with 

high resolution mass analysis; 
(f) scanning the ion trap to eject ions within said selected narrow mass ranges; 
and, 
(g) detecting the ions ejected from the ion trap during step (f). 
The method of claim 13 wherein the step of scanning the trap comprises 
applying at least two supplemental AC dipole voltages to the trap, there being one 

supplemental dipole voltage for each selected narrow mass range, whereby sample ions 
in said first selected narrow mass range are ejected by one of said supplemental AC 

dipole voltages and reference ions in said second selected narrow mass range are 
ejected by another of said supplemental AC dipole voltages, such that said first and 

 
second mass ranges may be independently scanned. 
A method of using a quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer comprising the 
steps of: 


(a) establishing a trapping field within the ion trap such that ions in a range of 
interest are stably held within the ion tra
p; 
(b) introducing a sample matrix into the ion trap; 
(c) introducing a reference compound into the ion trap; 
(d) ionizing the sample matrix and the reference compound, such that sample 
ions and reference ions are trapped within the ion trap; said step of ionizing comprising 

applying a first broadband ejection signal to said ion trap during a first ionization 
period t₁, said first broadband signal having frequency components necessary to eject 

all but said sample ions from the ion trap, and thereafter applying a second broadband 
ejection signal to said ion trap during a second ionization period t₂, said second 

broadband signal having frequency components necessary to eject all but said sample 
ions and said reference ions from the ion trap, such that all ions in the ion trap fall 

within two selected narrow mass ranges, said first selected mass range including the 
mass of sample ions of interest and said second mass range including the mass of said 

reference compound; 
(e) scanning the ion trap to eject ions within said selected narrow mass ranges; 
and, 
(f) detecting the ions ejected from the ion trap during step (e). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
