<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655132</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TEST PROBE FOR MEASUREMENT OF MOISTURE IN STRUCTURAL MATERIAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2712	G01N2712	G01N3338	G01N3338	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a test probe (1) primarily intended to be applied in structural material (2) during the production and/or building stage or when water damage has occured in a building and by which moisture measurement can be done undisturbed from outer factors in following the drying out process of built in moisture or other inconvenient, supplied moisture which can cause troubles in the form of mould and/or damages caused by putrefaction, as well as damages on floor coverings and other structural elements. The test probe (1) comprises an active part (3) of a hygroscopic material which is enclosed in an outer, mechanical cover (4), said cover has that property to allow passage of water steam, but prevents passage of water in liquid phase.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAHLENS FUKTKONTROLL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAHLENS FUKTKONTROLL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAHLEN NICKLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAHLEN, NICKLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Test probe for measurement of moisture in structural material.The present invention relates to a test probe which primar¬ ily is intended for being applied in structural materials during the moment of production and/or building activity or when a water damage has been occured in a building and by which test probe moisture measurement can be performed un¬ disturbed from outer factors in following of the drying up process of built in moisture or other not suitable, supplied moisture which can cause inconveniences in the form of mould and/or damages caused by putrefactions, as well as damages of floor coverings and other structural elements.At present the problem of building moisture within the building sector is a scourge which besides the fact that it causes many practical problems, e.g. origin of mould and other "sick house" problems, is the source of very wide and in itself unnecessary increases in prices. Today the idea of the used technique to reveal the departure of building moisture is that you drill a hole in the building element in question to a desired depth, where you want to determine the moisture level. A transmitter is then inserted into the hole, by aid of which you can read on an after-connected instrument the temperature and the relative humidity of the material (RF%) . Several types of transmitters are used and for all concern that the unexactness proportionately is as large as about ^3-5 % RF. The technique of this measuring method is relatively complicated and requires good knowledge in technics of measurement, which only in exceptional cases exsists within the building sector.The object of the present invention is to provide a test probe of the kind mentioned in the introcuction, by which the problems exsisting in the transmitter which now are present on the market have been eliminated. The distinguish¬ ing features of the invention are set forth in the claims mentioned below.Thanks to the invention one has now achieved a test probe 

which in an excellent way fulfils its purpose, at the same time as it is both cheep and easy to produce. By aid of the test probe according to the invention it is possible to already from the beginning, i.e. from the stage of produc¬ tion of a structural work to follow the development of the drying up of built in moisture, commonly called as building moisture, in the most of the building elements, as a struc¬ tural work consists of. Further the invention decreases the necessary knowledges of technics of measurement, which are required up to a minimum and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Cl aims
1. A test probe primarily intended to be applied in struc¬ tural material during the production- and/or building stage or when water damage has occured in a building and by which moisture measurement can be done undisturbed from outer factors in following the drying out process of built in moisture or other inconvenient, supplied moisture which can cause troubles in the form of mould and/or damages caused by putrefaction, as well as damages on floor cover-ings and other structural elements, characterized in an active part (3) consisting of a hygroscopic material, said part mostly is enclosed in an outer, mechanical cover (4) having a quality to allow passage of water steam but not water in liquid phase, at least two unisolated electrodes (5,6) provided in the active part (3) , said electrodes in an unisolated state extend from the test probe (1) through and out from the structural material (2) and up to a resistance meter for measuring electrical resistance which is present in the active part (3) between the electrodes (5,6) during actual moisture level and at least one thermistor (10) located between the active part (3) and the mechanical cover (4) and which by aid of a connecting cable is connected to a micro-processor for compensating of the resistance reading to measured temperature, said temperature corrected resis¬ tance reading hereafter is convertable to relative humidity (RF%) in that a resistance value calibrated forward for humidity between 75-97 % RF has been fed into the micro¬ processor, which after that by an indicator states the right value on the measured, relative humidity (RF) .
2. A test probe according to claim 1, characterized in that the mechanical cover (4) consists of a housing of expanded plastic and is designed to resist pressure during casting of the test probe (l) into concrete.
3. A test probe according to claim 1, characterized in that the active part (3) consists of a round bar of wood having a diameter of preferably 6 mm and a length of about 3-6 times said diameter. 


4. A test probe according to claim l, characterized in that the unisolated electrodes (5,6) extend into the active part (3) a distance, which is at least 1/3 of its total, effective length.
5. A test probe according to any of preceeding claims, characterized in that the mechanical cover (4) is elongated and in its one end provided with a supporting means (7) in the form of a threaded washer (8) for thight- ening in a position fixing means (9) for temporary fixing of the test probe (l) in connection with concrete casting.
6. A test probe according to any preceeding claims, characterized in that the mechanical cover (4) in one of its ends fixed to a supporting means (7) in the form of attachments means (11), by which the electrodes (5,6) and a tramsmitter cable (12) from the thermistor (10) extend via an opening (13) out to and through the structural material
(2) , and in said means (11) a position fixing means in the form of a round bar (14) is threaded, both to unload the electrodes and the transmitter cable (12) in the opening
(13) in tension and also to fix the test probe (1) during its casting into e.g. concrete being the structural material
(2) . 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 17 January 1994 (17.01.94); original claims 1 and 2 replaced by amended claim 1; claims 3-6 renumbered as claims 2-5 (2 pages)]
1. A test probe primarily intended to be applied in struc¬ tural material during the production- and/or building stage or when water damage has occured in a building and by which moisture measurement can be done undisturbed from outer factors in following the drying out process of built in moisture or other inconvenient, supplied moisture which can cause troubles in the form of mould and/or damages caused by putrefaction, as well as damages on floor coverings and other structural elements, characterized in that said test prob comprises an active part (3) consisting of a hygroscopic material, mostly enclosed in an outer mechani¬ cal cover (4) having a quality to allow passage of water steam but not water in liquid phase and said cover (4) consists of a housing of expanded plastics and is designed to resist pressure during casting of the test probe (l) into concrete, at least two unisolated electrodes (5,6) provided in the active part (3) , said electrodes in an unisolated state extend from the test probe (l) through and out from the structural material (2) and up to a resistance meter for measuring electrical resistance which is present in the active part (3) between the electrodes (5,6) during actual moisture level, and at least one thermistor (10) located between the active part (3) and the mechanical cover (4) and which by aid of a connecting cable is connected to a micro¬ processor for compensating of the resistance reading to measured temperature, said temperature corrected resistance reading hereafter is convertable to relative humidity (RF%) in that a resistance value calibrated forward for humidity between 75-97 % RF has been fed into the micro-processor, which after that by an indicator states the right value of the relative humidity (RF) measured.
2. A test probe according to claim I, characterized in that the active part (3) consists of a round bar of wood having a diameter of preferably 6 mm and a length of about 3-6 times said diameter.
3. A test probe according to claim 1, characterized in that the unisolated electrodes (5,6) extend into the active 


part (3) a distance, which is at least 1/3 of its total, effective length.
. A test probe according to any of preceding claims, characterized in that the mechanical cover (4) is elongated and in its one end provided with a supporting means (7) in the form of a threaded washer (8) for thight- ening in a position fixing means (9) for temporary fixing of the test probe (1) in connection with concrete casting.
5. A test probe according to any of preceding claims, characterized in that the mechanical cover (4) in one of its ends is fixed to a supporting means (7) in the form of an attachment means (11), through which the electrodes (5,6) and a tramsmitter cable (12) from the thermistor (10) extend via an opening (13) out to and through the structural material (2) , and in said means (11) a position fixing means in the form of a round bar (14) is threaded, both to unload the electrodes and the transmitter cable (12) in the opening (13) in tension and also to fix the test probe (1) during its casting into e.g. concrete being the structural material (2) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
