<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615792</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ultrasonic cleaning method for tubes nuclear fuel assemblies and device therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21F928	B08B312	B08B902	B08B902	G21F900	G21F900	B08B312	G21F928	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21F	B08B	B08B	B08B	G21F	G21F	B08B	G21F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21F9	B08B3	B08B9	B08B9	G21F9	G21F9	B08B3	G21F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ultrasonic cleaning device for cleaning a fuel assembly 
constituting
 
an item (105) to be cleaned, includes: a plurality of ultrasonic 

transducers (111) which irradiate the outside of this item to be cleaned 
with ultrasonic waves from at least two directions; an ultrasonic 

transducer translating mechanism (110) which moves ultrasonic 
transducers (111) 

vertically along a support member (109) and which is provided with a 
steel 

housing constituting an ultrasonic wave reflecting structure which 
reflects ultrasonic waves from ultrasonic transducers towards the item 

to be 
cleaned ; a feed pump (129) arranged outside the item to be cleaned and 

constituting a cleaning liquid supply means which supplies cleaning 
liquid in 

pressurized condition into the interior of the item to be cleaned ; a 
discharge pump (118) constituting a cleaning liquid discharge means that 

discharges cleaning liquid from the cleaning liquid supply means to 
a filter device (120). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and device for ultrasonic cleaning
which efficiently separates and removes radioactive solids such as crud or
scale adhering to the various members, in particular hollow square-shaped
members, which make up a light-water reactor atomic power plant, by
irradiating them with ultrasonic waves.One example of a light-water reactor atomic power plant is a boiling
water reactor (hereinbelow abbreviated as BWR). Typically this is constructed
as follows. A reactor pressure vessel contains a reactor core and cooling
water. The reactor core consists of a plurality of fuel assemblies and
control rods etc. The cooling water flows upwards over the core and is heated
by the heat of the nuclear reaction of the core. The heated cooling water
assumes a two-phase flow condition consisting of water and steam and is
introduced into a steam/water separator arranged above the core, where the
water and steam are separated. The separated steam is further passed into a
steam drier arranged above the separator, where it is dried to produce dry
steam. This dry steam is supplied for power generation by being fed to a
turbine system through a main steam pipe connected to the reactor pressure
vessel. After being used in the turbine to generate electricity, the steam is
fed to a condenser where it is condensed and liquefied and returned to
condensate. The water which was separated in the steam/water separator flows
down through a downcomer and is mixed with the feedwater returned from the
turbine system and fed to below the core. The above cycle is then repeated.In an atomic power plant, corrosion products generated by corrosion of 
the various pipes and equipment etc. which make up the atomic power plant are
the main cause of radiation exposure. These corrosion products acquire their
radioactivity by being irradiated by the fuel assemblies, to which they adhere
when they are transported to the fuel assemblies by the cycle described above.
Some of these irradiated corrosion products then separate from the fuel
assemblies and become suspended in the coolant water in the reactor or are
dissolved etc. and dispersed in the atomic power system and adhere to the
pipes and equipment, raising the proportion of radioactivity in the
atmosphere. This results in radioactive exposure when workers enter this
atmosphere. Removal of such radioactive crud or scale adhering to the fuel
assemblies and various items of equipment is therefore very effective in
greatly reducing the amount of exposure to radioactivity in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Ultrasonic cleaning apparatus for cleaning a fuel assembly (105) which is
contained in a channel box (106), the apparatus comprising


ultrasonic transducer means (111) for directing ultrasonic waves towards the
assembly (105);
a support member (107 - 109) for supporting the assembly (105);
an ultrasonic transducer translating mechanism (110) which moves said ultrasonic
transducer means (111) in an axial direction relative to the assembly (105);
cleaning liquid supply means (123, 129) arranged to supply cleaning liquid to the
assembly (105);
cleaning liquid discharge means (116, 118) which discharges the cleaning liquid
from the channel box (106);

   characterised in that
the ultrasonic transducer means comprises a plurality of ultrasonic transducers
(111) mounted in an ultrasonic wave reflecting structure (127) which reflects ultrasonic

waves from the transducers towards the assembly (105);
and also characterised by means (130) for raising the pressure of the said
cleaning liquid in the channel box (106).
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
ultrasonic wave reflecting structure (127) includes a steel

housing having a thickness of at least 0.5cm.
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 further
comprising an ultrasonic wave leakage prevention structure

(131) which cuts off leakage of ultrasonic waves from the
ultrasonic transducers to areas external to the device. 
Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said
ultrasonic wave leakage prevention structure comprises a

stainless steel wire mesh enclosure (131).
Apparatus according to any preceding claim, further
comprising means for monitoring the oxygen concentration in

said cleaning liquid.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein
said tube is hollow and has a square cross section.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein
said tube is a nuclear fuel channel box (106).
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein
said tube is a nucle
ar fuel rack unit tube.
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein
said tube accommodates a plurality of nuclear fuel rods

(105) therein.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein
selected ones of said ultrasonic transducers (111) are

arranged to irradiate ultrasonic waves towards the tube in
an approximately 45° direction relative to each side wall of

the tube. 
A method for ultrasonically cleaning a fuel assembly (105) which is contained in a
channel box (106), the method comprising


circulating cleaning liquid to the assembly (105) under pressure;
directing ultrasonic waves towards the assembly (105);

characterised in that
the ultrasonic waves are reflected by an ultrasonic wave reflecting structure (127)
from the transducers towards the assembly (105);
and also characterised by raising the pressure of the said cleaning liquid in the
channel box (106).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
