<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623812</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device and method for measuring on earth the thrust of thrusters for use in space.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L513	G01L513	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L5	G01L5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The equipment for measuring on earth the thrust 
of thrusters for use in space comprises a balance (1) and 

a measuring means (11) which is associated with the 
balance in order to measure the thrust exerted by the 

thruster (P). The balance (1) is provided with a target 
(13) at which the exhaust jet from the thruster (P) is 

directed, whereas the thruster is mechanically free from 
the structure of the balance and the measuring means (11) 

measures the force applied to the balance in order to 
balance the thrust exerted on the balance by the jet from 

the thruster. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROEL TECNOLOGIE SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROEL TECNOLOGIE SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIRRI GIANFRANCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIRRI GIANFRANCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to equipment for measuring 
on earth the thrust of thrusters for use in space, of the 
type which comprises a balance, and thrust measuring 
means. The invention also relates to a method for 
measuring on earth the thrust of a thruster for use in 
space. The methods and corresponding equipment currently 
in use for these purposes involve suspension of the 
thruster on the balance. Figures 1 and 2 show two embodiments 
of conventional equipment. Both cases involve 
measuring equipment which uses two arms which rotate 
around a fulcrum F. The thruster P is disposed on one arm 
C, whereas the measurable balancing force acts on the 
other arm B. In the known solution shown schematically in 
Figure 1, in addition to the arms B and C there are 
shown: a cable A which serves the dual purpose of supporting 
the entire structure, and of acting as a torsional 
spring; the point of rotation F of the structure, 
which is prevented by the cable A from being displaced at 
all; the electromagnet D which counterbalances the thrust 
of the thruster P; and the position feed-back system E 
which enables the angular displacements to be reset by 
means of an optical system for measuring the displacements, 
comprising a mirror G. The measurement is 
thus performed on the horizontal plane and the balancing 
force is of an electromagnetic nature. Since the length 
of the arms B and C is known, the magnitude of the 
balancing force permits determination of the thrust T 
exerted by the thruster P on the structure of the 
balance. In the embodiment shown schematically in Figure 
2, in addition to the arms B and C there are shown the  
 
centre of rotation F of the structure, and the load cell 
D. The operation is similar to that described with 
reference to the equipment in Figure 1. The limits of the conventional equipment of the 
above-described type are derived from the fact that 
although the balance must measure thrusts T of approximately 
1mN to 100mN, it must support the weight of the 
entire thruster, which is of the order of kilograms. In 
addition the friction exerted on the balance can become 
a force comparable to the thrusts to be measured, since 
the thruster P is connected to the supply system by means 
of electrical power cables and ducts for the propellant 
gas supply. These elements introduce into the system 
forces and damping which are difficult to quantify and 
reproduce. Considerable problems are caused in these test 
configurations by two elements, i.e. the fulcrum of the 
balance, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Equipment for measuring on earth the thrust of 
thrusters for use in space, comprising a balance (1) and 

a measuring means (11) which is associated with the 
balance in order to measure the thrust exerted by the 

thruster (P), characterized in that the balance (1) is 
provided with a target (13) at which the exhaust jet from 

the thruster (P) is directed, the thruster being mechanically 
free from the structure of the balance, and the 

said measuring means (11) measures the force applied to 
the balance in order to balance the thrust exerted on the 

balance by the jet from the thruster. 
Equipment according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that the fulcrum of rotation (7) of the balance coincides 

with the centre of gravity thereof. 
Equipment according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, 
characterized in that the balance is suspended by means 

of a flexible member (17) such as a thread or the like, 
with low flexural rigidity, of which the end which is 

connected to the balance is attached to the vertical 
which passes through the centre of gravity (7) of the 

balance (1). 
Equipment according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the said balance has a 

structure in the form of a cross, to a first arm (3) of 
which there is attached the target (13) at which the 

exhaust jet from the thruster is directed, and with a 
second arm (5) of which, inclined relative to the first 

arm (3), there is associated the means (11) of measuring 
the thrust exerted by the jet from the thruster (P). 
Equipment according to Claim 4, characterized in 
that the said first arm (3) is vertical and the said 

second arm (5) is horizontal. 
Equipment according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that on the balance 

there are disposed adjustable counterweights (21, 23, 25) 
for adjustment of the position of the centre of gravity 

(7) of the balance, in order to make it coincide with the 
centre of pivoting of the balance. 
Equipment according to Claim 6, characterized in 
that it includes a first system of counterweights (23) 

for adjustment of the centre of gravity in a vertical 
direction, a second system of counterweights (25) for 

adjustment of the centre of gravity in a horizontal 
direction, and optionally a third system of 

counterweights (21) for adjustment of the centre of 
gravity in a second horizontal direction. 
Equipment according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the position of 

the target (13) is adjustable. 
Equipment according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the said 

measuring means (11) is a load cell with displacement 
compensation. 
Equipment according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises a vacuum 

chamber in which there are disposed the said balance and 
the said load cell, and a support (15) for the thruster. 
Equipment according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the said target (13) 

has a surface for receiving the exhaust jet from the 
thruster, which receives a partial portion of the jet. 
Method for measuring on earth the thrust of a 
thruster for use in space, characterized by the following 

stages: 

providing a balance with a means of measuring a 
reaction of constraint exerted on the balance; 
providing a target on the said balance; 
mounting the thruster independently of the said 
balance; 
starting up the thruster and directing the exhaust 
jet from the thruster at the target mounted on the said 

balance; 
by means of the measuring means, measuring the 
reaction exerted on the balance in order to balance the 

thrust exerted on the balance by the exhaust jet from the 
thruster. 
Method according to Claim 12, characterized in 
 

that the centre of gravity of the balance is disposed so 
as to correspond with the fulcrum of the balance. 
Method according to Claim 12 or Claim 13, characterized 
in that the balance is kept still during the 

measurement, by cancelling out the displacements caused 
by the torque exerted. 
Method according to Claim 12, Claim 13 or Claim 
14, characterized in that the axiality of the jet is 

checked by measuring any rotations of the balance around 
an axis at right angles to the axis of oscillation of the 

fulcrum of the balance. 
Method according to Claim 15, characterized in 
that the axiality of the jet is measured in a plurality 

of angular positions of the thruster, by rotating the 
thruster gradually around the theoretical axis of the jet 

and determining the direction of the resultant of the 
thrust of the jet. 
Method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises a preliminary 

calibration stage in which: 

a jet of compressed air is directed at the measuring 
means; 
the thrust of the jet of air is regulated and 
measured by means of the measuring means; and 
the jet is directed against the target of the 
balance, and the thrust measured by the measuring means 

is measured. 
Method according to one or more of Claims 
12 to 16, characterized in that it includes a preliminary 

stage of calibration of the balance, in which: 

a thruster with known characteristics is mounted on 
another, conventional balance, which has already been 

calibrated; 
the balance to be calibrated is positioned adjacent 
to the other, conventional balance; 
the thruster is started up, and its jet is oriented 
towards the said target; and 
the thrust measured by the other, conventional 
balance is measured and used as a value for calibration 

 
of the balance to be calibrated. 
Method according to Claim 17 or Claim 18, 
characterized in that the thrust is measured at variable 

distances between the source of the jet of air and the 
target. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
