<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637133</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for generating repetitive pulses
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K300	H03K355	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K3	H03K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modulator for producing repetitive short high 
voltage pulses includes a high voltage power supply 

(12), a plurality of pulse forming networks (40) each 
capable of being charged to a potential equal to twice 

the voltage of the high voltage power supply, and a 
plurality of switches (60) interconnecting the pulse 

forming networks. The switches have a first state 
connecting the pulse forming networks in parallel with 

the high voltage power supply to charge the pulse 
forming networks and a second state connecting the 

pulse forming networks in series to discharge the pulse 
forming networks into a load (70). The pulse forming 

networks (40) are charged by use of a resonant charging 
technique. The modulator further includes an input 

(22) configured to receive a triggering pulse, the 
triggering pulse causing the switches to change from 

the first state to the second state. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITTON SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITTON SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYMONS ROBERT SPENCER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYMONS, ROBERT SPENCER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the generation of
repetitive pulses of electrical energy and, more
particularly, is applicable to a modulator to provide
high voltage pulses with fast rise and fall times.Many types of electrical apparatus, such as
microwave tubes used in radar transmitters and particle
accelerators, require short rectangular high voltage
pulses of electrical energy for their operation. These
pulses may be of the order of tens or hundreds of
kilovolts with a pulse width in the nanosecond or
microsecond range. The repetition frequency of the
pulses may range from one hundred to several thousand
Hertz.The predominant technology for generating these
pulses makes use of a pulse forming network which
functions as an artificial transmission line. The
network is charged to a desired voltage level and then
is coupled to an external load by a switch. Since
neither the network nor the switch can withstand the
high voltage level required by the load, a transformer
raises the network voltage to the required level. The
switch is activated by external timing signals. This
discharges the network into the primary windings of the
transformer which provides the stepped up voltage pulse
to the load. After each pulse has been transmitted,
the charging of the network is repeated.The switch may be a solid state device or a gas
filled tube such as a thyratron. A thyratron is filled 
with hydrogen gas and is capable of withstanding about
50 to 100 kilovolts between its cathode and anode. The
thyratron has a grid disposed between the cathode and
anode, and thyratrons of higher voltage ratings may
have a plurality of such grids. Ionization of the
hydrogen gas is initiated by a triggering voltage
applied to the grid nearest the cathode, which
overcomes the negative bias of the grid with respect to
the cathode and initiates an arc discharge of current
from the cathode to the anode. Thyratrons are
generally preferred, as discussed for example in US-A-4375594,
and are generally preferable to solid state
devices, since they can withstand a much higher voltage
in the "off" state and conduct higher current in the
"on" state. US-A-3845322 shows an alternative using
spark gaps which are switched by voltages tapped from
series-connected resistors, whereas series-connected
inductances are provided to connect capacitors in
parallel.Another form of pulse generator is disclosed in
US-A-3746881 also using spark gaps and capacitors.
Inductances couple a triggering generator to spark gaps
coupled to a stacked plurality of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for producing repetitive voltage
pulses comprising:


a high voltage power supply (12) for producing a
charging voltage;
a plurality of pulse forming networks (40
1
...40
4
) for
storing charge;
a plurality of thyratrons (60
1
...60
4
), arranged between
respective ones of said pulse forming networks and

an external load (70), the thyratrons being switchable
via respective switch control inputs (66) between an

OFF state in which the pulse forming networks are
connected in parallel with the high voltage power

supply (12), for resonantly charging the pulse forming
networks, and an ON state in which the thyratrons

provide a current path connecting the pulse forming
networks in series, for discharging the pulse forming

networks into an external load (70); and
input means (16) to receive a trigger pulse and
coupled to the thyratrons so that receipt of a trigger

pulse by the input means (16) will switch the
thyratrons (60
1
...60
4
) into the ON state;

   
characterised by
 a biasing power supply (34) for
negatively biasing the thyratrons (60
1
...60
4
) and a plurality
of inductors (54
1
...54
4
) arranged in series with each other,
with the biasing power supply (34) and with the trigger

generating means (16), wherein the switch control
inputs (66) are connected to junctions located between

respective pairs of the inductors (54) so that in use:

a negative bias voltage from the biasing power
supply (34) is applied to each of the switch control

inputs (66), thereby to maintain the thyratrons (60
1
...60
4
) in
the OFF state in the absence of a trigger 

pulse; and
when a trigger pulse is generated by the input
means (16), that trigger pulse is applied to all the

switch control inputs (66) via the inductors.
An apparatus according to claim 1 arranged so
that in use the pulse forming networks are

resonantly charged to a potential equal to at least
about twice the voltage of said high voltage power

supply (12).
An apparatus according to claim 1 arranged so
that in use the pulse forming networks are

resonantly charged to a potential equal to
substantia
lly twice the voltage of said high voltage
power supply (12).
An apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3 and
comprising charging inductor means (24) arranged to

provide a current path from the high voltage power
supply (12) to the pulse forming networks during

resonant charging.
An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein
the charging inductor means (24) has an inductance

greater than that of inductances coupling the pulse
forming networks, the inductances coupling the pulse

forming networks comprising a second plurality of
inductances (48
1
...48
4
) arranged in series with each other,
one end of the series being connected to the charging

inductor means and the inductances of the second
plurality being connected to respective ones of the

pulse forming networks, wherein the inductors of
the first-mentioned plurality of inductors are wound

together with respective inductors of the second
plurality to maintain the same voltage across each

wound pair.
An apparatus according to claim 4 or 5 and
comprising diode means (26) arranged in reverse 

orientation in said current path, so as to prevent
current flow back into the high voltage power supply

(12) during discharge of the pulse forming networks.
An apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the impedance of the pulse

forming networks is such that in use, after discharge
of the pulse forming networks, the voltage on the

pulse forming networks will reverse so as to deionize
the thyratrons.
An apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the input means comprises a

transformer (16) one side of which provides the trigger
pulse input (22) and the other side of which is

connected between the bias power supply (34) and a
first one of the inductors.
An apparatus according to any preceding
claim, wherein each of the thyratrons comprises a

cathode (62), an anode (64) and a grid (66) disposed
between said anode and said cathode, the thyratron

grids serving as said switch control inputs.
An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein
the biasing power supply (34) is arranged to negatively

bias the grid (66) of each thyratron with respect to
its cathode (62).
An apparatus according to claim 9 or 10 and
comprising means (68) for heating the cathodes of the

thyratrons.
An apparatus according to claim 9, 10 or 11,
when appended to claim 5, and comprising:


a further plurality of further inductors (46
1
...46
4
), each of said
further inductors coupling a first terminal of said pulse 

forming networks (40) together and to ground; whereby the
inductor of said second plurality of inductors

couple second terminal
of said pulse forming networks together and to

said charging inductor means (24) ; and wherein
the thyratron cathodes (62) are coupled to said
second terminal of said pulse forming networks and

the thyratron anodes (64) are coupled to said first
inductors, so that in use the pulse forming

networks are charged in parallel by the high
voltage power supply (12) and via said further inductor and said inductances of the second plurality

when non-conductance between the
associated cathodes and anodes provides said OFF state.
An apparatus according to claim 12 and
comprising a plurality of third inductors (52
1
...52
4
) arranged
to conduct heater current to respective heaters (68) of

the thyratrons.
An apparatus according to claim 13, wherein
said inductances of the second plurality and said third inductors and the first-mentioned

inductors are wound in trifilar
configuration.
An apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the thyratrons are

arranged for high voltage operation so that the high
voltage power supply (12) is able to deliver a voltage

to an external load (70) of at least of the order of
tens of kilovolts.
A method of producing repetitive short high
voltage pulses, the method comprising:


resonantly charging a plurality of pulse forming
networks by coupling said pulse forming networks

in parallel with a high voltage power source (12);
providing a trigger pulse to initiate switching of
said pulse forming networks;
discharging the plurality of pulse forming 
networks by applying the triggering pulse to close

a plurality of thyratrons, arranged between the
pulse forming networks, thus to connect the pulse

forming networks in series with an external load (70);
and
repeating said charging, said providing a trigger
pulse and said discharging at a predetermined

repetition frequency defined by that of the trigger
pulse,

   
characterised in that
 a negative biasing voltage
is applied to respective control inputs (66) of the

thyratrons via a series of inductors to
provide a triggering threshold to avoid inadvertent

closure of the thyratrons during charging, the
switch control inputs (66) being connected to junctions

located between respective pairs of the inductors,
and 
in that
, when initiating discharge, the trigger
pulse is applied to the control inputs (66) of all of

the thyratrons via said series of inductors.
A method according to claim 16, said pulse
forming networks being charged to a potential

equal to at least about twice the voltage of said high
voltage power supply (12).
A method according to claim 16, said pulse
forming networks being charged to a potential

equal to substantially twice the voltage of said high
voltage power source (12).
A method according to claim 16, 17, or 18,
wherein, during said discharging, the pulse forming

networks are prevented from discharging into said
high voltage power source.
A method according to claim 16, 17, 18 or 19,
wherein, in each repetition, the thyratrons are

deionized by a voltage reversal after discharge of said
plurality of pulse forming networks.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
