<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615653</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INDUCTIVE LOAD DUMP CIRCUIT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K1708	H03K17695	H03K17695	H03K1716	H03K1708	G05F110	H03K1716	G05F156	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	G05F	H03K	G05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	G05F1	H03K17	G05F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit in which the source-to-drain conduction path of a power switching transistor (N1) is connected in series with an inductive load (L1) between first and second power terminals and includes a voltage transient clamping transistor (P1) having its source-to-drain conduction path connected between the drain and gate of the switching transistor (N1). In response to a turn-off signal applied to the gate of the switching transistor (N1), a transient voltage is generated at the drain of the switching transistor and when the transient voltage exceeds a predetermined value, the clamping transistor (P1) is turned on. The conduction of the clamping transistor (P1) limits the voltage rise at the drain of the switching transistor (N1) and tends to maintain the switching transistor (N1) conductive to aid in the discharge of the energy stored in the inductive load (L1). A unidirectional conducting element connected in series with the clamping transistor (P1) ensures that only current of a polarity to discharge the inductive load (L1) flows through the clamping transistor (P1).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARRIS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARRIS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIORDANO RAYMOND L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRESLAR DONALD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIORDANO, RAYMOND, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRESLAR, DONALD, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to circuitry for protecting a
transistor against excessive transient voltages developed across
the transistor such as when the transistor drives an inductor.It is known to use an insulated-gate field effect transistor
(IGFET) power transistor to drive an inductive load. As shown
in FIGURE 1, a metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) power switching
transistor N1 has its conduction path connected between ground
terminal 15 and a node 17. An inductor L1 connected in series
with a resistance Rs is connected between node 17 and a power
terminal 19 to which is applied a source of operating potential
of VCC volts. The resistor Rs shown connected in series with
inductor L1 may be a discrete current limiting resistor, or the
inherent resistance of the inductor, or may represent a
combination of both. When the transistor N1 is turned-on the
current through the inductor increases with time, and when N1 is
on for a period of time which exceeds the inductive-resistance
time constant (T=L1/Rs), the current through the inductor L1
approaches a value of IMAX=VCC/Rs. When transistor N1 is 
turned-off, after being turned-on for any significant period,
the electromotive force of the inductor attempts to maintain the
current flow by generating a voltage which results in what is
known in the art and referred to herein as an "inductive kick".
The value of the voltage generated across the inductor is equal
to Ldi/dt and has a polarity to raise node 17 above the positive
power supply, where L is the inductance of the inductor (coil)
and di/dt is the time rate of change of the decay current. The
amplitude of the inductive kick voltage may range up to several
hundred, and even thousands of volts. This high voltage kick at
node 17 may exceed the breakdown voltage (BVDS) of the
transistor N1 causing the transistor to be damaged and/or
destroyed and also causing damage to associated circuitry.
Therefore, the voltage at the drain of N1 must be limited to
avoid exceeding the break down voltage of N1 and the generation
of high amplitude transient voltages.A known method for limiting the voltage due to an "inductive
kick" includes the use of a "load dumping" diode such as diode
D1 connected at its anode to node 17 and at its cathode to
terminal 19. So connected, the voltage at node 17 can rise to
one forward diode drop (VF) above VCC. The diode D1 functions
to limit the voltage kick at node 17 to VF+VCC and the voltage
across the inductor-resistor combination is limited to VF volts
(typically 0.8 volts). Limiting the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A combination comprising:

first and second power terminals (15, 19) for the application therebetween of an operating
potential;
first and second insulated-gate field effect transistors (IGFETs) (N1, P1), each IGFET
having source and drain electrodes defining the ends of a conduction path and a control

electrode;
an inductive load (RS, L1);
means connecting the source of said first IGFET (N1) to said first power terminal (15)
and the drain of said first IGFET to an intermediate node (17);
means connecting said inductive load (RS, L1) between said intermediate node (17)
and said second power terminal (19);
means (IA) for selectively applying a turn-on signal and a turn-off signal to the control
electrode of said first IGFET (N1);
means connecting the conduction path of said second IGFET (P1)
between said intermediate node (17) and the control electrode of said first IGFET (N1)

for providing a selectively enabled direct current connected feedback path between the
drain and the control electrode of said first IGFET; and
means for applying a fixed potential (VCC) to the control electrode of said second
IGFET (P1) having a value to maintain said second IGFET non-conducting until

the voltage at said intermediate node (17) exceeds said fixed potential in a direction to
turn on said second IGFET and for then enabling a feedback conduction through the

dc connected conduction path of the second IGFET (P1).
The combination as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means (IA) for applying a turn-on
and a turn-off signal includes a third IGFET (NA) having a conduction path and a

control electrode, the conduction path of said third IGFET being connected between 
the control electrode of said first IGFET (N1) and said first power terminal (15), said

third IGFET (NA) when enabled tending to turn-off said first IGFET (N1).
The combination as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said first IGFET (N1) is of first
conductivity type and said second IGFET (P1) is of opposite conductivity type.
The combination as claimed in claim 1,2 or 3, wherein said second IGFET (P1) includes
a substrate region (30) and further including means for applying a voltage (V
DG
) to
said substrate region to maintain the source-to-substrate region of said second IGFET

(P1) reverse biased.
The combination as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein said fixed potential
is equal to the potential at said second power terminal (19), wherein said second

IGFET (P1) has a threshold voltage and wherein said second IGFET (P1) conducts
when the potential at said intermediate node (17) exceeds the potential at said second

power terminal (19) plus the threshold voltage of said second IGFET (P1).
The combination as claimed in claim 2, wherein in response to said third IGFET (NA)
being enabled and tending to turn-off said first IGFET (N1), a transient voltage is

produced at said intermediate node (17) of a polarity and amplitude to cause conduction
through the conduction path of said second IGFET (P1); and

wherein the current flowing through the conduction path of said second IGFET (P1)
also flows through the conduction path of said third IGFET (NA) causing the potential

at the control electrode of the first IGFET (N1) to rise to a level causing said first
IGFET (N1) to be maintained conducting temporarily for dissipating the energy stored

in the inductor (L1).
The combination as claimed in claim 6 wherein said first and third IGFETs (N1, NA)
are of first conductivity type and said second IGFET (
P1) is of complementary conductivity
type.
The combination as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means connecting the conduction
path of said second IGFET (P1) between said intermediate node (17) and the control

electrode of said first IGFET (N1) includes a unidirectional conducting means (D3, 
N2) poled to conduct current from said intermediate node (17) and via

the conduction path of said second IGFET (P1) to said control electrode of said first
IGFET (N1) and to block current from said control electrode of said first

IGFET (N1) via the conduction path of said second IGFET (P1) into said intermediate
node (17).
The combination as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means connecting the conduction
path of said second IGFET (P1) between said intermediate node (17) and the control

electrode of said first IGFET (N1) includes a diode (D3) poled to conduct current from
said intermediate node (17) to said control electrode.
The combination as claimed in claim 8 wherein said unidirectional conducting means
includes an IGFET (N2, P2) connected to function like a diode with its gate connected

to its drain.
The combination as claimed in claim 8 or 10 wherein said unidirectional conducting
(D3, N2) means is connected between said intermediate node (17) and the source of

said second IGFET (P1).
The combination as claimed in claim 8 or 10 wherein said unidirectional conducting
(DA, P2) means is connected between the drain of said second IGFET (P1) and the

control electrode of said first IGFET (N1).
The combination as claimed in claim 8 or 10 wherein said IGFET (P2) with its gate
connected to its drain is of the same conductivity type as the second IGFET (P1).
The combination as claimed in claim 8 or 10 wherein said IGFET (N2) with its gate
connected to its drain is of the same conductivity type as the first IGFET (N1).
The combination of one of the preceding claims, comprising

a third insulated-gate field effect transistor (NA);
means (N2, N3, P2, D3) connecting the source of said second IGFET (P1) to said intermediate
node (17) and its drain to the control electrode of said first IGFET (N1);

and 
means (PA) connecting the conduction path of said third IGFET (NA) between the
control electrode of said first IGFET and said first power terminal, said third IGFET

(NA) when enabled tending to turn-off said first IGFET (N1).
The combination as claimed in claim 15 wherein the means connecting the source of
the second IGFET (P1) to said intermediate node (17) and its drain to the control electrode

of said first IGFET (N3) includes a unidirectional conducting means (N2, N3,
P2, D3) poled to conduct current from said intermediate node (17) via

the conduction path of said second IGFET to the control electrode of said first IGFET
(N1) and to block current in the opposite direction.
The combination as claimed in claim 16 wherein said second IGFET (P1) has a substrate
(30) and wherein the substrate of said second IGFET is connected to its source

electrode.
The combination as claimed in one of claims 15-17 wherein the fixed control potential
is the potential applied to said second power terminal (19).
The combination as claimed in one of claims 15-18 wherein said means (IA) for selectively
applying a turn-on signal to the control electrode of said first IGFET (N1) includes

a fourth IGFET (PA) having its conduction path connected between the control
electrode of said first IGFET (N1) and a third power terminal (25) for the application

thereto of a potential of greater amplitude than the voltage applied to said second
power terminal (19).
The combination as claimed in one of claims 15-19 wherein the impedance of the conduction
path of said second IGFET (P1) for a given turn-on condition is less than the

impedance of the conduction path of said third IGFET (NA) for a like turn-on condition.
The combination as claimed in one of claims 15-20 wherein the impedance of the conduction
path of said third IGFET (NA) is such that, when said second IGFET (P1) is

turned-on and conducting, the voltage developed across the conduction path of said
third IGFET is at least equal to the threshold voltage of the first IGFET (N1). 
The combination as claimed in claim 19, wherein said unidirectional conducting
means is a fifth IGFET (N2, N3, P2) connected to function like a diode.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
