<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643593</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR GENERATING LEUKOCYTE FREE PLATELET CONCENTRATE ---------------------------------------------------------
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M126	A61M136	A61K3514	A61M102	A61M102	A61M130	A61K3514	A61M116	A61M130	A61M136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61K	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61K	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	A61K35	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61K35	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and devices for separating leukocytes from a leukocyte contaminated blood fraction by use of a rotating membrane filter apparatus (60). The invention includes methods/devices for preparing substantially leukocyte free platelet concentrate for therapeutic use. The devices of the invention include a rotating membrane filter apparatus (60) for leukocyte separation as well as tubing harness/component systems (Figs. 2a, 2b, 2c) useable in connection with automated apheresis instruments.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENIEGA JOSE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUFF DANIEL H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER WILLIAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHOENDORFER DONALD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENIEGA, JOSE, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUFF, DANIEL, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, WILLIAM, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHOENDORFER, DONALD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to medical
devices and methods
for obtaining substantially leukocyte free
platelet concentrate.In medical practice it is sometimes desirable to
transfuse patients with quantities of platelet concentrate
as a means for treating thrombocytopenia and/or subnormal
thrombocyte counts as may result from various systemic
disorders or following certain medical procedures.
Typically, such platelet transfusions are administered in
the form of a platelet-plasma concentrate containing
approximately 1.5-1.8 million platelets per microliter of
plasma. Such platelet concentrate is typically packaged
and utilized in "units", each unit having a volume of 200
milliliters.Platelet concentrates for transfusion have heretofore
typically been prepared by first extracting platelet-rich
plasma from whole blood, and subsequently subjecting the
platelet-rich plasma to a secondary concentration process
whereby additional plasma is removed so as to leave the
desired platelet concentration of 1.5-1.8 million platelets
per microliter. One example of an automated method/device
for obtaining platelet concentrate from whole blood is
described in Schoendorfer, D.W., Williamson, L.H.,
Sheckler, V.L. and Fitzgerald, B.P.: Platelet Collection
with the Autopheresis-C® Apheresis System; Vox Sanguinis,
58:100-105(1990).The instrumentation and methodology heretofore utilized
to obtain platelet concentrate generally allows quantities
of contaminating leukocytes to remain in the final platelet
concentrate. By some processes, the level of contaminating 
leukocytes contained in the platelet concentrate may be in
the range of 106-109 leukocytes per 200 ml unit of platelet
concentrate.The presence of leukocytes within the platelet
concentrate is undesirable because leukocytes are much more
immunogenic than platelets. The presence of contaminating
leukocytes in platelet concentrate infusions may have been
associated with various responses that are detrimental to
the recipient of the transfusion. Such responses may
include pyrogenic febrile reactions, refractoriness to
platelet transfusions due to alloimmunization to HLA
antigens found on the surfaces of the leukocytes and graft-host
diseases caused by transfusion of lymphocytes into
immunodeficient patients. Also, the presence of
contaminating leukocytes may result in transmission of
leukocyte-associated viral diseases, many of which may
cause severe illness or even death.In view of the adverse effects associated with the
presence of leukocytes in platelet
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of preparing substantially leukocyte free platelet-containing
plasma comprising passing a substantially red blood cell free,

leukocyte contaminated, platelet-containing plasma from a source onto a
rotatable cylindrical membrane filter (60b) having a multiplicity of pores

formed therein, said pores being sufficiently small to prevent passage
therethrough of leukocytes, while rotating the filter to separate said

plasma into leukocyte depleted platelet-containing plasma which passes
through said pores and is collected, and a leukocyte fraction which does

not pass through said pores.
The method of Claim 1 wherein said leukocyte platelet-containing
plasma is passed onto said rotating cylindrical membrane at a rate of

approximately 80-120 ml/min.
The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said cylindrical membrane is
rotated at a rate sufficient to prevent the pores of said membrane from

being clogged.
The method of Claim 3 comprising rotating said cylindrical
membrane at a rate of approximately 1600-1800 rpm.
The method of any preceding claim wherein said leukocyte
fraction is recirculated to said source and the step of passing platelet-containing

plasma onto said filter is carried out repeatedly until a desired
reduction in the leukocyte content of the platelet-containing plasma has

been effected. 
The method of any preceding claim wherein the step of passing
platelet-containing plasma onto said filter is repeated successively three

to four times.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the rate of rotation
of said filter (60b) is maintained within the range of approximately 1600-1800

rpm.
The method of any preceding claim wherein the cylindrical
membrane filter (60b) has a filtration area of approximately 70 sq cm

and pores of approximately 3.0-3.5 microns in size formed therein, said
leukocyte contaminated platelet-containing plasma being passed through

said rotating cylindrical membrane filter at a rate of approximately 80-120
ml/min.
A method for obtaining leukocyte depleted platelet concentrate
from whole blood, said method comprising the steps of:


(a) passing said whole blood through a first separation
apparatus (44) whereby said whole blood is separated into i) a

substantially red blood cell free platelet-rich plasma constituent and ii) a
red blood cell concentrate constituent;
(b) passing the plasma constituent obtained in step (a) through
a second separation apparatus (60a) whereby said plasma constituent is

separated into i) substantially cell-free plasma and ii) leukocyte
contaminated platelet concentrate; and 
(c) using the leukocyte contaminated platelet concentrate
obtained in step (b) as said source in the method of any one of Claims 1

to 8.
A method of obtaining leukocyte depleted platelet concentrate
from whole blood, the method comprising the steps of:


(a) passing said whole blood through a first separation
apparatus (44) whereby said whole blood is separated into i)

substantially red blood cell free platelet-rich plasma constituent and ii) a
red blood cell concentrate constituent;
(b) using the plasma constituent obtained in step (a) as said
source in the method of any one of Claims 1 to 8, and
(c) passing the leukocyte depleted platelet-rich plasma obtained
in step (b) through a separation apparatus (60a) to separate the leukocyte

depleted platelet-rich plasma into a quantity of substantially cell-free
plasma and a quantity of platelet concentrate.
The method of Claim 9 or 10, wherein the separation apparatus
(60a) that separates out cell-free plasma comprises a rotating membrane

filter having pores of approximately 0.8 micron formed therein.
The method of Claims 9, 10 or 11 wherein step (a) further
comprises passing said whole blood through a rotating centrifugal

separation apparatus (44) operative centrifugally to separate platelet-rich
plasma said from whole blood. 
The method of any one of Claims 9 to 12 comprising monitoring
the hemoglobin content of the platelet-rich plasma constituent obtained in

step (a); and

if said hemoglobin level of said platelet-rich plasma constituent
exceeds a maximum acceptable level, recirculating said platelet-rich

plasma constituent through said first separation apparatus (44) to effect
further removal of aberrant red blood cells therefrom.
A device for obtaining leukocyte depleted platelet concentrate,
said device comprising a rotatable cylindrical membrane filter (60b)

having a multiplicity of pores formed therein, said pores being large
enough to permit passage of plasma and platelets therethrough, but small

enough to prevent passage of leukocytes therethrough; a drive apparatus
(216) for causing rotation of said cylindrical membrane filter (60b); an

inlet flow path (212), a first outlet flow path (214) for removing residual
plasma and leukocytes which have not passed through the pores of said

membrane filer; and a second outlet flow path (227) for removing
leukocyte depleted platelet concentrate which has passed through the

pores of said membrane filter; and

a source of substantially red blood cell free, leukocyte
contaminated platelet-containing plasma connected to the inlet flow path

(212) for passing said leukocyte contaminated platelet concentrate onto
said rotating cylindrical membrane filter, to separate the leukocyte

contaminated platelet concentrate into said leukocyte depleted, platelet
concentrate, and a leukocyte fraction that does not pass through the

pores.
The device of Claim 14 wherein the multiplicity of pores formed
in said membranes are less than 3.5 microns in size.
The device of Claim 14 wherein the multiplicity of pores formed
in said membrane are 3.0-3.5 microns in size.
The device of Claim 14 wherein the multiplicity of pores are
approximately 3.0 microns in size.
The device of any one of Claims 14 to 17 wherein said rotatable
cylindrical membrane filter comprises a membrane (208) formed of

polymeric film.
The device of Claim 18 wherein said membrane (208) comprises
polycarbonate film.
The device of Claim 19 wherein said membrane (208) comprises
polycarbonate film which is approximately 10 microns thick.
The device of any one of Claims 14 to 20 wherein said rotatable
cylindrical membrane filter (60b) further comprises a membrane (208)

having a pore density of approximately 2 x 10
6
 pores per square
centimeter.
The device of any one of Claims 14 to 21 further comprising:

a generally cylindrical rigid housing (200) surrounding said
rotating membrane filter; 
said housing having a cylindrical wall having an inner surface
(202); and
said housing being sized and configured relative to said rotating
membrane filter such that there exists a gap space (210) of

approximately 0.5 to 0.76mm (0.020-0.030 inches) in width between
said rotating membrane filter and the inner surface of the cylindrical

wall of said housing.
The device of Claim 22 wherein:

said inlet flow path (212) comprises a first inlet aperture formed
in said housing (200) to permit infusion of said leukocyte contaminated

platelet concentrate into said gap space (210);
said first outlet flow path (210,214) comprises a first outlet
aperture formed in said housing (200) to permit outflow of the leukocyte

fraction from said gap space (210); and
said second outlet flow path (227) comprises a second outlet
aperture formed in said housing (200) to permit outflow of the leukocyte

depleted platelet concentrate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
