<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631422</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A modem with received signals and transmitted signals comprising signal sets.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B162	H04B164	H04B1404	H04B1404	H04L2549	H04L2549	H04M1100	H04M1100	H04M1106	H04M1106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04B14	H04B14	H04L25	H04L25	H04M11	H04M11	H04M11	H04M11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An approach for operating modems in synchronism with the A/D 
and D/A converters of the network limits the analog signals transmitted to 

the modem to low levels and concurrently restricts the received signals to 
large steps. This set of apparently conflicting signal limitations is achieved 

with a signal conversion process interposed in the communication path 
between the two hybrids. In one embodiment of this invention, the code 

conversion is implemented in an adjunct processor that is associated with a 
switch that participates in the communication path between the two 

modems. In operation, a call that needs the conversion process is identified 
by virtue of the calling party's number and service associated service 

provision information. When it is established that both the calling party's 
modem and the receiving party's modem operate in the manner that 

requires signal conversion, conversion is executed. Echo cancellation may be 
applied to the signal in the code conversion apparatus to further improve 

performance. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAGDEVIREN NURI RUHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAGDEVIREN, NURI RUHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to high speed modems. In a co-pending application entitled "A High Speed Modem 
Synchronized To A Remote Codec" Serial No. 07/963539, filed October 20, 
1992 and assigned to the assignee hereof, an invention was described for 
employing modems that are synchronized to the A/D and D/A coverter 
clocks of the digital network over which signals are communicated. 
Specifically, a modem was described which is synchronized both in time and 
in quantization levels to the A/D converters in the network and which also 
takes into account the compressions introduced in the telephone network. The synchronizing of such modems to the telephone network 
permits one to greatly reduce the noise that is introduced into the signals 
and also allows user modems to operate at the network's clock rate. In the 
T1 carrier system, for example, a 64 kb/s rate can theoretically be achieved. Current local exchange carrier (LEC) switches need to provide 
"plain old telephone service" (POTS) to customers, which is analog service, 
and also need to provide digital signals to the inter-exchange carriers, such 
as AT&T. In order to satisfy customer needs and inter-exchange carrier 
requirements, LEC switches include a hybrid that divides the POTS two-wire 
bidirectional signal into a four-wire pair of unidirectional signals. In 
addition, an A/D converter and a D/A converter is included on the network 
side (i.e., the four-wire side) of the hybrid. One characteristic of the improved modem disclosed in the 
above-referenced patent application is that the signal generated by the 
modem takes into account the µ-law compression and expansion that exists 
in the telephone network. What that means is that the step sizes between 
adjacent digital signals vary exponentially. This large variation in step sizes (e.g., by a factor of 128) 
presents a problem when the hybrids that are included in the LEC switches 
are imperfect. Imperfect hybrids allow a "leak-through" from the received 
signal to the transmitted signal and that, of course, is tantamount to noise. In some equipment, the prevention of leak-through is no better 
than 6db (power). What that means is that a digital signal of level 126, for 
example, will create an analog signal of level 3,888 units (via the µ-law  
 
expansion) and that analog signal level, arriving at one analog port of the 
hybrid, will induce a 1,944 unit analog signal in the other analog port of the 
hybrid. The induced analog signal adds to the true analog signal of the 
port, and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus comprising: 
   a first port for communicating via digital signals and a second 

port for communicating via bidirectional analog signals, and 
   a modem coupled to the first port and the second port, including 

      receive circuitry responsive to an analog signal received at 
the second port for converting said analog signal to a digital signal 

applied to said first port and for developing a maximum value N 
for said digital signal when said analog signal reaches a maximum 

analog level having a first magnitude, where N is an integer; and 
      transmit circuitry for applying an analog signal 

corresponding to a digital signal received at said first port and 
applied to the transmit circuitry, where the analog signal applied 

by said transmit circuitry to the second port has a maximum level 
of a second magnitude,, where said second magnitude is at least 

twice as large as the first magnitude, and where the maximum 
magnitude of the analog signal developed by the transmit circuitry 

is developed in response to a value of N of the digital signal 
applied to the transmit circuitry, thus the analog signal received 

by said receive circuitry is characterized by a small dynamic range 
compared to the analog signal developed by the transmit circuitry, 

and the analog signal developed by the transmit circuitry is 
characterized by a large dynamic range compared to the analog 

signal received by the receive circuitry. 
The apparatus of claim 1 where the analog signal received at 
the second port and applied to the receive circuitry is constructed in 

accordance with a preselected compression algorithm. 
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a converter 
responsive to signals developed by the transmit circuitry for converting 

applied signals having said large dynamic range into signals having said low 
dynamic range. 
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the converter includes 
circuitry for communicating with the modem to determine whether 

 
conversion from the second signal set to the first signal set is necessary. 
A method for communicating a digital signal, comprising the 
steps of: 

   converting the digital signal to an analog signal having a first 
maximum analog level, 

   developing a digital signal that corresponds to said analog signal 
with an attenuated maximum level, achieving thereby a mapping from the 

digital signal applied to said step of converting to the digital signals created 
by said step of developing a digital signal. 
The method of claim 5 where the mapping is a 1 to 1 mapping. 
The method of claim 5 further including the step of 
subtracting a computed analog signal from the analog signal developed by 

said step of converting, prior to applying said step of developing a digital 
signal. 
The method of claim further including the step of 
ascertaining the need to carry out the step of mapping. 
The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising: 
   a channel bank hybrid circuit having 


a) a bidirectional analog port coupled to said first port and to an 
analog hybrid circuit, 
b) an incoming digital portion, 
c) a D/A converter interposed between the incoming digital port 
and the analog hybrid, 
d) an outgoing digital port, and 
e) an A/D converter interposed between the output digital port 
and the analog hybrid, 
 
   a converter for modifying dynamic range of signals, having a first 

converter input port, a first converter output port, a second converter input 
port and a second converter output port, and having 
a) the first converter input port connected to said outgoing 
digital port of the channel bank hybrid, 
b) the first converter output port connected to said incoming 
digital port of the channel bank hybrid, 
c) the second converter input port connected to an outgoing 
digital port of another channel bank hybrid, and 
d) the second converter output port connected to an incoming 
digital port of said another channel bank hybrid. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said converter comprises: 
   means for converting digital data arriving at said first converter 

input port to analog form, thereby forming a first intermediate signal, 
   means for converting digital data arriving at said second 

converter input port to analog form, thereby forming a second intermediate 
signal, 

   means for subtracting the second intermediate signal form the 
first intermediate signal to for a third intermediate signal, and 

   means for developing a digital representation of the third 
intermediate signal with a reduce dynamic range to form a converter output 

signal, and for applying the converter output signal to the second converter 
output port. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the means for converting 
digital data arriving at said second converter input port to analog form 

comprises: 
   a tapped delay means responsive to said digital data arriving at 

said second converter input port, 
   a plurality of data altering means, each connected to a different 

tap of said tapped delay means, for an analog signal that corresponds to the 
digital data applied to the data altering means to analog form multiplied by 

a factor between 0 and 1, including 1, and 
   an adder responsive to the analog signals developed by said 

plurality of data altering means to form said second intermediate signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
