<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658023</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dynamic user registration method in a mobile communications network
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1228	H04L1228	H04W800	H04W802	H04W802	H04W826	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04W8	H04W8	H04W8	H04W8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a communications system comprising a number of base stations, each base 
station communicating over a shared communication channel with a plurality of 

registered stations and controlling the network cell formed by said plurality of 
registered stations, a method is described for dynamically registering and deregistering 

mobile stations. Each station owns a unique address and is allocated a 
local identifier at registration time. Each network cell owns a unique cell identifier 

known to all registered stations belonging to this network cell. Base stations 
manage cell members data uniquely associating the unique address and the local 

identifier corresponding to each one of the mobile stations belonging to their network 
cell. A registration request is sent to a selected base station by a registering 

mobile station, comprising the unique cell identifier of the network cell controlled 
by the selected base station and the unique address of the registering mobile station; 

the selected base station detects in its cell members data any conflicting 

registered station whose unique address matches the unique address of the registering 
mobile station and sends an address check packet to any conflicting registered 

station, comprising the unique address of the conflicting registered station, 
its local identifier and the identifier of the network cell it controls. A receiving 

registered mobile station sends to the selected base station, an acknowledgement 
to the address check packet if its unique address, the local identifier of its owning 

base station and its network cell identifier all match with the ones carried by the 
address check packet. The selected base station rejects the registration request it 

it receives an acknowledgement to its address check packet. The same address 
check packet is used to deregister inactive stations. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AHMADI HAMID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BANTZ DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUCHOT FREDERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NATARAJAN KATHADUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WETTERWALD MICHELE MARIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AHMADI, HAMID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BANTZ, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUCHOT, FREDERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NATARAJAN, KATHADUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WETTERWALD, MICHELE MARIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to communications methods and, in particular,
to a method for registering and deregistering mobile users in a communications
network.In data communications systems generally, and particularly in wireless data
communications systems such as cellular radio frequency (RF) and infrared systems,
the control of the transmission activities within a cell can be either distributed
or centralized. This control is important when the medium (e.g. radio or
infrared) must be shared among the inhabitants of the cell. Sharing may be by
time-multiplexing, frequency-multiplexing or code-division multiplexing of various
kinds. There may be resources associated with the cell in addition to the
transmission medium : for example, attachment to a wired backbone network,
storage, or locally administered identifiers.In distributed control, inhabitants of the cell cooperate by executing an algorithm,
usually common to all. An example is carrier-sense multiple-access (CSMA),
where all cell inhabitants follow a conditional procedure before transmitting. A
description of the principles of such CSMA protocols will be found in section
26-20 of Reference Data for Engineers, 7th edition, SAMS (1991).In centralized control, one inhabitant of the cell (here called the base station)
provides information to the other inhabitants (here called mobiles) to coordinate
their use of cell resources. For example, the base station may allocate frequency
channels to mobile stations, or may specify times at which a mobile station can
transmit. An advantage of centralized control is that because the base station 
maintains precise knowledge about the allocation state of cell resources, it can
optimize the use of those resources to a greater degree than can a distributed
control algorithm.The base station maintains explicit knowledge of the identity of mobile stations
that require its services. Such knowledge is used for a number of reasons including:
efficient addressing and explicitly directed transfer of information to mobile
stations so that battery power can be conserved, bandwidth allocation, routing
and handoff as stations move across cells, and effective network management and
control of mobile stations.The process by which a mobile station introduces itself to the base station of its
choice is called registration. The mobile station registers with a base station that
will be referred to as its owner. The owner base station is responsible for providing
the mobile station with access to the communication
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for dynamically registering a new station in a
communications system comprising a number of base stations,

each base station communicating over a shared communication
channel with a plurality of registered stations and

controlling the network cell formed by said plurality of
said registered stations, wherein :


each station owns a unique address and is allocated a
local identifier,
each network cell owns a unique cell identifier known to
all registered stations belonging to said each network

cell,
each base station manages cell members' data uniquely
associating the unique address and the local identifier

corresponding to each one of said plurality of
registered stations;

said method comprising the steps of :

a. send a registration request from said registering new
station to a selected base station, said registration

request comprising the unique cell identifier of the
network cell controlled by said selected base station

and the unique address of said registering new station;
b. upon reception of said registration request at said
selected base station, compare the network cell

identifier comprised in said registration request with
said unique cell identifier of the network cell

controlled by said selected base station (700) and
detect in said cell members' data any conflicting 

registered station whose said unique address matches the
unique address of said registering new station (720);


b.1. if the network cell identifier comprised in said
registration request is different than said unique

cell identifier of the network cell controlled by
said selected base station, reject said registration

request (770).
b.2. if no conflicting registered station is detected,
accept said registration request, allocate a local

identifier to said registering new station (730), add
an entry to said cell members' data uniquely

associating the unique address and the local
identifier of said registering new station (740) and

send a registration response to said registration
request to said registering new station (750).
b.3. if a conflicting registered station is detected, send
an address check packet from said selected base

station to said conflicting registered station (760),
said address check packet comprising in a first field

the unique address of said conflicting registered
station, in a second field the local identifier of

said conflicting registered station and in a third
field said unique cell identifier of the network cell

controlled by said selected base station;
c. upon reception of said address check packet at a
receiving registered station :


c.1. compare said first, second and third fields
respectively with the unique address, the local

identifier and the network cell identifier of said
receiving registered station (1110); and 
c.2. if all of said first, second and third fields match,
send an acknowledgment to said address check packet,

from said receiving registered station to said
selected base station (1130);
c.3. if either of said first, second or third fields does
not match, ignore said address check packet (1140).
d. upon reception of said acknowledgment to said address
check packet, from said receiving registered station to

said selected base station :

d.1. reject said registration request (770).
The method of claim 1, wherein the step c.3. is split in
steps :


c.31.de-register said receiving registered station from said
communication system if said first field does not match

and said second and third fields match (1150);
c32.else ignore said address check packet (1140).
The method of claim 1, wherein upon reception of said
registration request, if a conflicting registered station is

detected, check if the registering new station has already
been registered :


a. set an index j of said selected base station to zero,
b. send an address check packet to said conflicting
registered station corresponding to the conflicting cell

members' table entry (760) and add one to j index,
c. wait for packet response, 
d. if a response to said address check packet is received
at said selected base station, reject said registration

request (770).
e. if none response to said address check packet is
received at said selected base station, compare j index

with a predetermined number M,

e.1. if j is equal to said number M, send a registration
response to said registration request to said

registering new station (750).
e.2. if j is smaller than said number M, repeat the last
four steps.
A method for dynamically de-registering inactive stations in
a communications system comprising a number of base

stations, each base station communicating over a shared
communication channel with a plurality of registered

stations and controlling the network cell formed by said
plurality of registered stations, wherein :


each station owns a unique address and is allocated a
local identifier,
each network cell owns a unique cell identifier known to
all registered stations belonging to said each network

cell,
each base station manages cell members' data uniquely
associating the unique address and the local identifier

corresponding to each one of said plurality of
registered stations;
 
said method comprising the steps of :


a. detect inactive registered stations;
b. send an address check packet from the owner base station
controlling the network cell of said inactive registered

stations, said address check packet comprising in a
first field the unique address of said inactive

registered station, in a second field the local
identifier of said inactive registered station and in a

third field the identifier of the network cell of said
inactive registered station.
c. upon reception of said address check packet at a
receiving registered station :


c.1. compare said first, second and third fields
respectively with the unique address, the local

identifier and the network cell identifier of said
receiving registered station (1110);
c.2. if all of said first, second and third fields match,
send an acknowledgment to said address check packet,

from said receiving registered station to said owner
base station (1130); and
c.3. if either of said first, second or third field does
not match, ignore said address check packet (1140).
d. de-register said inactive registered station if said
owner base stations does not receive any acknowledgment

to said address check packet after a predetermined
number of retries (1150).
The method of claim 4, wherein step d. comprises deletion by
owner base station of the unique address and the local

identifier corresponding to said inactive registered station
in said cell members' data.
A system for dynamically registering a new station in a
communications system comprising a number of base stations,

each base station communicating over a shared communication
channel with a plurality of registered stations, each

registered station being assigned a unique address, said
plurality of said registered stations designated as a

network cell and being assigned a unique network cell
identifier known to said base station and to said plurality

of registered stations, wherein each base station manages
said network cell members' data uniquely associating for

each one of said plurality of registered stations said
unique address with a local identifier, said system

comprising :

a. means for selecting at said registering new station a
base station as a selected base station and a network

cell identifier as a selected network cell identifier;
b. means for sending a registration request from said
registering new station to said selected base station,

said registration request comprising said selected
network cell identifier and the unique address of said

registering new station;
c. means for comparing the network cell identifier
comprised in said registration request, upon reception

of said registration request at said selected base
station, with said selected network cell identifier and

for detecting in said network cell members' data any
conflicting registered station whose unique address

matches said registering new station's unique address; 
d. means for accepting said registration request when no
conflicting registered station is found;
e. means for sending an address check packet from said
selected base station to each conflicting registered

station, said address check packet comprising in a first
field the unique address of each conflicting registered

station, in a second field the local identifier of each
conflicting registered station and in a third field the

network cell identifier of said selected base station;
f. means responsive to receiving said address check packet
at said conflicting registered station, comparing said

first, second and third fields of said address check
packet respectively with the unique address, the local

identifier and the network cell identifier of said
conflicting registered station, said comparing means

sending an acknowledgment of said address check packet
from said conflicting registered station to said

selected base station if all fields match and ignoring
said address check packet if said first field matches

and either said second field or said third field does
not match; and
g. means for rejecting said registration request sent by
said registering new station upon receipt at said

selected base station of an acknowledgment to said
address check packet from one of said conflicting

registered stations; whereby registering new station is
registered when no conflicting registered station is

detected, or when no acknowledgment is received at said

selected base station in response to said address check
packet, and whereby said registration request is

rejected when acknowledgment of said address check 
packet is sent by said conflicting registered station

and received at said selected base station.
The system as defined in claim 6, wherein means for
receiving said address check packet further comprises means

for de-registering said conflicting registered station from
said communications system if said first field does not

match and both second and third fields match.
The system as defined in claim 6, wherein means responsive
to receiving said registration request further comprises

means to check if the registering new station has already
been registered when a conflicting registered station is

detected.
A system for dynamically de-registering inactive stations in
a communications system comprising a number of base

stations, each base station communicating over a shared
communication channel with a plurality of registered

stations, each registered station being assigned a unique
address, said plurality of registered stations, designated

as a network cell, being assigned a unique network cell
identifier known to said base station and to said plurality

of registered stations, wherein each base station manages
network cell members' data uniquely associating for each one

of said plurality of registered stations said unique address
with a local identifier, said system comprising :


a. means for detecting at one of said base stations an
inactive registered station among said plurality of

registered stations;
b. means for sending an address check packet from said base
station detecting said inactive registered station to

said inactive registered station, said address check
packet comprising in a first field the unique address of 

said inactive registered station, in a second field the
local identifier of said inactive registered station and

in a third field the network cell identifier of said
base station detecting said inactive registered station;
c. means responsive to said address check packet at said
inactive registered station, comparing said first,

second and third fields of said address check packet
respectively with the unique address, the local

identifier and the network cell identifier of said
inactive registered station and said comparing means

sending an acknowledgment of said address check packet
from said inactive registered station to said base

station detecting said inactive registered station if
all fields match; and
d. means for de-registering said inactive registered
station if said base station detecting said inactive

registered station does not receive said acknowledgment
after a number of said address check packet retries.
The system as defined in claim 9, wherein the means for
de-registering said inactive registered station further

comprises :

a. means responsive to said base station detecting said
inactive registered station for deleting the unique

address and the local identifier corresponding to said
inactive registered station in said network cell

members' data.
The system as defined in claim 6, wherein said shared
communication channel is a radio frequency communication

channel. 
The system as defined in claim 6, wherein said shared
communication channel is an infrared communication channel.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
