<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614512</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROPORTIONAL PRESSURE CONTROL VALVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16F944	F16F946	F16F950	F16F9512	F16K3106	F16K3106	G05D1620	G05D1620	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16K	F16K	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16F9	F16F9	F16F9	F16F9	F16K31	F16K31	G05D16	G05D16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A proportional pressure control valve (10) has a metering spool (42) which selectively meters flow between an axial first port (12) and radial second ports (14). The spool (42) is axially reciprocable with a larger face (40) toward the first port (12) and a smaller face (62) opposite from the first port (12), with a pressure equalization bore (60) through the spool (42). A first spring (64) extends between the smaller face (62) of the spool (42) and an armature (66) and the armature (66) is biased to a normal position by a second spring (74) and also has a pressure equalization bore (72) through it. Radial orifices (70) are formed in the end of the armature (66) facing the smaller face (62) of the spool (42), and the end of the armature (66) seats in the main bore (46) in which the spool (42) is seated. Passageways (90) extend from the orifices (70) to the second ports (14), and two selectively and variably energizable electromagnetic coils (80, 82) coaxially encircle the armature (66), one to draw the armature (66) to one side of the normal position and the other to draw the armature (66) to the opposite side. The normal position of the armature (66) preferably biases the spool (42) to an intermediate setting so that energizing the coil (82) which is toward the closed position of the spool (42) stiffens the response of the valve (10) and energizing the coil (80) which is away from the closed position of the spool (42) softens the response of the valve (10). Energizing one or the other coil (80, 82) also varies the exposed area of the orifices (70) to change the slope of the pressure-flow rate curve (98, 99, 100, 101, 102) at the particular energization level for low flow rates.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED POWER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED POWER INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOBBS THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRICKLE GLEN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOBBS, THOMAS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRICKLE, GLEN, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROPORTIONAL PRESSURE CONTROL VALVEField Of The InventionThis invention relates to pressure control devices, and particularly to a compact two-stage pressure control valve which is especially useful in vehicle suspension systems.Background Of The InventionHydraulic shock absorbers or suspension dampers are used on vehicles to dampen oscillations caused by uneven road surfaces or vehicle accelerations . Hydraulic dampers absorb vibrational energy using hydraulic principles. Dampers employ a piston within a cylinder, where the damper extends and retracts (compresses; in response to vehicle movements. Fluid is forced through a series of orifices and relief and check valves in order to control the motion of the piston and achieve damping.Unfortunately, however, such dampers are passive in that the orifices and the relief and check valves produce the same damping characteristics for all road surfaces. Dampers should optimally be able to assume different operating characteristics under varying operating conditions. To correct this shortcoming, vehicle suspension systems have incorporated selectable or adaptive control systems. In these systems, the vehicle operator is able to select between firm or soft suspension ride modes. A small direct current motor within the damper opens or closes a valve which operates in parallel with the star.-^3rd orifices and relief valves within the damper. As a re .-.it, the vehicle operator may modify the vehicle ride mode to accommodate personal preference.Adaptive control is limited, however, because the parallel valving must be set in either a fully on or a fully off position. It would be desirable for the control 

 system to be proportionally controlled, so that the characteristics of the damper could change in relation to real-time varying road conditions. It may also be de¬ sirable for the control system to incorporate other factors which may affect the optimal suspension ride mode, such as vehicle speed, load, or the present position of the damper. Additionally, adaptive control systems typically require 0.25 seconds or more for the selected ride mode to take effect. Even if the operator desired to modify the ride mode for a change in road conditions, the selectable system may not be able to respond in time. For example, if the system was set for a soft ride, it may be desired to .. quickly change it to a firm ride, for example to increase the tire-to-road force when going over a series of bumps so as to improve turning ability or to negotiate a turn so as to prevent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
We claim:
1. A proportional pressure control valve, comprising: a housing having a first port and a second port; a metering spool within said housing for providing a variable restriction between said first port and said second port, said metering spool being movable between an infinite number of positions, the position of said metering spool determining the size of said restriction between said first and second ports; means for applying a pressure feedback force on said metering spool; power operated means for moving said metering spool between said positions so as to vary the size of said restriction; and means bypassing said restriction for providing communication between said first and second ports.
2. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 1, wherein said means for providing communication between said first and second ports includes a variable orifice.
3. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 2, wherein said power operated means varies the size of said variable orifice.
4. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 3, wherein said power operated means includes an armature and said orifice is defined at least in part by said armature. 


 5. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 1, wherein said power operated means includes an armature and first biasing means connecting said armature and said metering spool.
6. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 5, wherein said power operated means further
1
 comprises a second biasing means, said second biasing means biasing said armature to a normal position in which said?
*
 metering spool is in a normal biased state.
7. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 1, wherein said means for applying a pressure feedback force on said metering spool includes a first surface area on one side of the spool and a second surface area on the opposite side of the spool, said second surface area being smaller than the first surface area.
8. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 1, wherein one of said positions is a sealing position in which said restriction is closed. 

9. A proportional pressure control valve, comprising: a housing having a driver cavity, a main bore and first and second ports in communication with said main bore; an electromagnetic driver mounted within said driver cavity, said electromagnetic driver having: an armature movable within said driver cavity; and an electromagnetic force source associated with said armature, said electromagnetic force source being operable to receive a variable input current and to establish a magnetic flux path through said armature to move the same, the strength of said magnetic flux path being substantially proportional to said variable input current; and a metering spool positioned within said main bore and movable in an infinitely variable manner between an infinite number of positions, the position of said metering spool determining in part the magnitude of communication between said first and second ports; means for applying a pressure feedback force on said metering spool including a first surface area on one side of the spool and a second surface area on the opposite side of said spool, said second surface area being smaller than said first surface area; and means for connecting said armature and said metering spool so that said armature and said metering spool move relative to one another according to a predetermined function which is dependent in part upon pressure at said first port; wherein a passageway is formed in said housing which opens at an orifice into said main bore between said armature and said metering spool and said passageway is communicable with said second port . 


 10. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 9, wherein an exposed opening of said orifice is variable and is determined by the position of said armature.
11. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 9, wherein said orifice is defined in part by said armature.
12. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 9, wherein the means connecting said armature and said metering spool comprises a first biasing means.
13. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 12, wherein a second biasing means biases said armature to a normal position in which said metering spool is in a normal biased state under a biasing force exerted by said first biasing means.
14. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 9, wherein said means for applying a pressure feedback force on said metering spool includes a bore through the metering spool from one side to the opposite side. 

15. A proportional pressure control valve, comprising: a housing having a first port and a second port; a metering spool within said housing for providing a variable restriction between said first port and said second port, said metering spool being movable between an infinite number of positions, the position of said metering spool determining the size of said restriction between said first and second ports; means for applying a pressure feedback force on said metering spool; an electromagnetic driver mounted within said housing, said electromagnetic driver having: an armature movable within said housing; a first electromagnetic force source associated with said armature, said electromagnetic force source being operable to receive a variable input current and to establish a magnetic flux path through said armature to move the same in a first axial direction, the strength of said magnetic flux path being substantially proportional to said variable input current; and a second electromagnetic force source associated with said armature, said electromagnetic force source being operable to receive a variable input current and to establish a magnetic flux path through said armature to move the same in a second axial direction opposite to said first axial direction, the strength of said magnetic flux path being substantially proportional to said variable input current; means connecting said armature and said metering spool so that said armature and said metering spool move relative to one another according to a function which is dependent in part upon pressure at said first port; and means for biasing said armature to a normal position in which said connecting means is in a normal state. 


 16. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 15, further comprising means for providing communication between said first and second ports bypassing said restriction in at least one position of said metering spool.
17. A proportional pressure control valve a.έ in claim 16, wherein said communication providing means includes a variable orifice.
18. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 15, further comprising means for equalizing a fluid pressure on opposite sides of said armature.
19. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 15, wherein said connecting means includes a first spring.
20. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 15, wherein at least one of said positions is a sealing position in which said restriction is closed. 

21. A proportional pressure control valve, comprising: a housing having a driver cavity, a main bore and first and second ports in communication with said main bore; an electromagnetic driver mounted within said driver cavity, said electromagnetic driver having: an armature movable within said driver cavity; a first electromagnetic force source associated with said armature, said electromagnetic force source being operable to receive a variable input current and to establish a magnetic flux path through said armature to move the same in a first axial direction, the strength of said magnetic flux path being substantially proportional to said variable input current; and a second electromagnetic force source associated with said armature, said electromagnetic force source being operable to receive a variable input current and to establish a magnetic flux path through said armature to move the same in a second axial direction opposite to said first axial direction, the strength of said magnetic flux path being substantially proportional to said variable input current; a metering spool positioned within said main bore and movable in an infinitely variable manner between an infinite number of positions, the position of said metering spool determining in part the magnitude of communication between said first and second ports; means for applying a pressure feedback force on said metering spool including a first surface area on one side of the spool and a second surface area on the opposite side of said spool, said second surface area being smaller than said first surface area; and means for connecting said armature and said metering spool so that said armature and said metering spool move 



 relative to one another according to a predetermined function which is dependent in part upon pressure at said first port; and means for biasing said armature to a normal position.
22. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 21, wherein a passageway is formed in said housing which opens at an orifice into said main bore between said armature and said metering spool and is communicable with said second port.
23. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 22, wherein an exposed opening of said orifice in communication with said main bore is determined by the position of said armature.
24. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 22, wherein said orifice is defined at least in part by said armature.
25. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 21, wherein the means connecting said armature and said metering spool comprises a first spring.
26. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 25, wherein said first spring is held in a normal biased state in the normal position of the armature.
27. A proportional pressure control valve as in claim 21, wherein said means for applying a pressure feedback force on said metering spool includes a bore through the metering spool from one side to the opposite side. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
