<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644763</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
USE OF 3,5-DIAMINO-6-(2,3-DICHLOROPHENYL)-1,2,4-TRIAZINE ISETHIONATE FOR THE TREATMENT AND PREVENTION OF DEPENDENCE, TOLERANCE AND SENSITIZATION OF DRUGS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61P2530	A61K3153	A61K3153	C07D25300	C07D25306	C07D40100	A61P2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61P	A61K	A61K	C07D	C07D	C07D	A61P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61P25	A61K31	A61K31	C07D253	C07D253	C07D401	A61P25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine and its pharmaceutically and veterinarily acceptable salts have activity in (a) preventing or reducing dependence on, and (b) preventing or reducing tolerance or reverse tolerance to, a dependence inducing agent such as an opioid, a central nervous system depressant, a psychostimulant or nicotine.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WELLCOME FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE WELLCOME FOUNDATION LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA-CRAIG MEIRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA-CRAIG, MEIRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the use of 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 
and its 
pharmaceutically and veterinarily acceptable acid addition 
salts in therapy. EP-A-0 021 121 describes a group of triazine 
compounds, including 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine, 
and acid addition salts thereof, which are 
active in the treatment of disorders of the central nervous 
system, for example psychiatric and neurological disorders, 
and which are particularly useful as anticonvulsants, for 
instance in the treatment of epilepsy. The compounds are 
non-depressant and are therefore advantageous compared with 
depressant antiepileptics such as phenobarbitone. EP-A-0 
247 892 describes 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 
isethionate, a particularly preferred salt owing 
to its good solubility. In mechanistic studies, 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 
has been shown at 
anticonvulsant brain concentrations to inhibit the release 
of excitatory amino acids, principally glutamate (Leach, 
M.J. etal. (1986), Epilepsia27, 490-497; Zhu, S.G. and 
McGee, E.G. (1990), Neurosci. Lett. 112, 348-351). 
Glutamate functions as an important neurotransmitter in the 
mammalian central nervous system and has been identified as 
having specific actions in the peripheral nervous system. 
The known anticonvulsant effect of this compound has 
therefore been ascribed to its ability to act as an  
 
inhibitor of glutamate release. A number of currently available drugs that 
produce effects on mood, thought or feeling have a well-recognized 
potential for addiction and misuse; see for 
example Chapter 22 in Goodman and Gilman's "The 
Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics", eighth edition, 
McGraw-Hill, Inc. (1992). One of the hazards in the use of 
such a drug is that some individuals eventually develop a 
dependence on it; they continue to take it in the absence 
of medical indications, often despite adverse social and 
medical consequences, and behave as though its effects were 
essential for continued well-being. The intensity of this 
need may vary from a mild desire to a craving or compulsion 
to use the drug and, when its availability is uncertain, 
individuals may exhibit a preoccupation with its 
procurement. A further aspect of drug use and misuse is drug 
tolerance, which is manifested as a reduction in a 
particular effect upon repeated exposure to a drug at 
constant dose, or the need for an increased dose of a drug 
to maintain a given effect. A related
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims for the following Contracting States : 
AT, BE, CH, DE, DK, FR, GB, IE, IT, LI, LU, MC, NL, PT, SE
Use of 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 
or a pharmaceutically or veterinarily 

acceptable acid addition salt thereof in the preparation of 
a medicament for 


(a) preventing or reducing dependence on, or 
(b) preventing or reducing tolerance or reverse tolerance 
to 
 
a dependence-inducing agent. 
Use according to claim 1 wherein the acid 
addition salt is the salt with isethionic acid. 
Use according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
dependence-inducing agent is an opioid. 
Use according to claim 3 wherein the opioid 
is morphine. 
Use according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
dependence-inducing agent is a central nervous system 

depressant. 
Use according to claim 5 wherein the central 
nervous system depressant is ethanol. 
Use according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
dependence-inducing agent is a psychostimulant. 
Use according to claim 7 wherein the 
psychostimulant is cocaine. 
Use according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
dependence-inducing agent is nicotine. 
Use according to claim 1 wherein the 
medicament further includes a dependence-inducing agent.  

 
Use according to claim 1 wherein the 
medicament is for preventing or reducing dependence on a 

first dependence-inducing agent and further includes a 
second dependence-inducing agent with which the first 

dependence-inducing agent is cross-dependent.  
 
A dependence-inducing agent in admixture 
with a compound selected from 3,5 -diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 

and the pharmaceutically and 
veterinarily acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 
A composition comprising a pharmaceutically 
acceptable carrier or diluent, a dependence-inducing agent 

and a compound selected from 3,5 -diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 
and the pharmaceutically and 

veterinarily acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 
Products containing 

(i) a dependence-inducing agent, and 
(ii) a compound selected from 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 
and the pharmaceutically and 

veterinarily acceptable acid addition salts thereof, as a 
combined preparation for simultaneous or sequential use in 


(a) preventing or reducing dependence on, or 
(b) preventing or reducing tolerance or reverse tolerance 
to, 
 
a dependence-inducing agent. 
Products according to claim 14 wherein the 
use is in preventing or reducing dependence on a first 

dependence-inducing agent and wherein component (i) is a 
second dependence-inducing agent with which the first 

dependence-inducing agent is cross-dependent. 
Claims for the following Contracting States : ES, GR
Use of 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine or a 
pharmaceutically or veterinarily acceptable acid addi
tion salt thereof in the 
preparation of a medicament for 


(a) preventing or reducing dependence on, or 
(b) preventing or reducing tolerance or reverse tolerance to 
 
a dependence-inducing agent. 
Use according to claim 1 wherein the acid addition salt is the salt with 
isethionic acid. 
Use according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the dependence-inducing agent is 
an opioid. 
Use according to claim 3 wherein the opioid is morphine. 
Use according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the dependence-inducing agent is a 
central nervous system depressant. 
Use according to claim 5 wherein the central nervous system depressant 
is ethanol. 
Use according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the dependence-inducing agent is a 
psychostimulant. 
Use according to claim 7 wherein the psychostimulant is cocaine. 
Use according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the dependence-inducing agent is 
nicotine. 
Use according to claim 1 wherein the medicament further includes a 
dependence-inducing agent.  

 
Use according to claim 1 wherein the medicament is for preventing or 
reducing dependence on a first dependence-inducing agent and further 

includes a second dependence-inducing agent with which the first 
dependence-inducing agent is cross-dependent. 
A dependence-inducing agent in admixture with a compound selected 
from 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine and the 

pharmaceutically and veterinarily acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 
A composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent, 
a dependence-inducing agent and a compound selected from 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 

and the pharmaceutically 
and veterinarily acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 
Products containing 

(i) a dependence-inducing agent, and 
(ii) a compound selected from 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 
and the pharmaceutically and veterinarily acceptable acid addition 

salts thereof, as a combined preparation for simultaneous or sequential 
use in: 


(a) preventing or reducing dependence on, or 
(b) preventing or reducing tolerance or reverse tolerance to, 
 
a dependence-inducing agent. 
Products according to claim 14 wherein the use is in preventing or 
reducing dependence on a first dependence-inducing agent and wherein 

component (i) is a second dependence-inducing agent with which the first 
dependence-inducing agent is cross-dependent. 
A process of preparing an admixture comprising a compound selected 
from 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine and the 

pharmaceutically and veterinarily acceptable acid addition salts thereof, 
and a dependence-inducing agent, which process comprises admixing 

said compound and said dependence-inducing agent.  
 
A process of preparing a composition comprising a pharmaceutically 
acceptable carrier or diluent, a dependence-inducing agent and a 

compound selected from 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 
and the pharmaceutically and veterinarily acceptable acid addition salts 

thereof, which process comprises mixing said carrier or diluent, said 
dependence inducing agent and said compound. 
A process of preparing a combined preparation for simultaneous or 
sequential use in: 


(a) preventing or reducing dependence on, or 
(b) preventing or reducing tolerance or reverse tolerance to, 
 
a dependence-inducing agent,
 
which preparation contains: 


(i) a dependence-inducing agent, and 
(ii) a compound selected from 3,5-diamino-6-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine 
and the pharmaceutically and veterinarily acceptable acid 

addition salts thereof,
 
which process comprises mixing said dependence inducing agent, 

and said compound. 
A process according to claim 18, wherein the use of said preparation is in 
preventing or reducing dependence on a first dependence-inducing agent 

and wherein component (i) is a second dependence-inducing agent with 
which the first dependence-inducing agent is cross-dependent. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
