<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613023</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radiation camera systems
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01T100	G01T100	G01T1164	G01T129	G01T120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01T	G01T	G01T	G01T	G01T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01T1	G01T1	G01T1	G01T1	G01T1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A gamma radiation camera system comprises a detector
means for detecting gamma radiation received from a given

scene, a gamma blocking object removably locatable in the
field of view of the detector means, the object when

present in the field of view acting as an anti-collimator
to gamma radiation from the scene, and a signal processor

for processing outputs of the detector means, wherein the
detector means (7) is such as to form a two-dimensional

image of gamma radiation from a two-dimensional scene,
individual components of the detected two-dimensional image

being simultaneously received and representing individual
components of the scene and wherein the detector means

provides an output signal comprising a read-out of
components of the detected image and the signal processor

(20, 21) is such as to find the difference between
components of a first output signal obtained when the said

object (17) is present in the said field of view and
components of a second output signal obtained when the said

object is not present in the said field of view.
The blocking object may be locatable at different
positions within the field of view of the detector means

whereby gamma radiation from various regions in a scene may
be selectively blocked in turn anti-collimation images

being taken for each position and resultants formed for
each in turn by subtraction from the corresponding image

for the scene observed without the gamma blocking object.
The said detector means may comprise a gamma detector

together with an associated device for producing an
electronic output signal in response to the gamma detector

producing an output, the gamma detector comprising a layer
of scintillator material (9), and the associated device

comprising a photoelectric detector (11) capable of
detecting scintillations by the scintillation material.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIGHTFOOT JOHN ADRIAN DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIGHTFOOT, JOHN ADRIAN, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to gamma radiation camera
systems.Gamma camera systems are employed in the medical field
for imaging the radiation emitted by a radioactive tracer
source injected into a patient. The tracers are designed
to be absorbed by a particular part of the body and are
made radioactive with a substance such as technetium 99.
The radioactivity is short lived and usually of low energy,
typically 100keV. When the tracer has been absorbed the
gamma ray camera can take a picture of the tissue in
question, from outside the body, as an aid to diagnosis.Such known camera systems usually incorporate a
collimator which performs a function similar to a lens in
an optical camera by selecting the rays which will form a
useful image. The collimator is provided by a layer of
gamma absorbing material, eg lead typically 1cm thick,
having a multiplicity of, eg 40,000, parallel holes
therethrough. Thus, the field of view of the camera is
limited to observation of gamma rays parallel to the holes.As noted above, the energies of gamma rays to be
detected in the medical field are relatively low, eg 100
keV or less. However, in other applications where it is
required to detect gamma rays, eg in the nuclear industry
to examine the radiation emitted from radioactively
contaminated, structures, the rays may be of much greater
energy, eg in the range 500 to 1500 keV and a higher energy
collimator with a wider, diverging field of view is
required. As the capability of a collimator is extended to
higher energies it is required to be thicker and hence
heavier. The holes become fewer and of larger diameter.
The resulting spatial resolution is poorer and the assembly
is difficult to mount and control. For example a
collimator for work up to 600 keV would weigh typically 250
kg, not including any background shielding for the rear and
sides of the detector. A collimator to image the 1332 keV 
radiation from Cobalt-60 would be so large and heavy that
it would need its own separate mount.The parallel hole collimator forms an image which has
no optical equivalent. As noted above, an image will only
be formed in a narrow field of view observing only rays
travelling parallel to the collimator holes, whereas all
conventional optical systems are divergent and the field of
view can be varied.There are two established ways of producing a diverging
field of view in a gamma camera known in the prior art.
The first is to provide a multihole collimator with
diverging holes. This would have a fixed field of view but
could be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gamma radiation camera system which comprises a detector means (7) for detecting
gamma radiation received from a given scene, a gamma blocking object (17) removably

locatable in the field of view of the detector means (7), the object (17) when present in the
field of view acting as an anti-collimator to gamma radiation from the scene, and a signal

processor (20) for processing outputs of the detector means, 
characterised in that
 the
detector means is adapted such as to form a two-dimensional image of gamma radiation from a

two-dimensional scene, individual components (9, 11) of the detected two-dimensional
image being simultaneously received and representing individual components of the scene

and wherein the detector means is adapted to provide an output signal comprising a read-out of
components of the detected image and the signal processor is adapted such as to find the difference

between components of a first output signal obtained when the said object is present in the
said field of view and components of a second output signal obtained when the said object

is not present in the said field of view.
A system as in Claim 1 and wherein the said detector means comprise a gamma
detector (4) together with an associated device (11) for producing an electronic output

signal in response to the gamma detector producing an output, the gamma detector
comprising a layer of scintillator material (9) and the associated device comprising a

photoelectric detector (11) capable of detecting scintillations by the scintillation material.
A system as in Claim 2 comprising light guides (13) adapted to be employed to transmit
scintillations from the scintillator material (9) to the photoelectric detector (11).
A system as in Claim 3 and wherein the light guides (10) are in the form of converging
guides.
A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims and wherein the processor (20)
includes a computer (21) having an output connected to a display (23) to provide a visual

or pictorial image of the detected scene. 
A system as in any one of the preceding claims and wherein the system includes
additionally an optical camera (24) for detecting visible and / or infra-red radiation such

camera being locatable to detect a visible and / or infra-red image from the same scene as
the detected gamma image.
A system as in Claim 6 and wherein the said processor (20) includes means for
superimposing a signal representing the said resultant of the gamma images of the detected

scene upon a signal representing the visible and / or infra-red image thereof whereby a
combined image is formed showing the location of gamma sources in the scene.
A system as in any preceding claim and wherein the said gamma blocking object (17)
comprises a sphere, a disc, a cylinder, a hemisphere or a spheroid.
A system as in any one of the preceding claims and wherein the gamma blocking
object (17) comprises a gamma absorbing material which attenuates at least 95 per cent of

the power of the incident radiation.
A system as in Claim 9 and wherein the said gamma blocking object (17) comprises
material which comprises one or more of lead, tungsten, silver, gold and osmium.
A system as in any one of the preceding claims and wherein the gamma blocking
object (17) has an average diameter in the range 1mm to 100mm.
A system as in Claim 11 and wherein the gamma blocking object has an average
diameter in the range 2mm to 20mm.
A system as in any one of the preceding claims and wherein the gamma blocking
object (17) is mounted on a movable arm (18) which permits the body to be located and

removed as required in the field of view of the detector means.
A system as in any one ofthe preceding claims and wherein the system is mounted on
a transportable structure (1). 
A system as in any one of the preceding claims and wherein the system includes
between the detector means and the scene to be imaged thereby a sheet of gamma blocking

material the sheet having a gamma transparent region capable of being blocked by the said
gamma blocking object when located in position in the field of view of the detector means.
A method for detecting gamma radiation received from a given scene, the method
including providing a gamma camera system which comprises:-


a detector means for detecting the gamma radiation received from the given scene;
a gamma blocking object removably located in the field of view of the detector
means, the gamma blocking object when present in the field of view acting as an anti-collimator

to gamma radiation from the scene; and
a signal processor for processing outputs of the detector means,
the method being 
characterised in that
:-

a two-dimensional image of gamma radiation from a two-dimensional scene is
formed by the detector means due to the detector means being formed of a number of

individual components, the individual components of the detected two-dimensional image
being simultaneously received and representing individual components of the scene, the

detector means providing an output signal comprising a read-out of the components of the
detected image, the signal processor calculating the difference between the components of

the first output signal obtained when the said object is present in the said field of view and
components of a second output signal obtained when the object is not present in said field

of view.
A method as in claim 16 and wherein the blocking object is moved to different
positions within the field of view of the detector means to selectively block gamma radiation

from various regions in a scene in turn, an anti-collimation image being taken for each
position of the blocking object, the difference for each position of the blocking object being

calculated.
A method as in claim 16 or claim 17 and wherein the difference between the said first
and second outputs of the detector means is carried out in the said processor by comparing

the two output signals on a pixel-by-pixel basis, an image being formed as a result. 
A method as in any of Claims 16 to 18 and including displaying said differences on a
display, the detected site(s) of a source of gamma radiation in the scene being indicated by a

highlighting colour within the displayed differences.
A method as in Claim 19 and wherein the background optical image is provided on the
display in monochrome and the detected site(s) of a source of gamma radiation are

indicated in colour.
A method as in Claim 20 and wherein different colours are used to indicate gamma
sources of different energies.
A method as in Claim 21 and wherein different shades of a colour are used to indicate
gamma sources of similar energy but different intensities.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
