<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652133</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Headlamp adjusting system for vehicles.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60Q104	B60Q1068	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60Q	B60Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60Q1	B60Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A headlight adjustment mechanism comprised of 
interactive plastic drive and adjustment bevel gears (20,32) 

located within a two-piece plastic housing (12,14) wherein a 
threaded adjustment rod (42) passes through a threaded axial 

bore (40) in the adjustment bevel gear (32). Cooperating flats (46,51) on 
the adjustment rod (42) and the drive gear (20) prevent rotation of 

the adjustment rod (42) during rotation of the adjustment gear (32). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEVENSON JORDAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEVENSON, JORDAN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The subject invention is directed to the art of 
headlamp adjusting systems and, more particularly, to a 
headlamp adjusting system using bevel gears enclosed in a 
hinged, folding housing. Mechanisms and systems for vertical and 
horizontal adjustment of seal beam type automobile 
headlamps have previously been provided. Generally, such 
systems provided for individual lamp adjustment via 
independent adjusting screws by driving such screws with a 
suitable tool. Occasionally, the adjusting screws were 
difficult to access or first required time consuming 
removal of certain components of the headlamp assembly. 
Sometimes problems were encountered because the adjusting 
screws had became corroded or otherwise rusted and/or 
coated with road grime, rendering the adjustment procedure 
inordinately time consuming and difficult, or necessitating 
removal and replacement of a number of parts. Some mechanisms are known which employ a bevel 
gear arrangement to adjust a headlamp. U.S. Patent 
4,742,435, for example, discloses a bevel gear headlamp 
adjustment system. However, the bevel gear system is 
enclosed in an intricately molded, non-hinged housing which 
is complicated and difficult to assemble. Furthermore, the 
mechanism is partially constructed of metal and is 
therefore susceptible to corrosion. In addition, the 
rotation of the adjustment shaft is prevented via a non-rotatable 
ball-in-socket arrangement. U.S. Patent 4,939,945 discloses a bevel gear 
adjustment system including a housing of which one part is 
formed of plastic. However, this patent fails to teach an 
easily assembled hinged housing comprised fully of plastic.  
 
In addition, the assembly requires the typical step in the 
art of attaching the adjustment member to the headlamp to 
prevent rotation of the adjustment member coincidentally 
with rotation of the adjustment bevel gear. Accordingly, there is a need for a completely 
plastic and long lived adjustment device. Furthermore, it 
is desirable to have a simplified adjustment device which 
is easily assembled and installed. The subject invention provides a headlamp 
adjustment mechanism which is simple to assemble and has a 
long lifespan. In accordance with the invention, the adjustment 
mechanism comprises a gear arrangement including a first 
"drive" gear which drives a second "adjustment" gear. Both 
gears are formed of plastic. Means are provided for 
selective rotation of the drive gear. The means may 
comprise a slot or aperture to accommodate a suitable tool, 
for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A headlamp adjustment mechanism comprising: 
   a housing formed of molded resinous material 

including releasably connected first and second sections 
cooperating to define first and second gear receiving 

chambers; 
   a drive gear located in the first gear receiving 

chamber and closely received therein for guided rotatable 
motion; 

   an adjustment gear located in the second gear 
receiving chamber and closely received therein for guided 

rotatable motion, the adjustment gear being in driven 
engagement with the drive gear; 

   an axially extending threaded opening through the 
adjustment gear; 

   an externally threaded adjustment rod extending 
through the threaded opening in the adjustment gear and 

drivingly engaged therewith, an end portion of the rod 
extending outwardly of the housing in guided relationship 

through an opening in at least one of the first and second 
sections; and, 

   cooperating surfaces for preventing rotation of 
the adjustment rod while permitting axial translation in 

response to rotary movement of the adjustment gear. 
The mechanism of claim 1 wherein said first 
and second gears are bevel gears. 
The mechanism of claim 1 wherein at least 
one of said gears is comprised of two symmetric halves. 
The mechanism of claim 3 further comprising 
an aperture in said housing surrounding a shoulder on said 

gear comprised of symmetric halves. 
The mechanism of claim 1 further comprising 
manually operable means for rotating said drive gear. 
The mechanism of claim 5 wherein said means 
for rotating comprises a cavity shaped to accommodate a 

tool. 
The mechanism of claim 5 wherein said means 
for rotating comprises a member attached to said drive gear 

extending outside said housing. 
The mechanism of claim 7 wherein said member 
terminates distally from said drive gear in a hex nut. 
The mechanism of claim 1 wherein at least 
one end of said adjustment rod terminates in a generally 

spherical body. 
The mechanism of claim 1 wherein said 
adjustment rod extends in guided relationship outwardly of 

the housing through openings formed in each of the first 
and second housing sections. 
The mechanism of claim 1 further comprising 
at least one tab on said first housing member and at least 

one tab connector on said second housing member, said tab 
and said tab connector positioned to lockably engage when 

said housing is in a closed position. 
The mechanism of claim 1, further comprising 
at least one resilient tab projecting outwardly from said 

housing for permitting attachment of said housing to a 
vehicle. 
An improved headlight adjustment mechanism 
of the type in which gears transfer rotational force 

exerted on a drive gear to drive an adjustment gear for 
 

creating generally linear motion in an adjustment member 
coupled with said adjustment gear, said mechanism including 

a housing having first and second gear receiving chambers, 
the improvement wherein said gears are formed of plastic 

material and said housing comprises a two-piece plastic 
housing which is hinged together and folds to a closed 

position to enclose the gears in internal chambers. 
The improved headlight adjustment mechanism 
of claim 13 further comprising at least one coupling on a 

first piece of said housing releasably interlocking with a 
connector on a second piece of said housing for maintaining 

the housing in its closed position. 
An improved headlight adjustment mechanism 
of the type in which gears transfer rotational force 

exerted on a drive gear to drive an adjustment gear 
creating generally linear motion of in an adjustment member 

coupled with said adjustment gear, the improvement wherein 
said mechanism includes a housing having first and second 

gear receiving chambers, cooperating surfaces in said 
chambers to prevent rotation of said adjustment member when 

said adjustment gear is rotated while permitting linear 
motion thereof. 
The improved headlight adjustment mechanism 
of claim 15 wherein the housing and gears are formed of 

plastic material. 
In an improved headlight adjustment 
mechanism of the type in which gears transfer rotational 

force exerted on a drive gear of said gears to drive an 
adjustment gear of said gears creating generally linear 

motion in an adjustment member coupled with said adjustment 
gear and a headlight, the improvement wherein the mechanism 

includes a housing having first and second gear receiving 
chambers and a surface on said adjustment member adjacent 

 
a cooperative surface on said drive gear to prevent 

rotation of said adjustment member when said adjustment 
gear is rotated. 
The improved headlight adjustment mechanism 
of claim 17 wherein said housing and gears are formed of 

plastic material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
