<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618472</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A scanner.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2612	G02B2612	H03H1900	H03H1900	H03H2100	H03H2100	H04N1047	H04N1047	H04N1113	H04N1113	H04N112	H04N112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	H03H	H03H	H03H	H03H	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B26	G02B26	H03H19	H03H19	H03H21	H03H21	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laser scanning device (50) includes a spinner (58), 
one light spot misalignment detector (68) and a beam 

misalignment corrector (70). The spinner (58) scans a 
light beam (54) across a scanning line. The detector 

(68) is located generally at a beginning of the scanned 
line and measures an initial misalignment of the light 

spot in a cross-scanning direction. The corrector (70) 
dynamically corrects, during scanning along said scanning 

line, the scanning misalignment of the light beam (54) in 
accordance with at least the initial misalignment. The 

corrector includes a pre-positioner which determines 
an offset for the initial misalignment, a pyramidal error 

estimator which estimates a first portion of the 
misalignment due to pyramidal error and a wobble 

estimator which estimate a second portion of the 
misalignment caused by wobble. The estimations are 

summed together and used for correcting the misalignment. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORPORATION LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENAN BOAZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VRONSKY ELIYAHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENAN, BOAZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VRONSKY, ELIYAHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to laser scanning devices generally and to apparatus 
for location control of the laser beam in particular. Laser scanning devices, such as laser plotters, are known in the art. As 
shown in Fig. 1, to which reference is now made, laser scanning devices typically 
comprise a laser source 10 which produces a laser beam 12 and a spinner 14 which 
receives the laser beam 12 after it has passed through a pre-spinner optical system 16 
operative to shape and/or modify the laser beam 12. The spinner 14 comprises a motor (not shown) and a polygon typically 
having a plurality of facets 18, only one of which generally is operative at a given time to 
reflect the laser beam 12 towards a medium 22 to be scanned. Each facet 18 is operative 
to scan at least one line of the medium 22 and the angle through which each facet 18 
scans is indicated in Fig. 1 by the dotted lines, marked 24. In some devices, a post-spinner optical system 20 is also included which 
typically comprises a flat-field lens operative to provide a planar image on the medium 
22 (the focal point of the lens) and to direct the laser beam 12 towards the medium 22, 
typically via a mirror if the medium 22 is not, as shown in Fig. 1, parallel with a rotation 
axis 26 of the spinner 14 (perpendicular to the page of Fig. 1). In order for a laser scanning device to operate at high accuracy and 
resolution it must accurately control the location of the laser beam, along the scan 
direction and along the direction perpendicular to the scan direction, the direction known  
 
as the "cross-scan" direction. As described in Chapter 6 of the book Optical Scanning by Gerald F. 
Mashall, Marcel Dekker, Inc. NY, 1991 which is incorporated herein by reference, beam 
location errors are known to be caused by errors in the angle of one or more of the facets 
18, known as "pyramidal error", by wobble of the rotation axis 26 or by a combination of 
both sources of error. Pyramidal errors are illustrated in Figs. 2A and 2B, to which reference is 
now briefly made. Figs. 2A and 2B are side views of the polygon 14. Ideally, the reflecting surface of each facet 18 should be parallel to the 
rotation axis 26 such that the incoming beam 12 is reflected along a plane 30 
perpendicular to the rotation axis 26. However, typically, polygons 14 are manufactured with facets, labeled 32 
and 34 in Figs. 2A and 2B, respectively, at angles α₁ and α₂, respectively, to the ideal 
direction. An incoming beam which impinges an angled facet 32 or 34 is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laser scanning device, the device comprising: 
   a spinner for scanning a light beam having a light spot across a scanning 

line; 
   one light spot misalignment detector located generally at a beginning of said 

scanned line for measuring an initial misalignment of said light spot in a cross-scanning 
direction; and 

   a beam misalignment corrector which, during scanning along said scanning 

line, dynamically corrects scanning misalignment of said light beam in accordance with 
at least said initial misalignment. 
A laser scanning device according to claim 1 and wherein said beam 
misalignment corrector comprises: 

   a pre-positioner which determines a pre-position signal which offsets said 
initial misalignment; 

   estimation means for producing, from at least said pre-position signal, an 
estimated scanning misalignment; and 

   a beam shifter responsive to said estimated scanning misalignment for 
shifting said light beam thereby to correct said scanning misalignment. 
A laser scanning device according to claim 2 and wherein said estimation 
means comprises: 

   a pyramidal error estimator for estimating a first portion of said scanning 
misalignment due to pyramidal error and to an extent of wobble present at the beginning 

of said scanning line; 
   a wobble estimator for estimating a second portion of said scanning 

misalignment caused by said wobble; and 
   a summer for summing outputs of said pyramidal error estimator, said 

wobble estimator and said pre-positioner. 
A laser scanning device according to claim 1 wherein said spinner 
comprises a plurality of facets and wherein said beam misalignment corrector additionally 

includes means for correcting in accordance with the current operative facet. 
A laser scanning device according to claim 4 and wherein said beam 
misalignment corrector additionally comprises a smoother for moving said light beam from 

a final location of a current scan line scanned with a current facet of said spinner to a first 
estimated location of a next scan line, wherein said first estimated location is the value 

of the pre-position signal measured when the next facet was last utilized. 
A laser scanning device according to claim 2 and wherein said 
pre-positioner comprises a closed loop control system controlling said beam shifter and 

operative to generally cancel said initial misalignment. 
A laser scanning device according to claim 3 and wherein said wobble 
estimator comprises: 

   a frequency detector which detects a spinning frequency of said spinner; 
   a phase locked loop which produces a clock signal which is proportional to 

said spinning frequency; and 
   filters whose cutoff frequencies are adaptively defined by said clock signal 

for filtering a plurality of pre-position signals thereby to produce said second portion of 
said scanning misalignment. 
A laser scanning device according to claim 3 and wherein said estimation 
means additionally comprises a facet error corrector for correcting for the non-flatness of 

facets of said spinner and wherein said summer additionally sums the output of said facet 
error corrector. 
Apparatus for filtering an output signal of a system in accordance with an 
operating frequency of said system, wherein the operating frequency changes over time, 

 
the apparatus comprising: 

   a filter having at least one adaptively definable parameter for filtering said 
output signal; 

   a detector for producing a measurement signal indicative of said operating 
frequency; and 

   a phase locked loop for producing a clock signal proportional to said 
measurement signal and for providing said clock signal to said filter thereby to define said 

at least one adaptively definable parameter. 
A method of laser scanning, the method comprising the steps of: 
   reflecting a light beam having a light spot across a scanning line; 

   measuring an initial misalignment of said light spot in a cross-scanning 
direction; and 

   during scanning, dynamically correcting scanning misalignment of said light 
beam in accordance with at least said initial misalignment. 
A method according to claim 10 and wherein said step of dynamically 
correcting comprises the steps of: 

   determining a pre-position signal which offsets said initial misalignment; 
   producing, from at least said pre-position signal, an estimated scanning 

misalignment; and 
   shifting said light beam in response to said estimated scanning misalignment 

thereby to correct said scanning misalignment. 
A method according to claim 10 and wherein said step of producing 
comprises the steps of: 

   estimating a first portion of said scanning misalignment due to pyramidal 
error and to an extent of wobble present at the beginning of said scanning line; 

   estimating a second portion of said scanning misalignment caused by said 
wobble; and

 
   summing said first and second portions with said pre-position signal. 
A method according to claim 12 and wherein said step of producing 
additionally comprises the step of correcting for the non-flatness of facets of said spinner 

and wherein said step of summing additionally sums the output of said step of correcting. 
A method according to claim 12 wherein said step of reflecting is performed 
with a spinner and wherein said second step of estimating comprises the steps of: 

   detecting a spinning frequency of said spinner; 
   producing, via a phase locked loop, a clock signal which is proportional to 

said spinning frequency; and 
   filtering a plurality of pre-position signals with filters whose cutoff frequencies 

are adaptively defined by said clock signal. 
A method for filtering an output signal of a system in accordance with an 
operating frequency of said system, wherein the operating frequency changes over time, 

the method comprising the steps of: 
   producing a measurement signal indicative of said operating frequency; and 

   producing a clock signal proportional to said measurement signal; 
   filtering said output signal with a filter having at least one adaptively 

definable parameter provided by said clock signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
