<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626762</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fast tuned, injection locked, synthesised oscillator.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03L724	H03L724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03L	H03L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03L7	H03L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator includes a direct digital synthesizer for 

generating a digitally synthesized signal at frequency f₀, 
an analog oscillator circuit for generating an analog 

signal at frequency f₁ and a filter coupled to the direct 
digital synthesizer for filtering the digitally 

synthesized signal to provide a signal at frequency Nf₀. 
N may be an integer from 1 to 10. Also included is a 

coupler to couple the filtered, digitally synthesized 
signal into the analog oscillator to lock the frequency 

of the analog output signal to the frequency of the 
digitally synthesized signal such that 


f₁ = Nf₀ 
 
. The 

coupler also electrically couples the output signal from 
the analog oscillator circuit to a second filter to 

filter the analog signal. An amplifier electrically 
coupled to the second filter amplifies the analog signal. 

The direct digital synthesizer may be used to high-order, 
sub-harmonically injection lock the analog oscillator 

circuit thereby providing an output signal reflecting a 
frequency up-conversion in order to broaden the frequency 

range of the synthesized analog output signal beyond that 
of the direct digital synthesizer. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN LEONARD DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN, LEONARD DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to frequency synthesized 
oscillators, and more particularly relates to injection 
locked, synthesized oscillators. Frequency synthesizers or synthesized oscillators 
are combinations of circuits and devices which synthesize 
signals for output at various frequencies. Synthesizers 
are common to both receiving and transmitting circuits, 
where they serve as carrier oscillators and local 
oscillators for mixers. Synthesizer frequencies may be 
fixed or tunable, either continuously or in steps. 
Spectral purity and frequency stability are critical 
design criteria for any frequency synthesizer or 
synthesized oscillator. There are three basic types of frequency 
synthesizers in use today. These include the direct 
analog synthesizer, the indirect analog synthesizer which 
utilize phase locked loops, and the direct digital 
synthesizer. Direct analog synthesizers utilize multiple RF 
techniques to translate and multiply reference 
frequencies to a desired frequency range. Frequency 
resolution using such methods, however, is generally 
poor, requiring many combinations of mixers and dividers 
to make small improvements in resolution.  Indirect synthesizers (phase locked loops) use 
analog voltage controlled oscillators as the primary 
frequency generating device. By comparing the output 
phase/frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator with 
a stable reference, i.e., a crystal oscillator, an error 
signal is produced to precisely control the output 
frequency. The spectral purity of output signals 
generated by a phase locked loop is generally very high, 
because the loop acts as a narrow tracking filter 
suppressing large amounts of noise inside the loop 
bandwidth. The narrow loop bandwidth, however, limits 
synthesizer tuning speed, which is a major limitation. Direct digital synthesizer technology offers the 
simplest architecture of the three approaches, utilizing 
high speed digital circuitry to numerically generate a 
frequency stable sinewave pattern. Direct digital 
synthesizers may be used to quickly generate sinusoidal 
signals to a fraction of a hertz, the generated signals 
displaying low phase noise. Direct digital synthesizers 
may also be used to implement varied linear sweep and 
chirp signal generation. The sweep rate and linearity of 
the output is primarily a function of the quality of the 
system clock source. Figure 1 shows a direct digital synthesizer 1 
comprising three basic elements: a phase accumulator 2, a 
sine look up ROM 4 and a digital-to-analog
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of fast tuning an analog oscillator to 
generate an oscillator output signal substantially free 

from spectral impurities, comprising the steps of: 
   tuning an analog oscillator circuit to generate an 

analog signal at a frequency f₁, the analog oscillator 
circuit having a predetermined locking bandwidth; 

   tuning a direct digital synthesizer to generate a 
digitally synthesized signal at a frequency f₀, frequency 

f₀ being within the locking bandwidth of the analog 
oscillator circuit; and 

   locking the frequency of the analog signal to the 
frequency of the digitally synthesized signal so that 

frequency f₁ of the analog signal equals frequency f₀ of 
the digitally synthesized signal to generate a locked 

analog signal. 
A method as defined by Claim 1, including the steps 
of: 

   bandpass filtering the locked analog signal to 
generate a filtered signal; and 

   amplifying the filtered signal to a level sufficient 
to drive a load. 
A method as defined by Claim 2, wherein the step of 
bandpass filtering further includes removing 

substantially all frequency components from the locked 
analog signal other than those equal to Nf₁, where N is an 

integer within the range of about 1 to about 10. 
A method of fast tuning an analog oscillator to 
generate a frequency up-converted oscillator output 

signal substantially free from spectral impurities, 
comprising the steps of:

 
   tuning an analog oscillator circuit to generate an 

analog signal at a frequency f₁, the analog oscillator 
circuit having a predetermined locking bandwidth; 

   tuning a direct digital synthesizer to generate a 
digitally synthesized signal at a frequency f₀; 

   generating a signal which is at a harmonic frequency 
of the digitally synthesized signal, the signal generated 

being within the locking bandwidth of the analog 
oscillator circuit; and 

   locking the frequency of the analog signal to the 
frequency of the filtered signal so that frequency f₁ of 

the analog signal equals frequency Nf₀ of the filtered 
signal. 
A method as defined by Claim 4, wherein the step of 
generating further includes: 

   amplifying the digitally synthesized signal to 
generate an amplified signal that contains harmonics at 

frequencies Kf₀, where K equals each integer in the range 
of about 1 to about 10; and 

   filtering the amplified signal to remove all 
frequency components having frequencies other than 

frequency Nf₀, where N is a single integer within the K 
integer range thereby generating a filtered signal at 

frequency Nf₀. 
A method as defined by Claim 5, including the step 
of filtering the analog signal to remove substantially 

all frequency components therefrom other than a component 
having a frequency Lf₁, where L is an integer in a range 

of about 1 to about 10, to generate a filtered analog 
signal. 
A method as defined by Claim 6, further including 
the step of amplifying the filtered analog signal to a 

level sufficient to drive a load. 
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator for generating an oscillator output signal 

substantially free from spectral impurities, comprising: 
   an analog oscillator circuit having a predetermined 

locking bandwidth for generating an analog signal at a 
frequency f₁; 

   a direct digital synthesizer for generating a 
digitally synthesized signal at a frequency f₀, f₀ being 

within the locking bandwidth of the analog oscillator 
circuit; and 

   a coupler for coupling the digitally synthesized 
signal into the analog oscillator circuit to lock the 

frequency f₁ of the analog signal to the frequency f₀ of 
the digitally synthesized signal so that frequency f₁ = 

frequency f₀. 
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator as defined by Claim 8, including a filter 

electrically coupled to the coupler for receiving and 
bandpass filtering the analog signal and generating a 

filtered analog signal. 
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator as defined by Claim 9, further including an 

amplifier electrically coupled to the filter for 
amplifying the filtered analog signal. 
A fast tuned, injection locked synthesized 

oscillator as defined by claim 9, wherein the filter 
includes means for removing substantially all frequency 

components from the analog signal other than one harmonic 
such that a resulting signal is generated at frequency 

Nf₁, where N is an integer within the range of about 1 to 
about 10. 
A fast tuned injection locked synthesized oscillator 
as defined by claim 9, further including an attenuator 

 
electrically interposed between the coupler and the 

filter to isolate the filter from the analog oscillator 
circuit. 
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator as defined by claim 8, wherein the coupler 

includes a circulator. 
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator for generating an oscillator output signal 

substantially free from spectral impurities, comprising: 
   an analog oscillator circuit having a predetermined 

locking bandwidth to generate an analog signal at a 
frequency f₁; 

   a direct digital synthesizer for generating a 
digitally synthesized signal at a frequency f₀; 

   a first filter coupled to the direct digital 
synthesizer for bandpass filtering the digitally 

synthesized signal to provide a filtered signal at 
frequency Nf₀, where N is an integer within a range of 

about 1 to about 10 and Nf₀ is within a locking bandwidth 
of the analog oscillator circuit; 

   a coupler for coupling the filtered signal into the 
analog oscillator circuit thereby locking the frequency f₁ 

of the analog signal to the frequency Nf₀ of the filtered 
digitally synthesized signal so that frequency f₁ equals 

frequency Nf₀; 
   isolating means electrically coupled to the coupler 

for receiving and isolating the analog signal from the 
analog oscillator circuit; and 

   a second filter electrically coupled to the 
isolating means for filtering the analog signal to 

generate a filtered analog signal. 
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator as defined by Claim 14, including an amplifier 

electrically coupled to the second filter for amplifying 
 

the filtered analog signal to a level sufficient to drive 
a load. 
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator as defined by claim 14, wherein the second 

filter includes means for removing substantially all 
frequency components of the analog signal other than one 

harmonic such that a resulting signal is generated at 
frequency Mf₁, where M is an integer. 
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator as defined by claim 14, further including an 

attenuator electrically interposed between the coupler 
and the second filter to isolate the second filter from 

the analog oscillator circuit. 
A fast tuned, injection locked, synthesized 
oscillator as defined by claim 14, wherein the coupler 

includes a circulator. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
