<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633423</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pressure reduction and flow regulation device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F17C700	F17C700	G05D1606	F17C1304	F17C1304	G05D1604	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F17C	F17C	G05D	F17C	F17C	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F17C7	F17C7	G05D16	F17C13	F17C13	G05D16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a pressure regulator (1) for low pressure delivery of 
gases from a high pressure source. The regulator comprises a gas inlet (2) and 

a gas outlet (3) defining a gas path (4) therebetween. A regulating element (5) 
is disposed downstream of the inlet and remote from the gas path (4). The 

device also includes heat exchange means (15) in the form of a powered heater 
or non-powered ambient heater disposed intermediate the gas inlet (2) and the 

regulating element (5). The regulating element (5) is resiliently displaceable in 
response to gas pressure and mechanically connected to operate a valve (6) at 

the gas inlet (2) to thereby regulate the gas pressure at the gas outlet (3). The 
regulator of the invention can advantageously be used in a gas distribution 

system delivering gaseous fumigant from a high pressure source such as a 
cylinder of fumigant in a liquified CO₂ base, the regulator providing a sensitive 

and accurate pressure regulation that is more robust and less prone to blockage 
than most of the prior art devices. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMW IND GASES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE COMMONWEALTH INDUSTRIAL GASES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHONSTEIN DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHORE WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHONSTEIN, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHORE, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to gas pressure regulators particularly suited for 
low pressure delivery of liquifiable and permanent gases from a high pressure 
source. The invention has been developed primarily for the controlled delivery of 
liquifiable gases or gas mixtures such as CO2 or CO2 based preparations, 
examples of which include CO2 based pesticidal formulations. However, it will 
be appreciated that the invention may be used to regulate the delivery of many 
other types of gases, both liquifiable and non liquifiable. Gaseous pesticidal preparations having a CO2 base are particularly useful for 
fumigating grain storage silos. However, numerous problems have been 
encountered when trying to regulate the delivery of such gas products. One 
reason is because the product is stored in the liquid state under high pressures 
of around 5000 kPa and is preferably delivered at a significantly lower delivery 
pressure of around 10 to 100 kPa. Operational problems are usually encountered when using conventional pressure 
regulating devices to deliver gaseous products of this kind, particularly with 
gases such as CO2. This is due to the severe pressure and temperature changes 
that occur on delivery as well as the associated volumetric expansion caused 
by the resultant gasification of the liquid gas. Whilst the severity of these 
effects will alter with various gases, they will nonetheless be present in the low 
pressure delivery of almost any gas from a high pressure source. In the prior art, pressure regulation of such preparations was usually achieved 
via control valves for high flow rate applications and special purpose regulators 
for lower flow rate installations. However, neither of these devices are generally 
able to maintain an even pressure when regulating liquified gases to a gaseous 
state. In such cases dry ice tends to form at the valve seat causing "spitting" 
and the output tends to fluctuate wildly due to the large gaseous volume 
increases and the irregularity of the flow. It should also be noted that the use of 
control valves with the necessary associated control equipment is a relatively 
high cost option.  
 Furthermore, as these various prior art regulating devices are usually designed to operate 
in-line, the componentry of the device is subjected directly to the variations in temperature 
and volumetric changes referred to above, and as such may have a reduced life span due to 
these changes. Another problem associated with the regulation and delivery of preparations such
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pressure regulator (1) for low pressure delivery of gases from a high pressure 
source, comprising a gas inlet (2) and a gas outlet (3) defining a gas path (4) 

therebetween; a regulating element (5) disposed downstream of the inlet (2) and 
remote from the gas path (4); valve means (6) provided at the gas inlet (2); and heat 

exchanger means (15) disposed to extend from said valve means (6) and along at 
least a portion of the gas path (4); said regulating element (5) being resiliently 

displaceable in response to gas pressure and including mechanically connected 
actuating means to operate the valve means (6) at the gas inlet (2) to thereby 

regulate the gas pressure at the gas outlet (3),characterised in that the regulating 
element (5) is off-line with respect to the gas path. 
A pressure regulator (1) according to claim 1 characterised in that the heat 
exchanger means (15) extends from at least the gas inlet (2) to the regulating 

element (5). 
A pressure regulator according to claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the gas 
inlet valve (6) is disposed within the heat exchanger means (15). 
A pressure regulator according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in 
that the mechanical connection (7) of the regulating element (5) to the inlet valve (6) 

is adapted to increase the mechanical advantage therebetween such that a coarse 
deflection of the regulating element (5) is converted to a fine movement at the inlet 

valve (6) with a corresponding increase in the force applied thereto. 
A pressure regulator according to any one of the claims characterised in that the 
heat exchanger means (15) comprises a heater having a generally hollow body (16) 

adapted to connect to the regulating element (5) and receive the mechanically 
connected valve actuating means and inlet valve (6), one or more externally 

powered heater elements (19) mounted in the wall of the hollow body (16), and a gas 
heating passage (21) in the form of a long length of tubing (22) coiled around the 

periphery of the heated hollow body (16) that is in fluid flow communication with the 
inlet valve (6).  

 
A pressure regulator according to any one of claims 1 to 4 characterised 
in that the heat exchanger means (15) comprises a non-powered ambient 

heater having a hollow body (16) adapted to connect to the inlet of the 
regulating element (5) and receive the mechanically connected valve 

actuating means and inlet valve (6), and an ambient temperature gas 
heating passage (21) in the form of a long length of tubing (22) coiled 

around the periphery of the hollow body (16) that is in fluid flow 
communication with the inlet valve (6). 
A pressure regulator according to claim 6 characterised in that the heat 
exchanger means (15) includes external fins (27) adapted to exchange 

heat with the adjacent ambient air. 
A pressure regulator according to any one of claims 5 to 7 characterised 
in that the inlet valve (6) comprises an inlet nozzle (2) disposed within the 

hollow portion (16) of the heater and which is operatively associated with 
an actuating arm (7) of the mechanically connected regulating element 

linkage, the outlet of the inlet nozzle (2) being in fluid flow 
communication with the gas heating passage (16). 
A pressure regulator according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised in that the regulating element (5) is of the type comprising 

a chamber separated by a diaphragm (8) to define an active pressurisable 
portion and an inactive portion, the diaphragm (8) being displaceable by 

gas pressure against a spring (9) of predetermined tension, the diaphragm 
(8) being connected to the inlet valve (6) via a mechanical linkage (7) 

that increases the mechanical advantage to increase the sensitivity of the 
regulator (5). 
A pressure regulator according to claim 9 characterised in that the 
regulating element (5) comprises a modified proprietary gas regulator of 

the kind manufactured by the company REGO and identified as the 
LV4403SR and TR series. 
A gas distribution system for delivering gaseous fumigant from a high 
pressure source (31) to a storage area at a low delivery pressure, said 

system comprising: a pressure regulator (1) according to any one of  
 

claims 1 to 10 having a gas inlet (2) adapted to receive gaseous fumigant 
from a high pressure source (31); and flow monitoring means (36) 

connected to the gas outlet (3) to monitor the flow rate of gas from the 
low pressure outlet to the storage area. 
A gas distribution system according to claim 11 characterised in that the 
high pressure source (31) of gas is in the form a of pressurised storage 

cylinder containing a fumigant in a liquifiable gas base. 
A gas distribution system according to any one of claims 11 to 12 
characterised by a central control means such that the system can be 

pre-programmed for automatic operation. 
A gas distribution system according to any one of the preceding claims 
characterised by a pressure differential switch (45) disposed to measure 

the pressure difference between the gas inlet and the gas outlet of the 
regulator to detect the presence of absence of gas flow. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
