<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615592</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PRESSURE REGULATOR FOR MAINTAINING A STABLE FLOW LEVEL OF A FLUID.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K1720	F16K1722	F16K31122	F16K31122	G05D700	G05D701	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K17	F16K17	F16K31	F16K31	G05D7	G05D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flow regulator for maintaining a stable rate of flow of a fluid in a flow channel (2), comprising a flow-actuated element (4) which is movable under the influence of a pressure drop in the fluid flow, and a throttle valve (10) for regulating the fluid flow under the influence of said element (4). The fluid-actuated element (4) constitutes a control element for a servo means (11) comprising a pilot valve (17) for controlling the movement of a drive means (12) coupled to a valve body (19) in the throttle valve (10), and which, by means of the servo means (11), is arranged to be moved in a smooth manner independently of sudden changes in the fluid flow. The control element is influenced by a prestressed spring (9) acting in the opposite direction to the flow direction, so that the control element (4) is moved in the flow direction only when the rate of flow exceeds a preselected level.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTTESTAD BREATHING SYST AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTTESTAD NILS T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTTESTAD BREATHING SYSTEMS AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTTESTAD, NILS TERJE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTTESTAD NILS TERJE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTTESTAD, NILS, TERJE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A PRESSURE REGULATOR FOR MAIMTA-DSII G A STABLE FLOWLEVEL OF A FLUIDThe invention relates to a flow regulator for main taining a stable rate of flow of a fluid in a flow channel comprising a flow-actuated element which is movable under th influence of a pressure drop in the fluid flow, and a throttl valve for regulating the fluid flow under the influence of sai element.A typical field of use for such a regulator is i connection with hydraulic pumps for unloading cargo tanks for oi or the like on e.g. a tanker, wherein the pumps are connected t and driven from a ring conduit transporting hydraulic liqui under a very high pressure, more specifically about 300 bar (30 000 kPa). It is here the question of pumps of very larg power, of the order of megawatts. In front of each pump ther then has to be used a flow regulator for ensuring a stable liqui supply for the operation of the pumps in order to prevent the from "running riot" when they are about to empty the reservoi and start sucking air. Such a situation with overspeed of th pump will result in damage thereof in the course of a very shor time.Different types of regulators have been developed fo this purpose, where the regulators then see to it that the suppl of hydraulic liquid is restricted or throttled as soon as ther occur changes of the operating conditions having a tendency t increase the liquid supply in the flow channel to the pump motor The known types of flow regulators are, however, encumbered wit problems in that they are complicated and in that they absorb considerable amount of energy under normal operating condition (i.e. with a little throttling of the liquid flow). This is consequence of the fact that a considerable pressure drop has t be established across these known regulators in order to produc the forces used for stabilizing the through-put. With a condui pressure of about 300 bars, it may for example be the questio of a pressure drop of about 10 bars for each regulator. This i the reality involves an energy loss of the order of 30 kW, whic results in a substantial heating of the oil, something which i turn requires artificial cooling. It is obvious that this i 

 economically unfavourable at the same time as the syst structure is made more complicated.Thus, it is an object of the invention to provide flow regulator which is able to operate with a substantiall reduced pressure drop in the flow channel in relation to th known regulators.A further object is to provide such a flow regulato giving a sensitive regulation with a short
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Patent Claims
1. A flow regulator for maintaining a stable rate of flo of a fluid in a flow channel (2), comprising a flow-actuate 5 element (4) which is movable under the influence of a pressur drop in the fluid flow, and a throttle valve (10) for regulatin the fluid flow under the influence of said element (4), CHARAC TERIZED IN that flow-actuated element (4) constitutes a contro element for a servo means (11) comprising a pilot valve (17) fo o controlling the movement of a drive means (12) coupled to a valv body (19) in the throttle valve (10), and which, by means of th servo means (11), is arranged to be moved in a smooth manne independently of sudden changes in the fluid flow, the contro element (4) being arranged to be moved in the flow direction onl s when the rate of flow exceeds a preselected level.
2. A flow regulator according to claim 1, CHARACTERIZED I that the control element (4) is influenced by a prestresse spring (9) acting in the opposite direction to the flow direc tion, and of which the prestressing force is adjustable fo o setting of the preselected flow level.
3. A flow regulator according to claim 1 or 2, CHARAC TERIZED IN that the control element (4) is a piston forming partition between a first chamber (5) connected to the flo channel (2) upstream of a pressure-drop orifice (3) in th 5 channel, and a second chamber (6) connected to the channel (2) at the downstream side of the orifice (3), and that the driv means (12) is arranged in the second chamber (6) and comprises a piston housing (3) and a drive piston (14) which together defines a third chamber (15) at the side of the piston (14) facing away from the throttle valve (10), the third chamber (15) by means of the pilot valve (17) being arranged to be filled with fluid from the second chamber (6) or emptied of fluid in dependence on the movement of the control element (4), the drive piston (14) at the side facing the throttle valve (10) being influenced by the pressure in the second chamber (6), and on the opposite side being influenced by the force from a prestressed drive spring (16) and by the pressure from the fluid supplied to the third chamber (15), so that the drive piston (14) is moved when the resulting force from the drive spring (16) and the fluid 


pressure in the third chamber (15) exceeds or becomes less tha the force influence from the pressure in the second chamber (6)
4. A flow regulator according to claim 3, CHARACTERIZED I that the pilot valve (17) comprises a centre shaft (20) arrange on the control element piston (4) and a guiding sleeve (23 arranged for the centre shaft and which is connected to the driv piston (14) and extends outside the third chamber (15), th centre shaft (20) on its surface being provided with a number o longitudinally extending channels (24) which, at one end communicate with the second chamber (6) through first ports (25 through the wall of the guiding sleeve (23), and which at thei other end can be brought into connection with the third chambe (15) through second ports (26) in the wall of the guiding sleev (23), and the centre shaft (20) further comprising a transvers passage (27) which can be brought into connection with the secon ports (26) of the guiding sleeve (23) when these are shut of from the channels (24), and which communicates with a passag (28) extending through the centre shaft (20) in the longitudina direction thereof and communicating with an outlet (29) fo escape of fluid from the third chamber (15).
5. A flow regulator according to claim 4, CHARACTERIZED I that the longitudinally extending passage (28) of the centr shaft (20) extends throughout the centre shaft (20) and debouche at opposite ends thereof, so that the shaft is pressure-balance in the axial direction.
6. A flow regulator according to claim 4, CHARACTERIZED I that the end of the centre shaft (20) at said outlet (29) i inserted into a cavity (30) in a closing body (31) which i adjustable in the longitudinal direction of the centre shaf (20), the cavity (30) having an outlet opening (32) which i directed towards the control element piston (4) and is arrange to cooperate with a seat (34) in order to close the outlet (29 to cause closing of the throttle valve (10).
7. A flow regulator according to claim 2 and 6, CHARAC TERIZED IN that the prestressing spring (9) is constraine between the outlet end of the closing body (31) and a suppor member (35) at the end of the centre shaft (20), so that th prestressing force of the spring (9) is reduced with movement o the closing body (31) in the direction towards said seat (34). 


 8. A flow regulator according to any of the claims 3-7 CHARACTERIZED IN that the drive piston (14) of the drive mean (12) through a piston rod (18) is directly connected to the valv body (19) of the throttle valve (10). 9. A flow regulator according to any of the precedin claims, CHARACTERIZED IN that the throttle valve (10) comprise a housing (39) having a cylindrical cavity (37) wherein the valv body (19) is slidably arranged and which merges into the outle opening (39) of the regulator, the downstream end of the cavit (37) communicating with said flow channel (2) through a numbe of radial ports (40) which are symmetrically arranged in th peripheral wall of the housing (36).
10. A flow regulator according to any of the precedin claims, CHARACTERIZED IN that the valve body (19) of the throttl valve (10) is provided with through-going axial channels (42) fo equalizing the pressure difference between the end surfaces o the valve body (19). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
