<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613533</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAINTENANCE FRIENDLY VARIABLE SPEED DRIVE AND METHODS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H902	F16H912	F16H5702	F16H5702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H9	F16H9	F16H57	F16H57	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RELIANCE ELECTRIC IND CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RELIANCE ELECTRIC IND CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELDS LARRY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWE MICHAEL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROME EDWARD F JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUCICH TODD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIHELICK JOSEPH R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELDS LARRY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWE MICHAEL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROME EDWARD F JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUCICH TODD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIHELICK JOSEPH R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLE: MAINTENANCE FRIENDLY VARIABLE SPEED DRIVE AND METHODSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention generally concerns an improved variable speed drive and more particularly concerr 3 an improved, maintenance friendly mechanical adjustable variable speed belt drive and related methods.One type of widely used mechanical adjustable drive is referred to generally as a variable speed belt drive, and includes a V-belt entrained about two pairs of relatively axially movable discs received on. respective input and output shafts. In order to change the drive ratio between the two shafts, various mechanisms are used to change the spacing between discs of a respective pair and to otherwise cause the position of the V-belt to change relative the disc pairs and relative the two shafts. As is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art, such a type of variable speed belt drive permits constant speed input power applied to the input shaft to be changed into a controlled, i.e.. selected, variable speed drive output at the output shaft.It is quite common that most components of such prior art variable speed belt drives are protectively enclosed, such as in a housing or casing. Frequently the input shaft is mated with the drive shaft of a constant speed electric motor or the like, while the output shaft is coupled with a load to be driven. Both the load and motor are often times received on the same side of the drive mousing or casing, which is typically referred to as C-flow drive. Often a mechanical or an electrical control is provided outside of the housing so as to.be accessib by the user for adjusting disc spacing on the input shaft, and thereby controlling the output speed of the drive. Such drives are available in a wide variety of horsepower ratings and have numerous applications throughout a wide variety of industries. 

 The following U.S. patents, the disclosures of which are fully incorporated herein by reference, are examples of the above-referenced type of variable speed belt drive.INVENTOR PATENT NO. ISSUE DATE OYTON 4,770,065 SEP. 13, 1988HUFF ET AL. 4,425,102 JAN. 10, 1984MEREDITH 4,411,590 OCT. 25, 1983HUFF ET AL. 4,384,863 MAY 24, 1983ZIGLER 4,370,139 JAN. 25, 1983 LANDAU 3,418,863 DEC. 31, 1968It is true for virtually every type of drive, conveyor means, or other industrial piece of equipment, that routine maintenance is an absolute necessity. Because of such, it is highly desirable that routine'maintenance procedures be streamlined for their efficient execution, safety, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A belt drive, comprising: a pair of constant speed discs mounted on a first shaft for receiving a constant speed drive input; a pair of variable speed discs mounted on a second shaft for providing a variable speed drive output; a drive belt received about said first and second shafts and in between said respective disc pairs for transmitting drive power therebetween; speed change means for adjusting the drive ratio between said respective disc pairs so as to vary the drive power transmitted between said shafts via said drive belt; and support means extending through the loop of said drive belt for supporting at least one of said shafts on an axial side of said belt drive to which access is provided for belt changing, so that said drive belt may be removed and replaced without disturbing the support for said at least one shaft.
2. A belt drive as in claim 1, further including housing means for enclosing said belt drive, said housing means defining an opening to the interior thereof, and said housing means having a removable housing cover fitted to said opening for selectively providing access to said belt drive for maintenance and adjustment thereof.
3. A belt drive as in claim 2, wherein said housing means further includes means for aligning said constant speed discs.
4. A belt drive as in claim 3, wherein said means for aligning includes an alignment edge defined by said housing means opening, the intersection of which with said first shaft defines an alignment point on said first shaft for one of said constant speed discs, by which said constant speed disc pair may be aligned.
5. A belt drive as in claim 2, wherein said housing means further includes an output flange integral therewith and relatively adjacent to said second shaft, so that a 



 variable speed drive output may be directly provided to a component mounted on said output flange.
6. A belt drive as in claim 2, wherein said housing cover comprises one of plastic, fiberglass, and metal material.
7. A belt drive as in claim 1, wherein said support means supports said second shaft on a first axial portion thereof which is opposite a second axial portion thereof.
8. A belt drive as in claim 7, further including: a pair of bearing means supporting said second shaft first and second axial portions respectively on opposite sides of said pair of variable speed discs; housing means for receiving said belt drive components and supporting said second shaft bearing means in said second axial portion of said second shaft; and means for securing said support means to said housing means, so that said second shaft is straddle supported by bearing means on each side of said variable speed discs, without requiring direct support of said second shaft by said housing means, so that improved access is provided to said belt drive components for maintenance purposes.
9. A belt drive as in claim 8, wherein said means for securing includes threaded bolts passing partially through openings formed in said support means and being threadably received in threaded holes formed in said housing means.
10. A belt drive as in claim 1, wherein: said support means supports said second shaft; and said speed change means includes a thrust bearing received on the distal end of said first shaft, a pivot mounted shifting yoke associated with said thrust bearing for moving same axially along said first shaft, and a shifting screw and associated shifting nut threaded thereto for pivoting said shifting yoke.
11. A belt drive as in claim 10, wherein said shifting screw is selectively driven with an electrical device. 


 12. A belt drive as in claim 10, wherein said shifting screw is selectively driven with a mechanical device.
13. A belt drive as in claim 12, wherein: said mechanical device is a detachable pin mounted handwheel; and said shifting yoke is pivot mounted with a detachable pin.
14. A belt drive as in claim 10, further including upper and lower speed limiting means for selecting upper and lower limits for the range of drive ratio settings of said speed change means.
15. A belt drive as in claim 10, wherein said support means further includes means for rotatably receiving said shifting screw.
16. A belt drive as in claim 13, further comprising: housing means for receiving said belt drive components, and having a removable cover for providing access thereto; means removably securing said support means to said housing means; first bearing means received on said housing means for rotatably supporting the proximal end of said second shaft; and second bearing means received on said support means for rotatably receiving the distal end of said second shaft.
17. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive, comprising: a pair of constant speed discs mounted on a controllably shiftable first shaft for changing the spacing between said constant speed discs; speed control means for controllably shifting said first shaft; a pair of variable speed discs mounted on a second shaft relatively displaced from and generally parallel to said first shaft, said second shaft extending axially on either side of said variable speed discs and having first 


 and second support regions on respective sides of said variable speed discs; drive belt means received about said first and second shafts and in between said respective disc pairs for transmitting drive power therebetween; second shaft shifting means for adjusting the relative distance between said variable speed discs to follow constant speed disc spacing changes caused by operation of said speed control means; and second shaft support means for supporting said first support region of said second shaft on one side of said variable speed discs and extending in between said first and second shafts, through the loop of said drive belt, and onto the opposite side of said variable speed discs for supporting said second support region of said second shaft, so that said drive belt may be replaced from such opposite side without disengaging support for said second shaft.
18. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 17, further comprising: a drive housing for protectively receiving the components of said belt drive, said drive housing having a removable housing cover for providing access to the housing interior through an opening to which said cover is mated.
19. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 18, wherein said second shaft support means includes: first bearing means received in said drive housing for rotatably supporting said first support region of said second shaft; a support backbone formed integrally with said drive housing and situated generally centrally between said first and second shafts; and a second shaft support bracket secured to said support backbone and extending therefrom; and second bearing means received in said bracket for rotatably supporting said second support region of said second shaft. 


 20. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 17, wherein said drive belt means comprises a single loop, flexible V-belt.
21. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 18, further including alignment means, integrally associated with said drive housing opening, for aligning one of said constant speed discs relative said first shaft.
22. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 18, further including an output flange integrally formed in said drive housing adjacent said second shaft to facilitate engagement of another component with the output from said second shaft.
23. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 19, further including at least two removable threaded bolts received through said bracket and i-'to said support backbone for removably securing said bracket thereto.
24. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 18, wherein said speed control means includes: a support mount received on said drive housing on one side of said first shaft; axial actuation means and associated actuation element, received on said drive housing on a side of said first shaft generally opposite to said support mount, for controlled axial displacement therealong of said actuation element thereof; thrust bearing means carried on said first shaft axially on the distal side thereof relative said constant speed discs; and shifting yoke means, pivotably supi "ted on said support mount and operativel, ngaged with said thrust bearing means and said actuation element, for axially moving said thrust bearing means relative said first shaft responsive to axial displacement of said actuation element by operation of said axial actuation means, so that a 


 resulting change is made in the drive ratio between said first and second shafts. ~ 
~ ~
r.
25. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 24, wherein: said support mount is received outside of the loop of said drive belt; said axial actuation means is received inside the loop of said drive belt; and wherein said axial actuation means comprises a rotatably supported shifting screw with a shifting nut carried thereon and in engagement with a pivoting end of said shifting yoke means.
26. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 19, wherein said support backbone includes a relatively projected region to which said support bracket is secured.
27. A mechanically adjustable variable speed belt drive as in claim 17, wherein said second shaft shifting means includes a telescoping shaft arrangement with biasing spring means for biasing said variable speed discs towards one another and into contact with said drive belt means received therebetween.
28. An enclosed variable speed belt drive with improved access to internal components thereof for maintenance, said belt drive comprising: housing means for enclosing components of said belt drive, and including an interior chamber for receipt of internal components; a support backbone therein for support of at least one component received in said interior chamber; an opening defined by said housing means for entrance to said interior chamber thereof; and a removable, nonload bearing housing cover generally mated with said opening of said housing means, for providing relatively exposed access to said interior chamber through said opening whenever said cover is removed therefrom; closure means for removably securing said housing cover to said housing means generally mated with said opening thereof; 


 respective pairs of discs comprising variable pitch sheaves on respective input and output shaf
t
s, received in said housing means interior chamber; a drive belt entrained about said shafts and in between said disc pairs for transmitting drive power between said shafts; means for changing the drive ratio between said shafts by adjusting the drive relationship between said discs and said belt; a pair of bearing means for supporting said output shaft on respective sides of said disc pair associated therewith; means for supporting one of said output shaft bearing means generally on one side of said housing means; and bracket means, extending from said support backbone and through the loop of said drive belt, for supporting the other of said output shaft bearing means generally on a side of said housi.-g means opposite to said one side thereof, so that said output shaft is straddle supported without requiring load bearing support from said housing cover, thereby improving access to said interior chamber, said input shaft, and said disc pair associated therewith for maintenance procedures upon removal of said cover.
29. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 28, wherein: said pair of discs received on said input shaft comprise a pair of constant speed discs; said input shaft comprises a controllably shiftable shaft for changing the spacing between said constant speed discs; said means for changing the drive ratio includes shifting means for controllably shifting said input shaft; and said pair of discs received on said output shaft comprise a pair of variable speed discs.
30. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 29, wherein said shifting means includes: 


 a support mount received on said housing means on one side of said input shaft; axial actuation means and associated actuation element, received on said housing means on a side of said input shaft generally opposite to said support mount, for controlled axial displacement therealong of said actuation element thereof; thrust bearing means carried on said input shaft axially on the distal side thereof relative said constant speed discs; and shifting yoke means, pivotably supported on said support mount and operatively engaged with said thrust bearing means and said actuation element, for axially moving said thrust bearing means relative said input shaft responsive to axial displacement of said actuation element by operation of said axial actuation means, so that a resulting change is made in the drive ratio between said input and output shafts.
31. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 30, wherein: said support mount is received outside of the loop of said drive belt; said axial actuation means is received inside the loop of said drive belt; and wherein said axial actuation means comprises a rotatably supported shifting screw with a shifting nut carried thereon and in engagement with a pivoting end of said shifting yoke means.
32. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 30, wherein said bracket means includes means for supporting at least part of said axial actuation means and said associated actuation element.
33. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 28, wherein: said support backbone further defines an integral reducer flange associated with said output shaft; 


 said means f 
<
~ - supporting said one bearing means includes an annular jpening formed in said integral reducer flange for receiving said one bearing means; and said output shaft extends into and through said integral reducer flange so as to form the input pinion of a reducer attached to said reducer flange.
34. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 28, further including at least one generally annular slot formed on said output shaft and a snap ring associated therewith for positioning at least one of said bearing means relative said output shaft, so that said disc pair associated therewith may be automatically axially aligned relative said belt drive by installation of said output shaft into said means for supporting and said bracket means.
35. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 28, wherein said housing means further defines an alignment edge by which at least one of said discs received on said input shaft may be axially aligned relative thereto.
36. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 28, wherein said housing cover has a generally concave shape, and wherein the concavity thereof defines part of said housing means interior chamber whenever said housing cover is mated with said housing means opening.
37. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 31, further including: removable bolt means for securing said bracket means to said support backbone; and a removable handwheel associated with said shifting screw for user-operated rotation of same.
38. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 31, further includ
i
ng: removable bolt means for securing said bracket means to said support backbone; and removable electronic control means associated with said shifting screw for controlled rotation of same. 


 39. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 28, further including tachometer means for sensing the rotational speed of said output shaft.
40. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 29, wherein said shifting means are supported at least in part on said bracket means.
41. An enclosed variable speed belt drive as in claim 31, wherein said shifting screw is rotatably received in respective annular openings defined in said bracket means and in said support backbone.
42. A method of assembling and subsequently maintaining a maintenance friendly belt drive, said assembly method comprising: providing a drive housing with a relatively large interior access opening thereto and having relatively central therein a support backbone, a first shaft supported on its proximal end by said housing on one side of said backbone and adapted for receiving a constant speed drive input, and a second shaft supported on its proximal end by said housing on the other side of said backbone and adapted for providing a variable speed drive output, said second shaft having a pair of variable speed discs mounted thereon; securing a support bracket to said support backbone, so that such bracket engages and rotatably supports a distal end of said second shaft; providing a pair of constant speed discs, and mounting the proximal one of such discs on said first shaft; installing a drive belt about said second shaft entrained in between said variable speed discs and with the loop of said drive belt placed about said first shaft; mounting the distal one of said constant speed discs onto said first shaft; installing speed change means for adjusting the drive ratio between the respective discs pairs so as to vary the drive power transmitted between the shafts via said drive belt, including mounting a thrust bearing over the distal 



end of said first shaft, with such thrust bearing supported for axial movement thereof along said first shaft by opera¬ tion of an actuation mechanism associated therewith; and securing a housing cover to said drive housing opening; wherein said assembly steps may be selectively reversed for maintenance and/or adjustment to said drive belt and other components within said drive housing.
43. A method as in claim 42, further including: providing said cover with an opening for access to said actuation mechanism for controlling the position of said thrust bearing; and installing into said housing cover a control mechanism for said actuation mechanism.
44. A method as in claim 42, wherein said mounting of said proximal constant speed disc includes aligning such disc on said first shaft with an alignment edge defined by said drive housing opening.
45. A method as in claim 42, wherein said actuation mechanism includes a pivot mounted shifting yoke, and further includes a shifting screw supported in said support bracket and an associated shifting nut for engagement with said shifting yoke, said shifting screw extending through said housing cover when seated so as to facilitate actuation of said control mechanism for such shifting yoke.
46. A method as in claim 42, further including providing at least one snap ring locator along said second shaft so that installation of said variable speed discs thereon and installation of said support bracket results in proper alignment of said variable speed discs relative said drive housing.
47. A method as in claim 42, further including drivingly engaging said first shaft with the output from a constant speed electric motor, and further including driv¬ ingly engaging said second shaft with the input pinion of a gear speed reducer.
48. A method as in claim 47, further including integrally providing said drive housing with an output 


 flange adapted for securing said gear speed reducer thereto.
49. A method as in claim 42, further including pro¬ viding a tachometer device associated with said second shaft so as to determine the output speed of said variable speed drive output thereof.
50. A method as in claim 42, wherein said actuation mechanism includes a pivot mounted shifting yoke, and further wherein said control mechanism for said shifting yoke comprises a handwheel and associated shifting screw and shifting nut, so that a user may mechanically input a desired position setting for said shifting yoke and thereby determine the relative output speed of said belt drive.
51. A method as in claim 42, wherein said actuation mechanism includes a pivot mounted shifting yoke, and further wherein said control mechanism includes a shifting screw and shifting nut associated with said shifting yoke, and electrical control means for electrically and selec¬ tively turning said shifting screw to a desired setting, to thereby select the relative output speed of said belt drive.
52. A method as in claim 42, further including supporting at least part of said speed change means on said support bracket.
53. A method as in claim 45, further including installing a pair of adjustable collars on said shifting screw on either axial side of said shifting nut, and securing said collars in selected axial positions along said shifting screw so as to establish respective upper and lower limits to operation of said speed change means.
54. A method as in claim 42, further including subsequently removing said housing cover, said speed change means, and said distal one of said constant speed discs, so t at maintenance may be performed on said drive belt, on bushings associated with the distal one of said constant speed discs, or on any other belt drive components within said housing. 


 55. An improved support bracket for use with a variable speed belt drive of the type having a pair of constant speed discs mounted on a first shaft, a pair of variable speed discs mounted on a second shaft, a drive belt entrained about such shafts and in between said pairs of discs, speed changing means for changing the drive ratio between said shafts, and a main body supporting at least one end of each of said shafts, said improved support bracket including: a first support arm adapted for securement to the belt drive main body projecting through the loop of the drive belt thereof; a second support arm supported on said first support arm and projecting therefrom into a position adjacent a distal, unsupported end of said second shaft; and means carried on said second support arm for rotatably receiving said second shaft distal end, so that said second shaft is straddle supported for removal of said drive belt without disturbing the support of said second shaft.
56. An improved support bracket as in claim 55, wherein said means for rotatably receiving said second shaft comprises a bearing arrangement received in an annular opening on an end of said second arm.
57. An improved support bracket as in claim 55, wherein said second arm includes means for supporting a tachometer pickup in operative communication with said second shaft.
58. An improved support bracket as in claim 55, further including reinforcing flanges interconnected between said first and second support arms.
59. An improved support bracket as in claim 55, wherein said first support arm includes means for supporting a portion of said speed changing means.
60. An improved support bracket as in claim 55, wherein said first and second support arms are integrally formed with one another. 


 61. An improved support bracket as in claim 60, wherein said integrally formed first and second support arms comprise cast iron.
62. An improved support bracket as in claim 55, wherein said first support arm includes at least two bolt holes formed therethrough for securement thereof to said belt drive main body.
63. An improved support bracket as in claim 62, wherein said bolt holes comprise three bolt holes.
64. An improved support bracket as in claim 62, wherein said bolt holes comprise four bolt holes.
65. An improved support bracket as in claim 55, wherein said first support arm includes a longitudinal channel therein for receipt of electrical wires such as control wires and tachometer signal wires.
66. An improved support bracket as in claim 55, wherein said first support arm comprises two separate elements removably joined to another, one of which elements comprise a backbone support integrally formed with said belt drive main body.
67. An improved support bracket as in claim 66, wherein said integrally formed backbone support comprises a projection which protrudes from the remainder of said belt drive main body in a generally central position of the loop of said drive belt.
68. An improved support bracket as in claim 55, wherein said first and second support arms are joined generally at respective right angles to one another.
69. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism, comprising: a pair of constant speed discs mounted on a controllably shiftable first shaft for changing the spacing between said constant speed discs; a pair of variable speed discs mounted on a second shaft; a drive belt entrained about said shafts and in between said pairs of discs for transmitting drive power between said shafts; 



 a main body supporting at least one end of each of said shafts; a support mount received on said main body on one side of said first shaft; axial actuation means and associated actuation element, received on said main body on a side of said first shaft generally opposite to said support mount, for controlled axial displacement therealong of said actuation element thereof; thrust bearing means carried on said first shaft axially on the distal side thereof relative said constant speed discs; and shifting yoke means, pivotably supported on said support mnunt and operatively engaged with said thrust bearing means and said actuation element, for axially moving said thrust bearing means relative said first shaft responsive to axial displacement of said actuation element by operation of said axial actuation means, so that a resulting change is made in the drive ratio between said first and second shafts.
70. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 69, wherein said axial actuation means comprises a rotatably supported shifting screw with a shifting nut carried thereon and in engagement with a pivoting end of said shifting yoke means.
71. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 69, wherein said shifting yoke means is pivotably mounted to said support mount by a removable pin.
72. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 69, wherein said support mount is received outside of the loop of Sc? 
:
 driva belt, and said axial actuation means is received in 
:
de the loop of said drive belt.
73. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 69, further including a support bracket extending from said main body through the 


 loop of said drive belt and supporting said axial actuation means thereon.
74. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 73, wherein said support bracket includes a second shaft support element extending therefrom and supporting a distal end of said second shaft in a bearing received thereon.
75. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 69, wherein said shifting yoke means includes a generally rigid, elongated member having a pivoted end adapted for pivotable attach¬ ment to said support mount, a pivoting end adapted for free engagement with said actuation element, and a central opening between said ends for receiving said thrust bearing means and with engagement surfaces adapted for engaging said thrust bearing means.
76. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 75, wherein said actuation element comprises a shifting nut, and said shifting yoke means pivoting end includes a pair of engagement ears adapted to be received on either side of predetermined engagement surfaces of said shifting nut.
77. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 69, further including speed stop means for limiting the range of drive ratio settings with said axial actuation means.
78. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 70, further including adjustable stop screws selectively axially positionable along said shifting screw on either side of said shifting nut for limiting the axial travel thereof so as to limit the drive ratio setting range of said axial actuation means.
79. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 73, wherein said support bracket includes a planar travel surface adjacent the axial travel path of said actuation element to limit rotational movement of said actuation element if it seizes 


up, so that damage to said shifting yoke means operatively engaged therewith is prevented.
80. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 70, further including a handwheel attached to said shifting screw for manual actuation thereof.
81. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 70, further including electronic control means attached to said shifting screw for electrical actuation thereof.
82. A variable speed belt drive with an improved speed changing mechanism as in claim 74, further including a cover removably received on said main body and protectively encasing said belt drive components, and means operative through said cover for controlling operation of said axial actuation means.
83. A method for improved maintenance of an enclosable variable speed belt drive, said method including providing belt drive components comprising: housing means for enclosing other components of said belt drive, and including an interior chamber for receipt of internal components; a support backbone therein for support of at least one component received in said interior chamber; an opening defined by said housing means for entrance to said interior chamber thereof; and a removable, nonload bearing housing cover generally mated with said opening of said housing means, for providing relatively exposed access to said interior chamber through said opening whenever said cover is removed therefrom; closure means for removably securing said housing cover to said housing means generally mated with said opening thereof; respective pairs of discs comprising variable pitch sheaves and mountable on respective input and output shafts, received in said housing means interior chamber; a drive belt to be entrained about said shafts and in between said disc pairs for transmitting drive power between said shafts; 


 means for changing the drive ratio between said shafts by adjusting the drive relationship between said discs and said belt; a pair of bearing means for supporting said output shaft on respective sides of said disc pair associated therewith; means for supporting one of said output shaft bearing means generally on one side of said housing means; and bracket means, to be extended from said support backbone and through the loop of said drive belt, for supporting the other of said output shaft bearing means generally on a side of said housing means opposite to said one side thereof, so that said output shaft may be straddle supported without requiring load bearing support from said housing cover, thereby improving access to said interior 
'
 chamber, said drive belt, said input shaft, and said disc pair associated with said input shaft, for maintenance procedures upon removal of said cover; said method further including at least partially assembling said components by mounting a pair of said discs on said output shaft, applying one of said bearing means to said output shaft, and supporting said one bearing means in said means for supporting; removably installing said bracket means with the other of said bearing means so that said output shaft is straddle supported; and installing said input shaft with a proximal one of said discs supported thereon.
84. A method as in claim 83, further including further assembling said belt drive, including: installing said drive belt entrained about said shafts and in between said disc pair on said output shaft; mounting the remaining disc on said input shaft; installing said means for changing the drive ratio; and removably securing said housing cover to said housing means. 


 85. A method as in claim 84, further including subsequently partially disassembling said belt drive to facilitate maintenance and adjustment procedures thereon, including: removing said housing cover; at least partially removing said means for changing the drive ratio; and removing said remaining disc from said input shaft.
86. A method as in claim 85, further including removing said drive belt.
87. A method as in claim 83, wherein said means for changing the drive ratio are at least partially supported on said bracket means.
88. A method as in claim 83, wherein said step of mounting said discs on said output shaft includes axially aligning such discs on said output shaft with annular slots and snap rings thereon so that installation of said output shaft and said bracket means properly aligns said discs on said output shaft with the remainder of said belt drive.
89. A method as in claim 83, wherein said input shaft installing includes properly aligning said proximal disc thereon with the remainder of said belt drive by axially situating such proximal disc on said input shaft in alignment with an alignment edge formed by said housing means opening with said cover removed therefrom.
90. A method as in claim 85, wherein said installing said means for changing the drive ratio includes: rotatably supporting a shifting screw at least partially supported by said bracket means, with a shifting nut received on said screw for axial movement therealong as said screw is rotated; mounting a thrust bearing on said input shaft on a distal side of said input shaft relative said discs thereon; pivotably and removably mounting a shifting yoke for engagement with said thrust bearing and said shifting nut so that axial movement of said shifting nut pivots said shifting yoke for axially shifting said thrust bearing. 


 91. A method as in claim 90, wherein said partially removing said means for changing the drive ratio includes removing said shifting yoke and removing said thrust bearing so as to permit removal of said distal disc on said input shaft and removal of said drive belt. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
