<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612062</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Patterning process, electro-deposition original plate used therefor, process for producing optical recording medium, and process for producing color filter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F11335	G02F113	G11B726	G11B726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G11B7	G11B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for patterning a substrate by forming 
electrodeposited layers on the substrate so as to 

correspond with two or more kinds of patterns has the 
steps of preparing an electrodeposition original plate 

having conductive patterns respectively corresponding 
with patterns in which respective conductive patterns 

are laid bare and conductive patterns are insulated 
from each other in such a manner that the 

electrodeposited layers can be respectively 
independently formed on the conductive patterns 

successively, forming the electrodeposited layers on 
the respective conductive patterns and transferring 

the electrodeposited layers formed on the respective 
conductive patterns, to a substrate. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRAOKA MIZUHO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IMATAKI HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGANO KAZUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANABE HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANO TAKAYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRAOKA, MIZUHO, C/O CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IMATAKI, HIROYUKI, C/O CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGANO, KAZUMI, C/O CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANABE, HIROSHI, C/O CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANO, TAKAYA, C/O CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a patterning process
capable of forming two or more kinds of patterns on a
substrate, an electrodeposition original plate used in
such a process, and a process for producing an optical
recording medium or producing a color filter by the
use of such an original plate.As a method for the production of color
filters, the method as disclosed in Japanese Patent
Application Laid-open No. 61-279003 is known in the
art.The method will be described with reference to
Figs. 2A to 2F. First, on a transparent substrate 21,
a transparent electrode 22 is formed. Then, on the
transparent electrode 22, a photoresist layer 23 is
formed (Fig. 2A).Next, the photoresist layer is exposed to
light through a mask so formed as to correspond with a
pattern of a first hue (e.g., red), followed by 
development to patternwise bare the transparent
electrode (Fig. 2B). Next, on the bared portion of
the transparent electrode, a red electrodeposited
layer 24 is formed using an electrodepositing solution
prepared by dissolving or dispersing a red coloring
matter in a resin feasible for electrodeposition (Fig.
2C).Subsequently, in the same manner as the
foregoing, the transparent electrode is patternwise
bared (Fig. 2D) using a mask so formed as to
correspond with a pattern of a second hue (e.g.,
green), and then a green electrodeposited layer 25 is
formed on the bared portion thereof in the same manner
as the foregoing (Fig. 2E). An electrodeposited layer
26 of a third hue (e.g., blue) is further formed in
entirely the same manner. Thus, a color filter is
obtained (Fig. 2F).As an example of the application of this
method, a method is known in which, after the
electrodeposited layers of the respective hues have
been formed, a glass substrate on which a transfer
layer comprising a photocurable adhesive has been
formed by coating is contact-bonded, followed by
irradiation with light to cause the electrodeposited
layers to transfer to the glass substrate.This method, which employs a technique of 
photolithography, has a superior pattern precision
compared with other processes for producing color
filters, e.g., printing, and also can achieve uniform
control of coloring layers according to conditions for
electrodeposition. Thus, this is a method preferable
for producing color filters with a high quality. When
the transfer step as described above is used, the
substrate on which the electrode has been formed can
be reused, making it possible to achieve a cost
reduction in the production of color filters.This method,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for patterning a substrate (41; 172) by
forming electrodeposited layers (32a, 32b, 32c; 70-1, 70-2,

70-3) on the substrate in two or more patterns (Pa,
Pb, Pc), wherein said process comprises the steps of:


preparing an electrodeposition original plate having
conductive patterns (13a, 13b, 13c) each corresponding

to a respective one of said two or more patterns; said
conductive patterns being bare, being insulated from each

other in such a manner that the electrodeposited layers
can be independently formed on the respective conductive

patterns and adjoining ones of said conductive patterns
being formed on different planes;
successively forming the electrodeposited layers
(32a, 32b, 32c; 70-1, 70-2, 70-3) on the respective

conductive patterns (13a, 13b, 13c; 74); and
transferring the electrodeposited layers (32a, 32b,
32c; 70-1, 70-2, 70-3) formed on the respective

conductive patterns, to a substrate (41; 172).
The patterning process according to claim 1, wherein
the electrodeposited layers (32a, 32b, 32c; 70-1, 70-2,

70-3) formed on the respective conductive patterns (13a,
13b, 13c) have substantially the same composition.
The patterning process according to claim 1, wherein 
the electrodeposited layers (32a, 32b, 32c; 70-1, 70-2,

70-3) formed on the respective conductive patterns (13a,
13b, 13c) have different compositions.
An electrodeposition original plate having two or
more conductive patterns, wherein said conductive

patterns (13a, 13b, 13c) are laid bare, the plate being
characterised in that the conductive patterns (13a, 13b,

13c) are insulated from each other in such a manner that
electrodeposited layers (32a, 32b, 32c; 70-1, 70-2, 70-3)

can be independently formed on respective ones of the
conductive patterns and adjoining ones of said conductive

patterns (13a, 13b, 13c) are formed on different planes.
The electrodeposition original plate according to
claim 4, wherein said conductive patterns are patterns

corresponding to colour patterns of a colour filter.
The electrodeposition original plate according to
claim 5, wherein said conductive patterns comprise at

least three conductive patterns.
The electrodeposition original plate according to
claim 6, wherein each of said conductive patterns

corresponds to a respective conductive pattern of a
colour of a layer to be electrodeposited. 
The electrodeposition original plate according to
claim 7, which is formed in such a manner that

electrodeposited layers of the same colour can be
simultaneously formed on conductive patterns

corresponding to said layers.
The electrodeposition original plate according to
claim 4, wherein at least one of said conductive patterns

corresponds to a preformat pattern of an optical
recording medium.
The electrodeposition original plate according to
claim 4, wherein at least one of said conductive patterns

corresponds to a recording layer pattern of an optical
recording medium.
A process for producing a colour filter comprising
a transparent substrate (41) and provided thereon

electrodeposited layers with different colours (32a, 32b,
32c), respectively arranged in patterns (Pa, Pb, Pc)

characterised in that the electrodeposited layers are
formed on the substrate in accordance with the process

according to any one of claims 1 to 3.
A process for producing a colour filter comprising
a transparent substrate and provided thereon

electrodeposited layers of different colours arranged in 
respective patterns (Pa, Pb, Pc), characterised in that

the process comprises the steps of:

providing an electrodeposition original plate having
transparent conductive patterns (13a, 13b, 13c)

respectively corresponding to said patterns on a
transparent substrate (11), said transparent conductive

patterns being bare and separated from each other by a
transparent insulating layer (14), adjoining ones of said

conductive patterns being formed in different planes and
being insulated from each other in such a manner that the

electrodeposited layers can be independently formed on
the conductive patterns; and
successively forming the electrodeposited layers
(32a, 32b, 32c) on the respective conductive patterns

(13a, 13b, 13c).
The process for producing a colour filter according
to claim 12, further including the step of transferring

the electrodeposited layers (32a, 32b, 32c) formed on the
respective conductive patterns to a substrate (41).
The process for producing a colour filter according
to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein said conductive

patterns of said electrodeposition original plate
comprise at least three conductive patterns.
The process for producing a colour filter according 
to any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein each of said

conductive patterns of said electrodeposition original
plate respectively correspond to a conductive pattern of

a colour of a layer to be electrodeposited.
The process for producing a colour filter according
to any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein said

electrodeposition original plate is formed in such a
manner that electrodeposited layers of the same colour

can be simultaneously formed on conductive patterns
corresponding to said layers.
The process for producing a colour filter according
to any one of claims 11 to 16, wherein said conductive

patterns of said electrodeposition original plate are
formed of a metal.
The process for producing a colour filter according
to any one of claims 11 to 17, wherein said conductive

patterns of said electrodeposition original plate are
transparent.
A colour filter formed by a process according to any
one of claims 11 to 18.
A process for producing an optical recording medium
comprising a substrate and provided thereon a recording 

layer having an electrodeposited layer (166) and a
preformat layer having an electrodeposited layer (165),

formed in a pattern corresponding to a preformat,
characterised in that the electrodeposited layers (165,

166) are formed on the substrate by using a process for
patterning a substrate according to any one of claims 1

to 3.
The process for producing an optical recording
medium according to claim 20, wherein said

electrodeposited layers are transferred to said substrate
via a transfer layer (42, 171).
A process for producing an optical recording medium
comprising a substrate (167) and provided thereon a

recording layer having an electrodeposited layer (166)
and a preformat layer having an
 electrodeposited layer
(165), formed in a pattern corresponding to a preformat,

characterised in that the process comprises the steps of:

providing an electrodeposition original plate
comprising a transparent substrate (167) covered with a

transparent conductive layer (168), and a first
transparent conductive pattern (170) provided on the

conductive layer (168) with a transparent insulating
layer (169) inserted therebetween, and a second

conductive pattern corresponding with the preformat and
defined by a bared region of the conductive layer (168); 

and
successively forming the electrodeposited layers
(165, 166) on the first and second conductive patterns.
The process for producing an optical recording
medium according to any one of claims 20 to 22, wherein

said electrodeposited layer for said recording layer
(166) is a layer capable of causing an optically

detectable change upon irradiation with a laser beam.
The process for producing an optical recording
medium according to any one of claims 20 to 23, wherein

said electrodeposited layer for said recording layer
(166) contains a recording material selected from the

group consisting of an organic colouring matter, carbon
black, a metal and a semimetal.
The process for producing an optical recording
medium according to claim 24, wherein said

electrodeposited layer for said recording layer (166)
contains said recording material in an amount of from 5%

by weight to 50% by weight.
The process for producing an optical recording
medium according to claim 24, wherein said organic

colouring matter comprises a phthalocyanine. 
The process for producing an optical recording
medium according to any one of claims 20 to 26, wherein

said recording layer (166) has a reflectance of from 5%
to 40% when light with a wavelength of 780 to 860 nm is

incident thereon via transmission through the substrate
(167), and said preformat layer has a reflectance higher

than the reflectance of said recording layer.
The process for producing an optical recording
medium according to any one of claims 20 to 27, further

including the steps of superposing an adhesive layer and
a protective layer over the electrodeposited recording

layer and preformat layer.
The process for producing an optical recording
medium according to claim 28, further including the steps

of cutting the medium into a predetermined size of an
optical recording card.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
