<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618622</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
High voltage transistor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27085	H01L27098	H01L2902	H01L2906	H01L2908	H01L2910	H01L2940	H01L2940	H01L2966	H01L2978	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method for constructing a semiconducting device, 
within a substrate of a first conductivity type there is 

formed a well of second conductivity type. Within the 
well, an extended drain region of a first conductivity type 

is formed. An insulating region over the extended drain 
region is formed. A gate region is formed on a surface of 

the substrate. A first side of the gate region is adjacent 
to a first end of the extended drain region. A drain 

region of the first conductivity type is formed. The drain 
region is in contact with a second end of the extended 

drain region. A source region is formed on a second side 
of the gate region. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POWER INTEGRATIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRABOWSKI WAYNE BRYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUMENNIK VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRABOWSKI, WAYNE BRYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUMENNIK, VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns a high voltage 
transistor used for various circuits such as amplifiers, 
power converters, instrumentation and the like. In the prior art, high voltage p-channel metal-oxide-silicon 
(PMOS) transistors have been integrated onto 
circuits. See for example, the PMOS transistor disclosed 
by Vladimir Rumennik, David L. Heald, Integrated High andLow Voltage CMOS Technology, IEEE 28th Int. ElectronDevices Meeting, pp. 77-80, 1982. In this prior art 
scheme, the PMOS transistor is connected in series with an 
extended drain p-drift (or offset) region. P-type 
impurities (e.g. Boron) are introduced in the drift region 
by ion implantation after a polysilicon layer is formed to 
provide self-alignment to the gate. The charge of the p-drift 
region is uniquely defined by the charge matching 
with the underlying n-well charge. Specifically, the 
maximum electric field is a function of the doping level in 
the p-offset channel and the well, and is sensitive to the 
charge mismatch between them. The need to control the  
 
charge in the p-drift regions requires a closely controlled 
boron implant into the p-drift region. Several difficulties exist in the above-described 
prior art system. For example, since the polysilicon gate 
is used to mask the p-type implant in the drift region, the 
implant energy must be limited to avoid penetrating the 
polysilicon. Thus, the impurity distribution in the drift 
region is relatively shallow. Also, only a deposited thick 
oxide may be used since a long thermal oxidation cycle 
would consume the polysilicon. The combination of a 
shallow diffusion in the drift region and an inferior 
deposited oxide leads to reduced breakdown voltages and 
decreased transistor reliability. Another disadvantage is that a relatively high on-state 
resistance of the transistor results from the 
conductivity of the p-channel and the drift region being 
lower than the conductivity of n-channel transistors. The 
on-state resistance of the p-channel device is 
significantly influenced by the net concentration of the p-type 
impurities. However, as discussed above, the 
concentration of the p-type impurities cannot be 
arbitrarily increased to maintain balance compensating 
charge as this would detrimentally affect drain break down 
voltage (BVD). The present invention provides a method for constructing a 
semiconducting device comprising the steps of: 
(a) forming an extended drain region of a first 
conductivity type within a well of a second conductivity 
type, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for constructing a semiconducting device 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) forming an extended drain region of a first 
conductivity type within a well of a second conductivity 

type, the well being contained within a substrate of the 
first conductivity type; 
(b) forming an insulating region over the extended 
drain region; 
(c) forming a gate region on a surface of the 
substrate, a first side of the gate region being adjacent 

to a first end of the extended drain region; 
(d) forming a drain region of the first conductivity 
type in contact with a second end of the extended drain 

region; and, 
(e) forming a source region on a second side of the 
gate region. 
A method as in claim 1 wherein step (b) includes 
the following substeps: 


(b.1) growing an oxide layer across the surface of 
the substrate; and, 
(b.2) etching the oxide layer to form the insulating 
region. 
A method as in either one of claims 1 and 2 
wherein step (c) includes forming the gate region so that 

the gate regions extend over the insulating region. 
A method as in any one of the preceding claims 
additionally comprising the following step performed 

concurrently with step (c): 
   forming a second gate region adjacent to the drain 

region. 
A method as in any one of the preceding claims 
wherein step (e) includes forming strips of material of 

alternately the first conductivity type and second 
conductivity type within the source region. 
A method as in any one of the preceding claims 
wherein the first conductivity type is p-type and the 

 
second conductivity type is n-type. 
A method for constructing a semiconducting 
device comprising the steps of: 


(a) forming an extended drain region of a first 
conductivity type within a well of a second conductivity 

type, the well being contained within a substrate of the 
first conductivity type; 
(b) forming a first insulating region over a first 
portion of the extended drain region and a second 

insulating region over a second portion of the extended 
drain region; 
(c) forming, on a surface of the substrate, a first 
gate region and a second gate region, a first side of the 

first gate region being at a first end of the first portion 
of the extended drain region and a first side of the second 

gate region being at a first end of the second portion of 
the extended drain region; 
(d) forming a drain region of the first conductivity 
type between th
e first portion of the extended drain region 
and the second portion of the extended drain region, the 

drain region being on a second side of the first portion of 
the extended drain region and being on a second side of the 

second portion of the extended drain region; and, 
(e) forming a first source region on a second side of 
the first gate region and a second source region on a 

second side of the second gate region, the first source 
region including material of the first conductivity type 

and the second conductivity type and the second source 
region including material of the first conductivity type 

and the second conductivity type. 
A method as in claim 7 wherein step (b) includes 
the following substeps: 


(b.1) growing an oxide layer across the surface of 
the substrate; and, 
(b.2) etching the oxide layer to form the insulating 
regions. 
A method as in either one of claims 7 and 8 
 

wherein step (c) includes forming the first and second gate 
regions so that the first gate region extends over the 

first insulating region and so that the second gate region 
extends over the second insulating region. 
A method as in any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein 
step (e) includes forming strips of material of alternately 

the first conductivity type and the second conductivity 
type within the first source region and includes forming 

strips of material of alternately the first conductivity 
type and the second conductivity type within the second 

source region. 
A method as in any one of claims 7 to 10 wherein 
a ratio of a width of the first portion of the extended 

drain region to a width of the second portion of the 
extended drain region is at least 1:1. 
A method as in any one of claims 7 to 11 wherein 
the first conductivity type is p-type and the second 

conductivity type is n-type. 
A semiconductor device comprising: 
   a substrate of a first conductivity type; 

   a well of a second conductivity type within the 
substrate; 

   a first extended drain region of the first 
conductivity type formed within the well; 

   a second extended drain region of the first 
conductivity type formed within the well; 

   a first insulating region over the first extended 
drain region; 

   a second insulating region over the second extended 
drain region; 

   a first gate region formed on a surface of the 
substrate, a first side of the first gate region being at 

a first end of the first extended drain region; 
   a second gate region formed on the surface of the 

substrate, a first side of the second gate region being at 
a first end of the second extended drain region; 

   a drain region of the first conductivity type formed 
 

within the substrate between the first extended drain 
region and the second extended drain region, the drain 

region being in contact with a second side of the first 
extended drain region and being in contact with a second 

side of the second extended drain region; 
   a first source region formed in the substrate on a 

second side of the first gate region, the first source 
region including material of both the first conductivity 

type and the second conductivity type; and, 
   a second source region formed in the substrate on a 

second side of the second gate region, the second source 
region including material of both the first conductivity 

type and the second conductivity type. 
A semiconductor device as in claim 13 wherein the 
first gate region extends over the first insulating region 

and the second gate region extends over the second 
insulating region. 
A semiconductor device as in either one of claims 
13 and 14 wherein the first source regions includes strips 

of material of alternately the first conductivity type and 
the second conductivity type and wherein the second source 

region includes strips of material of alternately the first 
conductivity type and the second conductivity type. 
A semiconductor device as in any one of claims 13 
to 15 wherein a ratio of a width of the first extended 

drain region to a width of the second extended drain region 
is at least 1:1. 
A semiconductor device as in any one of claims 13 
to 16 wherein the first conductivity type is p-type and the 

second conductivity type is n-type. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
