<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615432</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPLIT EYEBOLT FOR SPINAL ROD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1756	A61B1756	A61B1770	A61B1770	A61F244	A61F244	F16B202	F16B206	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	F16B2	F16B2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The eye and threaded shaft of an eyebolt (46) are formed by a combination of two shell-like portions (46A, 46B), each having threaded bosses (48A, 48B) at distal ends thereof. The distal ends are placed around a spinal rod (14) simultaneously with insertion of one of the shell-like portions through the yoke (27, 28) of a spinal hook (22). Then the bosses are brought toward each other and the two bosses combine to form a bolt onto which a nut (36) is threaded to clamp the eyebolt, and thereby the hook, tightly on a spinal rod. The two threaded bosses have an interfitting rib (51) and groove (49) to maintain alignment of the threads of the two bosses. The eyebolt of this invention allows a connecting hook to be installed on a spinal rod in situ between other devices already installed on the spinal rod.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANEK MEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANEK MEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASHMAN RICHARD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASHMAN RICHARD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SPLIT EYEBOLT FOR SPINAL RODBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention:This invention relates generally to implanted spinal fixation devices, and more particularly to a split eyebolt used on a spinal rod to secure a hook or other attachment device at any of various desired possible locations on the spinal rod.Description of the Prior Art: In connection with certain corrective work for human spinal columns, spinal rods are disposed on both sides of the spinal column. Various types of attaching devices are placed along the length of the spinal rods and connected to the vertebrae in various ways. An example of such a device is shown in U. S. Patent No. 4,648,388, issued on March 10, 1987 to Steffee. This patent discloses "force transmitting members" 52 which are screwed into vertebrae and to which clamps are mounted. A spinal rod is placed in and secured to the clamps by tightening a nut on the end of the member 52 opposite that which is screwed into the vertebrae, thereby clamping the vertebrae to the spinal rod. Another arrangement, and which uses several types of hooks, rather than screws, for attachment to vertebrae, is shown in U. S. Patent No. 4,641,636 issued on February 10, 1987 to Cotrel. Another arrangement, also using various types of hooks, but with an eyebolt on the rod to secure the hooks, is the "three-point shear" system of Danek Medical, Inc. Sometimes, during the course of the spinal implant operation, it can become evident that it is necessary or, at least, desirable to locate a fixation device someplace other than where 

 previously thought necessary. In some instances it may be desirable to add a device or delete a device. With the type of arrangements shown in the aforementioned patents, that can be very inconvenient. With the Danek three-point shear system, although hooks can be readily added, prior to the present invention it was not so convenient to add eyebolts, because it was necessary to install them from one or the other end of the rod. The present invention was made in recognition of a need to provide some means to attach hooks or other anchoring devices to spinal rods and which can be installed between existing devices already attached to the spinal rods, and which also can be moved readily along the spinal rod during an implant procedure to place it in precisely the location desired without detaching the other devices. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONDescribed briefly, according to a typical embodiment of the present invention, the eyebolt is a combination of two
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 What is claimed is:
1. A split eyebolt for connecting spinal column attachment devices to a spinal rod and comprising: a split ring having a central axis and having an outwardly projecting boss at each side of the split, each of the bosses having threads thereon which, when the bosses are proximate each other, provide a threaded shaft for reception of a nut thereon.
2. The eyebolt of claim 1 and wherein: the split in the ring is in a plane containing the central axis and extends into the bosses; and the bosses have interfitting means thereon projecting across the plane.
3. The ring of claim 2 wherein the interfitting means are a rib in one boss and a groove in the other boss receiving the rib of the one boss.
4. In a system for correcting spinal deformities, wherein a spinal rod is connected to the spinal column by anchoring devices attached to the spinal column and to the spinal rod at spaced points along the rod, a method of making a further connection of the spinal rod to the spinal column and comprising the steps of: placing a hook shoe around a spinal bone; placing an eyebolt around the spinal rod at a location on the rod between two of the anchoring devices without disconnecting the two anchoring devices from the spinal rod; and securing the eyebolt to the hook shoe.
5. The method of claim 4 and wherein the placing step 


 includes: placing the rod between two arms of the eyebolt; then bringing threaded ends of the arms together.
6. The method of claim 5 and further comprising the step of: inserting an alignment rib of one arm into an alignment recess in the other arm while bringing the arms together to facilitate mounting the nut on the threaded ends.
7. The method of claim 5 and wherein the securing step includes: moving the eye of the eyebolt in a hook top fixed to the hook shoe; and turning a nut on the threaded ends and engaging the hook top with the nut while using the nut to pull the eyebolt and thereby pull the spinal rod in a direction transverse to its axis and into tight abutting engagement with the hook top.
8. The method of claim 7 and wherein the securing step further includes the step of: moving the eyebolt eye into a yoke in the hook top.
9. The method of claim 7 and wherein the securing step further includes the step of: blocking rotation of the eyebolt eye in the yoke during the use of the unit to pull the spinal rod into tight abutting engagement.
10. In a system for correcting spinal deformities, wherein a spinal rod is attached to the spinal column by anchoring devices attached to the spinal column and to the spinal rod at spaced points along the rod, the combination comprising: a hook having a hoo.k shoe engaging a portion of the 


 spinal column and having a hook top engaging and attached to the spinal rod; and a split eyebolt received in the hook top and having threads thereon and clamping the hook top to the spinal rod.
11. The combination of claim 10 and wherein: the split eyebolt is located between two of the anchoring devices attached to the spinal rod.
12. The combination of claim 10 and wherein: the eyebolt has an eye portion with an aperture having an axis, and the eyebolt has threaded shaft portion extending outward from the eye portion and having an axis intersecting the axis of the eye, the shaft portion being split longitudinally from the aperture outward to the outer end of the shaft portion.
13. The combination of claim 12 and further comprising: a nut received on the threads of the eyebolt shaft and controlling the width of the split.
14. The combination of claim 12 and further comprising: a nut received on the threads of the eyebolt shaft and abuttingly engaging the hook top and pulling the eye portion with the spinal rod therein toward the nut and thereby clamping the spinal rod to the hook top with a portion of the hook top sandwiched between the nut and the spinal rod.
15. The combination of claim 12 and wherein: the shaft portion split is along a plane containing the axis of the threads, for a distance out from the aperture to a point, and then for a distance laterally from the plane and then longitudinally for a distance and then laterally back to the plane and then outward along the plane to the outer end of the shaft portion. 



 16. The combination of claim 12 and wherein: the shaft portion has interengaging lug and recess means therein. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
