<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652093</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for peeling coating from coated plastics and method for recycling plastics
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29B1702	B29B1702	B29C6300	B29C6300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29B	B29B	B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29B17	B29B17	B29C63	B29C63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is provided a method for peeling a coating 
from coated plastics, comprising applying a shear stress to 

a plastic product (3) having a coating (2) thereon, 
optionally after preforming the plastic produdt into a flat 

plate form (1a), thereby to peel the coating (2) from the 
plastic product (3). 
There is also provided an apparatus for peeling a 
coating from coated plastics, comprising a pair of rolls 

(13, 14) with a gap therebetween and driving means (30, 31) 
for rotating the pair of rolls, the rolls rotating at 

different peripheral speeds from each other and allowing a 
plastic body (3) having a coating (2) thereon to pass 

through the gap while applying a shear stress to the plastic 
body thereby to peel the coating (2) from the plastic body 

(3). 
Further, there is provided a method for recycling 
plastics, comprising applying a shear stress to a plastic 

product (3) having a coating (2) thereon, optionally after 
preforming the plastic product into a flat plate form (1a), 

thereby to peel the coating (2) from the plastic product 
(3), and then subjecting the coat-peeled plastic product to 

melting and molding. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and an apparatus
for peeling a coating from coated plastics in a simple
and effective manner. This invention also relates to a
method for recycling plastics utilizing the above method
and apparatus, which can provide recycled plastics at a
low cost in a pollutionless manner without entailing a
considerable lowering in the properties of the recycled
plastics.Used plastics have hitherto been burned in an
incinerator or buried together with other wastes under
the ground. Combustion of such plastics increases carbon
dioxide concentration in the air, leading to the serious
problem of global warming. When they are buried under
the ground, they cannot be decomposed by microorganisms
and hence remain as they are, so that the amount of the
plastics accumulated under the ground increases year by
year.In recent years, recycling of plastics has been
advocated from the viewpoint of resource conservation
and the earth's environmental protection.However, various difficult problems should be solved
in order to successfully recycle used plastics.One of such problems is related to the fact that
plastics as final products often are a composite of
dissimilar materials, rather than a product of a single
material. When such plastics as a composite are recycled
without separation of the dissimilar materials, the
recycled products often have inferior mechanical
properties and appearance to those of the original
plastics. For example, when a coated plastic product, as such,
is pulverized, repelletized with an extruder, and
remolded by means of a molding machine into a
recycled plastic product, the coating which has been
formed on the surface of the original plastic product
remains in the recycled plastic product without being
finely dispersed therein. Since the coating that cannot
be finely dispersed inhibits homogeneous blending of
resins, the properties of the recycled product is
considerably lowered.Therefore, it is of most importance to remove a
coating from a coated plastic product in advance of its
reprocessing for recycling. To this end, the following
methods may be considered or, have been proposed in the
art.
1 ○ A method may be considered wherein a coated
plastic product, as it is, is fed to an extruder, where
the coating material which does not melt is removed by
filtration through a screen such as a metal gauze. In
this method, however, clogging of the screen will lower
the throughput, resulting in a lowering of the production
efficiency. Further, since the coating material cannot
b
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for peeling a coating from coated
plastics, comprising a pair of rolls (13, 14) with a gap

therebetween and driving means (30, 31) for rotating the
pair of rolls,

wherein at least one roll of said pair of
rolls (13, 14) is tapered so that the diameter gradually

increases from the center toward the edges (13a, 14a, 13b,
14b) of the roll, 

said rolls rotating at different peripheral
speeds from each other and allowing a plastic body having a

coating thereon (1a, 1) to pass through the gap while
applying a shear stress to the plastic body thereby to peel

the coating (2) from the plastic body (3).
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
rolls (13, 14) are metallic rolls.
The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
said pair of rolls (13, 14) are identical to each other in

diameter but different in rotating speed.
The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
said pair of rolls (13, 14) are identical to each other in

rotating speed but different in diameter.
The apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims further comprising a member (15) provided

in contact with one roll (14) of the pair of rolls (13, 14),
said member (15) scraping off the coating (2) adhering to

the roll. 
The apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein at least one of the pair of rolls

(13, 14) is covered with an elastic material (14e).
The apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims further comprising means (16, 17) provided

on the downstream side of said pair of rolls (13, 14) for
removing the coating (2) remaining unremoved on the plastic

body (3).
The apparatus according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said plastic body (3) has the

coating (2) on its one surface, and one roll of the pair of
rolls (13, 14) which is to be contacted with said one

surface has a higher peripheral speed than the other roll.
A method for peeling a coating from coated
plastics, comprising allowing a plastic product (3) having

a coating (2) thereon to pass through a pair of rolls (13, 14),
whereas at least one roll of said pair of rolls is tapered so that the

diameter gradually increases from the center toward the edges, the rolls
rotating at different peripheral speeds from each other while applying a shear

stress to the plastic product thereby to peel the coating
(2) from the plastic product (3).
The method according to claim 9, wherein the
shear stress is applied to the plastic product (3) by means

of an apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1-8.
The method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein
the plastic product (3) is heated to a temperature below the

melting point or glass transition point thereof before or
simultaneously with the application of the shear stress.
The method according to claim 9, 10 or 11,
wherein the plastic product comprises an olefin resin as a

base.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
