<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611813</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
One-component air-activatable polymerisable compositions containing onium salts
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09J400	C08F400	C08F238	C09D400	C09D400	C09J400	C08F400	C08F238	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09J	C08F	C08F	C09D	C09D	C09J	C08F	C08F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09J4	C08F4	C08F2	C09D4	C09D4	C09J4	C08F4	C08F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A one-component air-activatable polymerisable adhesive composition 
comprising:

 
(a) a free-radically polymerisable monomer, and

 
an activator system for effective polymerisation of the free-radically 

polymerisable monomer, said activator system comprising: 

(b) an autoxidisable compound which is a dihydropyridine 
(other than a stabilised 1,4-dihydropyridine) 
(c) an onium salt selected from diazonium, iodonium and sulfonium 
salts which do not interfere with polymerisation, and 
(d) a soluble ionic salt,
 

with the proviso that the composition does not contain a peroxide, 
or a peroxide precursor which produces peroxide in the absence of 

air or any ingredient which is a significant source of radicals in 
the absence of air. 
Exemplary onium salts are diaryl iodonium, triarylsulfonium and 
aryl diazonium salts. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOCTITE IRELAND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOCTITE (IRELAND) LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNEAFSEY BRENDAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNEAFSEY, BRENDAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to one-component polymerisable compositions and
their use. The compositions are suitable for use as one-component
systems for forming polymers, requiring no primers. The compositions
are useful as adhesives, sealants, surface coatings, moulding resins
and composite matrices, for example. These compositions are
particularly suitable for use as thread-locking compounds, e.g. for
cementing nuts to threaded shafts, and bushes to bush housings.The cure of acrylic adhesives is initiated by a two-part redox system.
The first part, the initiator, is normally present in the base
component of the adhesive and the second part is present in the
accelerator or curative component. One widely used curative is the
reaction product of aniline and n-butyraldehyde. The reaction product
was first known from US Patent No. 1780334 assigned to E.I. Du Pont
DeNemours and Co. The condensation of aniline and n-butyraldehyde
results in many products, some having complex structures. However it
appears that the major component and active ingredient is a substituted
dihydropyridine (DHP).An adhesive composition which can be formulated either as a two-part
system or as a system utilising a primer is disclosed in US Patent No.
3890407, assigned to E.I. Du Pont DeNemours and Co. The composition
comprises a sulphur-bearing component selected from chlorosulphonated
polyethylene and a mixture of sulphonyl chloride with chlorinated
polyethylene in at least one polymerisable vinyl monomer and an
accelerator comprising a primary amine-aldehyde condensation product.
US Patent No. 4112013 also of E.I. Du Pont DeNemours and Co. which was
divided from US Patent No. 3890407 specifies that the chlorosulphonated
polyethylene is made from branched polyethylene having a melt index of
about 100, the chlorosulphonated polyethylene containing 43% 
chlorine by weight and 34 mmoles of sulphonyl chloride per 100
grams of polymer and the composition may also comprise a mixture of
methyl-methacrylate, glacial methacrylic acid and ethyleneglycol
dimethacrylate. A further US Patent No. 4106971, also divided from
Patent No. 3890407, relates to a method of bonding two surfaces
comprising the above disclosed adhesive compositions.United States Patent No. 4430480, assigned to Loctite Corporation
relates to an adhesive composition which comprises a first part
comprising a solution of chlorosulphonated polyethylene in at least one
polymerisable vinyl monomer, a polymerisation catalyst which comprises
at least one free-radical initiator and a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A one component polymerisable composition which has been
prepared under anaerobic conditions and is

storage stable under anaerobic conditions but which
polymerizes on exposure to air whether or not the

presence of air is maintained, said composition
comprising:


(a) at least one free-radically polymerisable monomer;
and
(b) an activator system for effecting polymerisation of
the free-radically polymerisable monomer, said activator

system comprising:

(i) an auto-oxidisable compound which is a
dihydropyridine having a general formula selected

from II(i)-(v):


where R
1
 to R
7
, which may be the same or different,
are each hydrogen or a group selected from

hydrocarbyl, heterohydrocarbyl, silyl, and
substituted derivatives of any of the foregoing, or

any two of the groups R
1
 to R
7
 may together form a
mono- or polycyclic ring structure, which may be a

fused ring structure, which in turn may be
substituted, provided that none of the groups R
1
 to
R
7
 is a group which interferes with
polymerisation, and that, in the case of 1,4-dihydropyridines

of formula II(iv), the groups R
2

and R
5
 at the 3- and 5- positions are not both
electron-withdrawing groups; 
(ii) an onium salt selected from diazonium, iodonium or
sulfonium salts which do not interfere with

polymerisation; and
(iii) a soluble ionic salt,

wherein "heterohydrocarbyl" is a hydrocarbyl
group. interrupted by one or more oxygen, nitrogen or

sulfur atoms, and
"substituted derivative" is

a hydrocarbyl, heterohydrocarbyl or silyl
group substituted with one or

more oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur or halogen atoms; and

provided that the composition does not contain a
peroxide, or a peroxide precursor which produces peroxide

in the absence of air, or any ingredient which is a
significant source of radicals in the absence of air.
A composition as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the onium
salt is a stabilized or unstabilized diazonium salt


[Ar N = N
+
]
a
 X
(-)a

corresponding to the general formula III:

wherein a is an integer of 1, 2 or 3 taken so as to
equalise the valence charge of the salt and Ar is an aryl

or substituted aryl radical (including diazoniumsubstituted
aryl radicals), and X is an anion.
A composition as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the onium
salt is an iodonium salt corresponding to the general

formula IV:

 
wherein R
8
 and R
9
, which may be the same or different, are
selected from aryl or substituted aryl groups, and X is a

monovalent anion.
A composition as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the onium
salt is a sulphonium salt corresponding to the general

formula V:


wherein R
10
, R
11
 and R
12
 which may be the same or
different are selected from aryl or substituted aryl

groups (including fused ring substituted aryl radicals)
and X is a monovalent anion.
A composition as claimed in any of Claims 2, 3 or 4
wherein the substituted aryl group of the onium salt is

substituted with one or more alkyl, alkoxy, alkenyl,
cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, chloro, fluoro, bromo,

iodo, nitro or, in the case of a sulphonium salt,
thiophenoxy groups.
A composition as claimed in any of Claims 2, 3, 4 or 5
wherein X is selected from F
-
, Cl
-
, Br
-
, BF
-
4
, SbF
-
6
, PF
-
6

or AsF
-
6
.
A composition as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the onium
salt is 4-methoxy-benzenediazonium hexafluorophosphate or

benzenediazonium tetrafluoro-borate.
A composition as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the onium
salt is diphenyl iodonium chloride, diphenyl iodonium 

hexafluorophosphate or 4,4' -dioctyl-oxydiphenyl iodonium
hexafluorophosphate.
A composition as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the onium
salt is triphenylsulphonium tetrafluoroborate, diphenyl

tolylsulphonium hexafluoro- phosphate, phenylditolyl
sulphonium hexafluoroarsenate, or diphenyl-thiophenoxyphenyl

sulphonium hexafluoroantimonate.
A composition as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 9 wherein
the hydrocarbyl groups are selected from straight and

branched linear or alicyclic aliphatic groups having from
1 to 20 carbon atoms; alkylene and alkenylene groups

forming part of a ring structure having 3 to 30 carbon
atoms; and aryl, alkaryl and aralkyl groups having from 6

to 20 carbon atoms.
A composition as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 10 wherein
the ioinic salt or salts are selected from transition

metal salts.
A composition as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 11 wherein

the transition metal salt or salts are selected from
salts of cobalt, iron, maganese and vanadium.
A composition as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 12 wherein
the soluble ionic salt is selected from the group

consisting of cobalt naphthenate ferric
(acetylacetonate)3 and iron (III) naphthenate.
A composition as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 13 wherein
the free-radically polymerisable monomer is selected from

the group consisting of acrylates, methacrylates,
styrene, maleate esters, fumarate esters, unsaturated

polyester resins, alkyl resins, thiol-ene compositions
and acrylated, methacrylated or vinyl terminated resins. 
A composition as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 14
comprising at least 10% by weight of the free-radically

polymerisable monomer, 0.1 to 20% by weight of the auto-oxidisable
compound, 0.1 to 20% by weight of the onium

salt, 0.0001 to 0.1% by weight of the ionic salt and the
remainder being

thickeners, fillers, pigments, reducing agents and/or
stabilisers, the total constituents adding up to 100%.
A composition as claimed in claim 15 which contains
filler or thickener and wherein the free-radically

polymerisable monomer is present in an amount of 10 to
60% by weight.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
