<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648302</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BUILDING MATERIALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03C100	E03C100	E04B134	E04B134	E04B136	E04B136	E04B158	E04B158	E04B548	E04B548	E04C252	E04C252	F24J200	F24J204	F24J204	F24J248	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03C	E03C	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04C	E04C	F24J	F24J	F24J	F24J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03C1	E03C1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B5	E04B5	E04C2	E04C2	F24J2	F24J2	F24J2	F24J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modular structural assembly (100) is disclosed for use in construction and for connection with other neighboring generally identical modular structural assemblies (100) to create a building structure. The modular strutural assembly (100) includes a structural subassembly having an inner volume and being mechanically connectable with the neighboring structural assemblies to define a building structure. The structural subassembly has a plurality of conduit connection apertures (110) distributed at least about the periphery thereof. The modular structural assembly also includes a utility subassembly (112) locatable within the inner volume. The utility subassembly (112) has a plurality of conduits extending from at least one junction in a plurality of directions, where the conduits are selectably connected together and locatable through the conduit connection apertures (110) for connection to corresponding utility subassemblies of the neighboring generally identical modular structural assemblies.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZWEIBACH CHARLES DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZWEIBACH, CHARLES DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWEIBACH CHARLES DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWEIBACH, CHARLES DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BUILDING MATERIALSFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the field of mass production housing and construction systems generally and to the use of standard structural building pieces and their finishing parts in particular.BACKGROUND OF INVENTIONPre-fabricated building systems are common in many nations. These systems, however, often require a great deal of construction time, are expensive to assemble and use machinery at the construction site. For example, pref bricated building systems in Japan are produced using a metal frame into which pre¬ fabricated furnishing units and wall, floor and ceiling panels are placed in the system at the time of assembly. The finished product is a box containing all the necessary services and may be hoisted into place after lengthy and costly site transportation.Sweden, Germany and the United States all produce the equivalent of a wood frame house with commercially available pre- cut lumber and all the fittings required for the assembly of the house on site. The foundations for these units must be of poured concrete and must include fasteners to the underside of the pre¬ fabricated structure.In addition, conventional prefabricated building systems are often inflexible once the shell is assembled. As an example, all existing pre-fabricated units on the market today are connected with sealed joints and have permanent foundations.U.S. Patents 1,307,333. 3,918,233, 3,333.383, 4,201,024, 4,250,674, PCT application WO 88/02801 and Israel Patents 18,528, 21,957, 22,455 and 30,289 describe various structural elements for prefabricated buildings.U.S. Patents 1,307,333 and 4,393.632 describe finish panels which can be quickly attached to the interior and/or 

exterior of a building.U.S. Patent 4,250,674 and West German patent publication 36l6~733~A describe structures for incorporating HVAC ducts into walls.U.S. 4,326,012 to Charlton describes a solar cell and an associated heat duct. The solar cell is utilized to produce electrical energy which is controlled by a microprocessor.U.S. 2,419,319 to Lankton describes a portable utility core unit which can be placed between a kitchen, a bathroom and a laundry.U.S. 2,592,634 to Wilson describes concrete slab ele¬ ments used for building.U.S. 4,593.505 to Russel describes a panel base elec¬ trical raceway, made of plastic, for the base of a space dividing wall panel system.U.S. 3.822,569 to Lautrup-Larsen describes a set of five different modular toy building elements.U.S. 4,272,930 to Foster describes a modular
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A modular structural assembly for connection with other neighboring generally identical modular structural assemblies to create a building structure, the modular structural assembly comprising: a structural subassembly having an inner volume and being mechanically connectable with said neighboring structural assemblies to define a building structure, said structural subas¬ sembly having a plurality of conduit connection apertures dis¬ tributed at least about the periphery thereof; and a utility subassembly locatable within said inner volume, said utility subassembly having a plurality of conduits extending from at least one junction in a plurality of direc¬ tions, said conduits being selectably connected together and locatable through said conduit connection apertures for connec¬ tion to corresponding utility subassemblies of said neighboring generally identical modular structural assemblies.
2. A modular structural assembly according to claim 1 and wherein each of said conduits comprises a plurality of joined conduits and said joined conduits comprise at least fluid conduits .
3- A modular structural assembly according to claim 1 and including a junction box located in at least one junction for selectably connecting said conduits to each other.
4. A modular structural assembly according to claim 2 and including a multi-layer junction box located in at least one junction for selectably connecting at least said fluid conduits to each other.
5
>
 A modular structural assembly according to claim 2 and wherein said fluid conduits are at least one of plumbing conduits 


and air conduits.
6. A modular structural assembly for connection with other neighboring generally identical modular structural assemblies to create a building structure, the modular structural assembly comprising: a structural subassembly mechanically connectable to said neighboring structural assemblies to define said building structure; and a utility subassembly joinable to said structural subassembly and containing portions of the entirety of services necessary for said building, said portions extending in a plural¬ ity of desirable directions, thereby to provide, in conjunction with said neighboring structural assemblies, the entirety of services connected in any desired manner.
7. A modular structural assembly according to claim 1 and including control means joinable to said structural subassembly for controlling said utility services flowing through said modu¬ lar construction element.
8. A modular structural assembly according to claim 7 and wherein said control means includes a microprocessor.
9. A modular structural element according to claim 1 and including interior and exterior finish panels connectable to and disconnectable from said structural subassembly.
10. A modular structural element according to claim 1 and also including energy absorbing means .
11. A modular structural element according to claim 1 and wherein said structural subassembly is of a triangular shape.
12. A modular structural element according to claim 1 and 


including roofing panels connectable to and disconnectable from said structural subassembly.
13. A modular structural element according to claim and wherein said interior finish panels are formed with utility appliances .
14. A modular structural element according to claim 1 and wherein said structural subassembly includes insulating means.
15. A modular structural element according to claim 9 and wherein said interior finish panels are formed with at least one piece of furniture.
16. A modular structural element according to claim 1 wherein said structural subassembly is formed of a plastic com¬ pound with additives.
17. A modular structural element according to claim 1 and including a photovoltaic cell.
18. A modular structural assembly according to claim 1 and wherein said structural subassembly comprises mechanical connecting means for connecting together said structural assemblies and for providing structural stability.
19- A modular structural assembly according to claim 18 and wherein said mechanical connecting means snap into said structural assemblies.
20. A modular structural assembly according to claim 1 and also including flat plate connector means joinable to said struc¬ tural subassembly.
21. A modular structural assembly according to claim 20 and 


wherein said flat plate connector means includes insulation means .
22 . A modular structural assembly according to claim 20 and wherein said flat plate connector means includes a lighting means formed of a sodium impregnated sheet and a potassium impregnated sheet.
23- A modular structural assembly according to claim 20 and wherein said flat plate connector means includes an electrical circuit board.
24. A modular structural assembly according to claim 1 and also including sensors for measuring at least levelness, tempera¬ ture, humidity and air pressure.
25- A building comprising: a multiplicity of generally identical modular structur¬ al elements to be connected to each other, each comprising: a structural subassembly having an inner volume and being mechanically connectable with neighboring structural assem¬ blies to define structure of said building, said structural subassembly having a plurality of conduit connection apertures distributed at least about the periphery thereof; and a utility subassembly locatable within said inner volume, said utility subassembly having a plurality of conduits extending from at least one junction in a plurality of direc¬ tions, said conduits being selectably connected together and locatable through said conduit connection apertures for connec¬ tion to corresponding utility subassemblies of said neighboring generally identical modular structural assemblies.
26. A building according to claim 25 and including adjust¬ able foundation support means.
27- A building according to claim 25 and including at least 


one pyramidal piece forming part of foundation support means.
28. A building according to claim 25 and including a water collection and circulation system.
29. A building according to claim 25 wherein said building has a sealed roof surface formed only of flashing and counter- flashing subassemblies.
30. A building according to claim 25 and characterized in that it is generally air tight-.
31. A supporting column comprising: a multiplicity of generally identical modular structur¬ al elements to be connected on top of each other as in a vertical stack, each comprising: a structural subassembly having an inner volume and being mechanically stackable and connectable with neighboring structural assemblies to define structure of said supporting column, said structural subassembly having a plurality of conduit connection apertures distributed at least about the surfaces thereof; and a utility subassembly locatable within said inner volume, said utility subassembly having a plurality of conduits extending from at least one junction in a plurality of direc¬ tions, said conduits being selectably connected together and locatable through said conduit connection apertures for connec¬ tion to corresponding utility subassemblies of said neighboring generally identical modular structural assemblies.
32. A supporting beam comprising: a multiplicity of generally identical modular structur¬ al elements to be connected on top of each other as in an hori¬ zontal stack, each comprising: a structural subassembly having an inner volume and 


being mechanically stackable and connectable with neighboring structural assemblies to define structure of said supporting beam, said structural subassembly having a plurality of conduit connection apertures distributed at least about the surfaces thereof; and a utility subassembly locatable within said inner volume, said utility subassembly having a plurality of conduits extending from at least one junction in a plurality of direc¬ tions, said conduits being selectably connected together and locatable through said conduit connection apertures for connec¬ tion to corresponding utility subassemblies of said neighboring generally identical modular structural assemblies.
33- A removable utility subassembly connectable to other utility subassemblies comprising: a plurality of conduits extending from at least one junction in a plurality of directions; and at least one junction box located in at least one of said at least one junction for selectably connecting said plural¬ ity of conduits to each other.
34. A modular structural assembly for connection with other neighboring generally identical modular structural assemblies to create a surface of an existing building structure, the modular structural assembly comprising: a structural subassembly having an inner volume and being mechanically connectable with said neighboring structural assemblies and said existing building structure, said structural subassembly having a plurality of conduit connection apertures distributed at least about the periphery thereof; and a utility subassembly locatable within said inner volume, said utility subassembly having a plurality of conduits extending from at least one junction in a plurality of direc¬ tions, said conduits being selectably connected together and locatable through said conduit connection apertures for connec¬ tion to corresponding utility subassemblies of said neighboring 


generally identical modular structural assemblies.
35« A window frame comprising: a frame housing; and air ventilation louvers integrally formed with said housing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
