<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650812</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for carrying out box-like prefabricated reinforced concrete manufactured articles and manufactured article produced thereby.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B28B722	B28B722	B28B1900	B28B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B28B	B28B	B28B	B28B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B28B7	B28B7	B28B19	B28B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
It is described a process for carrying out reinforced concrete box-like 
manufactured articles and a manufactured article produced 

thereby. The process comprises a plurality of steps, among them there 
is the step of locating inner form elements with their anchoring and 

stiff blocking in a bed element, of casting concrete for completing 
the manufactured article levelling the upper surface. Moreover, 

it is of interest the step of preparing the inner form 
elements. The reinforced concrete box-like manufactured article 

comprises a bed plate-like element (2), at least a rib (3) which 
raises from the element (2), a covering plate-like element (4) and a 

inner form element (5) substantially formed by a strong structure 
(5a) having a prefixed shape according to the manufactured article 

(1) to obtain, provided with a plurality of crosspieces (7) and 
with a plurality of anchoring elements (10) arranged to engage, in a 

fixed way, the plate-like element (2), the ribs (3), and the plate-like 
element respectively. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E RICERCHE S P A COSTRUZIONI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COSTRUZIONI E RICERCHE S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZANETTI GIUSEPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZANETTI, GIUSEPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for carrying out box-like 
prefabricated reinforced concrete manufactured articles and 
manufactured article produced thereby, particularly, for forming 
beams, bent tiles for covering attics, elements for bridges and for 
galleries, etc.. It is known that there are several prefabricated manufactured articles 
of the box-like kind which are basically formed by a first generally 
rectangular slab-like bed element, at least two substantially element 
rise form this element which are closed by a second slab-like element. The manufactured articles described above are now carried out by 
different constructive methods. A first constructive method provides the making of a concrete casting 
in a form having a metal inner form that is taken away from the top 
after the setting of the same casting. Then, the final casting is 
carried out to form a slab closing the box-like manufactured article. The above just mentioned method shows some shortcomings. One of these 
is due to the fact that in a building yard there is the necessity to 
have many forms having different sizes and shapes in order to 
start up manufactured articles of different sizes with very expensive 
plants, materials and equipments, and moreover it is also necessary a  
 
large room for storing the forms. Another constructive method, similar to the previous one, provides the 
insertion of a disposable inner form made of polystyrene or other 
light material. However, also this constructive method shows different 
disadvantages. In fact, polystyrene members are particularly 
expensive, it is not possible to get rid of their residuals and in 
case of fire the polystyrene expands therefore causing dangerous 
stresses in the structure. Moroever, the polystyrene crumbles rather 
easily, so that small polystyrene pieces enter the concrete casting 
impairing the strength. Another very important disadvantage is due to 
the fact it is very difficult to hold the polystyrene inner form since 
during the forming of the casting, the inner form receives a thrust 
equal to the weight of the concrete displaced. A third method for forming manufacturing articles is an extrusion 
processing that allows to produce finished elements, however, this 
method can be used for carrying out small size manufactured articles 
(generally having an height of 30-40 cm) but very heavy. A fourth method provides the use of a metal inner stiff inner form, 
that after the forming of the casting it shrinks so it can be taken 
away. This
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Process for carrying out a reinforced concrete box-like 
manufactured article comprising the steps of: 


preparing a form by cleaning and coating it with oil for its 
dismantling, 
laying a plurality of strands for prestressing and tensioning the 
same, 
laying a metal armature for a bed element, 
laying a metal armature for vertical ribs, 
casting concrete and corresponding vibrations for said bed element, 
curing the manufactured article, and 
dismantling the form, 
 
characterized by the fact that the process further comprises the steps 

of: 

arranging inner form elements with their anchoring to said bed 
element, 
curing with stiff blocking of the inner form to the concrete of the 
bed element, 
casting the concrete to complete the manufactured article levelling 
the upper surface. 
Process according to claim 1, characterized by the fact it 
comprises a step of preparing said inner form element every time 

depending on the characteristics of the manufactured article to carry 
out. 
Process according to claim 1, characterized by the fact it 
comprises a step of laying a metal reinforcement for a covering 

element. 
Process according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that it 
comprises also a step of inserting plates, attaching means, etc., in 

correspondence of the upper surface of said manufactured article. 
Process according to claim 2, characterized by the fact that said 
step of preparing said inner form elements comprises a step of: 


preparing a strong structure, 
arranging metal crosspieces suitably arranged inside the strong 
structure, 
arranging anchoring elements to the strong structure. 
Process according to claim 5, characterized by the fact said step 
of preparing said strong structure comprises the step of: 


bending an electro-welded lathing depending on the shape of the 
manufactured article to obtain, 
positioning crosspieces provided for further strengthening said 
 

strong structure, 
coating said electro-welded lathing by a membrane, 
arranging said metal anchoring elements in the bed element, in the 
ribs and in the covering element. 
Process according to claim 2, characterized by the fact said step 
of preparing said strong structure comprises a step of: 


assembling metal or plastic elements by connection to one another 
for obtaining said strong structure, and 
arranging metal anchoring elements. 
Process according to claim 2, characterized by the fact it 
comprises a step of heating said membrane to adhere to the electro-welded 

lathing. 
Reinforced concrete box-like manufactured article comprising: 

a bed plate-like element (2) suitably reinforced, 
at least a rib (3) which raises from said bed element (2), said rib 
being suitably reinforced, 
a covering plate-like element (4) suitably reinforced, 
 
characterized by the fact it further comprises an inner form element 

(5) substantially formed by a strong structure (5a) having a prefixed 
shape according to the manufactured article (1) to be obtained, 

provided with a plurality if crosspieces (7) and a plurality of 
anchoring elements (10) arranged to engage, in a fixed way, the plate-like 

 
element (2), the ribs (3), and the plate-like element 

respectively. 
Reinforced concrete box-like manufactured article according to 
claim 9, characterized by the fact said strong structure (5a) is 

carried out by an electro-welded lathing. 
Reinforced concrete box-like manufactured article according to 
claim 9, characterized by the fact said strong structure (5a) is made 

of a plurality of metal or plastic elements stiffly connected to one 
another. 
Reinforced concrete box-like manufactured article according to 
claim 9, characterized by the fact said strong structure (5a) is 

covered by a covering membrane (6) provided for waterproofing said 
strong structure. 
Reinforced concrete box-like manufactured article according to 
claim 9, characterized by the fact said covering membrane is made of a 

thermo-retractable material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
