<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610272</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR DAMPING DEFLECTIONS AND VIBRATIONS IN SKIS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63C506	A63C900	A63C500	A63C900	A63C5075	A63C500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63C	A63C	A63C	A63C	A63C	A63C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63C5	A63C9	A63C5	A63C9	A63C5	A63C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TINKLER MICHAEL R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TINKLER, MICHAEL, R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TINKLER MICHAEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TINKLER, MICHAEL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of skis, and more
particularly to the field of an apparatus for damping
deflections and vibrations in skis.Skis, including snowboards, are by commercial necessity designed
to accommodate a range of rider sizes, weights, riding styles, and skiing
conditions. A particular model of ski therefore must meet numerous,
and sometimes conflicting, design criteria.For example, it is desirable for a ski to be stable and perform well
in snow conditions ranging from powder to ice. An ideal powder ski is
one with a relatively soft flex. On the other hand, a ski must be
considerably stiffer, both longitudinally and torsionally, for satisfactory
performance in icy conditions. At the same time, a particular ski must
accommodate riders within a range of weights, while maintaining
satisfactory camber characteristics. The camber of a ski determines
what portion of the base is normally in contact with the snow, and
further determines the turning characteristics of the ski. A ski is
shaped to induce a turn when an edge is pressed into contact with the
snow. To achieve this characteristic, the lateral edges are designed with
sidecut in the center portion of the ski; that is, the lateral width of the
ski is greater on the ends than in the center. The greater the amount of 
sidecut, the more readily the ski will turn when the edge of the center
portion of the ski is pressed into contact with the snow. In this way, the
camber and the flexing characteristics of the ski interact to determine
the turning characteristics of the ski.In addition, a ski is ideally designed to be responsive to changes in
the snow surface, to skier inputs, and to isolate the skier from shock and
vibration to the greatest degree possible. A responsive ski is one which
is relatively stiff, and has a relatively low inertial moment.
Unfortunately, stiffness and a low inertial moment detract from skier
comfort by causing a ski to "chatter", that is for the tip and tail of the ski
to rebound away from the snow, causing a momentary loss of control. A
chattering ski also will transmit uncomfortable levels of vibration to the
skier, predominantly through the binding into the skier's feet. These
continual vibrations lead to fatigue, and possibly contribute to injuries.Ski designers therefore attempt to design damping into a ski
provide a degree of comfort and control for the skier. The damping
usually is achieved by incorporating rubber, lead, or other deadening
materials into the body of the ski. This solution adds to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A damping apparatus for use on a ski (10) having a skiing
surface (29), an opposed upper surface (24) and left and right edges (30,

32), said damping apparatus comprising:

an elongated damping member (12) having a mounting end (14)
and a bearing end (15);
a first connector (16) for interconnecting said damping member
mounting end and the ski upper surface; and
means (34-48) for positioning said damping member bearing
end for resisting deflection of the ski during skiing, characterised in that the

damping member bearing end in use slidably engages the ski upper surface
and characterised by differential biasing means (45, 46, 47 or Figure 4B) for

differentially biasing said left and right edges.
A damping apparatus according to claim 1 characterised by a
resilient bearing pad (26) forming part of said damping member bearing end

(15) or said upper surface (24) engaged by said bearing end.
A damping apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2
characterised in that the differential biasing means comprises means (45, 46,

47) for interconnecting said damping member (12) to the ski at a plurality of
lateral angles relative to its longitudinal axis.
A damping apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 3
characterised in that said damping member bearing end includes a plurality

of bearing fingers (28) spaced laterally from one another, or in that a pair of
damping members (12, 13, Figure 4B) extend substantially side by side but

with their damping ends spaced laterally from one another.
A damping apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 4
characterised in that said biasing means includes means for interconnecting

said damping member to the ski so that said damping member exerts a
downwardly basing force on said end portion, and means (44, 48) for

varying the downwardly basing force.
A set of damping apparatuses each according to any of claims
1 to 4 characterised in that the apparatuses of the set have different 

deflection characteristics from one another and may be interchanged on a
ski, one for another.
A damping apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 5
characterised by said ski further comprising a binding (20) mounted on said

ski upper surface, and in which said damping apparatus further comprises
a resilient pad (27) for mounting between said binding and said ski upper

surface.
A damping apparatus according to claim 5 characterised in that
said biasing means comprises:


a first vertical, internally threaded hole (44) through said
damping member mounting end;
means (34) for pivotally mounting said damping member on said
ski between said first hole and said bearing end; and
a screw (48) threaded through said first threaded hole, and
having a lower end (47) bearing against a surface beneath said damping

member.
A damping apparatus for use on a ski (10) having a skiing
surface (29), an opposed upper surface (24) and left and right edges (30,

32), said damping apparatus comprising:

an elongated damping member (12) having a mounting end (14)
and a bearing end (15);
a first connector (16) for interconnecting said damping member
mounting end and the ski upper surface; and
means (34-48) which in use position said damping member
bearing end for resisting deflection of the ski during skiing, characterised in

that the damping member bearing end in use slidably engages the ski upper
surface and either said damping member bearing end includes a plurality of

bearing fingers (28) spaced laterally from one another, or said damping
member comprises a pair of damping parts (12, 13, Figure 4B) which extend

substantially side by side but with their damping ends spaced laterally from
one another.
A damped ski comprising:

an elongate ski member having a skiing surface (29), an
opposed upper surface (24), end portions, a center portion; and left and right 

edges (30, 32);
the ski having mounted thereon one or two elongated damping
members (12, 13) for resisting deflection of the ski end or ends during

skiing; the or each damping member and its mounting and basing means
being according to any of the preceding claims.
A ski according to claim 10 in which the damping apparatus
further comprises:


a central elongated damping member (50); and
means (52) for mounting said central damping member on the
ski upper surface in a generally longitudinal position over the center portion

of the ski.
A ski having a skiing surface (29) and an opposed upper surface
(24) having first and second end portions and a centre portion, and damping

apparatus mounted on the ski and comprising a first elongated damping
member (12), having a mounting end (14) and a bearing end (15) for

engaging the ski upper surface first end portion for resisting vertical
deflection of the ski during skiing, and biasing means for providing a plurality

of selectable biasing forces for biasing said first end portion downwardly
relative to said centre position; characterised in that the first damping means

bearing end (15) in use slidably engages the ski upper surface (14) and in
that said biasing means (44, 47, 48) includes means spaced from said

bearing end (15) for interconnecting said damping member to the ski at a
plurality of vertical angles relative to said ski upper surface to urge the

damping end downwardly with a variable force.
A ski according to claim 12 characterised in that the means for
interconnect
ing the damping member to the ski comprises

a first vertical, internally threaded hole (44) through said
damping member mounting end;
means (34) for pivotally mounting said damping member on said
ski between said first hole and said bearing end; and
a screw (48) threaded through said first threaded hole, and
having a lower end (47) bearing against a surface beneath said damping

member.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
