<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619713</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH-DENSITY STORAGE RACK SYSTEM FOR MAGNETIC DATA STORAGE TAPE CARTRIDGES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D85575	B65D85575	G11B1568	G11B1568	G11B23023	G11B23023	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D85	B65D85	G11B15	G11B15	G11B23	G11B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high-density storage system including an upstanding rack (10) having a plurality of vertical support members (20). Vertically aligned apertures (36) are formed in each support member and on both sides of the support members. An elongated dimple (38) is formed adjacent each of the apertures. The cartridges are stored in cartridge storage packs (40) which are designed to be mounted onto the rack. The cartridge storage packs include resilient suspension hooks (64) formed on the rear surface of each cartridge storage pack. The suspension hooks (64) are inserted into the apertures to support the cartridge storage packs on the rack. The suspension hooks include a resilient arm (66) which biases against the elongated dimple (38) to prevent accidental dislodgement of the cartridge storage packs (40). The apertures (36) are arranged so that the cartridge storage packs (40) are mounted in close proximity with one another. This increases the density of the cartridge storage capacity of the system to allow more cartridges to be stored within existing space.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENGINEERED DATA PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENGINEERED DATA PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALL LAURANCE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRICE MACY J JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILDHABER ANDREW W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALL, LAURANCE, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRICE, MACY, J., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILDHABER, ANDREW, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HIGH-DENSITY STORAGE RACK SYSTEM FOR MAGNETIC DATA STORAGE TAPE CARTRIDGESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention; This invention relates to the field of storage systems for magnetic data storage tape cartridges.2. Statement of the Problem: In large computer information systems, data is typically stored in tape libraries, particularly on 3480-style one-half inch tape cartridges. As the use and capability of computer systems increase, the tape libraries needed to support these systems expand as well. The need to efficiently accommodate the expansion of these tape libraries is of immediate concern to the users of computer information systems.There are presently several tape cartridge storage systems in use. One previous system disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,600,107, issued to Price et al, is produced by the assignee of the present invention, Engineered Data Products, Inc., Broomfield, Colorado. 

 This system utilizes a rack having horizontal shelves to hold tape cartridge storage holders side by side on the shelves. Twenty cartridges are stored in each tape cartridge storage holders. There is still increasing pressure to store even more cartridges in existing space. Therefore, a need exists for a high-density storage system for tape cartridge libraries.3. Solution to the Problem; The present invention provides a high-density storage system for tape cartridge libraries to solve this problem and others. The present invention provides a storage system that is able to store at least thirty-three per cent more tape cartridges in substantially the same space as existing systems.The present invention provides a storage system that eliminates dead space created by the shelves on existing systems and by eliminating dead space on the tape cartridge storage holders. The present invention provides a storage system that allows ease of access to the tape cartridges and to the tape cartridge storage holders.The present invention provides a storage system that allows ease of securing and removal of the tape cartridges and the tape cartridge storage holders.These and other features will become evident from the ensuing description of the invention taken in conjunction with the drawings. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention provides a high-density storage system for magnetic data storage tape cartridges. The system eliminates intervening structure between the cartridge storage packs to allow the packs to be mounted in close proximity to one another.The system includes an upstanding rack having a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
We Claim:
1. A system for storing magnetic data storage cassette tapes, said system comprising: an upstanding rack; cartridge holder means for storing a plurality of magnetic data storage cassette tape cartridges; and means on said rack for securing only the rear of each of a plurality of said cartridge holder means to said rack to support said plurality of said cartridge holder means on said rack in close proximity to one another.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein said securing means include: a plurality of support means spaced a predetermined distance apart from one another and parallel to one another; means formed on each of said support means for securing said rear of said cartridge holder means; and means on said rear of said cartridge holders for engagement with said securing means on said support means to secure said cartridge holders to said rack.
3. The system
1
of claim 2 wherein said securing means include apertures formed in said support means; and said engagement means on said cartridge holder means include suspension means adapted to fit into said apertures for engaging said support means to secure said cartridge holder means to said rack. 


 4. The system of claim 3 wherein each of said suspension means include a resilient arm; and said securing means further include an elongated dimple formed adjacent each of said apertures for said arm to resiliently bias against to prevent accidental movement of said cartridge holder means relative to said rack.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein said support means include vertically extending support members spaced a predetermined distance horizontally from one another; and said securing means on said support means include a plurality of said apertures formed in each of said vertically extending support members spaced in vertical alignment from each other by a predetermined distance.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein said securing means includes means for securing said cartridge holder means on the front side and on the rear side of said rack to form a double-sided storage rack.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein said cartridge holder means comprise a box-shaped structure having: two end walls; an open front for cartridge entry and retrieval; partition means formed parallel to said end walls and spaced apart a predetermined distance forming compartments for said cartridges; a retaining flange formed along said open front to retain said cartridges in said compartments; and resilient retaining means along the back wall for resilient biasing said cartridges forward against said retaining flange. 


 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said cartridge holder means include two tiers of said compartments.
9. The system of claim 7 wherein said cartridge holder means are formed of one-piece injection molded plastic.
10. The system of claim 7 wherein said system includes eight of said cartridge holder means in vertical alignment on said rack.
11. The system of claim 10 wherein said cartridge holder means includes compartments for twenty one-half inch magnetic data storage cassette tape cartridges.
12. A system for storing magnetic data storage tape cartridges, said system comprising: an upstanding rack; a plurality of support members on said rack spaced a predetermined distance apart from one another and parallel to one another; cartridge holder means for holding a plurality of tape cartridges; means on each of said support members for supporting a plurality of said cartridge holder means; and means on the rear of said cartridge holder means for engaging said supporting means on said support members.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein said supporting means on said support members include a plurality of apertures formed in each of said support members; and 


 said engagement means on the rear of said cartridge holder means include suspension members adapted to engage in said apertures to support said cartridge holder means on said rack.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein said supporting means further include an elongated dimple adjacent each of said apertures; and each of said suspension members include a resilient arm to bias against said dimples to restrain said cartridge holder means from accidental movement relative to said rack.
15. The system of claim 12 wherein said support members include vertically extending support members spaced a predetermined distance horizontally from one another.
16. The system of claim 12 wherein said support members include said means for supporting said cartridge holder means on both sides of said support members to provide a double-sided storage rack.
17. The system of claim 12 wherein said cartridge holder means comprise a box-shaped structure having: two end walls; an open front for cartridge entry and retrieval; partition means formed parallel to said end walls and spaced apart a predetermined distance forming compartments for said cartridges; a retaining flange formed along said open side to retain said cartridges in said compartments; and resilient retaining means along the back wall for 


 resilient biasing said cartridges forward against said retaining flange.
18. The system of claim 17 wherein said rack has a height not greater than seventy-seven (77) inches and a width not greater than fifty-six (56) inches and is capable of storing up to sixteen hundred one-half inch 3480-style standard magnetic data storage tape cartridges
19. A method for storing magnetic data storage tape cartridges, said method comprising the steps of: providing a cartridge storage pack having compartments for a plurality of cartridges to be stored therein; providing suspension hooks on the rear of said cartridge storage pack; providing an upstanding rack having a plurality of support members with aligned apertures formed therein; mounting said cartridge storage pack on said rack by inserting said suspension hooks into said apertures on said support members; and storing magnetic data storage tape cartridges in said compartments of said cartridge storage pack either before said cartridge storage pack is mounted on said rack or after said cartridge storage pack is mounted on said rack.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein said method further comprises the steps of: mounting a plurality of said cartridge storage packs in close proximity with one another on said rack. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
