<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650342</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HEART MONITORING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B50402	A61B50404	A61B50432	A61B50432	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ambulatory heart monitoring apparatus (1) is provided with a slot (3) for receiving an IC card (2). A user places electrodes (7, 8) on his body. Operation of a switch (5) causes the apparatus to record ECG signals from the electrodes (7, 8) onto the IC card (2). Operation data, including, for example, battery voltage data, data representing the impedance between the electrodes (7, 8) and calibration data, are stored on the IC card (2) in association with the recorded ECG signal. The operation data is useful for managing remote subjects. Also the calibration data can be used to normalize the recorded ECG data when it is processed at a remote processing station.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERTFORD MEDICAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERTFORD MEDICAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARMSTRONG DAVID ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RITSEMA VAN ECK HENDRICK JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARMSTRONG, DAVID ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RITSEMA VAN ECK, HENDRICK JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HEART MONITORING APPARATUSFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to an ambulatory heart monitoring apparatus and a method of heart monitoring.BACKGROUND TO THE fNVENTIONDuring the testing of some new drugs, it is necessary to monitor the heart of a patient being treated with the new drug. It is inconvenient for an active patient to be kept in a controlled environment, such as a hospital, during the monitoring. Consequently, patients have been provided with heart monitoring equipment which they may take home with them. Such equipment comprises means for detecting an electrocardiographic (ECG) signal and a device for transmitting the detected signals through the public telephone network. If a patient begins to feel unwellSUBSTITUTESHEET 

or detects an abnormality in his heartbeat, he must dial a central station and instruct an operator, at the central station, to prepare to record a transmitted ECG signal. This system suffers from a number of disadvantages including the problem of language, since drug trials often take place across national boundaries, the non-availability of telephones and poor quality telephone lines. Also, drug companies are wary of becoming directly involved in patient care which is properly the domain of the patient's physician.The aforementioned disadvantages may be overcome by replacing the telephone link by data storage media which may be posted to the central station. One known device is the CardioRam produced by Elmed Elektromedizinische Gerate. However, this device records ECG signals for a 24 hour period which makes it unsuitable for drug testing methodologies where intermittent recording is employed over extended periods, e.g. a month. 

Another device is known from European Patent Application No. 346685 which is capable of intermittent recording of ECG signals.None of the prior art IC card ambulatory heart monitoring apparatuses are entirely suitable for the purpose of apparatus embodying the present invention. It is intended that patients will use such apparatus unsupervised. This leads to the problem of ensuring that the patients use the apparatus properly and that the apparatus itself is functioning correctly.It is an aim of the present invention to provide an ambulatory heart monitoring apparatus which is simple enough to meet the market demand at a reasonable cost, whilst providing high quality information on heart function.SUMMARY OF INVENTIONAccording to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided an ambulatory heart monitoring apparatus
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An ambulatory heart monitoring apparatus comprising: sensor means (7, 8) for detecting an electrocardiographic signal; interface means (17) for receiving an IC card and for transferring data thereto; and control means (15) responsive to operation of the user input means (5) to cause a block of ECG data, derived from signals detected by the sensor means (7, 8) during a predetermined period, to be sent to the interface means (17) for storage in an IC card (2), characterised by means (16, 25, 26) for producing operation data as a function of an operational parameter of the apparatus, wherein the control means (15) causes the operation data to be sent to the interface means (17) for storage in the IC card (2) in association with the ECG data block. 


2. An apparatus according to claim 1, including means (26) for producing calibration data representative of the calibration state of the apparatus and the operation data includes the calibration data.
3. An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the apparatus is powered by a battery (23) and includes battery voltage sensing means (25) and the operation data includes data representing a sensed battery voltage.
4. An apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the sensor means (7, 8) includes two electrodes (7, 8) for contacting the body of a patient and detecting means (16) for detecting whether the electrodes are correctly contacting the body of a patient, and the operation data includes data indicative of whether the electrodes have correctly contacted the body of a patient during detection of an ECG signal.
5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the detecting means (16) comprises an impedance measuring 


means (16) for measuring the impedance between the electrodes.
6. An apparatus according to claim 5, including means (15) whereby the impedance between the electrodes is measured at the start and at the end of the predetermined period.
7. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, including an IC card (2), wherein the IC card (2) is preprogrammed with data comprising a card ID, a recording period duration and the card capacity.
8. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, including an analogue-to-digital converter (13) for digitizing signal output by the sensor means (7, 8) wherein the control means (15) is responsive to data from the interface means (17) to control the sampling rate of the analogue-to-digital converter (13).
9. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the control means (15) is responsive to regime data from the interface means (17) to cause a further 


block of ECG data to be sent to the interface means (17), the further block of ECG data being derived from an electrocardiographic signal detected by the sensor means at a time, defined by said regime data, after a preceding detection of an electrocardiographic signal.
10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the regime data includes data defining a number of ECG data blocks to be recorded.
11. A method of monitoring electrocardiographic signals, comprising the steps of:
(a) detecting operation of a user input means (5);
(b) detecting electrocardiographic signals for a predetermined period using means (1) for detecting ECG signals;
(c) storing a block of ECG data representing electrocardiographic signals detected during the predetermined period in an IC card (2) together with associated operation data representing 


 operational parameters of the ECG signal detecting means;
(d) transferring the IC card to the data reading station; and
(e) reading the ECG data and operation data from the card.
12. A method according to claim 11, wherein steps (a) to (c) are repeatedly performed before step (d) is performed.
13. A method according to claim 12, including the steps of:
(f) if the user input means (5) is operated for less than a predetermined duration, displaying the number of spaces available for ECG data blocks left on the IC card (2); and 


(g) if the user input means is still being operated at the end of said predetermined duration continuing with step (b) until the end of the predetermined period else aborting step (b) and returning to step (a) .
14. A method according to claim 11, 12 or 13, including the step of:
(h) applying two electrodes (7, 8) to a patient for carrying out step (b).
15. A method according to claim 14, including the step of:
(i) measuring the impedance between the electrodes (7, 8).
16. A method according to claim 15, wherein impedance measurement takes place at the beginning and at the end of said predetermined period. 


17. A method according to claim 15 or 16, wherein the operation data includes data representing measured impedances.
18. A method according to any one of claims 14 to 15, including the step of:
(j) generating calibration data representing the calibration state of an ECG signal detecting means (1), wherein the operation data includes the calibration data.
19. A method according to any one of claims 14 to
18, including the step of:
(k) generating voltage data representative of the voltage of a battery (23) powering the means (1) for detecting ECG signals, wherein the operation data includes the voltage data.
20. A method according to any one of claims 11 to 19, wherein step (a) includes reading regime data from 


an IC card and steps (b) and (c) are repeated in accordance with said regime data.
21. An ambulatory heart monitoring apparatus comprising: sensor means (7, 8) for detecting an electro¬ cardiographic signal; interface means (17) for receiving an IC card with a transferring data thereto; and control means (15) responsive to operation of the user input means (5) to cause a block of ECG data, derived from signals detected by the sensor means (7, 8) during a predetermined period, to be sent to the interface means (17) for storage in an IC card (2), characterised in that the control means (15) sends an instrument ID code to the interface means (17) for storage in the IC card (2).
22. A method of monitoring electrocardiographic signals, comprising the steps of:
(a) detecting operation of a user input means (5);
(b) detecting electrocardiographic signals for a 


 predetermined period using means (1) for detecting ECG signals;
(c) storing a block of ECG data representing electrocardiographic signals detected during the predetermined period in an IC card together with an instrument ID code;
(d) transferring the IC card to a data reading station; and
(e) reading the ECG data and instrument ID code from the card.
23. An electrode comprising a flexible loop (30) including a conducting portion (31), wherein the conductive portion (31) forms at least part of a radially inwardly directed surface portion of the loop (30).
24. An electrode according to claim 23, wherein the loop (30) comprises a flexible strip (30) provided with fastening means (34) for holding the flexible strip in a loop. 


25. An electrode according to claim 24, wherein the fastening means (34) comprises a buckle (34).
26. An electrode according to claim 23, 24 or 25, wherein the flexible strip (30) is formed from silicone rubber.
27. An electrode according to any one of claims 23 to 26, wherein the conductive portion (31) is formed from an elastomer loaded with an electrically conducting substance.
28. An electrode according to claim 25, wherein the electrically conducting substance is nickel.
27. An electrode according to claim 25 or claim 26, wherein the conductive portion (31) comprises a separate component which is bonded to the flexible loop (30).
28. An electrode according to any one of claims 23 to 27, including a press stud (32, 33) electrically connected to the conductive portion (31). 


29. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 8, including an electrode according to any one of claims 23 to 28. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
