<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629092</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Routing to intelligence
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q1104	H04L1256	H04Q1104	H04Q347	H04M1100	H04Q347	H04L1256	H04M1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	H04M	H04Q	H04L	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q11	H04L12	H04Q11	H04Q3	H04M11	H04Q3	H04L12	H04M11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a telecommunications network, outgoing calls from a particular 
subscriber location (11-1) for each of a plurality of telecommunications applications 

are delivered via a single access link (31) to a single point of distribution (410) 
through which the subscriber location is caused to be connected, as a function of the 

telecommunications application type, to an appropriate intelligent network element 
(INE) server. (55) Additionally, incoming calls of the various application types and 

directed to a particular directory number are delivered to a single point of collection 
(420) associated with its NPA-NNX and connections for those calls are caused to be 

made from the point of collection to an appropriate INE server (65), as a function of 
the telecommunications application type and the directory number in question. 

Communications within the network are by way of asynchronous transfer mode 
(ATM) cells. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNSTEIN LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNSTEIN, LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to telecommunications.For most of its history, telecommunications was limited to the provision
of a single telecommunications "application" -so-called plain old telephone service, or
POTS. Within the last thirty years or so, however, a wide array of new
telecommunications applications have been introduced with yet others being planned
for implementation within this decade and beyond. Thus the range of current and future
telecommunications applications includes not only POTS, but facsimile, cash machine
and lottery telecommunications applications, access to computers, video to the home,
and telephone-network-based games, as well as a variety of features that can be
implemented for various of the telecommunications applications, such as call waiting,
calling number ID, and speed calling.The aforementioned and other telecommunications applications are
realized by such telecommunications "services" as basic voiceband switching, packet
switching, message switching, frame relay, SMDS and call switching (such as the so-called
asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM).EP-A-0 480 634, discloses a system in which a master control unit and a
high speed digital switch are used to control processing of incoming phone calls by
recognizing the type of service requested by the caller, and then routing the call to the
appropriate processing port. The system is disclosed as an adjunct to current switching
technology in public and private networks.According to the present invention there is provided a method as defined
in claim 1, or apparatus as defined in claim 14.It is a straightforward matter to provide a subscriber location with access
to different telecommunications applications by assigning to that location directory
numbers supported by each of a plurality of so-called intelligent network element (INE)
servers capable of supporting respective telecommunications applications. The
telecommunications network's numbering plan will thereby cause calls directed to those
various directory numbers to be routed to the appropriate INE server and, thence, to the 
appropriate terminal device, e.g., POTS telephone set, cash machine, video terminal or
personal computer, at the subscriber location.
However, this approach is less than optimal.In accordance with the present invention, incoming calls of various
application types are directed to a single directory number, thereby causing them to be
delivered to a single point of collection associated with a portion of that dialed directory
number. Connections
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for use in a telecommunications network which includes a
plurality of intelligent network element servers (45,55,65,75,85) supporting

respective telecommunications application types,

   CHARACTERIZED IN THAT

said method comprises the steps of
receiving, at a point of collection (420), incoming calls of any of
said application types, but all directed to a particular subscriber location (11-1),

and
routing each of said incoming calls from said point of collection to a
particular one of said intelligent network element servers (65, 85) supporting

the application type of said each incoming call.
The method of claim 1 comprising the further step of routing each of
said incomin
g calls from said intelligent network element servers to said subscriber
location via a point of distribution (410) and a single access link (30) which are

associated with said subscriber location.
The method of claim 2 wherein said incoming calls include
intelligence carried in data packets, wherein at least ones of said packets have

information identifying the application type of the respective call, and wherein said
point of collection carries out said routing as a function of said information.
The method of claim 2 wherein said points of distribution and
collection are co-located with one another.
The method of claim 4 wherein said points of distribution and
collection are co-located with a telecommunications central office (45).
The method of claim 1 wherein said telecommunications application
types include at least ones of POTS, ISDN, video and data applications.
The method of claim 1 wherein said calls include intelligence
carried in data packets and wherein at least ones of said packets have information

identifying said particular one of said intelligent network element servers. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said routing step includes the steps
of


responding to receipt of a particular one of said incoming calls by
determining its application type, and
determining said particular intelligent network element server from a
number translation table as a function of said determined application type and of said

particular subscriber location.
The method of claim 1 wherein said calls include intelligence
carried in data packets conforming to an asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) format.
The method of claim 9 wherein said routing step includes the
communication of ATM commands between said point of collection and said

intelligent network element servers.
The method of claim 1 wherein said routing step includes the
establishing of a virtual circuit between said point of collection and said particular

one of said intelligent network element servers.
The method of claim 1 comprising the further step of routing each
of said incoming calls from said particular intelligent network element server (e.g.,

65) to said subscriber location via said point of collection, via a point of distribution
(e.g., 410) and a single access link (e.g., 31) which are associated with said

subscriber location, when there is no direct link between said particular server and
said point of distribution.
The method of claim 1 wherein said routing step includes the step
of routing ones of said incoming calls to said particular intelligent network element

server (85) via a second point of collection (820) to which that server is
directly connected, when there is no direct link from said point of collection to that

server.
Apparatus for use in a telecommunications network which includes a
plurality of intelligent network element servers (45, 55, 65, 75, 85) supporting

respective telecommunications application types, said apparatus including a point of
collection (420) which comprises 


means (421) for receiving incoming calls of any of said application
types, but all directed to a particular subscriber location, (11-1) and
means (422, 425) for routing each of said incoming calls from said point
of collection to a particular one of said intelligent network element servers

supporting the application type of said each incoming call.
The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising means (402) for
routing each of said incoming calls from said intelligent network element servers to

said subscriber location via a point of distribution (410) and a single access link (31)
which are associated with said subscriber location.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said incoming calls include
intelligence carried in data packets, wherein at least ones of said packets have

information identifying the application type of the respective call, and wherein said
means for routing carries out said routing as a function of said information.
The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said points of distribution and
collection are co-located with one another.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said points of distribution and
collection are co-located with a telecommunications central office (45).
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said telecommunications
application types include at least ones of POTS, ISDN, video and data applications.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said calls include intelligence
carried in data packets and wherein at least ones of said packets have information

identifying said particular one of said intelligent network element servers.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said means for routing responds
to receipt of a particular one of said incoming calls by determining its application

type, and by thereupon determining said particular intelligent network element server
from a number translation table (425) as a function of the determined application

type and of said particular subscriber location.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said calls include intelligence 
carried in data packets conforming to an asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) format.
The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said routing means, in the
carrying out of said routing, communicates ATM commands between said point of

collection and said intelligent network element servers.
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said routing means, in the
carrying out of said routing, establishes of a virtual circuit between said point of

collection and said particular intelligent network element server.
The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising means (620) for
routing said incoming calls from said particular intelligent network element server

(65) to said subscriber location via said point of collection and via a point of
distribution (410) and a single access link (31) which are associated with said

subscriber location, when there is no direct link between said particular server and
said point of distribution.
The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising a second point of
collection (520) for routing ones of said incoming calls to said particular intelligent

network element (55) server when there is no direct link from said point of collection
(420) to that server.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
