<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657662</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hydraulic belt tensioner.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B6706	F02B6706	F16H708	F16H708	F16H712	F16H712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B67	F02B67	F16H7	F16H7	F16H7	F16H7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hydraulic belt tensioner 
(10)
 operating on pressurized lubricating oil in 
an internal combustion engine. The tensioner includes a ratchet mechanism 


(34)
 which locks the output member 
(18)
 of the tensioner in a fixed position 
when the engine is not operating and which is disengaged when the engine is 

operating and the lubricating oil is pressurized. A seal 
(28)
 is provided to 
prevent oil from escaping from the unit. The invention further includes slots 


(64)
 formed in a plunger element 
(25)
 of the tensioner which are effective to 

dissipate air which tends to become entrapped under the plunger when the 
engine is initially started. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHURCH KYNAN LON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEPPE DAVID WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MADDEN RICHARD LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SRINIVASAN NANDAKUMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHURCH KYNAN LON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEPPE DAVID WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MADDEN RICHARD LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SRINIVASAN NANDAKUMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is a continuation-in-part (CIP) application of 
Application Serial No. 031,188 to Deppe, et al. entitled "Hydraulic Chain 
Tensioner", that was filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on 
March 12, 1993. This invention relates to hydraulic belt tensioners for internal combustion 
engines, and more particularly to a sealed hydraulic belt tensioner using engine 
oil for operation. Tensioners for timing chains and belts in internal combustion engines are 
well known in the art, particularly those wherein hydraulic pressure is employed 
to provide a force directly against a movable guide which bears against the 
chain or belt. An example of a typical chain tensioner is shown in U.S. Patent 
No. 4,874,352 to Suzuki, while an example of a typical belt tensioner is shown 
in U.S. Patent No. 5,073,149 to Maruyama, et al. In the prior art, a clear distinction has been drawn between chain 
tensioners and belt tensioners as applied to the valve timing system in an 
internal combustion engine. In a valve timing system employing a chain, the 
chain requires lubrication and is thus located in an environment wherein engine 
oil is present. In such applications, it is convenient and efficient to employ a 
tensioner which operates on engine oil, with the engine oil being permitted to 
flow out of the tensioner and onto the chain via leakdown paths and vents. In valve timing systems which employ a toothed belt, no engine oil can 
be permitted to contact the belt; therefore, the belt is enclosed in an oil-free 
environment. Accordingly, in belt-driven systems it has become a practice to 
employ tensioners which operate on a self-contained oil supply, with 
diaphragms or the like employed to prevent oil from escaping from the 
tensioner, such as shown in U.S. Patent No. 5,073,149 referred to above. While the state of the art in seal design is such that it can be expected 
that a commercially available seal can be effectively adapted to an engine oil 
actuated belt tensioner, there is a potential for air entrapment in the high 
pressure chamber of such devices, particularly on initial installation. More  
 
specifically, when the tensioner is initially installed in an engine and the unit is 
pressurized with engine oil it is expected that entrapped air in the high pressure 
chamber will escape via the leakdown clearance between the plunger and the 
plunger bore; however, it has been found that air bubbles tend to become 
trapped in the area of the check ball retainer, the presence of which can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hydraulic belt tensioner assembly (10) for an internal combustion 
engine comprising a housing (22) having a closed axial first bore (26) formed 

therein; a plunger (25) received in said first bore, the volume between the 
closed end of said bore and a first end of said plunger defining a first chamber 

(62); a second chamber (38) formed in said plunger, the clearance between said 
plunger and said bore defining a controlled leakdown path therebetween; check 

valve means (32) received in said plunger operable to provide a flowpath only 
in the direction from said second chamber to said first chamber; passage means 

(60, 61) operable to direct pressurized oil from said engine to said second 
chamber; and seal means (28) acting between said plunger and said first bore 

effective to prevent the flow of oil outward of said housing; characterized by 
one or more slots (64) formed in said first end of said plunger, said slots 

extending from substantially the center of said first end to the outside diameter 
of said plunger. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which said check valve means 
comprises a ball (32) received in a counterbore formed in said first end of said 

plunger, including means (44) for retaining said ball in said counterbore, at least 
one of said one or more slots intersecting said counterbore. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, including means (30) received in said 
first chamber biasing said plunger outward of said housing. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3, in which said biasing means 
comprises a coil spring (30) acting between the closed end of said housing and 

said first end of said plunger, an end coil (44) of said spring also defining said 
means for retaining said ball. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which said plunger includes a 
cylindrical rod (18) extending outward of said housing from a second end of 

said plunger, and wherein said seal means comprises a seal element (28) 
sealingly fixed to said rod and in dynamic sealing engagement with said 

housing. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 - 5 including ratchet 
means (34) engageable with said plunger to inhibit movement of said plunger 

into said housing, and means for disengaging said ratchet means when said 
engine is operating. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6 in which said ratchet means 
comprises means defining ratchet teeth (46) formed on said plunger, means 

defining a ratchet pawl (52) received in said housing and engageable with said 
teeth means, and means (56) biasing said ratchet pawl means into engagement 

with said teeth. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said means defining a 
ratchet pawl comprise a cylindrical member received in a second bore formed 

in said housing and having a tooth-engaging projection formed on one end 
thereof, and wherein said biasing means comprises a spring acting between said 

housing and the opposite end of said cylindrical member. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said means for disengaging 
said ratchet means comprises means (60, 61) for conducting said pressurized 

engine oil to said second bore, said pressurized oil acting against said cylindrical 
member in a direction opposing the force of said spring. 
A hydraulic tensioner assembly (10) for an internal combustion engine 
comprising a housing (22); a hydraulic tensioner module (24) received within 

said housing, said module including an axially extendible and retractable plunger 
(25) operatively engageable with an endless drive element of said engine; 

 
ratchet means (34) engageable with said pl
unger to inhibit retraction of said 
plunger; means for disengaging said ratchet means when said engine is 

operating; and means (60, 61) for supplying pressurized engine oil to said 
module; characterized by sealing means (28) acting between said plunger and 

said housing and operable to confine said oil within said housing. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 in which said plunger includes a 
cylindrical rod (18) extending outward of said housing, and wherein said sealing 

means comprises a seal element (28) sealingly fixed to said having and in 
dynamic sealing engagement with said rod. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 or 11, in which said ratchet means 
comprises means (46) defining ratchet teeth formed on said plunger, means 

(52) defining a ratchet pawl received in said housing and engageable with said 
teeth means, and means (56) biasing said ratchet pawl means into engagement 

with said teeth. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein said means defining a 
ratchet pawl comprise a cylindrical member received in a bore formed in said 

housing and having a tooth-engaging projection formed on one end thereof, and 
wherein said biasing means comprises a spring acting between said housing and 

the opposite end of said cylindrical member. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein said means for disengaging 
said ratchet means comprises means (60, 61) for conducting said pressurized 

engine oil to said bore, said pressurized oil acting against said cylindrical 
member in a direction opposing the force of said spring. 
A hydraulic tensioner (10) for an endless drive element in an internal 
combustion engine comprising a housing (22), a plunger (25) slidingly received 

in a blind bore (26) formed in said housing, a chamber (62) defined by the 
volume between the bottom of said bore and a first end of said plunger, a 

 
spring (30) acting between the bottom of said bore and said plunger biasing 

said plunger outward of said housing, a second chamber (38) formed within 
said plunger; passage means (42) providing a flow path between said first 

chamber and said second chamber, a check valve (32) operable to shut off flow 
from said first chamber to said second chamber when said first chamber is at 

a higher pressure than said second chamber, means (60, 61) conducting 
pressurized engine oil to said second chamber, means (46) defining ratchet 

teeth formed on said plunger, a ratchet pawl (52) received in said housing and 
engageable with said ratchet teeth, a spring (56) biasing said pawl into 

engagement with said teeth, and means responsive to the pressure of said 
engine oil to disengage said pawl from said teeth; characterized by seal means 

(28) acting between said plunger and said housing to prevent the escape of said 
engine oil. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein said plunger includes a 
region of reduced diameter, said region defining an annular chamber between 

said housing and said plunger in communication with said second chamber, and 
said ratchet teeth being formed in said region of reduced diameter; and said 

ratchet pawl is defined by a cylindrical member received in a bore in 
communication with said annular chamber, said means responsive to engine oil 

pressure being defined by oil pressure acting against said cylindrical member. 
Apparatus as claimed in claims 15 or 16 in which said plunger 
includes a cylindrical rod (18) extending outward of said housing, said seal 

being sealingly fixed to said housing and in dynamic sealing engagement with 
said shaft. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
