<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629963</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A display system for visualization of body structures during medical procedures.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B603	A61B603	A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1900	A61B1900	G06F300	G06F300	G06F301	G06F301	G06F1900	G06F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B6	A61B6	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F19	G06F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An interactive display system superimposes radiological 
images on a semi-transparent screen through which a surgeon 

views a patient during a medical procedure. The superimposed 
image is derived from image data obtained with an imaging system. 

The radiological image is registered with the surgeon's view of the 
patient and displayed in real-time during a medical procedure. This 

allows the surgeon to view internal and external structures and the 
relation between them simultaneously, and adjust the procedure 

accordingly. A second embodiment employs stereoscopic viewing 
methods to provide three-dimensional representations of the 

radiological images superimposed on the semi-transparent screen 
through which the surgeon views the patient. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS WILLIAM JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARROW ROBERT DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUMOULIN CHARLES LUCIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS, WILLIAM JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARROW, ROBERT DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUMOULIN, CHARLES LUCIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a system for aiding 
a medical practitioner, such as a surgeon, in visualizing 
anatomical structures during medical procedures and more 
specifically to a system which allows the practitioner to 
view, in real time, both internal and external anatomical 
structures. This application is related to International 
application US 94/02572 "Computer Graphic and Live Video 
System for Enhancing Visualization of Body Structures 
During Surgery" and to European Patent applications 
0549183 "System For Displaying Solid Cuts For Surfaces of 
Solid Models", 0549189 "Solid Models Generation By Span 
Method Using Dividing Cubes" and 0549182 "Apparatus and 
Method For Displaying Surgical Cuts in Three-Dimensional 
Models". Presently, during surgery and other medical 
procedures such as endoscopy, biopsy and implantation, 
physicians view several static radiographic views of the 
patient in the operating room. Typically  
 
these are transparent film renderings of magnetic resonance (MR), 
computed tomography (CT), conventional X-ray images or 
ultrasound images. Since these images are two dimensional static 
images, the physicians must determine actual three-dimensional 
(3D) location and shape of desired internal structures within the 
patient from the 2D images which they are viewing. Conceptually, 
the surgeon constructs a 3D model of the internal structures and 
correlates these internal structures with visible external structures 
of the patient where they must cut. This is often difficult because the 
scale and the orientation of the 2D image may differ from what the 
surgeon is seeing, and the surgeon may not be able to view both the 
patient and the medical diagnostic images simultaneously. Another technique employed in localization of internal 
structures during surgery is known as stereotactic surgery as 
described in "Interactive Stereotactic Surgical System for the 
Removal of Intracranial Tumors Utilizing the CO₂ Laser and CT-Derived 
Database" by B. A. Kall, P. J. Kelly, and S. J. Goerss, IEEE 
Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, vol. BME-32, no. 2, pp 112-116, 
1985; and "Comprehensive Computer-Assisted Data Collection 
Treatment Planning and Interactive Surgery" by B. A. Kall, P. J 
Kelly, and S. J. Goerss, Medical Imaging, vol. 767 pp. 509-514, 1987. 
With this approach, a rigid mechanical frame is attached to the 
patient before a CT or MR procedure. The frame and its landmarks 
can be seen in the resulting images. Mechanisms on the frame 
position a probe at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A real-time medical apparatus for displaying to an operator 
interactive images of internal structures of a patient coinciding 

with a view by the operator of the patient comprising: 

a) a medical imaging system for obtaining multi-dimensional 
imaging data of internal structures of said patient; 
b) a workstation for creating images from the imaging data of 
internal structures of said patient viewed from a location (x,y,z) 

and orientation (α,,ϑ) which coincide with said view of the 
patient by said operator; 
c) a semi-transparent screen adapted for allowing said operator to 
view said patient through the semi-transparent screen and 

adapted for displaying the images of internal structures from 
the workstation with a desired degree of transparency to create 

the illusion of internal structures superimposed upon said 
patient. 
The real-time medical apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a 
tracking device adapted to measure the location (x,y,z) and 

orientation (α,,ϑ) of said operator with respect to said patient, for 
repeatedly providing these measurements to the workstation. 
The real-time medical apparatus of claim 1 wherein the 
workstation further comprises surgical planning means adapted 

to create models of internal structures of said patient, 
interactively manipulate the models to result in modifications to 

internal structures, store the models and modifications and 
display the models and modifications viewed from a location and 

orientation to coincide with the view of the patient by the operator. 
The real-time medical apparatus of claim 1 wherein the 
workstation incorporates normal anatomical models of internal 

structures, and is adapted to display the models viewed from a 
location and orientation to coincide with the view of the patient by 

the operator, such that said workstation can act as a guide in 
reconstructive surgery. 
A real-time medical apparatus for displaying to an operator 
interactive three-dimensional (3D) internal and external images 

of a patient comprising: 

a) a medical imaging system for obtaining three-dimensional (3D) 
imaging data of internal structures of said patient; 
b) tracking means for measuring locations (x₁,y₁,z₁) (x₂,y₂,z₂) and 
orientation angles (α₁,₁,ϑ₁) (α₂,₂,ϑ₂) of each eye of said 

operator with respect to said patient; 
c) a first workstation for creating a right computer generated 
image of internal structures of said patient from the 3D imaging 

data from the medical imaging system as viewed from the 
location (x₁,y₁,z₁) and orientation angle (α₁,₁,ϑ₁) obtained from 

the tracking means; 
d) a second workstation for creating a left computer generated 
image of internal structures of said patient from the 3D imaging 

data from the medical imaging system as viewed from a location 
(x₂,y₂,z₂) and orientation angle (a₂,₂,ϑ₂) obtained from the 

tracking means; 
e) a semi-transparent screen adapted to allow said operator to view 
said patient through the semi-transparent screen and adapted 

to display the left and right computer generated images of 
internal structures from the workstations with a desired degree 

of transparency in rapid succession; 
f) stereoscopic display means synchronized with the semi-transparent 
screen for allowing only the operator's right eye to 

view the semi-transparent screen when the right computer 
generated image is being displayed, and for allowing only the 

operator's left eye to view the semi-transparent screen when the 
left computer generated image is being displayed thereby 

simulating a 3D image of internal and external structures of 

said patient. 
A method of aiding an operator to perform a medical procedure 
upon a patient comprising the steps of: 


a) acquiring multi-dimensional medical imaging data from 
 

internal structures of said patient; 
b) measuring a location (x,y,z) and orientation angle (α,,ϑ) of said 
patient as viewed by said operator; 
c) creating a computer generated image of the internal structures 
from the medical imaging data viewed from the location (x,y,z) 

and orientation angle (α,,ϑ); 
d) interposing a semi-transparent screen between said operator 
and said patient allowing said operator to view said patient 

through the semi-transparent screen; and 
e) displaying the computer generated image on the semi-transparent 
screen with a desired degree of transparency to 

create the illusion of internal structures superimposed upon 
said patient to assist the operator in said medical procedure. 
The method of aiding an operator in a medical procedure of claim 
6 wherein the step of acquiring medical imaging data is 

performed in real-time by a medical imaging system. 
The method of aiding an operator in a medical procedure of claim 
6 further comprising the step of creating a computer generated 

guide image of normal anatomical internal structures viewed 
from a location (x,y,z) and orientation angle (α,,ϑ) to be used as a 

guide to reconstructive surgery; and mixing portions of the guide 
image with the computer generated images. 
A method of aiding an operator in a medical procedure of a patient 
comprising the steps of: 


a) obtaining three-dimensional (3D) imaging data of internal 
structures of said patient; 
b) interposing a semi-transparent screen between said operator and 
said patient allowing said operator to view said patient through 

the semi-transparent screen; 
c) measuring the locations (x₁,y₁,z₁) (x₂,y₂,z₂) and orientation 
angles (α₁,₁,ϑ₁) (α₂,₂,ϑ₂) between said patient and each eye of 

said operator, respectively, 
d) creating a left computer generated image and a right computer 
 

generated image of internal structures from the 3D imaging 
data of said patient viewed from distances (x₁,y₁,z₁) (x₂,y₂,z₂) 

and orientation angles (α₁,₁,ϑ₁) (α₂,₂,ϑ₂) respectively; 
e) displaying the left and right computer generated images of 
internal structures of a desired degree of transparency in rapid 

succession on the semi-transparent screen; and 
f) blocking the view of the left eye of the operator when the right 
computer generated image is being displayed, and blocking the 

view of the right eye of the operator when the left computer 
generated image is being displayed thereby simulating a 3D 

image of internal and external structures of said patient. 
The method of aiding an operator in a medical procedure of claim 
9 further comprising the step of adjusting the distances (x₁,y₁,z₁) 

(x₂,y₂,z₂) and orientation angles (α₁,₁,ϑ₁) (α₂,₂,ϑ₂) of the left and 
right computer generated images to correspond to the view of the 

patient by the operator. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
