<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615372</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved data terminal for telephone circuits.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M157	H04M157	H04M328	H04M330	H04M1106	H04M1106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	H04M1	H04M3	H04M3	H04M11	H04M11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is an improved data terminal (10) for use in 
communication and testing of telephone lines which data terminal (10) is 

operated by a 16-bit microprocessor (50) operating under control of 
MS-DOS 5.0 program. The data terminal (10) with operating computer and 

large plurality of telephone test functions is fully contained in 
a hermetically sealed, lightweight housing (12) to enable easy field 

handling through data send and receive operations as well as the 
multiple of telephone line test operations. Power saving aspects 

of the invention include automatically adjusted LCD backlight 
control and LCD adjustment caused by large or abrupt temperature 

changes in the field. The system uses a large microprocessor (50) with 
EPROM (52) and random access memory (54) with field programmable gating 

arrays offering virtually thousands of different gate logic 
decisions. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMUNICATIONS MANUFACTURING C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMUNICATIONS MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSWELL LANNY E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTLER MYRON C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MADORE CHRISTOPHER L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOSWELL, LANNY E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTLER, MYRON C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MADORE, CHRISTOPHER I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to data terminals for communicating 
over telephone circuits, and more particularly, but not 
by way of limitation, to a terminal for communicating with a 
telephone operations and administrative system, one specific type 
of which is referred to as a craft technician's portable field 
terminal through which telephone maintenance dispatches and reports 
are made. The content of this application is related to the 
content of United States patent application Serial No. 
07/514,318 which was filed on April 23, 1990 and entitled 
"DATA TERMINAL FOR COMMUNICATING OVER A TELEPHONE CIRCUIT". In the telephone industry, individuals, referred to as craft 
technicians, are utilized in the field traveling from site to site 
where telephone instruments or telephone facility problems are 
found. Typically, maintenance requests are collected at a central 
location and then dispatched to different individuals for 
attention. Once a problem has been attended to, the craft 
technician must report results back to the central location.  Computerization of such maintenance systems has enabled the 
craft technicians to receive dispatches and submit reports without 
having to travel to and from or to verbally communicate with the 
central maintenance location. The craft technician can now 
communicate with the central location through a hand-held portable 
field terminal such as is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,837,811 in 
the name of Butler et al. This computerized maintenance system 
along with the advent of the technician's field terminal has 
significantly improved the efficiency of telephone systems. Although terminals such- as the type disclosed in U.S. Patent 
No. 4,837,811 have proved advantageous, there are additional needs 
to be met to enhance further the utility of such terminals. One 
such need is to enable such terminals to receive programs, such as 
applications programs which the technician may wish to call up in 
order to perform a specific task (e.g., creating and filling out a 
time sheet), which are downloaded over conventional telephone 
circuits. In order to save time, the technician no longer need 
take the terminal into the central office in order to be 
reprogrammed over a high speed data link, but he can download 
additional programs directly to the terminal at its remote location 
via the existing telephone circuit.  According to the present invention, there is provided 
a data terminal for communications and testing of subscriber 
equipment in a telephone system of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A data terminal for communications and testing 
of subscriber equipment in a telephone system of the type 

having a tip and ring connection, comprising: 
   a microprocessor; 

   an EPROM interconnected with said microprocessor 
to provide system storage; 

   dynamic random access memory interactively 
interconnected with said microprocessor and said EPROM and 

for containing a resident operating system program such as 
MS DOS; 

   an address bus interconnected between said 
microprocessor, said EPROM and said dynamic random access 

memory; 
   a data bus interconnected between said 

microprocesr, said EPROM and said dynamic random access 
memory; 

   a field programmable gate array for receiving a 
plurality of control signals, address signals, data signals 

and sensed signals from around the data terminal, and for 
providing a plurality of gated output signals; 

   a universal asynchronous receiver-transmitter 
connected to a data bus of preferably 8-bits that 

interconnects with plural gated output digital data ports 
from said field programmable gate array and is for providing 

 
output of modem control signals; 

   telephone line input circuit for providing 
connection to the tip and ring connections of said telephone 

line and for generating a caller number delivery signal; and 
   a modem receiving input of said modem control 

signals and said caller number delivery signal from said 
telephone line input circuit to provide system subscriber 

identification. 
A data terminal as set forth in claim 1 which 
further includes: 

   a digital to analog converter connected to said 
data bus and for producing an analog control signal 

indicative of a selected communication channel. 
A data terminal as set forth in claim 1 or 2 
which further includes: 

   a liquid crystal display screen connected to 
receive output data from said microprocessor; 

   a transistor in use responsive to a backlight 
enable signal from the field programmable gate array to 

energize a voltage regulator to produce a liquid crystal 
display backlight voltage; and 

   a digital resistor for controlling the voltage 
regulator to adjust the backlighting for optimum viewing 

light level. 
A data terminal as set forth in claim 3 which 
further includes: 

   an amplifier stage for receiving a control 
 

voltage input from said field programmable gate array and 
for generating a liquid crystal display contrast voltage for 

input to control said liquid crystal display automatically. 
A data terminal as set forth in any preceding 
claim which further includes: 

   a DTMF receiver-transmitter for receiving input 
of digital data of preferably 8-bits as well as clock input 

from said field programmable gate array and for generating a 
dual tone multi-frequency output signal for call line 

identification. 
A data terminal as set forth in any preceding 
claim which further includes: 

   a voice-switched speaker phone circuit for 
receiving audio input from a microphone and for providing 

selectively audio speaker output and audio speaker phone 
output, said speaker phone circuit also being for receiving 

speaker enable and speaker mute control inputs from the 
field programmed gate array. 
A data terminal as set forth in claim 6 which 
further includes: 

   a digital to analog converter for receiving 
binary signals of preferably 8-bits and control signals from 

the field programmed gate array to produce first and second 
analog outputs; and means for applying the first output to 

said voice switched speaker phone circuit. 
A data terminal as set forth in claim 7 which 
further includes:

 
   an audio output circuit including an audio 

amplifier with speaker outputs; and 
   means for applying the second analog output from 

the digital to analog converter to said audio amplifier. 
A data terminal as set forth in any preceding 
claim which further includes: 

   a multi-channel analog to digital converter for 
receiving sensed analog inputs for LCD light level, ambient 

temperature, battery charge levels, and microphone audio 
output, for conversion to respective digital signals as 

output on a digital bus of preferably 8 bits for connection 
to selected input ports of said field programmable gate 

array. 
A data terminal as set forth in any preceding 
claim which further includes: 

   a DC power source; 
   a solid state energy management stage for 

receiving inputs from said DC power source as well as 
control signals from said field programmable gate array to 

provide plural DC operating voltages for operation around 
said data terminal. 
A data terminal as set forth in any preceding 
claim wherein said field programmable gate array comprises: 

   a plurality of field programmable gate array 
devices connected in parallel, providing a total of at least 

four thousand logic gates. 
A data terminal as set forth in any preceding 
 

claim which further includes: 
a hermetically sealed housing including a front panel, 

said housing containing all of said data terminal 
components; 

a liquid crystal display mounted in said front panel; 
and 

a keyboard which includes a plurality of function keys, 

a standard QWERTY key pad and a twelve button 
telephone key pad, all mounted in said front panel 

adjacent said display. 
A data terminal as set forth in claim 12 which 
further includes: 

   a photosensor disposed in said front panel for 
providing a light signal output indicative of ambient light; 

and 
   means responsive to said light signal for 

causing backlighting at selected intensity to the liquid 
crystal display. 
A data terminal as set forth in claim 12 or 13 
which further includes: 

   a thermistor disposed in said housing for 
providing a temperature signal output; 

   a reference means established by software for 
representing optimum viewing light condition for said liquid 

crystal display; and 
means for comparing said temperature signal output to 

said reference means to effect automatic contrast 
control. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
