<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635323</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Nozzle for continuous caster
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22D1106	B22D4152	B22D4154	B22D1106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22D	B22D	B22D	B22D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22D11	B22D41	B22D41	B22D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is an improved casting tip (14) for a 
nozzle of a continuous caster, the tip designed for 

transferring molten metal (4) from a molten metal reservoir 
(2) to a continuously advancing mold as formed, for example, 

by twin belts (18), rolls (24) or block casters (28) for 
casting molten metal into solid form (22). The casting tip 

(14) is comprised of a top wall (44), a bottom wall (46) 
oppositely disposed from the top wall, a first side wall, and 

a second side wall oppositely disposed from the first side 
wall, the first and second side walls joined to the top and 

bottom walls to form a passage therebetween having an 
entrance and an exit. The passage has a top wall inside 

surface (52) having a first portion (56) that first converges 
towards the bottom wall starting at the entrance and has a 

second portion (60) that diverges from the bottom wall to the 
exit, the top wall first portion having a length less than 

the top wall second portion length. Further, the passage has 
a bottom wall inside surface (54) having a first portion (58) 

that first converges towards the top wall starting at the 
entrance and has a second portion (62) that diverges from the 

top wall to the exit, the bottom wall first portion having a 
length less than the bottom wall second portion length. The 

top wall and bottom wall converge and diverge about 
substantially an equal amount
 from a center line from the 
entrance to the exit of the passage. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECKERT C EDWARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECKERT, C. EDWARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ECKERT C EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ECKERT, C. EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to casting of molten
metal into solid forms such as sheet, plate, bar or
ingot, and more particularly, this invention relates to
improved nozzles or tips for supplying molten metal to
casters such as wheel, roll, belt or block casters.For purposes of supplying molten metal, e.g.
aluminum, to a continuous caster, for example, a roll
caster, a casting nozzle is used having a tip which
extends into the casting rolls. Such tips are shown,
for example, in U.S. Patents 3,774,670; 4,526,223;
4,527,612; 4,550,766 and 4,798,315.Casting nozzles have been fabricated from
various refractory materials. For example, U.S. Patent
4,485,835 discloses that the part of the nozzle coming
in contact with the molten metal is a refractory
material comprised of silica, asbestos, sodium silicate
and lime, which material is available under the trade
names MARINITE and MARIMET. Further, U.S. Patent
4,485,835 discloses that while the refractory nozzle
exhibits good thermal insulation and low heat capacity,
it is not very homogeneous in terms of chemical
composition and mechanical properties. In addition, it
adsorbs moisture end is subject to embrittlement or low
mechanical strength upon preheating to operating
temperature which allows such nozzles to be used only
once. Further, such materials frequently outgas and 
experience cracking upon heating, both of which are
undesirable characteristics for successful caster
nozzle performance.Refractory materials used to fabricate the
casting nozzles have not been satisfactory for other
reasons. For example, often the refractory material is
reactive or subject to erosion or dissolution by the
molten metal, e.g., aluminum, being cast, and this
results in particles of refractory or reaction products
ending up in the cast product.Another problem with refractory material is
that it often cannot maintain the proper strength level
under operating conditions. This can result in sag or
change in its dimensions which adversely affects or
changes the flow of molten metal to the casting mold.
That is, the flow of molten metal across the tip of the
nozzle does not remain uniform. This can change the
freeze front, and thus, properties can change across
the width of the product. Or, change of the internal
dimensions of the nozzle can result in metal flow
disturbances and surface defects on the resulting sheet
or plate, such as eddy currents, turbulence or
otherwise non-uniform flow through the nozzle.Yet another problem with refractory-type
nozzles is that often they are not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A casting tip for a nozzle of a continuous caster, the tip designed for
continued use in transferring molten metal from a molten metal reservoir to a

continuously advancing mold for casting said molten metal into solid form, the
casting tip comprised of:


(a) a top wall;
(b) a bottom wall oppositely disposed from said top wall;
(c) a first side wall;
(d) a second side wall oppositely disposed from said first side wall,
said first and second side walls joined to said top and bottom walls to form a

passage therebetween having an entrance and an exit, said passage characterized by:

(i) a top wall inside surface having a first portion that first
converges towards said bottom wall starting at said entrance and having a second

portion that diverges from said bottom wall to said exit, said top wall first portion
having a length less than said top wall second portion length;
(ii) a bottom wall inside surface having a first portion that first
converges towards said top wall starting at said entrance and having a second

portion that diverges from said top wall to said exit, said bottom wall first portion
having a length less than said bottom wall second portion length; and
(iii) said top wall and bottom wall converging and diverging
about substantially an equal amount from a center line from said entrance to said

exit of said passage; and
(e) said tip fabricated from a composite material comprised of a base
layer of a titanium alloy coated with a refractory coating thereon to protect said

inside surface from molten metal.
The casting tip of claim 1, wherein

said first and second side wall inside surfaces of said passage each
has a first portion that converges towards said opposite side wall starting at said

entrance and each having a second portion that diverges from said opposite side
wall to said exit, said first and second side walls' first portions each having a length 

less than said first and second side walls' second portion length;
said first and second side walls converging and diverging about
substantially an equal amount from a center line from said entrance to said exit.
The casting tip of claim 1, wherein

said first side wall inside surface has a first portion that first
converges towards said second side wall starting at said entrance and having a

second portion that diverges from said second side wall to said exit, said first side
wall first portion having a length less than said first side wall second portion length;
said second side wall inside surface has a first portion that first
converges towards said first side wall stating at said entrance and having a second

portion that diverges from said side first side wall to said exit, said second side wall
first portion having a length less than said second side wall second portion length;

and
said first side wall and second side wall converging and diverging
about substantially an equal amount from a center line from said entrance to said

exit.
The casting tip of claim 2, wherein said tip is fabricated from a
composite material comprised of:


a. a base layer of a titanium alloy;
b. a bond coat bonded to said inside surfaces; and
c. a refractory layer selected from one of Al
2
O
3
, ZrO
2
, Y
2
O
3

stabilized ZrO
2
, and Al
2
O
3
-TiO
2
 bonded to said bond coat to provide said inside
surface, the refractory layer resistant to attack by said molten metal.
The casting tip of claim 3, said tip is fabricated from a composite
material comprised of:


a. a base layer of a titanium alloy;
b. a bond coat bonded to said inside surfaces; and
c. a refractory layer selected from one of Al
2
O
3
, ZrO
2
, Y
2
O
3

stabilized ZrO
2
, and Al
2
O
3
-TiO
2
 bonded to said bond coat to provide said inside
surface, the refractory layer resistant to attack by said molten metal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
