<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616602</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A CARBONATE COMPOSITION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01D100	C01D122	C01F1100	C01F1118	C09C102	C09C102	D21H2100	D21H2152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01D	C01D	C01F	C01F	C09C	C09C	D21H	D21H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01D1	C01D1	C01F11	C01F11	C09C1	C09C1	D21H21	D21H21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process and apparatus for obtaining a sodium hydroxide solution and slurry of calcium carbonate particles for use as paper coating includes the step of reacting calcium hydroxide and sodium carbonate in causticizer (6). The resulting slurry is dewatered in a centrifuge (14), and the particles are classified in centrifuge (35). The coarse fraction is separated and comminuted in a grinder (45), and the ground particles are recycled to the mixing tank (33) for combination with fresh slurry. The calcium carbonate product is concentrated in evaporator (39) and transferred to a storage tank (37).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADLER PAUL E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DENHOLM CHARLES B
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADLER, PAUL E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DENHOLM, CHARLES B.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADLER PAUL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENHOLM CHARLES B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADLER, PAUL E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENHOLM, CHARLES B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A CARBONATE COMPOSITIONTECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates to a process for making a carbonate composition, particularly a slurry of fine calcium carbonate particles suitable for use primarily in paper filling and coating, and also in non-paper areas such as rubber and plastics, paints and textiles.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION A known caustic soda (NaOH) manufacturing process is carried out by reacting dissolved soda ash (Na2C03) with hydrated lime (Ca(OH)2) to produce caustic soda and a precipitated calcium carbonate byproduct. The reaction occurs in an aqueous slurry at a dilute concentration, generally 10%. The reaction mechanism for the lime-soda process is:Ca(OH)2 + Na2C03 → 2NaOH + CaC03 See Hultman et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,311,666, issuedJanuary 19, 1982. The reaction temperature and residence time are adjusted to maximize the NaOH yield. Soda ash is available from a variety of sources, and may be recovered from aqueous sodium carbonate solutions by a method involving evaporation and centrifugation as described in Copenhafer et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,519,806, issued May 28, 1985.Calcium carbonate is used in the paper industry for paper filling and coating applications in the form of a slurry of fine calcium carbonate particles in water, with other known additives. See, for example, the calcium 

 carbonate pigment described in Japanese Patent No. 82- 30814. It is known to use a neutralized copoly er of ( eth)acrylic acid and aleic or fumaric acid as a stabilizer in such a composition; see Japanese Patent Publication 53144499 (1978).Calcium carbonate is both mined and made synthetically by a variety of well known processes. See, for example, Heytmeijer et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,100,264, issued July 11, 1978, wherein calcium carbonate is produced from calcium chloride, and Faatz U.S. Patent No. 4,272,498, issued June 9, 1981, which discloses a method of making a fine calcium carbonate slurry by reaction with carbon dioxide. Pettersson U.S. Patent No. 4,941,945, issued July 17, 1990, concerns a method of precipitating calcium carbonate by treatment of green liquor with caustic lime. Japanese Patent Publication 62-171921 produces a fine calcium carbonate suitable for use a paper filler by use of a gas-liquid plane contact reactor. Other processes have been proposed for recovering calcium carbonate produced by the lime-soda reaction and other reactions in cake form. See Japanese Patent Publication 73-9720 (also recovering NaOH) , and Soviet Union Patent Publication Nos. 490,755,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A process for the production of hydroxide and carbonate compositions, comprising the steps of: reacting a metal hydroxide with an alkali metal carbonate under conditions effective to produce a first aqueous slurry containing an alkali metal hydroxide and the corresponding metal carbonate as a precipitate; then filtering the first slurry in a filtration device to remove an aqueous alkali metal hydroxide solution therefrom; then reconstituting the first slurry with water; then classifying the first slurry to remove a coarse fraction comprising metal carbonate particles larger than a predetermined particle size therefrom to obtain a second slurry of fine metal carbonate particles; then grinding the coarse fraction to reduce the size of the metal carbonate particles therein; and then reclassifying the coarse fraction to obtain an additional quantity of the second slurry of fine metal carbonate particles.
2. The process of claim 1, wherein the metal is an alkaline earth metal, and the alkali metal is sodium.
3. The process of claim 2, wherein the metal hydroxide is calcium hydroxide and the alkali metal carbonate is Na
2
C0
3
, whereby the step of reacting a metal hydroxide with an alkali metal carbonate forms sodium hydroxide and calcium carbonate.
4. The process of claim 1, 2 or 3, further comprising a step of combining the first slurry with a predetermined quantity of the ground coarse fraction, then proceeding with the reclassifying step to classify the first slurry combined with the ground coarse fraction to obtain an additional quantity of the second slurry of fine carbonate particles. 


 5. The process of claim 1, 2 or 3, further comprising reconstituting the coarse fraction with water prior to grinding the coarse fraction.
6. The process of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the metal carbonate particles remain in aqueous slurry form throughout the process.
7. The process of claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein the step of reconstituting the first slurry further comprises adding a dispersant to the first slurry, and the dispersant comprises an acid polymer which is neutralized by residual sodium hydroxide in the first slurry.
8. The process of any of claims l to 7, further comprising evaporating excess water from the second slurry.
9. The process of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the classifying step further comprises centrifuging the first slurry.
10. The process of claim 3, wherein the step of reacting a metal hydroxide with an alkali metal carbonate is conducted under conditions effective to produce a first aqueous slurry containing particles of calcium carbonate as a precipitate, which particles have a bimodal size distribution wherein particles of a fine fraction have particle sizes of less than about 2 microns, and particles of a coarse fraction have particle sizes of greater than about 2 microns, with virtually no particles having particle sizes less than about 0.3 micron. 



 11. The process of claim 10, wherein the fine fraction makes up about 20 to 40% of the calcium carbonate particles, and virtually no particles having the bimodal size distribution have particle sizes less than about 0.1 micron.
12. The process of claim 3, wherein the calcium carbonate particles in the second aqueous slurry have particle sizes of less than about 2 microns, such that particles of the fine fraction are removed in the classifying step without being subjected to grinding.
13. The process of claim 3, further comprising, prior to the step of reacting calcium hydroxide with sodium carbonate, the steps of: separately weighing out predetermined amounts of calcium oxide and sodium carbonate each in the form of solid particles; separately combining the calcium oxide and sodium carbonate with water to form a calcium hydroxide suspension and a sodium carbonate solution; and filtering the calcium hydroxide suspension and sodium carbonate solution to remove particulate impurities.
14. The process of claim 13, further comprising the steps of: refiltering the reconstituted first slurry to remove an additional quantity of a dilute aqueous sodium hydroxide solution therefrom; then reconstituting the refiltered first slurry with water a second time prior to classifying the first slurry; and recycling and combining the dilute sodium hydroxide solution with the calcium oxide and water. 


 15. A process for the production of a particle composition, comprising the steps of: preparing an aqueous slurry of the particles; classifying the slurry to remove a coarse fraction comprising particles larger than a predetermined particle size therefrom to obtain a slurry of fine particles by centrifuging the aqueous slurry; combining the coarse fraction with water; then grinding the coarse fraction to reduce the size of particles therein to form a ground product; combining the ground product with fresh aqueous slurry to form a combined product; and reclassifying the coarse fraction to obtain an additional quantity of a slurry of fine particles by repeating the classifying step using the combined product to obtain the fine particle slurry, wherein the process is carried out in a closed circuit system including a tank wherein the ground product is combined with the fresh aqueous slurry, a centrifuge, a tank wherein water is added to the coarse fraction, and a grinder are connected in the foregoing order by conduits.
16. The process of claim 15, wherein the particles are calcium carbonate particles.
17. The process of claim 16, further comprising combining the coarse fraction with water prior to grinding so that the coarse product has a solids content in the range of about 30 to 60 wt. % during grinding and centrifugation.
18. The process of any of claims 15 to 17, further comprising a step of evaporating excess water from the slurry of fine particles. 


 19. The process of claim 16 or 17, wherein the calcium carbonate particles in the slurry of fine carbonate particles have particle sizes of less than about 2 microns.
20. A composition made by the process of any of claims 1 to 14.
21. A composition made by the process of any of claims 15 to 19.
22. An apparatus for the production of hydroxide and carbonate compositions, comprising: a causticizer for reacting calcium hydroxide with sodium carbonate under conditions effective to produce a first aqueous slurry containing sodium hydroxide and calcium carbonate as a precipitate; a filtration device that receives the first slurry from the causticizer and filters the first slurry to remove an aqueous sodium hydroxide solution therefrom; a grinder that receives the first slurry from the filtration device and grinds the precipitated calcium carbonate in the first slurry; and a classifying device that classifies the first slurry containing ground calcium carbonate particles to remove a second aqueous slurry therefrom, which second slurry contains fine calcium carbonate particles.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising: a first weigh feeder for weighing out a predetermined amount of calcium hydroxide; a first tank; a first conveyer capable of feeding the predetermined amount of calcium hydroxide to the first tank for combination with water therein; a first screening device including a screen through which calcium hydroxide from the first tank can 


 pass for removal of large particles therefrom prior to introduction into the causticizer; a second weigh feeder for weighing out a predetermined amount of sodium carbonate; a second tank; a second conveyer capable of feeding the predetermined amount of sodium carbonate to the second tank for combination with water therein; and a second screening device including a screen through which calcium hydroxide from the second tank can pass for removal of large particles therefrom prior to introduction into the causticizer.
24. The apparatus of claim 22 or 23, further comprising an evaporator for receiving the second slurry from the classifying device and reducing the moisture content thereof.
25. The apparatus of claim 22 or 23, further comprising conduits and associated feeders for feeding the associated materials from the causticizer to the filtration device, from the filtration device to the grinder, from the grinder to the classifying device, and from the classifying device.
26. An apparatus for the production of a particle slurry, comprising: a mixing tank wherein a ground particle product is combined with a fresh aqueous slurry of such particles; a classifying device capable of separating a coarse fraction of particles larger than a predetermined size from the slurry to obtain a slurry of fine particles; a grinder capable of comminuting the coarse fraction to form the ground product; conduits connecting the mixing tank, classifying device, and grinder in a closed circuit; and a pump for circulating the slurry through the conduits. 


 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the classifying device is a centrifuge.
28. The apparatus of claim 26 or 27, further comprising a coarse fraction tank interposed between the classifying device and the grinder wherein water is added to the coarse fraction prior to grinding.
29. The apparatus of claim 26, 27 or 28, further comprising an evaporator disposed to receive the slurry of fine particles from the classifying device.
30. The apparatus of any of claims 26 to 29, wherein the particles are calcium carbonate particles. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
