<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623182</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED BUILDING STRUCTURE AND METHOD OF USE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D100	B26D100	B26D300	B26D306	B26F306	B26F308	E04B100	E04B100	E04B124	E04B124	E04B176	E04B176	E04B270	E04B270	E04B700	E04B722	E04C302	E04C302	E04H302	E04H302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26F	B26F	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04C	E04C	E04H	E04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D1	B26D1	B26D3	B26D3	B26F3	B26F3	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B2	E04B2	E04B7	E04B7	E04C3	E04C3	E04H3	E04H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved building structure and method of use comprising separately fabricated floor (12), wall (42) and ceiling (174) structures capable of withstanding shear and seismic forces. The floor (12) and ceiling (174) structures of the present invention generally comprise I-beams (14) having foam panels (32) extending therebetween. The wall structure comprises an elongate track (44) rigidly secured to the foundation structure (28) of the building having a plurality of posts (56) secured thereto. Disposed between the posts are a plurality of interlocking foam wall sections (126) which encapsulate the posts (56) of the wall structure. Attached to the top surfaces of the posts are header beams (98, 100) which serve as a support structure for the ceiling structure (174).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEYDON JOHN J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEYDON, JOHN, J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEYDON JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEYDON, JOHN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED BUILDING STRUCTURE & METHOD OF USEField of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to residential and commercial building structures and methods of forming the same, and more particularly to integrated wall, floor and ceiling structure formed of dimensionally stabile, pre- manufactured structural elements which are rapidly assembled in a manner resulting in a monolithic building structure.Background of the Invention As is well known in the construction industry, builders of both residential and commercial building structures often face numerous difficulties during the construction process when utilizing forest products due to the lack of dimensional stability inherent with such products. In this respect, builders and craftsmen typically labor with the wood in an attempt to shape and fit the wooden components. However, often times the wood members twist, warp, split or crack during and subsequent to completion of the building project, thus impairing the quality and appearance of the building structure.In relation to consumer products, modern material fabrication and assembly techniques have permitted manufacturers to hold close tolerances and have allowed for the development of mass production methods which have made it possible for consumers to enjoy a wide variety of products at affordable prices. However, such mass production methods have not successfully found their way 

 into the construction industry on any significant scale. In this respect, billions of dollars have been spent by the construction industry in an attempt to adopt mass production methods to produce housing at more affordable prices. However, such efforts have generally fallen short due to the previously described dimensional instability of the wooden components typically utilized in construction, as well as the requirement of utilizing skilled labor, to build the structures. In recent years, some advancements have been introduced to wood construction through the use of reconstituting wood-based products with enhanced strength and dimensional stability. Other advancements in construction techniques have included the gradual conversion to steel, aluminum, plastic and other more stable building materials. Additionally, a number of attempts have been made to develop building wall structures which integrate framing and wall panels to form a composite wall. Certain ones of these prior art wall structures comprise an assembly of wall panels or wall bricks having hollow passages which form a series of interlocking
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An improved building system including a dimensionally stable, monolithic wall structure, said wall structure comprising: an elongate track adapted to rest on and be secured to a horizontal foundation means; a plurality of elongate, vertical posts of predetermined lengths having top ends and bottom ends, said bottom ends being securable at predetermined locations along the length of said track; at least one elongate, horizontal header beam securable to the top ends of said posts; and a plurality of pre-fabricated wall sections, each of said wall sections being disposed between a pair of adjacent posts and including first and second vertical edge portions which abut the posts of the post pair; the abutment of said first and second vertical edge portions against the posts of the post pair being operable to produce a synergistic effect by utilizing the compressive, tensile and shear force properties of said posts and said wall sections, thus forming a monolithic wall structure.
2. The device of Claim l wherein said track has a generally U-shaped configuration defining a bottom wall adapted to rest on and be secured to said foundation means and opposing sidewalls extending upwardly from said bottom wall.
3. The device of Claim 2 wherein said bottom wall of said track includes a plurality of pre-formed, linearly aligned bottom wall apertures disposed therein at said predetermined locations along the track for receiving a fastener to secure said track to said foundation means.
4. The device of Claim 3 wherein said track further comprises a plurality of flanges extending perpendicularly upward from said bottom wall, each of said flanges 


 including a plurality of pre-formed flange apertures disposed therein which are oriented so as to be in registry with pre-formed lower post apertures disposed in the bottom ends of each of said posts to receive fasteners to secure said posts to said track.
5. The device of Claim 4 wherein said track is fabricated from sheet metal.
6. The device of Claim 3 further including a plurality of track brackets attachable to said bottom wall of said track, each of said track brackets comprising: a lower flange portion having a pre-formed lower aperture extending therethrough and a pair of registry tabs formed thereon, said bottom wall further including pairs of locator apertures disposed therein adjacent each of said bottom wall apertures for receiving said pair of registry tabs, said lower aperture being coaxially aligned with a respective one of said bottom wall apertures when said registry tabs are received into the corresponding locator apertures, said coaxially aligned lower and bottom apertures being adapted to receive a fastener to simultaneously secure said track bracket to said bottom wall and said track to said foundation means; and an upper flange portion extending perpendicularly upward from said bottom wall, said upper flange portion including a plurality of pre-formed upper flange apertures disposed therein and oriented so as to be in registry with pre-formed lower post apertures disposed in the bottom ends of each of said posts to receive fasteners to secure said post to said upper flange portion of said track bracket.
7. The device of Claim 6 wherein said track is fabricated from an extruded rigid polymer.
8. The device of Claim 7 wherein said bottom wall of said track further includes a plurality of longitudinally 


extending projections formed thereon for forming a moisture tight seal and thermal barrier against said foundation means when said track is secured thereto.
9. The device of Claim 8 wherein said track brackets are fabricated from metal.
10. The device of Claim 3 wherein the opposing sidewalls of said track include pairs of V-shaped notches disposed therein for placing a drilling jig in vertical registry with said bottom wall apertures. 11. The device of Claim 3 wherein the bottom ends of said posts include recesses disposed therein to receive portions of the fasteners used to secure the track to the foundation means.
12. The device of Claim 3 wherein said at least one horizontal header beam comprises a lower header attached to the top ends of said posts and an upper header attached to said lower header.
13. The device of Claim 12 wherein each of said posts is attached to said lower header via a pair of header brackets, each of said header brackets comprising; a vertical flange portion including a pair of pre-formed vertical flange apertures disposed therein which are oriented so as to be in registry with pre¬ formed upper post apertures disposed in the top ends of each of said posts, said vertical flange apertures of the header bracket pair and said upper post apertures being adapted to receive fasteners to secure said header bracket pair to the top end of said post; and a horizontal flange portion including a pair of pre-formed horizontal flange apertures disposed therein which are oriented so as to be in registry with pre-formed lower header apertures to receive fasteners to secure said header bracket pair to said lower header. 



 14. The device of Claim 13 wherein each horizontal flange portion of said pair of header brackets and said lower header further include apertures in registry with each other and with a pair of pre-formed upper header apertures to receive fasteners to secure said upper header to said lower header.
15. The device of Claim 12 wherein each of said pre¬ fabricated wall sections comprises: a vertical tongue formed along said first vertical edge; a vertical slot formed within said second vertical edge; a lower edge having a pair of parallel grooves formed therein for receiving the opposing side walls of said track; and an upper edge having a horizontal slot formed therein for receiving a portion of said lower header; each of said wall sections being disposed between a pair of adjacent posts such that the vertical tongue abuts one of the posts of the post pair and said vertical slot receives and encapsulates the other post of the post pair and the vertical tongue of an adjoining wall section.
16. The device of Claim 15 wherein each of said wall sections is fabricated from polystyrene foam.
17. The device of Claim 16 wherein the vertical tongues and vertical slots of each of said wall sections include a vertical groove formed therein for receiving foam to form an expanded foam seal between the vertical tongue and one post of the post pair and the vertical slot and the other post of the post pair to form a monolithic wall structure.
18. The device of Claim 3 wherein each of said posts include a plurality of linearly aligned ap'ertures disposed 


 along the length thereof for interfacing said posts to pairs of window brackets.
19. The device of Claim 1 wherein said building system further comprises: a plurality of elongate floor joists attached to said foundation means and extending in parallel relation; and a plurality of pre-fabricated floor sections, each of said floor sections being disposed between a pair of adjacent joists and including first and second horizontal edge portions which abut the joists of the joist pair; the abutment of said first and second horizontal edge portions against the joists of the joist pair being operable to produce a synergistic effect by utilizing the compressive, tensile and shear force properties of said joists and said floor sections thus forming a monolithic floor structure.
20. The device of Claim 19 wherein each of said floor joists is configured as an I-beam and comprises elongate upper and lower flanges having a web member extending perpendicularly therebetween.
21. The device of Claim 20 wherein the first and second horizontal edge portions of each of said floor sections includes a plurality of longitudinally extending channels formed therein for receiving foam to form expanded foam seals between said first and second horizontal edge portions and the joists of said joist pair.
22. The device of Claim 21 wherein said floor joists are fabricated from wood and said floor sections are fabricated from polystyrene foam.
23. The device of Claim 1 wherein said building system further comprises: a plurality of ceiling trusts attached to said header beam and extending in parallel relation; and 


 a plurality of pre-fabricated ceiling sections, each of said ceiling sections being disposed between a pair of adjacent ceiling trusts and including first and second angled edge portions which abut the trusts of the trust pair; the abutment of said first and second angled edge portions against the trusts of the trust pair being operable to produce a synergistic effect by utilizing the compressive, tensile and shear force properties of said trusts and said ceiling sections thus forming a monolithic ceiling structure.
24. The device of Claim 23 wherein each of said ceiling trusts is configured as an I-beam and comprises upper and lower elongate flanges having a web member extending perpendicularly therebetween.
25. The device of Claim 24 wherein said ceiling trusts are fabricated from wood and said ceiling sections are fabricated from polystyrene foam.
26. The device of Claim 1 wherein said posts and said at least one header beam are fabricated from wood.
27. A method of forming a monolithic wall structure from a post and beam frame and interlocking foam wall sections wherein a synergistic effect is achieved utilizing the compressive, tensile and shear force properties of the frame and wall sections, comprising the steps of: securing an elongate track to a horizontal foundation means; securing the bottom end of a first elongate, vertical post to the track at a predetermined location thereon via a first pre-fabricated registration means; disposing a first pre-fabricated wall section upon said track in a manner wherein a vertical slot formed within a first vertical edge of the first wall 

•
bi¬ section is abutted against and encapsulates said first post; securing the bottom end of a second post to the track at a predetermined location thereon via said first registration means in a manner wherein said second post is abutted against a vertical tongue formed along a second vertical edge of said first wall section; disposing a second wall section upon said track in a manner wherein a vertical slot formed within a first vertical edge of the second wall section receives and encapsulates the second post and the vertical tongue of the first wall section; and securing at least one elongate, horizontal header beam to the top ends of the posts via a second pre¬ fabricated registration means.
28. The method of Claim 27 further comprising the step of injecting foam into vertical grooves formed in the vertical tongue of said first wall section and vertical slots of each wall section to form expanded foam seals between the vertical tongue and the second post and the vertical slots and the first and second posts.
29. The method of Claim 27 wherein the first vertical post is plumbed with the second and other posts being subsequently plumbed due to the dimensional stability of the first and second registration means.
30. The method of Claim 27 wherein said wall structure is adapted to be assembled utilizing solely self- tapping screws and a drill bit. 31. The method of Claim 27 further comprising the step of enplacing a plumbing manifold and electrical system into said wall sections without cutting through said posts and said header beam.
32. The method of Claim 31 further comprising the step of using a foam chase. 


 33. The method of Claim 27 further comprising the step of forming a monolithic floor structure utilizing a floor frame and pre-fabricated foam floor sections wherein a synergistic effect is achieved utilizing the compressive, tensile and shear force properties of the floor frame and floor sections.
34. The method of Claim 33 wherein the formation of the floor structure comprises the steps of: attaching a first floor joist to said foundation means; abutting a first horizontal edge portion of a first pre-fabricated floor section against the first joist; and attaching a second floor joist to the foundation means in a manner wherein a second horizontal edge portion of the first floor section abuts the second joist.
35. The method of Claim 34 further comprising the step of injecting foam into longitudinally extending channels formed in the first and second horizontal edge portions of said first floor section to form expanded foam seals between the first and second horizontal edge portions and the first and second joists.
36. The method of Claim 27 further comprising the step of forming a monolithic ceiling structure utilizing a ceiling frame and pre-fabricated foam ceiling panels wherein a synergistic effect is achieved utilizing the compressive, tensile and shear force properties of the ceiling frame and ceiling panels. 37. The method of Claim 36 wherein the formation of the ceiling structure comprises the steps of: attaching a first ceiling trust to said header beam; 


 adhesively securing a first angled edge portion of a first pre-fabricated ceiling section to the first ceiling trust; and attaching a second ceiling trust to the header beam and adhesively securing the second trust to a second angled edge portion of the first ceiling section.
38. The method of Claim 27 further comprising the step of applying a layer of finishing material to the inner and outer surfaces of the wall sections.
39. The method of Claim 38 wherein the finishing material is selected from the group consisting of: dry wall; plywood; and fiberboard.
40. The method of Claim 38 wherein the layer of finishing material is applied to the inner and outer surfaces of the wall panels via the attachment thereof to said header beam. 41. The method of Claim 38 wherein the layer of finishing material is applied to the inner and outer surfaces of the wall panels via an adhesive.
42. The method of Claim 38 further comprising the step of applying a layer of netting material to the outer surfaces of the wall sections and subsequently applying a layer of stucco to the layer of netting material.
43. The method of Claim 34 further comprising the step of attaching a layer of plywood to the floor joists.
44. The method of Claim 37 further comprising the step of applying a layer of sheathing to the ceiling trusts and subsequently applying roofing to the layer of sheathing.
45. The method of Claim 27 further comprising the step of: 


 extending a sill member horizontally between a pair of posts and attaching the sill member to each post of the post pair via a first pair of window brackets; and extending a jam member horizontally between the pair of posts in an orientation above said sill member and attaching the jam member to the posts via a second pair of window brackets; said adjacent posts, said sill member and said jam member forming a window in said wall structure.
46. The method of Claim 45 further comprising the step of cutting selected ones of said wall sections in a manner wherein said wall sections do not obstruct the window formed by said adjacent posts, said sill member and said jam member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
