<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650182</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Plasma etch reactors and methods of operating thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23F400	C23F400	H01J3732	H01J3732	H01L2102	H01L21302	H01L213065	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23F	C23F	H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23F4	C23F4	H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a method of operating a 
plasma etch ractor, consisting of introducing a gas into 

the reactor (10) which disassociates as a plasma into an 
etch species which etches oxide films on a work piece in 

the reactor and a non-etching species combinable with 
the etch species into an etch-preventing polymer 

condensable onto the work piece below a characteristic 
deposition temperature, providing an interior wall (20) 

comprising a material which scavenges the etching 
species, and maintaining a temperature of the interior 

wall above the deposition temperature. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIGHT NICOLAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROECHEL DAVID W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARKS JEFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICE MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIGHT, NICOLAS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROECHEL, DAVID W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARKS, JEFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICE, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is related to RF plasma etch reactors 
capable of high selectivity between etching of oxide 
films (such as silicon dioxide) and non-oxide surfaces 
(such as polysilicon or silicon nitride films). European Patent Document No. 0,520,519 A1 discloses 
a novel inductively coupled plasma etch reactor for 
etching thin films formed on a silicon wafer using an RF 
plasma etch process, the disclosure of which is 
incorporated herein by reference. Such a reactor can be 
used to selectively etch silicon dioxide over non-oxide 
(e.g., silicon nitride) films on the wafer. 
Specifically, a carbon-fluorine gas such as C₂F₆ is 
excited sufficiently to generate a plasma within the 
reactor chamber, producing ions and free radicals 
including F and CF₃, for example. The F radicals etch 
any silicon dioxide film on the wafer, while carbon and 
fluorine atoms or ions in the plasma combine on the wafer 
surface to form a polymer. The polymer disassociates 
when formed on silicon dioxide surfaces due to the effect 
of oxygen freed from the silicon dioxide film during the 
etch process, and due to effect of fluorine in the 
plasma. However, when formed on a non-oxide film (e.g., 
silicon nitride), the polymer accumulates due to the lack 
of oxygen in the underlying non-oxide film, this 
formation inhibiting etching of the underlying non-oxide 
film, thereby providing a pronounced etch selectivity of 
the oxide film over the non-oxide film. This selectivity 
is of great advantage when etching vias through a silicon 
dioxide layer overlying a non-oxide layer (e.g., 
polysilicon) which is not to be etched. The selectivity 
is limited if the polymer formed over the polysilicon  
 
layer contains more than 40% fluorine by weight, because 
such polymers are susceptible to being attacked by 
fluorine in the plasma, and therefore provide only 
limited protection to the underlying polysilicon layer. U.S. Patent application Serial No. 07/941,501 filed 
September 8, 1992 by Marks et al. entitled "Selectivity 
for Etching an Oxide Over a Nitride" discloses how to use 
an inductively coupled plasma reactor of the type 
disclosed in the above-referenced European Patent 
Document to form a carbon polymer film having less than 
40% fluorine over a non-oxide (i.e., silicon nitride) 
film. This improvement is realized by increasing the 
proportion of carbon in the plasma relative to fluorine, 
and is accomplished by introducing a fluorine scavenger 
into the plasma. One such scavenger is silane gas, for 
example. The silicon in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of operating a plasma etch reactor, 
comprising: 

   introducing a gas into said reactor which 
disassociates as a plasma into an etch species which 

etches oxide films on a work piece in the reactor and a 
non-etching species combinable with the etch species into 

an etch-preventing polymer condensable onto the work 
piece below a characteristic deposition temperature; 

   providing an interior wall comprising a 
material which scavenges said etching species; 

   maintaining a temperature of said interior wall 
above said deposition temperature. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said maintaining 
step comprises: 

   providing a heating element near said interior 
wall; 

   applying sufficient power to said heating 
element so as to maintain the temperature of said 

interior wall above said deposition temperature by a 
predetermined difference; and 

   refraining from applying power to said heating 
element whenever a plasma is ignited in said reactor. 
The method of Claim 2 wherein said sufficient 
power is a function of a difference between a temperature 

measured on a portion of said reactor near said interior 
wall and a temperature predetermined for that portion. 
The method of Claim 3 wherein said portion is 
an outer surface of said reactor adjacent said interior 

wall. 
The method of Claim 2 wherein said reactor 
further comprises an article within said reactor 

containing a material which scavenges said etching 
 

species, said method further comprising: 
   maintaining a temperature of said article at a 

temperature corresponding to a desired content ratio of 
said non-etching species and said etching species in said 

plasma. 
The method of Claim 5 wherein said desired 
content ratio in said plasma corresponds to a content 

ratio of said non-etching species in said polymer at 
which said polymer is impervious to attack by said 

etching species in said plasma. 
The method of Claim 6 wherein said etching 
species comprises fluorine and said non-etching species 

comprises carbon and wherein said gas comprises a carbonfluorine 
gas. 
The method of Claim 7 wherein said interior 
wall comprises quartz and said scavenging article 

comprises silicon. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said reactor 
comprises an inductively coupled reactor having a 

cylindrical helical RF antenna surrounding a chamber of 
said reactor, and wherein said interior wall comprises a 

cylindrical quartz side wall supporting said antenna. 
The method of Claim 5 wherein said step of 
maintaining the temperature of said interior wall further 

comprises: 
   providing a cooling element in said reactor; 

   providing a cooling thermal path between said 
interior wall and said cooling element having a first 

heat flow rate greater than a heat flow rate from said 
plasma to said interior wall; and 

   providing a heating thermal path between said 
interior wall and said heating element having a heat flow 

 
rate greater than said first heat flow rate. 
The method of Claim 10 wherein the step of 
providing a cooling thermal path comprises setting a heat 

flow rate of said cooling thermal path by placing a first 
thermally resistant element in said cooling thermal path. 
The method of Claim 11 wherein said,first 
thermally resistant element comprises polyamide material. 
The method of Claim 11 wherein the step of 
providing a heating thermal path comprises setting a heat 

flow rate of said heating thermal path by placing an 
other second thermally resistant element in said heating 

thermal path. 
The method of Claim 13 wherein said other 
thermally resistant element comprises a thin air gap. 
The method of Claim 13 wherein the step of 
maintaining the temperature of said article comprises: 

   providing an article heating element having an 
article heating thermal path to said article; and 

   providing an article cooling path between said 
article and said cooling element. 
The method of Claim 15 wherein the step of 
providing said article heating element comprises setting 

a heat flow rate of said article heating thermal path by 
providing a heat flow resistant element in said article 

heating path. 
The method of Claim 16 wherein said. heat flow 
resistant element in said article heating path comprises 

a thin air gap. 
A plasma etch reactor having a vacuum chamber 
 

into which a gas is introduced which disassociates as a 
plasma into an etch species which etches oxide films on a 

work piece in the reactor and a non-etching species 
combinable with the etch species into an etch-preventing 

polymer condensable onto the work piece below a 

characteristic deposition temperature, said reactor 
comprising: 

   an interior wall of said chamber, said interior 
wall comprising a material which scavenges said etching 

species; and 
   means for maintaining a temperature of said 

interior wall above said deposition temperature. 
The reactor of Claim 18 wherein said means for 
maintaining said temperature comprises: 

   a heating element near said interior wall; 
   control means for applying sufficient power to 

said heating element so as to maintain the temperature of 
said interior wall above said deposition temperature by a 

predetermined difference. 
The reactor of Claim 19 further comprising: 
   means for signaling said means for applying to 

stop whenever a plasma is ignited in said reactor. 
The reactor of Claim 19 wherein said control 
means comprises: 

   sensor means for sensing a temperature of a 
portion of said reactor near said interior wall; and 

   means for determining said sufficient power 
proportional to a difference between the temperature 

sensed by said sensor means and a temperature 
predetermined for that portion. 
The reactor of Claim 21 wherein said portion is 
an outer surface of said reactor adjacent said interior 

wall. 
The reactor of Claim 19 further comprising: 
   an article comprising a ceiling of a chamber of 

said reactor containing a material which scavenges said 
etching species; and 

   control means for maintaining a temperature of 
said article at a temperature corresponding to a desired 

content ratio of said non-etching species and said 
etching species in said plasma. 
The reactor of Claim 23 wherein said desired 
content ratio in said plasma corresponds to a content 

ratio of said non-etching species in said polymer at 
which said polymer is impervious to attack by said 

etching species in said plasma. 
The reactor of Claim 24 wherein said etching 
species comprises fluorine and said non-etching species 

comprises carbon and wherein said gas comprises a carbonfluorine 
gas. 
The reactor of Claim 25 wherein said interior 
wall comprises quartz and said scavenging article 

comprises silicon. 
The reactor of Claim 18 wherein said reactor 
comprises an inductively coupled reactor having a 

cylindrical helical RF antenna surrounding a chamber of 
said reactor, and wherein said interior wall comprises a 

cylindrical quartz side wall supporting said antenna. 
The reactor of Claim 27 wherein said heating 
element comprises a circular heating wire near and 

surrounding said cylindrical quartz side wall. 
The reactor of Claim 23 wherein said means for 
maintaining the temperature of said interior wall further 

 
comprises: 

   a cooling element overlying said ceiling; 
   a cooling thermal path between said interior 

wall and said cooling element having a first heat flow 
rate greater than a heat flow rate from said plasma to 

said interior wall; and 
   a heating thermal path between said interior 

wall and said heating element having a heat flow rate 
greater than said first heat flow rate. 
The reactor of Claim 29 further comprising a 
first thermally resistant element in said cooling thermal 

path. 
The reactor of Claim 30 wherein said first 
thermally resistant element comprises polyamide material. 
The reactor of Claim 30 further comprising an 
other thermally resistant element in said heating thermal 

path. 
The reactor of Claim 32 wherein said other 
thermally resistant element comprises a thin air gap. 
The reactor of Claim 32 wherein said means for 
controlling the temperature of said article comprises: 

   an article cooling path between said article 
and said cooling element having a heat flow rate greater 

than the rate of heat flow from said plasma to said 
article; and 

   an article heating element having an article 
heating thermal path to said article with a heat flow 

rate greater than that of said article cooling path. 
The reactor of Claim 34 further comprising a 
heat flow resistant element in said article heating path. 
The reactor of Claim 35 wherein said heat flow 
resistant element in said article heating path comprises 

a thin air gap. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
