<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658883</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical scanning device, and recording and/or read apparatus comprising such a scanning device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2610	G02B2610	G02B2612	G02B2612	G11B700	G11B700	G11B7003	G11B70045	G11B7085	G11B7085	G11B709	G11B709	G11B1100	G11B1110	G11B11105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B26	G02B26	G02B26	G02B26	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B11	G11B11	G11B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A scanning device has an optical scanning system (1, 5, 6, 7) for 
repeatedly scanning a recording surface of a record carrier (9) in the form of a tape by 

means of a first (3) and a second (2) radiation beam. The first (3) and the second (2) 
radiation beam form a first (11) and a second (12) scanning spot on the recording 

surface of the record carrier (9). The scanning spots (11, 12) perform synchronous 
movements along a first (16) and a second (18) scanning path having different given 

scanning directions, as a result of which the distance, viewed in a direction y transverse 
to the scanning paths (16 and 19), between the first (11) and the second (12) scanning 

spot changes during scanning. 
The scanning device can be used in an optical recording and/or read 
apparatus. The recording and/or read apparatus further comprises a transport roller (14) 

for moving the record carrier tape (9) in the direction (y) transverse to the tracks. A 
detection system (70) converts radiation emanating from the second scanning spot (12) 

into a corresponding detection signal (S1). A measurement circuit (72) derives a 
position measurement signal (Sp) based on a deviation in a relationship between the 

detection signal (S1) and a reference signal (S3) which is indicative of the position of 
the first scanning 
spot (11) on the first scanning path (16). The detection signal can 
further be used for deriving a speed measurement signal (Sv) which is indicative of the 

speed of the scanning spot in the direction (y) transverse to the scanning path (16) and 
for deriving a quality measurement signal (Sa) which is indicative of the quality of an 

information pattern at the location of tracks (75) traversed by the scanning spot (12). 
If during reading a third scanning spot (4) produces a third scanning spot 
(13) in such a manner that the second (12) and the third (13) scanning spot are always 

disposed symmetrically relative to the first scanning spot (11) the corresponding 
detection signals (S1, S2) can be used for deriving an inclination measurement signal 

(Ss). This inclination measurement signal (Ss) is indicative of the angle between the 
tracks (75) on the recording surface and the scanning path (16). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAHLMAN JOSEPHUS A H M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSMALEN GERARD E VAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAHLMAN, JOSEPHUS ARNOLDUS HENRICUS MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN ROSMALEN, GERARD EDUARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a scanning device having an optical scanning 
system comprising means for repeatedly scanning a scanning surface of a record carrier 
by means of a first and a second scanning beam, the first and the second scanning beam 
forming a first and a second scanning spot on the scanning surface, which scanning 
spots move synchronously over the record carrier along a first and a second scanning 
path, respectively. The invention further relates to a recording and/or read apparatus 
comprising such a scanning device. Such devices are known from US-4,901,297. By means of the scanning 
device disclosed therein the recording surface of a magneto-optical record carrier in the 
form of a tape, which surface corresponds to the scanning surface, is scanned by two 
scanning spots in a direction transverse to the longitudinal direction of the record-carrier 
tape. In order to realise this scanning two parallel laser beams are projected onto the 
record carrier via facets of a rotating polygonal mirror. The scanning spots then formed 
on the recording surface by the two laser beams describe parallel scanning paths. The 
tape is moved in the longitudinal direction so that the recording surface is scanned along 
parallel scanning paths which are such that the path scanned by the first scanning spot is 
scanned by the second scanning spot during the next scan. The recording surface is 
erased during scanning by the firstly scanning spot. Subsequently, information is 
recorded in this erased part of the recording surface during scanning by the second 
scanning spot. This results in a track pattern of parallel information tracks whose track 
directions extend transversely of the longitudinal direction of the tape. During recording the track pitch (distance between the centres of two 
adjacent tracks) is not controlled. As a result of inevitable variations in parameters 
which influence the track pitch, for example variations in tape transport speed, the track 
pitch of the resulting track pattern will vary. Therefore, it is desirable that during 
recording information about the track pitch is available for the purpose of track pitch 
monitoring and/or control.  It is an object of the invention to provide a device which enables track-pitch 
information to be derived from radiation emanating from a scanning spot. To this end a scanning device of the type defined in the opening 
paragraph is characterised in that the device comprises means for bringing about a 
movement of the second scanning spot
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A scanning device having an optical scanning system comprising means 
for repeatedly scanning a scanning surface of a record carrier by means of a first and a 

second scanning beam, the first and the second scanning beam forming a first and a 
second scanning spot on the scanning surface, which scanning spots move 

synchronously over the record carrier along a first and a second scanning path, 
respectively, characterised in that the device comprises means for bringing about a 

movement of the second scanning spot relative to the first scanning spot in a direction 
transverse to the direction of the first scanning spot, the position of the second scanning 

spot with respect to the first scanning spot being related to the position of the first 
scanning spot on the first scanning path. 
A device as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that the means for 
bringing about the movement comprise a deflection means which is rotatable about an 

axis of rotation and has a reflecting surface, via which surface the first and the second 
radiation beam are directed to the record carrier, the central axis of the second radiation 

beam, at the location where this beam impinges on the reflecting surface, not being 
disposed in a plane perpendicular to the axis of rotation, and the central axis of the first 

radiation beam, at the location where this beam impinges on the reflecting surface, not 
being parallel to said central axis of the second radiation beam. 
A device as claimed in Claim 2, characterised in that the deflection means 
comprise a polygonal mirror which is rotatable about an axis of rotation and has 

reflecting facets, the reflecting surface being formed by a facet defined by the position 
of the polygonal mirror. 
A device as claimed in Claim 3, characterised in that the facets of the 
polygonal mirror extend obliquely relative to the axis of rotation. 
A device as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims, characterised in 
that the device comprises means for directing a third radiation beam to the scanning 

surface so as to form a third scanning spot on the scanning surface. 
A device as claimed in Claim 5, characterised in that the second and the 
third scanning spot are situated symmetrically relative to the first scanning spot. 
An optical read and/or write apparatus including a scanning device as 
claimed in Claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6, for reading and/or writing information from and/or 

in tracks of a recording surface corresponding to the scanning surface, which tracks 
have directions substantially corresponding to the direction of the scanning path 

followed by the first scanning spot, which apparatus further comprises means for 
bringing about a movement of the recording surface relative to the optical system in
 a 
given direction of movement, a detection system for converting radiation emanating 

from the second scanning spot into a corresponding detection signal, and means for 
deriving a position measurement signal on the basis of a deviation in a relationship 

between the detection signal and a reference signal which is indicative of the position of 
the first scanning spot on the first scanning path. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 7, characterised in that the means for 
deriving the position measurement signal comprise shift detection means for determining 

a shift of the detection signal relative to the reference signal. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, characterised in that the shift 
detection means comprise a phase detector for detecting a phase shift between the 

detection signal and the reference signal. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, characterised in that the shift 
detection means comprise a detector for detecting a time shift between the detection 

signal and the reference signal. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 7, 8, 9 or 10, characterised in that the 
apparatus includes means for deriving from the detection signal a speed measurement 

signal which is related to the period of the detection signal. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or 11, characterised in 
that the apparatus includes means for deriving from the detection signal a quality 

measurement signal which is indicative of a quality of the tracks traversed by the second 
scanning spot. 
An optical read and/or write apparatus including a scanning device as 
claimed in Claim 5 or 6, for reading and/or writing information from and/or in tracks 

of a recording surface corresponding to the scanning surface, which tracks have 
directions substantially corresponding to the direction of the scanning path followed by 

 
the first scanning spot, which apparatus further comprises a first detection system for 

converting radiation emanating from the second scanning spot into a corresponding 
detection signal, a second detection system for converting radiation emanating from the 

third scanning spot into a corresponding detection signal, and means for deriving a 
position measurement signal on the basis of a deviation of the first and/or the second 

detection signal. 
An optical read and/or write apparatus including a scanning device as 
claimed in Claim 5 or 6, for reading and/or writing information from and/or in tracks 

of a recording surface corresponding to the scanning surface, which tracks have 
directions substantially corresponding to the direction of the scanning path followed by 

the first scanning spot, which apparatus further comprises a first detection system for 
converting radiation emanating from the second scanning spot into a corresponding first 

detection signal, means for determining a first deviation in a relationship between the 
first detection signal and a reference signal which is indicative of the position of the 

first scanning spot on the first scanning path, a second detection system for converting 
radiation emanating from the third scanning spot into a corresponding second detection 

signal, means for determining a second deviation in a relationship between the second 
detection signal and the reference signal, and means for deriving from the first and the 

second detection signal an inclination measurement signal on the basis of a combination 
of the first and the second deviation. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 14, characterised in that the means for 
deriving the first and the second deviation comprise first and second shift detection 

means for determining shifts between, on the one hand, the first and the second 
detection signal and, on the other hand, the reference signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
