<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615663</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH FREQUENCY PATCH CORD DATA CONNECTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R903	H01R903	H01R1200	H01R1216	H01R1370	H01R13703	H05K102	H05K102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R9	H01R9	H01R12	H01R12	H01R13	H01R13	H05K1	H05K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTA SYSTEMS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTA SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARNEY WILLIAM VINCENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARNEY, WILLIAM, VINCENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLEHIGH FREQUENCY PATCH CORD DATA CONNECTORBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates to electrical connectors for high frequency environments and more particularly it concerns novel patch cord type connectors for use in multiple access wiring systems for computer networks.Description of the Prior ArtIt is known to provide computer systems with a plurality of separate but mutually interconnected terminals or work stations. In fact, many buildings are now wired with computer lines leading to several locations so that computer work stations may be connected to each other and to centralized computer facilities according to the particular needs of the occupants. As the occupants or their needs change, it is often necessary to rearrange the organization of the wiring between the computer work stations and the centralized computer facilities. This is done by means 

 of patch cords which interconnect connector blocks located in a wiring closet in the building.For economy of space, particularly since it is often necessary for very large numbers of computer terminals to be accommodated to many different systems and configurations, the patch cord connections must be arranged very close to each other. This close spacing of patch connectors has raised problems because computer systems operate at very high frequencies and the signals from one set of connectors may interfere with and degrade the quality of the signals on an adjacent set of connectors. This problem, sometimes referred to as "cross talk", becomes more severe as the connectors are positioned closer to each other.United States patent application No. 07/719,939, filed June 24, 1991, and assigned to he assignee of the present invention, "discloses novel connector blocks which maintain closely spaced wiring terminals for selective interconnection. Each pair of terminals in these connector blocks is formed with spring fingers which are normally in contact but are spread apart when a circuit board is inserted between them. The block itself, which is made of molded plastic, is provided with internal electrically conductive shields. These shields are arranged in the block to provide electromagnetic isolation between groups of terminals and associated spring fingers.A need for further electromagnetic isolation arises when the connector block is used as a patching device. In that case the circuit boards inserted between the spring fingers are provided with patching cables which in turn connect the spring fingers to computer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A patch cable and connector assembly for making a patch connection into a high wiring density connector 
'
 block having separable spring finger contacts, said assembly comprising a cable containing transmit and receive signal conductors, a circuit board insert attached to one end of said cable, first and second electrically conductive circuit segments on said circuit board insert and connected, respectively, to said transmit and receive signal conductors and an electrically conductive shield interposed between said transmit and receive circuit segments on said insert to isolate said segments from each other whereby mutual signal interference and crosstalk between said segments at high signal frequencies is substantially reduced. -
2. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 1 wherein said electrically conductive- shield occupies at least the projected area between said transmit and receive segments.
3. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 1 wherein said electrically conductive shield is electrically connected to ground.
4. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 3 wherein said cable includes an electrically conductive ground sheath along its length and wherein said electrically conductive shield is connected to said ground sheath. 


 5. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim -1 wherein said transmit and receive signal conductors comprise a first pair of twisted together transmit signal conductors and a second pair of twisted together receive signal conductors.
6. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 1 wherein said circuit board insert is a laminate which includes an electrically conductive central layer and outer circuit board layers on opposite sides of said central layer, said central layer comprising said shield and said conductive segments being located on the outer surfaces of said circuit board layers.
7. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 6 wherein said circuit board insert has a cable connecting region at one end which is provided with spaced apart connections between each of said transmit and receive signal conductors and associated ones of said circuit segments.
8. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 6 wherein said central layer occupies substantially the entire lateral extent of said insert.
9. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 6 wherein said circuit board insert has a cable connecting region at one end which is provided with spaced apart connections between each of said transmit and receive signal conductors and associated ones of said circuit segments and between said ground sheath and said central layer. 


 10. A. patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 9 wherein said central layer is narrowed in said cable connecting region to avoid contact with the connections to said transmit and receive signal conductors.
11. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 5 wherein said transmit signal conductors are connected to the conductive segments on one side of said insert and said receive signal conductors are connected to the conductive segments on the other side of said insert.
12. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 11 wherein said cable includes an electrically conductive ground sheath along its length and wherein said electrically conductive layer is connected to said ground sheath.
13. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 6 wherein a further electrically conductive segment is formed on the outer surface of at least one of said circuit board layers for contact by a ground connected spring finger and wherein said further electrically conductive segment is electrically connected to said electrically conductive layer.
14. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 13 wherein said further electrically conductive segment is electrically connected to said electrically conductive layer via a plated through hole in said circuit board insert. 


 15. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 1 wherein said first and second circuit segments are formed on the same side of said circuit board insert and wherein said electrically conductive shield comprises at least one further electrically conductive circuit segment extending between said first and second segments.
16. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 15 wherein said insert includes further electrically conductive shields on the same side of said insert as said first and second segments but on the opposite sides of said segments from the first electrically conductive shield.
17.. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 15 wherein said electrically conductive shield is electrically connected to ground.
18. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 15 wherein said cable includes an electrically conductive ground sheath along its length and wherein said electrically conductive shield is connected to said ground sheath.
19. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 15 wherein said circuit board insert has a cable connecting region at one end which is provided with spaced apart connections between each of said transmit and receive signal conductors and associated ones of said circuit segments.
20. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 15 wherein said circuit board insert includes an electrically conductive ground segment on a side thereof opposite said circuit segments for contact by a ground connected spring finger. 


 21. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 20 wherein said electrically conductive ground segment is formed as a region of an electrically conductive layer on said insert.
22. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 21 wherein said electrically conductive layer is electrically connected to said further electrically conductive segment via a plated through hole in said insert.
23. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 22 wherein said cable includes an electrically conductive ground sheath along its length and wherein said electrically conductive layer is electrically connected to said ground sheath via a connection at said cable connecting region.
24. A -patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 22 wherein further electrically conductive shields are provided on the same side of said insert as said first and second segments but on opposite sides of said segments from said first electrically conductive shield and wherein said further electrically conductive shields are connected to said electrically conductive ground layer.
25. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 15 wherein said cable includes a pair of transmit lines and a pair of receive lines and wherein said circuit segments formed on the same side of said circuit board insert include a pair of transmit segments and a pair of receive segments. 


 26. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 25 wherein said circuit board insert is formed with a pair of tongues, with said transmit segments extending along one tongue and said receive segments extending along the other tongue.
27. A patch cable and connector assembly according to claim 26 wherein said electrically conductive shield includes two portions which extend, respectively, along each of said tongues.
28. A patch cable and connector assembly for making a patch connection into a high wiring density connector block having ground connected spring finger contacts, said assembly comprising a cable which includes transmit and receive signal conductors for contacting associated conductors in a patch connector block, a ground sheath surrounding said signal conductors, a circuit board insert, said circuit board insert having a ground segment thereon for contacting a grounded spring finger in said patch connector block and said ground segment being connected to said ground sheath.
29. A patch connector block and cable assembly comprising a patch connector block having pairs of normally contacting spring finger signal contacts arranged therein and openings in said block for admission of circuit board inserts to said spring finger signal contacts, said block further having pairs of spring finger ground contacts located between said signal contacts and said openings, a cable which includes transmit and receive signal conductors, each conductor being connected to one of said spring finger signal contacts, a ground sheath surrounding said signal conductors of said cable and a circuit board insert, said circuit board insert having a ground segment thereon for contacting one of said spring 


finger ground contacts, said ground segment being connected to said ground sheath, the length of said insert being sufficient to extend from one of said openings to the associated spring finger ground contacts but not sufficient to extend to said spring finger signal contacts. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
