<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651183</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vehicle transmission having manually shifted lower gears and automatically shifted higher gears.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H5904	F16H5904	F16H5970	F16H5970	F16H6100	F16H6100	F16H6102	F16H6102	F16H6128	F16H6128	F16H6300	F16H6308	F16H6320	F16H6330	F16H6330	F16H6336	F16H6344	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H59	F16H59	F16H59	F16H59	F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	F16H63	F16H63	F16H63	F16H63	F16H63	F16H63	F16H63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transmission includes a plurality of shift rails 
20, 21, 22, each of which is axially movable forwardly 

and rearwardly from a center neutral position to 
respective gear engaging positions. The lower shift 

rails 20, 21 are provided for manual shifting among the 
lower gear ratios of the transmission. The highest 

shift rail 22 is provided for selective manual or 
automatic shifting among the highest two gear ratios of 

the transmission. An idler rail 30 is disposed 
adjacent to the highest shift rail 22. For manual 

shifting, the idler rail 30 is connected to the highest 
shift rail 22, and a manually operable shift lever 14 

is used to move both the idler rail 30 and the highest 
shift rail 22. For automatic shifting, the idler rail 

30 is disconnected from the highest shift rail 22, and 
an automatic shift member 32 is moved into cooperation 

with the highest shift rail 22. Rotation of the 
automatic shift shaft 31 causes corresponding movement 

of the automatic shift member 32. An electronic 
controller 121 is provided for controlling the 

automatic shifting of the transmission in response to 
sensed operating conditions of the vehicle. A circuit 

is provided for sensing the rotational position of the 
automatic shift shaft 31 and for generating an 

electrical signal which is representative of the actual 
position thereof, which is also representative of the 

actual position of the highest shift rail 22, to the 
electronic controller. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAER KURT R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOEFFLER JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWAIGER DENNIS D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLFORD GEORGE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAER, KURT R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOEFFLER, JOHN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWAIGER, DENNIS D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLFORD, GEORGE A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates in general to vehicle 
transmissions and in particular to an improved transmission 
structure wherein the lower gear ratios are shifted 
manually and wherein the higher gear ratios can be shifted 
either manually or automatically as desired. In most vehicles, a transmission is provided in the 
drive train between the engine and the driven wheels. As 
is well known, the transmission includes a case containing 
an input shaft, an output shaft, and a plurality of meshing 
gears. Means are provided for connecting selected ones of 
the meshing gears between the input shaft and the output 
shaft to provide a desired speed reduction gear ratio 
therebetween. The meshing gears contained within the 
transmission case are of varying size so as to provide a 
plurality of such gear ratios. By appropriate selection of 
these gear ratios, acceleration and deceleration of the 
vehicle can be accomplished in a smooth and efficient 
manner. Many transmission structures are known in the art for 
performing this gear ratio selection manually, i.e., in 
response to some physical exertion by the vehicle driver. 
In a conventional manual transmission, the driver grasps 
and moves an upper portion of a pivotable shift lever. In 
response thereto, a lower portion of the shift lever is 
moved into selective engagement with one of a plurality of 
shift rails provided within the transmission. Thus, 
movement of the shift lever causes movement of the selected 
one of the shift rails. Movement of the selected shift 
rail causes certain ones of the meshing gears to be  
 
connected between the input shaft and the output shaft so 
as to provide the desired gear ratio therebetween. Many transmission structures are also known in the art 
for performing this gear ratio selection manually, i.e., 
without any physical exertion by the vehicle driver. In a 
conventional automatic transmission, the shift rails are 
typically replaced by a plurality of hydraulically or 
pneumatically actuated structures. In response to 
predetermined operating conditions, these structures cause 
certain ones of the meshing gears to be connected between 
the input shaft and the output shaft so as to provide the 
desired gear ratio therebetween. Although automatic 
transmissions offer the advantages of increased convenience 
of use and reduced fatigue for the driver, manual 
transmissions provide the advantages of decreased cost, 
increased torque capacity, and better fuel economy. 
Because of this, the majority of medium and heavy duty 
t
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transmission comprising: 
   an input shaft; 

   an output shaft; 
   a gear engaging mechanism selectively operable in 

a first condition, wherein said input shaft is not 
connected to said output shaft, and a second condition, 

wherein said input shaft is connected through said gear 
engaging mechanism to said output shaft; 

   a shift rail movable between a first shift rail 
position, wherein said gear engaging mechanism is 

operated in said first condition, and a second shift 
rail position, wherein said gear engaging mechanism is 

operated in said second condition; 
   an idler rail movable between a first idler rail 

position and a second idler rail position; 
   means for moving said idler rail between said 

first and second idler rail positions; and 
   means for selectively connecting said idler rail 

to said shift rail such that movement of said idler 
rail between said first and second idler rail positions 

causes movement of said shift rail between said first 
and second shift rail positions. 
The transmission defined in claim 1 wherein 
said means for selectively connecting includes a shift 

member which is movable between a first shift member 
position, wherein said shift member connects said idler 

rail to said shift rail, and a second shift member 
position, wherein said shift member does not connect 

said idler rail to said shift rail. 
The transmission defined in claim 2 wherein a 
portion of said shift member engages portions of both 

said idler rail and said shift rail when said shift 
member is in said first shift member position so as to 

connect said idler rail to said shift rail. 
The transmission defined in claim 3 wherein 
 

said idler rail has an idler rail notch formed therein 
and wherein said shift rail has a shift rail notch 

formed therein, said portion of said shift member 
cooperating with both said idler rail notch and said 

shift rail notch when said shift member is in said 
first shift member position so as to connect said idler 

rail to said shift rail. 
The transmission defined in any one of claims 
2 to 4 wherein said shift member is supported on a 

shaft for movement between said first and second shift 
member positions. 
The transmission defined in claim 5 wherein 
said shift member is supported on said shaft for 

rotational movement relative thereto. 
The transmission defined in claim 5 or 6 
wherein said shift member is supported on said shaft 

for axial movement relative thereto. 
The transmission defined in any one of claims 
2 to 7 further including means for moving said shift 

member between said first and second shift member 
positions. 
The transmission defined in claim 8 wherein 
said means for moving includes a first chamber, a first 

piston slidably disposed within said first chamber, and 
means for urging said first piston into engagement with 

said shift member so as to move said shift member from 
said first shift member position to said second shift 

member position. 
The transmission defined in claim 8 or 9 
wherein said means for moving further includes a second 

chamber, a second piston disposed within said second 
chamber for sliding movement, and means for urging said 

second piston into engagement with said shift member so 
as to move said shift member from said second shift 

member position to said first shift member position. 
The transmission defined in claim 9 or 10, 
 

wherein said means for urging said first and/or said 
second piston includes a source of pressurized fluid 

and means for selectively providing communication 
between said source of pressurized fluid and said first 

and/or second chamber, respectively. 
The transmission defined in any one of the 
preceding claims, further including means for moving 

said shift rail between said first and second shift 
rail positions when said idler rail is not connected to 

said shift rail. 
The transmission defined in claim 12 wherein 
said means for moving said shift rail includes a shift 

member which is movable between a first shift member 
position, wherein said shift member is connected to 

said shift rail, and a second shift member position, 
wherein said shift member is not connected to said 

shift rail. 
The transmission defined in claim 13 wherein 
said shift rail has a shift rail notch formed therein, 

said shift member cooperating with said shift rail 
notch when located in said first shift member position 

to connect it to said shift rail. 
The transmission defined in claim 13 or 14 
further including means for moving said shift member 

when located in said first shift member position so as 
to move said shift rail between said first and second 

shift rail positions. 
The transmission defined in claim 15 wherein 
said means for moving said shift member includes a 

shift shaft, means for selectively rotating said shift 
shaft, and means for connecting said shift member to 

said shift shaft for rotational movement therewith. 
The transmission defined in claim 16 wherein 
said means for connecting said shift member to said 

shift shaft for rotational movement therewith also 
permits said shift member to move axially relative to 

 
said shift shaft between said first and second shift 

member positions. 
The transmission defined in claim 16 or 17 
wherein said means for selectively rotating includes a 

tab extending outwardly from said shift shaft and means 
for moving said tab so as to cause rotational movement 

of said shift shaft. 
The transmission defined in claim 18 wherein 
said means for moving said tab includes a shift block 

having a recess formed therein which receives said tab 
and means for selectively moving said shift block so as 

to cause movement of said tab. 
The transmission defined in claim 19 wherein 
said means for selectively moving said shift block 

includes a first chamber, a first piston slidably 
disposed within said first chamber, and means for 

urging said first piston into engagement with said 
shift block so as to move said shift block in a first 

direction so as to cause movement of said tab in a 
first direction. 
The transmission defined in claim 20 wherein 
said means for moving further includes
 a second 
chamber, a second piston disposed within said second 

chamber for sliding movement, and means for urging said 
second piston into engagement with said shift block so 

as to move said shift block in a second direction so as 
to cause movement of said tab in a second direction. 
The transmission defined in claim 20 or 21 
wherein said means for urging said first and/or said 

second piston includes a source of pressurized fluid 
and means for selectively providing communication 

between said source of pressurized fluid and said first 
and/or said second chamber, respectively. 
The transmission defined in any one of the 
preceding claims, further including means for 

generating an electrical signal which is representative 
 

of the position of said idler rail. 
The transmission defined in claim 23 wherein 
said means for generating includes a shift member 

connected to said idler rail for movement therewith and 
means responsive to movement of said shift member for 

generating said electrical signal. 
The transmission defined in claim 24 wherein 
said means responsive to movement of said shift member 

includes at least one recess formed on said shift 
member and a sensor, the recess, or one of the 

recesses, being disposed adjacent to said senor when 
said idler rail is in said second idler rail position, 

said sensor being responsive to said recess for 
generating said electrical signal. 
The transmission defined in any one of the 
preceding claims, further including means for 

generating an electrical signal which is representative 
of the position of said shift rail. 
The transmission defined in claim 26 wherein 
said means for generating includes a shift shaft, means 

for selectively rotating said shift shaft, means for 
connecting said shift member to said shift shaft for 

rotational movement therewith, and means responsive to 
movement of said shift shaft for generating said 

electrical signal. 
The transmission defined in claim 27 wherein 
said means responsive to movement of said shift shaft 

includes at least one magnet connected for movement 
with said shift shaft and at least one sensor 

responsive to movement of said magnet or said magnets 
for generating said electrical signal. 
The transmission defined in claim 28 wherein 
there is a plurality of said magnets, having differing 

polarities. 
A transmission comprising: 
   an input shaft;

 
   an output shaft; 

   a gear engaging mechanism selectively operable in 
a first condition, wherein said input shaft is not 

connected to said output shaft, and a second condition, 
wherein said input shaft is connected through said gear 

engaging mechanism to said output shaft; 
   a shift rail movable between a first shift rail 

position, wherein said gear engaging mechanism is 
operated in said first condition, and a second shift 

rail position, wherein said gear engaging mechanism is 
operated in said second condition; 

   an idler rail movable between a first idler rail 
position and a second idler rail position; 

   a rotatable shift shaft; 
   an automatic shift member mounted on said shift 

shaft for rotation therewith and for axial movement 
relative thereto between first and second shift member 

positions, said automatic shift member being not 
engaged with said shift rail when located in said first 

shift member position and being engaged with said shift 
rail when located in said second shift member position; 

   a manual shift member mounted on said automatic 
shift member for axial movement therewith and for 

rotational movement relative thereto between said first 
and second shift member positions, said manual shift 

member being engaged with both said idler rail and said 
shift rail when located in said first shift member 

position and being engaged only with said shift rail 
when located in said second shift member position; 

   means for rotating said shift shaft when said 
automatic shift member and said manual shift member are 

located in said first shift member position so as to 
cause movement of said shift rail between said first 

and second shift rail positions; and 
   means for moving said idler rail between said 

first and second idler rail positions when said 
 

automatic shift member and said manual shift member are 
located in said second shift member position so as to 

cause movement of said shift rail between said first 
and second shift rail positions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
