<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614572</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MASS SPECTROMETRY METHOD USING TIME-VARYING FILTERED NOISE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J4934	H01J4942	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J49	H01J49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for performing mass analysis with dynamic mass resolution, in which a time-varying notch filtered broadband voltage signal (sometimes denoted as a time-varying "filtered noise" signal) is applied to a quadrupole mass filter (11-14). The time-varying filtered noise signal (22) can consist of a rapid sequence of static (time-invariant) filtered noise signals, each defining a notch having a selected width and center location. The invention facilitates performance of mass analysis over a wide range of ion mass-to-charge ratios ("mass ranges") with adequate mass resolution. By appropriately choosing the width of each notch in the applied time-varying filtered noise, mass analysis can be performed with substantially constant mass separation over a wide mass range. In order to maintain substantially constant mass separation while analyzing a selected consecutive or non-consecutive sequence of ions (by passing such sequence of ions through the mass filter), the applied filtered noise (22) should have narrower notches at times when ions with higher mass-to-charge ratio are to be selected, and wider notches at times when ions with lower mass-to-charge ratio are to be selected.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEDYNE MEC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEDYNE MEC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLEY PAUL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLEY, PAUL, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MASS SPECTROMETRY METHOD USING TIME-VARYING FILTERED NOISECross-reference to Related ApplicationThe present application is a continuation-in- part of pending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/662,217, filed February 28, 1991.Field of the InventionThe invention relates to mass spectrometry methods in which ions are selectively passed through a quadrupole mass filter. More particularly, the invention is a mass spectrometry method in which a time-varying, notched broadband voltage signal is applied to a quadrupole mass filter to selectively pass a (consecutive or nonconsecutive) mass sequence of ions through the mass filter, while rejecting other ions (radially) from the mass filter.Background of the InventionIn conventional mass spectrometry techniques, such as "MS/MS" and "CI" methods, ions having mass- to-charge ratio within a selected range are stored in a quadrupole ion trap. The stored ions are then allowed (or induced) to dissociate or react, and the resulting product ions are then ejected from the trap for detection.For example, U.S. Patent 4,736,101, issued April 5, 1988, to Syka, et al., discloses an MS/MS method in which ions (having a mass-to-charge ratio within a predetermined range) are trapped within a three- dimensional quadrupole trapping field. The trapping field is then scanned to eject unwanted trapped ions (ions other than parent ions having a desired mass- 

 to-charge ratio) sequentially from the trap. The trapping field is then changed again to become capable of storing daughter ions of interest. The trapped parent ions are then induced to dissociate to produce daughter ions, and the daughter ions are ejected sequentially from the trap for detection.In order to eject unwanted trapped ions from the trap prior to parent ion dissociation, U.S. 4,736,101 teaches that the trapping field should be scanned by sweeping the amplitude of the fundamental voltage which defines the trapping field.U.S. 4,736,101 also teaches that a supplemental AC field can be applied to the trap during the period in which the parent ions undergo dissociation, in order to promote the dissociation process (see column 5, lines 43-62) , or to eject a particular ion from the trap so that the ejected ion will not be detected during subsequent ejection and detection of sample ions (see column 4, line 60, through column 5, line 6) .U.S. 4,736,101 also suggests (at column 5, lines 7-12) that a supplemental AC field could be applied to the trap during an initial ionization period, to eject a particular ion
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A mass analysis method, including the steps of:
(a) establishing a quadrupole field in a region within a quadrupole mass filter, said quadrupole mass filter having electrodes oriented substantially parallel to a central axis, and said region having a first end and a second end separated from the first end along the central axis; (b) after step (a) , introducing ions into the region from said first end;
(c) while performing step (b) , applying a time- varying filtered noise signal across a first subset of the electrodes to reject unwanted ones of the ions radially from the region, thereby allowing a selected sequence of the ions to propagate axially through the region to the second end of the region.
2. The method of claim 1, also including the step of detecting the selected sequence of the ions.
3. The method of claim 1, also including the step of:
(d) scanning the quadrupole field while performing step (c) .
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected sequence of the ions is a consecutive mass order sequence of ions.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected sequence of the ions is a nonconsecutive mass order sequence of ions. 


 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the time- varying filtered noise signal includes a sequence of static notched broadband AC voltage signals, wherein each of the static notched broadband AC voltage signals has a frequency-amplitude spectrum defining at least one notch with a width and center location.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the width and center location of each said notch are selected to achieve a desired dynamic mass resolution.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the width and center location of each said notch are selected to achieve substantially constant mass separation over said selected sequence of the ions.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the static notched broadband AC voltage signals applied to select ions with higher mass-to-charge ratios have notches with narrower widths, and the static notched broadband AC voltage signals applied to select ions with lower mass-to-charge ratios have notches with wider widths.
10. A method for performing mass analysis using a quadrupole mass filter, wherein the quadrupole mass filter has electrodes oriented substantially parallel to a central axis, wherein the electrodes define a region having a first end, and a second end separated from the first end along the central axis, said method including the steps of:
(a) applying a fundamental voltage signal having an RF component to a first subset of the electrodes, thereby establishing a quadrupole field in the region; 


 (b) introducing ions into the region from the first end;
(c) while performing step (b) , applying a time- varying filtered noise signal across a second subset of the electrodes to resonate undesired ones of the ions from the region in directions perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, thereby allowing a selected sequence of the ions to propagate axially through the region to the second end.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the fundamental voltage signal also has a DC component.
12. The method of claim 10, also including the step of detecting the selected sequence of the ions.
13. The method of claim 10, also including the step of:
(d) scanning the quadrupole field while performing step (c) .
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the selected sequence of the ions is a consecutive mass order sequence of ions.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the selected sequence of the ions is a nonconsecutive mass order sequence of ions.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the time- varying filtered noise signal includes a sequence of static notched broadband AC voltage signals, wherein each of the static notched broadband AC voltage signals has a frequency-amplitude spectrum defining at least one notch with a width and center location. 


 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the width and center location of each said notch are selected to achieve a desired dynamic mass resolution.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the width and center location of each said notch are selected to achieve substantially constant mass separation over said selected sequence of the ions.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the static notched broadband AC voltage signals applied to select ions with higher mass-to-charge ratios have notches with narrower widths, and the static notched broadband AC voltage signals applied to select ions with lower mass-to-charge ratios have notches with wider widths.
20. A mass analysis method, including the steps of:
(a) establishing a multipole field in a region within a multipole mass filter, said multipole mass filter having electrodes oriented substantially parallel to a central axis, and said region having a first end and a second end separated from the first end along the central axis;
(b) after step (a) , introducing ions into the region from said first end; (c) while performing step (b) , applying a time- varying filtered noise signal across a first subset of the electrodes to reject unwanted ones of the ions radially from the region, thereby allowing a selected sequence of the ions to propagate axially through the region to the second end of the region. 


 21. The method of claim 20, also including the step of detecting the selected sequence of the ions.
22. The method of claim 20, also including the step of: (d) scanning the multipole field while performing step (c) .
23. The method of claim 20, wherein the selected sequence of the ions is a consecutive mass order sequence of ions.
24. The method of claim 20, wherein the selected sequence of the ions is a nonconsecutive mass order sequence of ions. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
