<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644962</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITE NONWOVEN FABRIC AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D04H303	D04H316	B32B526	D04H316	B32B522	D04H1300	D04H302	D04H308	D04H312	D04H1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D04H	D04H	B32B	D04H	B32B	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D04H3	D04H3	B32B5	D04H3	B32B5	D04H13	D04H3	D04H3	D04H3	D04H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is directed to a composite nonwoven fabric (10) comprising a nonwoven web (11) of spunbonded substantially continuous thermoplastic filaments, a nonwoven web (14) of thermoplastic strands, and a nonwoven web (13) of thermoplastic meltblown microfibers sandwiched between the nonwoven web of spunbonded substantially continuous filaments and the nonwoven web of thermoplastic strands. An adhesive agent (12) is disposed between the nonwoven web (11) of spunbonded filaments and the nonwoven web (13) of meltblown microfibers and between the nonwoven web (14) of thermoplastic strands and the nonwoven web (13) of meltblown microfibers, adhering the respective nonwoven webs together to form a unitary composite nonwoven fabric. In a preferred embodiment, the composite nonwoven fabric of the invention comprises a nonwoven web of spunbonded substantially continuous polyamide filaments, a nonwoven web of polyamide strands, and a nonwoven web of polyethylene meltblown microfibers sandwiched between the nonwoven web of spunbonded substantially continuous filaments and the nonwoven web of strands.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIBERWEB NORTH AMERICA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIBERWEB NORTH AMERICA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUSTIN JARED A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERMAN MARK H S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNLEAVY RAYMOND A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUSTIN, JARED A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERMAN, MARK H.S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNLEAVY, RAYMOND A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to nonwoven fabrics and 
to a process for producing nonwoven fabrics. More 
specifically, the invention relates to composite 
nonwoven barrier fabrics particularly suited for 
medical applications. Nonwoven barrier fabrics have been developed 
which impede the passage of bacteria and other 
contaminants and which are used for disposable medical 
fabrics, such as surgical drapes, disposable gowns and 
the like. For example, such barrier fabrics can be 
formed by sandwiching an inner fibrous web of 
thermoplastic meltblown microfibers between two outer 
nonwoven webs of substantially continuous thermoplastic 
spunbonded filaments. The fibrous meltblown web 
provides a barrier impervious to bacteria or other 
contaminants in the composite nonwoven fabric. Such 
composite fabric structures are known generally in the 
art as spunbond-meltblown-spunbond, or "SMS," fabrics. 
Examples of such fabrics are described in U.S. Patent 
No. 4,041,203 and U.S. Patent No. 4,863,785. In the manufacture of this type of fabric, 
the respective nonwoven layers are thermally bonded 
together to form a unitary composite fabric. 
Typically, the thermal bonding involves passing the 
nonwoven layers through a heated patterned calender and  
 
partially melting the inner meltblown layer in discrete 
areas to form fusion bonds which hold the nonwoven 
layers of the composite together. Without sufficient 
melting and fusion of the meltblown layer, the 
composite fabric will have poor inter-ply adhesion. 
However, unless the thermal bonding conditions are 
accurately controlled, the possibility exists that the 
thermal bond areas may be heating excessively, causing 
"pinholes" which can compromise or destroy the barrier 
properties of the inner meltblown layer. Thus in 
practice, the thermal bonding conditions which are used 
represent a compromise between the required inter-ply 
adhesion strength on the one hand, and the required 
barrier properties which must be provided by the 
meltblown layer on the other. The conventional SMS type barrier fabrics 
also have limitations in the types of sterilization 
procedures which can be used. For some applications, 
it is desired that the fabric or garment be sterilized 
in the final stages of manufacture by exposure to gamma 
radiation. For example, the fabric or garment may 
first be sealed in a protective package, and then 
exposed to gamma radiation to sterilize the package and 
its contents. However, sterilization by gamma 
irradiation has been found to be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gamma radiation sterilizable composite 
nonwoven fabric comprising: 


a first nonwoven web formed of 
spunbonded substantially continuous filaments stable to 

gamma radiation sterilization; 
a second nonwoven web formed of 
continuous filaments or staple fibers stable to gamma 

radiation sterilization; 
a third nonwoven web of meltblown 
microfibers sandwiched between and bonded to said first 

and second nonwoven webs to form a composite nonwoven 
fabric, said meltblown microfibers also being formed of 

a thermoplastic polymer composition stable to gamma 
radiation sterilization; and 
an adhesive layer comprising a gossamer 
web of adhesive having a basis weight of less than 5 

grams per square meter disposed between said first and 
third nonwoven webs and between said second and third 

nonwoven webs and adhering the respective nonwoven webs 
together to form a unitary composite nonwoven fabric. 
The composite nonwoven fabric according 
to Claim 1 wherein said adhesive layer is a hot melt 

adhesive having a melting temperature below the melting 
temperature of said nonwoven webs. 
The composite nonwoven fabric according 
to Claim 1 wherein said hot melt adhesive comprises a 

composition selected from the group consisting of 
styrene-isoprene block copolymers, styrene-butadiene 

block copolymers, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, 
acrylic esters, and polyolefin-based copolymers.  

 
The composite nonwoven fabric according 
to Claim 1 wherein each adhesive layer has a basis 

weight of less than 0.5 gram per square meter. 
The composite nonwoven fabric according 
to Claim 1 wherein said spunbonded filaments of said 

first nonwoven web and said continuous filaments or 
staple fibers of said second nonwoven web are formed 

from a thermoplastic polymer selected from the group 
consisting of polyesters, polyamides and copolymers and 

blends thereof. 
The composite nonwoven fabric according 
to Claim 1 wherein said spunbonded filaments of said 

first nonwoven web are formed from a thermoplastic 
polymer having hydrophobic properties and said second 

nonwoven web is a carded web comprising staple fibers 
having hydrophilic properties. 
The composite nonwoven web according to 
Claim 1 wherein said meltblown microfibers of said 

third nonwoven web are formed from a thermoplastic 
polyolefin composition stable to gamma radiation. 
The composite nonwoven web according to 
Claim 1 wherein said meltblown microfibers of said 

third nonwoven web comprise linear low density 
polyethylene having a melting point of about 125°C. 
The composite nonwoven web according to 
Claim 1 wherein said second nonwoven web comprises 

bicomponent fibers.  
 
The composite nonwoven web according to 
Claim 9 wherein said bicomponent fibers have a 

polyester core and a polyethylene sheath. 
The composite nonwoven web according to 
Claim 1 wherein said first nonwoven web is formed of 

spunbonded substantially continuous polyamide 
filaments; said second nonwoven web is formed of 

polyamide continuous filaments or staple fibers; said 
third nonwoven web is formed of polyethylene meltblown 

microfibers sandwiched between said first and second 
nonwoven webs; and said adhesive layer comprises a hot 

melt adhesive selected from the group consisting of 
styrene-isoprene block copolymers, styrene-butadiene 

block copolymers, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, 
acrylic esters, and polyolefin-based copolymers 

disposed between said first and third nonwoven webs and 
between said second and third nonwoven webs and 

adhering the respective nonwoven webs together to form 
a unitary composite nonwoven fabric stable to gamma 

radiation. 
The composite nonwoven web according to 
Claim 11 wherein said hot melt adhesive is a pressure 

sensitive adhesive which is tacky at room temperature. 
A gamma radiation sterilizable composite 
nonwoven fabric comprising: 


a nonwoven web of spunbonded 
substantially continuous polyamide filaments;  

 
a nonwoven web of polyethylene meltblown 
microfibers bonded to said nonwoven web of spunbonded 

polyamide filaments; and 
a hot melt pressure sensitive adhesive 
disposed between said nonwoven web of spunbonded 

polyamide filaments and said nonwoven web of 
polyethylene meltblown microfibers in the form of a 

lightweight gossamer web having a basis weight of less 
than 5 grams per square meter, said adhesive bonding 

said webs to one another to form a composite nonwoven 
fabric which is stable to gamma radiation 

sterilization. 
A process for the manufacture of a gamma 
radiation sterilizable composite nonwoven fabric 

comprising: 

forming a first nonwoven web of 
spunbonded substantially continuous filaments formed of 

a thermoplastic polymer composition stable to gamma 
radiation sterilization; 
forming a second nonwoven web formed of 
continuous filaments or staple fibers stable to gamma 

radiation sterilization; 
forming a third nonwoven web of 
meltblown microfibers of a thermoplastic polymer 

composition stable to gamma radiation sterilization; 
positioning said first nonwoven web on 
one side of said third nonwoven web and applying a 

gamma radiation stable adhesive at the interface 
therebetween; 
positioning said second nonwoven web on 
the opposite side of said third nonwoven web and 

applying a gamma radiation stable adhesive at the 
interface therebetween; and  

 
laminating the respective nonwoven webs 
together with said gamma radiation stable adhesive to 

form a unitary composite nonwoven fabric. 
The process according to Claim 14 
wherein said step of forming a first nonwoven web of 

spunbonded substantially continuous thermoplastic 
filaments comprises forming the web from a polymer 

selected from the group consisting of polyesters, 
polyamides and copolymers and blends thereof. 
The process according to Claim 15 
wherein said step of forming a third nonwoven web of 

thermoplastic meltblown microfibers comprises forming 
the web from a polymer selected from the group 

consisting of polyethylene polymers and copolymers. 
The process according to Claim 15 
wherein said meltblown microfibers comprise linear low 

density polyethylene. 
The process according to Claim 15 
wherein said step of forming a second nonwoven web 

comprises forming a spunbonded web of continuous 
polyamide filaments. 
The process according to Claim 14 
wherein said steps of applying an adhesive comprises 

spraying a fine gossamer web of a hot melt adhesive 
directly onto the surface of one of the webs. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
