<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0846442</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B814	A61B808	A61B808	A61B814	G01Q8000	G01Q3004	G01Q3000	G01Q9000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01Q	G01Q	G01Q	G01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	G01Q80	G01Q30	G01Q30	G01Q90	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system is
provided for measuring the volume of a chamber of the

heart (100) or other organ or vessel. An ultrasonic
transducer probe (10) is used to scan the chamber (102) with a

plurality of spatially distinct scan planes (120). The
pixels (130-137) of the chamber volume of each scan plane are

aggregated to provide a measure of the volume. In a
preferred embodiment the chamber volume pixels are

developed from Doppler signals from the fluid within
the chamber, and are related to voxels within the

chamber by weighting pixels in the scan planes in
accordance with the voxel sampling afforded by the

inter-plane separation.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to ultrasonic diagnosis 
and imaging of the cardiovascular system of the body 
and, in particular, to ultrasonic analysis of left 
ventricular function of the heart. The heart is an organ for which a great variety 
of diagnostic tools have been created or are under 
development, both invasive and noninvasive. The 
coronary arteries, heart valves, and the myocardial 
muscle itself all are subject to scrutiny by many 
modalities of equipment in the diagnosis and 
treatment of heart disease. Among the many 
parameters of heart performance that are analyzed are 
those relating to the capability of the heart to pump 
blood. Since the left ventricle is the chamber of 
the heart which pumps oxygenated blood into the aorta 
and thence to all other regions of the body, left 
ventricular assessment is of significant diagnostic 
interest. Parameters and measurements which have 
been developed to diagnose the left ventricle include 
left ventricular volume, mass, and ejection fraction. 
The ejection fraction is a measure of the volume of 
blood pumped with each heartbeat and is calculated as 
the ratio of the stroke volume of the left ventricle 
over end-diastolic volume of the left ventricle. The 
left ventricular ejection fraction is considered to 
be one of the most sensitive values of left 
ventricular function and is useful for detecting the 
onset of congestive heart failure. A number of diagnostic modalities have been 
developed for assessing left ventricular function, 
including echocardiography, radionuclide 
ventriculography, selective angiocardiography, rapid  
 
CT, and MRI. Echocardiography is often the modality 
first used, due to its portability, safety, and ease 
of use. However, echocardiography has inherent 
limitations, including limitations of image plane 
orientation imposed by intercostal access and other 
thoracic anatomy, and geometric assumptions used to 
define endocardial and epicardial contours. When 
echocardiography does not serve the purpose, 
radionuclide ventriculography is generally the 
modality employed for diagnosis. In this modality a 
radioactive tracer is injected into the bloodstream, 
emitting radiation as it passes through the body. A 
gamma camera directed at the heart accumulates 
emitted radioactive particles in the image plane of 
the camera on a spatial basis, and the number of 
particles accumulated and their rate of accumulation 
can be displayed numerically or imaged and used in 
the assessment of left ventricular systolic and 
diastolic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system for measuring the volume of a 
fluid filled vessel or organ (102) of the body, said ultrasonic diagnostic imaging 

system comprising an ultrasonic transducer probe (10) for scanning said fluid filled 
vessel or organ at different scan plane (120k, 1201) orientations, means (30) for 

storing a plurality of spatially distinct two dimensional scan planes containing 
ultrasonic data (130-137) of said fluid filled vessel or organ, 

and means (40 44) for combining ultrasonic data of a 
fluid pool of said fluid filled vessel or organ for developing a measure of the volume of 

said fluid filled vessel or organ, said system being 
characterized in that
 said combining means includes means for weighting 
the ultrasonic data of a scan plane in accordance with the sampling density with which the 

fluid filled vessel or organ is scanned. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein 

said ultrasonic data comprises ultrasonic Doppler data. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 2, wherein 
said ultrasonic Doppler data comprises ultrasonic power Doppler data. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein 
said means for weighting comprises means for weighting the ultrasonic data of a 

scan plane in accordance with the inter-plane spacing of said scan planes. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 1, further 
including organ gating means (14) for scanning the fluid filled organ at a desired 

phase of the organ cycle. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 5, wherein 
said plurality of spatially distinct scan planes are acquired at substantially the same 

phase of the organ cycle. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 1, said 
ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system further including means (46) for computing 

ejection fraction from said volume measure. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 7, wherein 
said means for storing comprises means for storing two groups of spatially distinct  

 
scan planes, each acquired at a different phase of the organ cycle; said combining 

means comprises means for developing a measure of the volume of a fluid filled 
vessel or organ from each of said groups of scan planes; and said means for 

computing ejection fraction are adapted to compute ejection fraction from said 
volume measures. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein 
the different scan plane orientations share a common scanline orientation. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein 
the different scan plane orientations are angularly inclined with respect to one 

another. 
An ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein 
the different scan plane orientations are parallel to one another. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
