<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611292</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRANSVASCULAR ULTRASOUND HEMODYNAMIC CATHETER AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B806	A61B806	A61B812	A61B812	A61B1000	A61B1000	A61B1002	A61B1004	A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1722	A61B1722	A61B1734	A61B1734	A61B1814	A61B1814	A61B1900	A61B1900	A61M100	A61M100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B10	A61B10	A61B10	A61B10	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B19	A61B19	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A catheter (20) having a catheter body (22) with a proximal (24) and distal end (26). The catheter (20) including an ultrasonic transducer (30; 60) proximate its distal end (26). An access port (40) being provided in the catheter (20) for delivery of a therapeutic device (54; 56) or the like to proximate the distal end (26) of the catheter body (22). A guide wire port (42) being further provided for insertion therethrough of a guide wire.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAYO FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAYO FOUNDATION FOR MEDICAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEWARD JAMES BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAJIK ABDUL JAMIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEWARD, JAMES, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAJIK, ABDUL, JAMIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TRANSVASCULAR ULTRASOUND HEMODYNAMIC CATHETER AND METHODBackground of the InventionThe present invention relates to an ultrasonic and interventional catheter and method. More particularly, the present invention relates to such a catheter which provides imaging and hemodynamic capability. Further, the invention relates to such a catheter which provides transvascular and intracardiac imaging.Current x-ray fluoroscopy can localize radio paque devices within the cardiovascular system and outline silhouetted anatomy. Precise localization of intracardiac anatomy is not possible; e.g., directing a catheter predictably and repetitively through the same precise point within the heart. Ultrasound (echocardiography) can be utilized to image detailed cardiac, intracardiac, and vascular anatomy. Additionally, function, hemodynamics, and visualization of blood flow is possible. Doppler echocardiography, which utilizes the physics of ultrasound frequency to determine velocity and direction of blood flow, is used to determine pressure and flow and visualize blood movement within the cardiac chambers.Ultrasound is increasingly utilized as a substitute for cardiac catheterization.Currently, many interventional procedures can be performed through a catheter; e.g., balloon dilation and valvuloplasty and ablation of abnormal cardiac tissue are two frequently performed procedures. Ultrasound has recently entered into invasive applications. Transesophageal echocardiography is the most widely utilized invasive ultrasound technique. Intravascular ultrasound utilizing miniature transducers mounted on a catheter are now undergoing vigorous 

 clinical trials. Intracardiac imaging devices have received very limited investigation.Increasingly, therapeutic cardiac catheterization is displacing diagnostic cardiac catheterization. Thus, there is an acceptance of catheter technology as a means of altering cardiac anatomy or conduction system. Balloon angioplasty, utilization of defect closure devices, and electrical interruption of anomalous conduction pathways are now considered accepted practice: However, most of these procedures are rather gross in nature; e.g. a large balloon splitting an obstructed valve, crude devices inserted into defects, and application of thermal or electric energy to interrupt the conduction system or produce defects in septa.Summary of the InventionThe present invention relates to an ultrasonic and interventional catheter. The present invention more particularly relates to an ultrasonic and interventional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A catheter apparatus, comprising: an elongated body having proximal and distal ends; an ultrasonic transducer mounted proximate the distal end of the catheter body to transmit ultrasound and receive resultant echoes so as to provide a field of view within which flow rates can be measured and features imaged, an electrical conductor disposed in the catheter body for electrically connecting the transducer to control circuitry external of the catheter; port means disposed in the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a therapeutic device whereby a therapeutic device can be delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter for operation within the ultrasonic transducer field of view; and guide wire port means disposed in the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a guide wire.
2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the ultrasonic transducer has a frequency of 5 to 20 mHz.
3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the ultrasonic transducer has a frequency of 7 to 10 mHz.
4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the catheter body has a diameter of 4 to 24 French.
5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the catheter body has a diameter of 5 to 12 French. 


 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the port has a diameter of 5 to 8 French.
7. A catheter apparatus, comprising: an elongated body having proximal and distal ends and first and second sides, wherein the first side extends further in the direction of the distal end of the catheter body than the second side; a port disposed in the catheter body proximate the second side of the catheter body, the port extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a therapeutic device whereby a therapeutic device can be delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter; an ultrasonic transducer having a first side and a second side, the ultrasonic transducer being mounted proximate the distal end of the catheter body and being disposed between the port and the first side of the catheter body with the first side of the ultrasonic transducer being proximate the first side of the body and the second side of the transducer being proximate the second side of the body, so that the transducer is tilted toward the port to transmit ultrasound and receive resultant echoes to provide a field of view within which flow rates can be measured and features imaged including the therapeutic device delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter through the port; and an electrical conductor disposed in the catheter body for electrically connecting the transducer to control circuitry external of the catheter.
8. The catheter apparatus, in accordance with claim 7, further comprising a guide wire port disposed in the catheter body proximate the first side of the catheter body, the guide wire port extending from proximate the 



 proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a guide wire.
9. A catheter apparatus, comprising: an elongated body having proximal and distal ends, and a first side; a port having a distal end, the port being disposed in the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body, the distal end of the port exiting the catheter body proximate the first side and the distal end of the catheter body at an acute angle to the first side of the catheter body, whereby a therapeutic device can be delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter; an ultrasonic transducer mounted on the first side of the catheter body between the distal end of the port and the distal end of the catheter body to transmit ultrasound and receive resultant echoes so as to provide a field of view within which flow rates can be measured and features imaged including therapeutic devices delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter through the port; and an electrical conductor disposed in the catheter body for electrically connecting the transducer to control circuitry external of the catheter.
10. The catheter apparatus in accordance with claim 9 , further comprising a guide wire port disposed in the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a guide wire.
11. The catheter in accordance with claim 9, further comprising a deflection wire guidance system. 


 12. A catheter apparatus, comprising: an elongated body having a first side and a second side, and proximal and distal ends; a primary port disposed proximate the first side of the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a therapeutic device whereby a therapeutic device can be delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter; secondary port disposed proximate the second side of the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a secondary therapeutic device whereby the secondary therapeutic device can be delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter; an ultrasonic transducer mounted between the primary port and the secondary port and proximate the distal end of the catheter body to transmit ultrasound and receive resultant echoes to provide a field of view within which flow rates can be measured and features imaged including therapeutic devices delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter through the port; and an electrical conductor disposed in the catheter body for electrically connecting the transducer to control circuitry external of the catheter.
13. A catheter apparatus, comprising: an elongated body having proximal and distal ends and a first side and a second side, wherein the first side extends further in the direction of the distal end of the catheter body than the second side; a plurality of ports disposed in the catheter body proximate the second side of the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the 


 catheter body for receiving at least one therapeutic device whereby at least one therapeutic device can be delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter; an ultrasonic transducer having a first side and a second side, the ultrasonic transducer being mounted proximate the distal end of the catheter body, the transducer being disposed between the a plurality of port and the first side of the catheter body with the first side of the transducer proximate the first side of the catheter body and the second side of the transducer being proximate the second side of the catheter body, so that the transducer is tilted toward the plurality of ports to transmit ultrasound and receive resultant echoes so as to provide a field of view within which flow rates can be measured and features imaged including at least one therapeutic devices delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter through the plurality of ports; and an electrical conductor disposed in the catheter body for electrically connecting the transducer to control circuitry external of the catheter.
14. The catheter apparatus in accordance with claim 13, further comprising a guide wire port disposed in the catheter body proximate the first side of the catheter body, the guide wire port extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a guide wire.
15. A medical system, comprising: a catheter, comprising an elongated body . having proximal and distal ends; an ultrasonic transducer mounted proximate the distal end of the catheter body to transmit ultrasound and receive resultant echoes so as to provide a field of view within which flow rates can be measured and 


 features imaged, an electrical conductor disposed in the catheter body for electrically connecting the transducer to control circuitry external of the catheter; port disposed in the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a therapeutic device whereby therapeutic device can be delivered to proximate the distal end of the catheter for operation within the ultrasonic transducer field of view; and guide wire port disposed in the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end of the catheter body to proximate the distal end of the catheter body for receiving a guide wire; control circuitry means for controlling operation of the ultrasonic transducer; and display means for displaying the flow rates and the features imaged by the ultrasonic transducer.
16. An apparatus in accordance with claim 15, wherein the ultrasonic transducer has a frequency of 5 to 20 mHz.
17. An apparatus in accordance with claim 15, wherein the ultrasonic transducer has a frequency of 7 to 10 mHz.
18. An
^
apparatus in accordance with claim 15, wherein the catheter body has a diameter of 4 to 24 French.
19. An apparatus in accordance with claim 15, wherein the catheter body has a diameter of 6 to 12 French.
20. An apparatus in accordance with claim 15, wherein the port has a diameter of 7 to 8 French. 


 21. A method of therapeutic intervention in a living body; comprising: inserting a catheter into the body, the catheter having a body with a proximal and distal end; inserting a surgical device into the body through a port disposed in the catheter body and extending from proximate the proximal end to the distal end of the catheter body; pulsing an ultrasonic transducer, disposed proximate the proximal end of the catheter body, to transmit ultrasound and receive resultant echoes; operating the surgical device within a field of view provided by the ultrasonic transducer; and processing the resultant echoes to image the operation of the surgical device.
22. A method in accordance with claim 21, comprising the further step of analyzing the resultant echoes with doppler circuitry to provide hemodynamic information. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
