<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631623</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DNA ENCODING TAURINE AND GABA TRANSPORTERS AND USES THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K67027	A01K67027	A61K3170	A61K3170	A61K317088	A61K317088	A61K3800	A61K3800	A61K39395	A61K39395	A61K4800	A61K4800	A61P2500	A61P2500	C07H2100	C07H2104	C07K14435	C07K1447	C07K14705	C07K1600	C07K1600	C12N121	C12N121	C12N510	C12N510	C12N900	C12N900	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12P2102	C12P2102	C12P2108	C12P2108	C12R191	G01N3353	G01N3353	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	C07H	C07H	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12P	C12P	C12P	C12P	C12R	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K67	A01K67	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K38	A61K38	A61K39	A61K39	A61K48	A61K48	A61P25	A61P25	C07H21	C07H21	C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C07K16	C07K16	C12N1	C12N1	C12N5	C12N5	C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	C12P21	C12P21	C12P21	C12P21	C12R1	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides isolated nucleic acid molecules, proteins, monoclonal antibodies, pharmaceutical compositions, transgenic animals, methods of treatment, methods of screening, and methods of diagnosis for both the GABA transporter and taurine transporter.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNAPTIC PHARMA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNAPTIC PHARMACEUTICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORDEN LAURENCE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTIG PAUL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH KELLI E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINSHANK RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORDEN, LAURENCE, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTIG, PAUL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, KELLI, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINSHANK, RICHARD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
DNA ENCODING TAϋRINE AND GABA TRANSPORTERS AND USES THEREOFThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No. 847,742, filed March 4, 1992 the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference into the subject application.Background of the InventionThroughout this application various publications are referred to by partial citations within parenthesis. Full citations for these publications may be found at the end of the specification immediately preceding the claims. The disclosures of these publications, in their entireties, are hereby incorporated by reference into this application in order to more fully describe the state of the art to which this invention pertains.Chemical neurotransmission is a multi-step process which involves release of neurotransmitter from the presynaptic terminal, diffusion across the synaptic cleft, and binding to receptors resulting in an alteration in the electrical properties of the postsynaptic neuron. For most neurotransmitters, transmission is terminated by the rapid uptake of neurotransmitter via specific, high- affinity transporters located in the presynaptic terminal and/or surrounding glial cells (29) . Since inhibition of uptake by pharmacologic agents increases the levels of neurotransmitter in the synapse, and thus enhances synaptic transmission, neurotransmitter transporters provide important targets for therapeutic intervention. 

The amino acid GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate central nervous system and is thought to serve as the neurotransmitter at approximately 40% of the synapses in the mammalian brain (13,28). GABAergic transmission is mediated by two classes of GABA receptors. The more prevalent is termed GABAA, which is a multi-subunit protein containing an intrinsic ligand-gated chloride channel in addition to binding sites for a variety of neuroactive drugs including benzodiazepines and barbiturates (35,73) . In contrast, GABAB receptors couple to G-proteins and thereby activate potassium channels (2,35) and possible alter levels of the second messenger cyclic AMP (35) . Positive modulation of GABAA receptors by diazepam and related benzodiazepines has proven extremely useful in the treatment of generalized anxiety (77) and in certain forms of epilepsy (57) .Inhibition of GABA uptake provides a novel therapeutic approach to enhance inhibitory GABAergic transmission in the central nervous system (36,62). Considerable evidence indicates that GABA can be taken up by both neurons and glial cells, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An isolated ' nucleic acid molecule encoding a mammalian GABA transporter.
2. A nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid molecule encodes a rat GABA transporter.
3. A nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a human GABA transporter.
4. An isolated DNA molecule of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a murine transporter.
5. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a mammalian taurine transporter.
6. A nucleic acid molecule of claim 5, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a rat taurine transporter.
7. A nucleic acid molecule of claim 5, wherein the nucleic acid molecule encodes a human taurine transporter.
8. A nucleic acid molecule of claim 5, wherein the nucleic acid molecule encodes a murine taurine transporter.
9. An isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid molecule is a DNA molecule.
10. An DNA molecule of claim 9, wherein the DNA molecule is a cDNA molecule. 


11. An isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 5, wherein the nucleic acid molecule is a DNA molecule.
12. A DNA molecule of claim 11, wherein the DNA molecule is a cDNA molecule.
13. An isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid molecule has been so mutated as to be incapable of normal transporter activity, and not expressing native GABA transporter.
14. An isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 5, wherein the nucleic acid molecule has been so mutated as to be incapable of normal transporter activity, and not expressing native taurine transporter.
15. A method for isolating a nucleic acid molecule encoding a human taurine transporter by nucleic acid sequence homology using natural sequences or artificial sequences, the sequences of which are derived from sequences in Figures IA, IB, IC 10A or 10B.
16. An isolated mammalian GABA transporter protein.
17. The mammalian GABA transporter protein of claim 16, wherein the protein is a human GABA transporter.
18. An isolated mammalian taurine transporter protein.
19. The mammalian transporter protein of claim 18, wherein the protein is a rat taurine transporter. 


20. The mammalian transporter protein of claim 18, wherein the transporter human taurine transporter.
21. A vector comprising the DNA molecule of claim 9.
22. A plasmid comprising the vector of claim 21.
23. A vector comprising the DNA molecule of claim 11.
24. A plasmid comprising the vector of claim 23.
25. A vector of claim 21 adapted for expression in a bacterial cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA in the bacterial cell so located relative to the DNA encoding the transporter as to permit expression thereof.
26. A vector of claim 21 adapted for expression in a yeast cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA in the yeast cell so located relative to the DNA encoding the transporter as to permit expression thereof.
27. A vector of claim 21 adapted for expression in a mammalian cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA in the mammalian cell so located relative to the DNA encoding the transporter as to permit expression thereof.
28. A vector of claim 23 adapted for expression in a bacteria cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA in the 


 bacterial cell so located relative to the DNA encoding the transporter as to permit expression thereof.
29. A vector of claim 23 adapted for expression in a yeast cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA in the yeast cell so located relative to the DNA encoding the transporter as to permit expression thereof.
30. A vector of claim 23 adapted for expression in a mammalian cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA in the mammalian cell so located relative to the DNA encoding the transporter as to permit expression thereof.
32. A plasmid of claim 22 adapted for expression in a mammalian cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA in the mammalian cell so located relative to the DNA encoding the GABA transporter as to permit expression thereof.
33. A plasmid of claim 24 adapted for expression in a mammalian cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA in the mammalian cell so located relative to the DNA encoding the taurine transporter as to permit expression thereof.
34. A plasmid designated pEVJB-rB14b (ATCC Accession No.
)•
35. A plasmid designated pEVJB-rB8b (ATCC Accession No. ). 


36. A plasmid designated pEVJB-rB16a (ATCC Accession No. )•
37. A plasmid designated pcEXV-hGAT-3.
38. A plasmid designated pBluescript-hHe7a.
39. A plasmid designated pBluescript-hS3a.
40. A mammalian cell comprising the plasmid of claim 22.
41. A mammalian cell comprising the plasmid of claim 24.
42. The mammalian cell of claim 40, wherein the mammalian cell is a Cos7 cell.
43. The mammalian cell of claim 41, wherein the mammalian cell is a Cos7 cell.
44. A Cos7 cell comprising the plasmid of claim 32.
45. A Cos7 cell comprising the plasmid of claim 33.
46. A nucleic acid probe comprising a nucleic acid molecule of at least 15 nucleotides capable of specifically hybridizing with a sequence included within the sequence of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a mammalian GABA transporter.
47. A nucleic acid probe of claim 46 wherein the nucleic acid probe is capable of specifically hybridizing with a human GABA transporter.
48. A nucleic acid probe comprising a nucleic acid molecule of at least 15 nucleotides capable of 


 specifically hybridizing with a sequence included within the sequence of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a mammalian taurine transporter.
49. A nucleic acid probe of claim 48, wherein the nucleic acid probe is capable of specifically hybridizing with a human taurine transporter.
50. The nucleic acid probe of claims 46, wherein the nucleic acid is DNA.
51. The nucleic acid probe of claims 48, wherein the nucleic acid is DNA.
52. An antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence capable of binding specifically to an mRNA molecule encoding a mammalian GABA transporter so as to prevent translation of the mRNA molecule.
53. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 52, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is capable of binding specifically to an mRNA molecule encoding a human GABA transporter so as to prevent translation of the mRNA encoding a human GABA trasnporter.
54. An antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence capable of binding specifically to an mRNA molecule encoding a mammalian taurine transporter so as to prevent translation of the mRNA molecule.
55. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 54 having a sequence capable of binding specifically to an mRNA molecule encoding a rat taurine transporter so as to prevent translation of the mRNA molecule. 


56. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 54, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is capable of binding specifically to an mRNA molecule encoding a human taurine transporter so as to prevent translation of the mRNA.
57. An antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence capable of binding specifically to the cDNA molecule of claim 10.
58. An antisense oligonucleotide capable of specifically hybridizing to the cDNA molecule of claim 12.
59. An antisense oligonucleotide of claim 52, comprising chemical analogues of nucleotides.
60. An antisense oligonucleotide of claim 54, comprising chemical analogues of nucleotides.
61. A monoclonal antibody directed to a mammalian GABA transporter.
62. A monoclonal antibody of claim 61, wherein the monoclonal antibody is directed to a human GABA transporter.
63. A monoclonal antibody directed to a mammalian taurine transporter.
64. A monoclonal antibody of claim 63, wherein the monoclonal antibody is directed to a human taurine transporter.
65. A monoclonal antibody of claim 63, wherein the monoclonal antibody is directed to a rat taurine 


 receptor .
66. A monoclonal antibody of claim 61, directed to an epitope of a mammalian cell-surface GABA transporter and having an amino acid sequence substantially the same as an amino acid sequence for a cell-surface epitope of the mammalian GABA transporter.
67. A monoclonal antibody of claim 63, directed to an epitope of a mammalian cell-surface taurine transporter and having an amino acid sequence substantially the same as an amino acid sequence for a cell-surface epitope of the mammalian taurine transporter.
68. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of the oligonucleotide of claim 52 effective to reduce expression of a mammalian GABA transporter by passing through a cell membrane and binding specifically with mRNA encoding a mammalian GABA transporter in the cell so as to prevent its translation and a pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophobic carrier capable of passing through a cell membrane.
69. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of the oligonucleotide of claim 54 effective to reduce expression of a mammalian taurine transporter by passing through a cell membrane and binding specifically with mRNA encoding a mammalian taurine transporter in the cell so as to prevent its translation and a pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophobic carrier capable of passing through a cell membrane. 


70. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 68, wherein the oligonucleotide is coupled to a substance which inactivates mRNA.
71. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 69, wherein the oligonucleotide is coupled to a substance which inactivates mRNA.
72. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 70, wherein the substance which inactivates mRNA is a ribozyme.
73. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 71, wherein the substance which inactivates mRNA is a ribozyme.
74. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 70, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophobic carrier capable of passing through a cell membrane comprises a structure which binds to a transporter specific for a selected cell type and is thereby taken up by cells of the selected cell type.
75. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 71, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophobic carrier capable of passing through a cell membrane comprises a structure which binds to a transporter specific for a selected cell type and is thereby taken up by cells of the selected cell type.
76. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a substance effective to alleviate the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian GABA transporter and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
77. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of 


 a substance effective to alleviate the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian taurine transporter and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
78. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a substance effective to alleviate abnormalities resulting from underexpression of GABA transporter and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
79. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a substance effective to alleviate abnormalities resulting from underexpression of taurine transporter and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
80. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises an amount of the antibody of claim 61 effective to block binding of naturally occurring substrates to the GABA transporter and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
81. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises an amount of the antibody of claim 63 effective to block binding of naturally occurring substrates to the taurine transporter and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
83. A transgenic nonhuman mammal which comprises the isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1.
84. A transgenic nonhuman mammal which comprises the isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 5.
85. A transgenic nonhuman mammal which comprises the 


 isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 13.
86. A transgenic
'
 nonhuman mammal which comprises the isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 14.
87. A transgenic nonhuman mammal whose genome comprises DNA encoding a mammalian GABA transporter so placed as to be transcribed into antisense mRNA which is complementary to mRNA encoding a GABA transporter and which hybridizes to mRNA encoding a GABA ransporter thereby reducing its translation.
88. A transgenic nonhuman mammal whose genome comprises DNA encoding a mammalian taurine transporter so placed as to be transcribed into antisense mRNA which is complementary to mRNA encoding a taurine transporter and which hybridizes to mRNA encoding a taurine transporter thereby reducing its translation.
89. The transgenic nonhuman mammal of claim 83 wherein the DNA encoding a mammalian GABA transporter further comprises an inducible promoter.
90. The transgenic nonhuman mammal of claim 84, wherein the DNA encoding a mammalian taurine transporter further comprises an inducible promoter.
91. The transgenic nonhuman mammal of claim 83, wherein the DNA encoding a mammalian GABA transporter additionally comprises tissue specific regulatory elements.
92. The transgenic nonhuman mammal of claim 84, wherein the DNA encoding a mammalian taurine transporter 


 additionally comprises tissue specific regulatory elements.
95. A transgenic animal of claim 83, wherein the transgenic animal is a mouse.
96. A transgenic animal of claim 84, wherein the transgenic animal is a mouse.
97. A transgenic nonhuman mammal whose genome comprises DNA complementary to DNA encoding a mammalian GABA transporter so placed as to be transcribed into antisense mRNA which is complementary to mRNA encoding the transporter and which hybridizes to mRNA encoding the transporter thereby preventing its translation.
98. A transgenic nonhuman mammal whose genome comprises DNA complementary to DNA encoding a mammalian taurine transporter so placed as to be transcribed into antisense mRNA which is complementary to mRNA encoding the transporter and which hybridizes to mRNA encoding the transporter thereby preventing its translation.
99. A method for determining whether a substrate is capable of binding to a mammalian GABA transporter which comprises contacting the mammalian cell of claim 40 with the substrate under suitable conditions to permit binding of the substrate to the transporter, detecting the presence of any substrate bound to the mammalian transporter, and the presence of bound substrate indicating that the substrate is
■
 capable of binding to the mammalian transporter. 


100. The method of claim 99, wherein the transporter is a human GABA transporter.
101. A method for determining whether a substrate is capable of binding to a mammalian taurine transporter which comprises contacting the mammalian cell of claim 41 with the substrate under suitable conditions to permit binding of the substrate to the transporter, detecting the presence of any substrate bound to the mammalian transporter, and the presence of bound substrate indicating that the substrate is capable of binding to the mammalian transporter.
102. The method of claim 101, wherein the mammalian transporter is a human taurine trasnporter.
103. The method of claim 99, wherein the mammalian cell is nonneuronal in origin.
104. The method of claim 101, wherein the mammalian cell is a non-neuronal in origin.
105. The non-neuronal cell of claim 103, wherein the cell is a Cos7 cell.
106. The non-neuronal cell of claim 104, wherein the cell is a Cos7 cell.
106. A substrate detected by the method of claim 99.
107. A substrate detected by the method of claim 101.
108.- A method of screening drugs to identify drugs which specifically interact with, and bind to, a mammalian 


 GABA transporter expressed on the surface of the cell, which comprises contacting a mammalian cell of claim 40 with
'
 a plurality of drugs under conditions that permit binding of drugs to the transporter, determining those drugs which bind to the mammalian cell, and thereby identifying drugs which specifically interact with, and bind to, a mammalian GABA transporter.
109. A method of claim of screening drugs to identify drugs which specifically interact with, and bind to, a mammalian taurine transporter expressed on the surface of the cell, which comprises contacting a mammalian cell of claim 41 with a plurality of drugs under conditions that permit binding of drugs to the transporter, determining those drugs which bind to the mammalian cell, and thereby identifying drugs which specifically interact with, and bind to, a mammalian GABA transporter.
110. The method of claim 108, wherein the mammalian cell is nonneuronal on origin.
111. The method of claim 109, wherein the mammalian cell is nonneuronal in origin.
112. The mammalian cell of claim 110, wherein the cell is a COS7 cell.
113. The mammalian cell of claim 111, wherein the cell is a COS7 cell.
114. A pharmaceutical composition of a drug identified by the method of claims 108 or 109. 


115. A method of detecting expression of a cell-surface transporter which comprises obtaining total mRNA from the cell", contacting the mRNA so obtained with the nucleic acid probe of claim 46, under hybridizing conditions, detecting the presence of any mRNA hybridized to the probe, the presence of mRNA hybridized to the probe indicating expression of the cell-surface transporter and thereby detecting the expression of the transporter by the cell.
116. A method of detecting expression of a cell-surface transporter which comprises obtaining total mRNA from the cell, contacting the mRNA so obtained with the nucleic acid probe of claim 48, under hybridizing conditions, detecting the presence of any mRNA hybridized to the probe, the presence of mRNA hybridized to the probe indicating expression of the cell-surface transporter and thereby detecting the expression of the transporter by the cell.
117. A method of treating abnormalities in a subject, wherein the abnormality is alleviated by the reduced expression of a GABA transporter which comprises administering to a subject an effective amount of the pharmaceu ic l composition of claim 68, effective to reduce expression of the GABA transporter in the subject.
118. A method of treating abnormalities in a subject, wherein the abnormality is alleviated by the reduced expression of a taurine transporter which comprises administering to a subject an effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 69, 


 efifective to reduce expression of the taurine transporter in the subject.
119. A method of treating an abnormal condition related to an excess of GABA transporter activity which comprises administering to a subject an effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 68, effective to reduce expression of the GABA transporter in the subject.
120. A method of treating an abnormal condition related to an excess of taurine transporter activity which comprises administering to a subject an effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 69, effective to reduce expression of the taurine transporter in the subject.
121. The method of claims 119 or 120 wherein the abnormal condition is epilepsy.
122. The method of claim 119, wherein the abnormal condition is generalized anxiety.
123. The method of claim 120, wherein the abnormal condition is migraine.
124. The method of claim 120, wherein the abnormal condition is ischemia.
125. A method of treating abnormalities which are alleviated by reduction of expression of a mammalian GABA transporter which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 80 effective to block binding of naturally occurring substrates to the GABA transporter and 


 thereby alleviate abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian GABA transporter.
126. A method of treating abnormalities which are alleviated by reduction of expression of a mammalian taurine transporter which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 81 effective to block binding of naturally occurring substrates to the taurine transporter and thereby alleviate abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian taurine transporter.
127. A method of treating an abnormal condition related to an excess of GABA transporter activity which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 80 effective to block binding of naturally occurring substrates to the GABA transporter and thereby alleviate the abnormal condition.
128. A method of treating an abnormal condition related to an excess of taurine transporter activity which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 81 effective to block binding of naturally occurring substrates to the taurine transporter and thereby alleviate the abnormal condition.
129. The method of claims 127 or 128, wherein the abnormal condition is epilepsy.
130. The method of claim 127, wherein the abnormal condition is generalized anxiety. 


131. The method of claim 128, wherein the abnormal condition is migraine.
132. The method of claim 128, wherein the abnormal condition is ischemia.
133. A method of detecting the presence of a mammalian GABA transporter on the surface of a cell which comprises contacting the cell with the antibody of claim 61 under conditions permitting binding of the antibody to the transporter, detecting the presence of any antibody bound to the cell, and thereby detecting the presence of a mammalian GABA transporter on the surface of the cell.
134. A method of detecting the presence of a mammalian taurine transporter on the surface of a cell which comprises contacting the cell with the antibody of claim 63 under conditions permitting binding of the antibody to the transporter, detecting the presence of any antibody bound to the cell, and thereby detecting the presence of a mammalian taurine transporter on the surface of the cell.
135. A method of determining the physiological effects of expressing varying levels of mammalian GABA transporters which comprises producing a transgenic nonhuman animal whose levels of mammalian GABA transporter expression are varied by use of an inducible promoter which regulates mammalian GABA transporter expression.
136. A method of determining the physiological effects of expressing varying levels of mammalian taurine transporters which comprises producing a transgenic 


 nonhuman animal whose levels of mammalian taurine transporter expression are varied by use of an inducible promoter which regulates mammalian taurine transporter expression.
137. A method of determining the physiological effects of expressing varying levels of mammalian GABA transporters which comprises producing a panel of transgenic nonhuman animals each expressing a different amount of mammalian GABA transporter.
138. A method of determining the physiological effects of expressing varying levels of mammalian taurine transporters which comprises producing a panel of transgenic nonhuman animals each expressing a different amount of mammalian taurine transporter.
1391 A method for identifying a substance capable of alleviating the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian GABA transporter comprising administering a substance to the transgenic nonhuman mammal of claim 47 and determining whether the substance alleviates the physical and behavioral abnormalities displayed by the transgenic nonhuman mammal as a result of overexpression of a mammalian GABA transporter.
140. A method for identifying a substance capable of alleviating the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian taurine transporter comprising administering a substance to the transgenic nonhuman mammal of claim 48 and determining whether the substance alleviates the physical and behavioral abnormalities displayed by the transgenic nonhuman mammal as a result of 


 overexpression of a mammalian taurine transporter.
141. A method for treating the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian GABA transporter which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 83 effective to alleviate the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian GABA transporter.
142. A method for treating the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian taurine transporter which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 84 effective to alleviate the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian taurine transporter.
143. A method for identifying a substance capable of alleviating the abnormalities resulting from underexpression of a mammalian GABA transporter comprising administering the substance to the transgenic nonhuman mammal of either of claims 83,
85, or 87 and determining whether the substance alleviates the physical and behavioral abnormalities displayed by the transgenic nonhuman mammal as a result of underexpression of a mammalian transporter.
144. A method for identifying a substance capable of alleviating the abnormalities resulting from underexpression of a mammalian taurine transporter comprising administering the substance to the transgenic nonhuman mammal of either of claims 84,
86, or 88 and determining whether the substance alleviates the physical and behavioral abnormalities 


 displayed by the transgenic nonhuman mammal as a result of underexpression of a mammalian transporter.
145. A method for treating the abnormalities resulting from underexpression of a mammalian transporter which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claims 78 or 79 effective to alleviate the abnormalities resulting from underexpression of a mammalian transporter.
146. A method for diagnosing a predisposition to a disorder associated with the expression of a specific mammalian transporter allele which comprises:
a. obtaining DNA of subjects suffering from the disorder;
b. performing a restriction digest of the DNA with a panel of restriction enzymes;
c. electrophoretically separating the resulting DNA fragments on a sizing gel;
contacting the resulting gel with a nucleic acid probe capable of specifically hybridizing to DNA encoding a mammalian transporter and labelled with a detectable marker;
e. detecting labelled bands which have hybridized to the DNA encoding a mammalian transporter labelled with a detectable marker to create a unique band pattern specific to the DNA of subjects suffering from the disorder; 


 f. preparing DNA obtained for diagnosis by steps a-e; and
g. comparing the unique band pattern specific to the DNA of subjects suffering from the disorder from step e and the DNA obtained for diagnosis from step f to determine whether the patterns are the same or different and to diagnose thereby predisposition to the disorder if the patterns are the same.
147. The method of claim 96 wherein a disorder associated with the expression of a specific mammalian transporter allele is diagnosed.
148. A method of preparing the isolated transporter of claims 16 or 18 which comprises:
a. inducing cells to express transporter;
b. recovering the transporter from the resulting cells; and
c. purifying the transporter so recovered.
149. A method of preparing the isolated transporter of claims 16 or 18 which comprises:
a. inserting nucleic acid encoding transporter in a suitable vector;
b. inserting the resulting vector in a suitable host cell;
c. recovering the transporter produced by the 


 resulting cell; and
d. purifying the transporter so recovered.
150. A method for preparing membranes comprising a GABA transporter which comprises:
a. inserting nucleic acid encoding the GABA transporter in a suitable vector;
b. inserting the resulting vector in a suitable host cell;
c. preparing a cell lysate; and
d. isolating membranes from the resulting cell lysate.
151. A method for preparing membranes comprising a taurine transporter which comprises:
a. inserting nucleic acid encoding the taurine transporter in a suitable vector;
b. inserting the resulting vector in a suitable host cell;
c. preparing a cell lysate; and
d. isolating membranes from the resulting cell lysate.
152. A method for isolating vesicles comprising the GABA transporter which comprises: 


 a. inserting nucleic acid encoding the GABA transporter in a suitable vector;
b. inserting the resulting vector in a suitable host cell;
c. preparing a cell lysate; and
d. isolating vesicles from the resulting cell lysate.
153. A method for isolating vesicles comprising a taurine transporter which comprises:
a. inserting nucleic acid encoding the taurine transporter in a suitable vector;
b. inserting the resulting vector in a suitable host cell; and
c. preparing a cell lysate; and
d. isolating vesicles from the resulting cell lysate.
154. A method for determining whether a compound is capable of binding to a mammalian GABA transporter which comprises contacting a preparation of the isolated membranes of claim 150 with the compound under suitable conditions to permit binding of the compound to the transporter, detecting the presence of any compound bound to the transporter, and the presence of bound compound indicating that the compound is capable of binding to the mammalian GABA transporter. 


155. A method for determining whether a compound is capable of binding to a mammalian taurine transporter which comprises contacting a preparation of isolated membranes of claim 151 with the compound under suitable conditions to permit binding of the compound to the taurine transporter, detecting the presence of any compound bound to the taurine transporter, and the presence of bound compound indicating that the compound is capable of binding to the mammalian taurine transporter.
156. A method for determining whether a compound is capable of binding to a mammalian GABA transporter which comprises contacting a preparation of isolated vesicles of claim 152 with the compound under suitable conditions to permit binding of the compound to the transporter, detecting the presence of any compound bound to the transporter, and the presence of bound compound indicating that the compound is capable of binding to the mammalian GABA transporter.
157. A method for determining whether a compound is capable of binding to a mammalian taurine transporter which comprises contacting the preparation of isolated vesicles of claim 153 with the compound under suitable conditions to permit binding of the compound to the taurine transporter, detecting the presence of any compound bound to the taurine transporter, and the presence of bound compound indicating that the compound is capable of binding to the mammalian taurine transporter.
158. A method for identifying a compound which enhances 


 or decreases GABA transporter activity which comprises contacting a preparation of membrane vesicles of claim 152 with the compound under suitable conditions to permit binding of the compound, and detecting an increase or decrease in GABA transporter activity.
159. A method for identifying a compound which enhances or decreases taurine transporter activity which comprises contacting a preparation of membrane vesicles of claim 153 with the compound under suitable conditions to permit binding of the compound, and detecting an increase or decrease in taurine transporter activity. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
