<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651933</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW POWER VIDEO SECURITY MONITORING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N5232	H04N5232	H04N718	H04N718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
If motion occurs in an area viewed by a lens (14) of a video camera (12), a video security monitoring system (10) establishes a communication link with a video monitoring facility and begins transmitting compressed video images of the area. The system (10) is fabricated from CMOS integrated circuits, and operates at a reduced clock frequency while motion is not detected. Reducing the clock frequency lowers the required power thus permitting operation of the system (10) on energy supplied by an ISDN basic access communication channel. If motion occurs, a digital video image compression subsystem (16) begins producing low quality compressed video data for transmission to the monitoring facility. If motion occurs in the central region of the area viewed by the lens (14), then the subsystem (16) produces a single high quality compressed video image. Commands transmitted from the monitoring facility to the video security monitoring system (10) may control its entire operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HATA MASATO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOZ MARK C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HATA, MASATO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATA MASATO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOZ MARK C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATA, MASATO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOZ, MARK C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LOW POWER VIDEO SECURITY MONITORING SYSTEMTechnical FieldThe present invention relates generally to the technical field of security devices that sense movement, and more par¬ ticularly, to video systems for observing an area to detect motion.Background Art Well known in the art .are video security systems that present an observer located at a video monitoring facility with a succession of images of different areas, each area being viewed by a lens of a different video camera. However, these video systems are completely passive in the sense that detecting an intrusion into the area viewed by the camera's lens remains the responsibility of the observer. That is, the video camera provides the observer with no assistance in detecting an intrusion. Thus, if the observer at the video monitoring facility is distracted or fails to notice the occurrence of an intrusion, no alarm will be raised. It is also possible that the occurrence of an intrusion might be missed because images of other areas are being presented to the observer at the instant the intrusion occurs. Furthermore, because the video signal from each video camera must be trans- mitted to the video monitoring facility by a wide bandwidth, coaxial cable, or by some other type of wide bandwidth, dedicated communication channel such as a microwave link, it is commercially impractical to distribute this type of video security system at sites randomly located within an extended geographic area, such as throughout a large city.In addition to well known, passive security systems of the type described above, active, motion sensing video systems have been developed for military battlefield applications. However, these experimental military systems were physically very large, e.g. were carried on a trailer and towed by a jeep, consumed hundreds of watts of power, and were very expensive.Recently, throughout the world, telephone systems have begun providing digital communication capability in accordance 

with the Integrated Services Digital Network ("ISDN") standard established by the International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee ("CCITT") . Under this CCITT standard, a basic ISDN access consists of two full-duplex 64 kilobits per second ("kbps") digital data channels, called channel Bl and channel B2, plus another full-duplex 16-kbps digital channel, called a D channel. Under the CCITT standard, using time division multiplexing, all three of these digital data channels may be transmitted over a single pair of twisted wires, or over two pairs
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A video security monitoring system comprising: a video camera for producing a video signal from an image of an area viewed by a lens of said video camera, said video camera including an iris control; a digital video image compression subsystem for receiving the video signal from said video camera, for digitally processing the video signal to determine if any motion is occurring in the area viewed by the lens of said video camera, for converting the video signal into compressed digital video data that provides an image of the area viewed by the lens of said video camera, and for transmitting the compressed digital video data; a digital signal transmission interface and control for controlling the operation of said video camera and said digital video image compression subsystem, for receiving the compressed digital video data from said digital video image compression subsystem, and for transmitting the compressed digital video data from said video security monitoring system to a remote video monitoring facility via a communication channel if said digital video image compression subsystem determines that motion has occurred in the area viewed by the lens of said video camera; and a camera control for effecting changes in settings of the iris control of said video camera to compensate for changes in video camera sensitivity.
2. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said digital signal transmission interface and control transmits the compressed digital video data from said video security monitoring system via an ISDN basic access communication channel.
3. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said digital signal transmission interface and control transmits the compressed digital video data from said video 


security monitoring system via an ISDN primary access communication channel.
4. The video sect ity monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said digital signal transmission interface and control transmits the compressed digital video data from said video security monitoring system via an analog signal communication channel.
5. The video security monitoring system of claim 4 wherein said digital signal transmission interface and control transmits further includes a modem for transmitting the compressed digital video data from said video security monitoring system via the analog signal communication channel.
6. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said digital signal transmission interface and control receives electrical power for energizing operation of said video security monitoring system from the communication channel.
7. The video security monitoring system of claim 6 further comprising a power supply for adapting electrical energy received from the communication channel for energizing the operation of electronic circuits included in said video camera, said digital video image compression subsystem, said digital signal transmission interface and control, and said camera control.
8. The video security monitoring system of claim 7 wherein said power supply also stores electrical energy for energizing operation of said video security monitoring system.
9. The video security monitoring system of claim 8 wherein said power supply stores electrical energy in a battery. 


 10. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said digital signal transmission interface and control transmits the compressed digital video data from said video security monitoring system via an optical fibre communication channel.
11. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said digital signal transmission interface and control broadcasts the compressed digital video data from said video security monitoring system via a wireless communication channel.
12. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said video camera further includes a focus control, and said camera control effects changes in the setting of the focus control responsive to control signals received from said digital signal transmission interface and control.
13. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said video camera further includes a zoom lens, and said camera control effects changes in the setting of the zoom lens responsive to control signals received from said digital signal transmission interface and control.
14. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said camera control tilts said video camera responsive to control signals received from said digital signal transmission interface and control.
15. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said camera control pans said video camera responsive to control signals received from said digital signal transmission interface and control.
16. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 further comprising a serial control for exchanging digital signals between said digital signal transmission interface and 


control and a monitoring device external to said video security monitoring system.
17. The video security monitoring system of claim 16 wherein said monitoring device transmits signals to said video security monitoring system responsive to atmospheric conditions.
18. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 further comprising a compr ssed data memory for temporarily storing compressed digital video data transmitted from said digital video image compression subsystem.
19. The video security monitoring system of claim 18 wherein said compressed data memory retains compressed digital video data stored therein even after interruption of all electrical power that energizes operation of said video, security monitoring system.
20. The video security monitoring system of claim 19 wherein said compressed data memory stores compressed digital data on a magnetic recording device.
21. The video security monitoring system of claim 19 wherein said compressed data memory stores compressed digital data in a FLASH semiconductor memory.
22. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 further comprising a strobe light for momentarily illuminating the area viewed by the lens of said video camera.
23. The video security monitoring system of claim 22 wherein said strobe light emits a pulse of light responsive to a signal received from said digital signal transmission interface and control.
24. The video security monitoring system of claim 22 wherein said strobe light emits a pulse of light responsive to 


a signal received from said digital video image compression subsystem.
25. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 further comprising a light emitting stylus that emits light directed toward the lens of said video camera for presenting an image of the movement of said stylus to said video camera.
26. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 further comprising: a microphone for producing an audio signal from sound occurring about said video security monitoring system; and a digital audio compression subsystem for receiving the audio signal from said microphone, for digitally processing the audio signal to determine if any change in sound has occurred about said video security monitoring system, for converting the audio signal into compressed digital audio data of sound occurring about said video security monitoring system, and for transmitting the compressed digital audio data to said digital signal transmission interface and control.
27. The video security monitoring system of claim 1 further comprising: a digital audio decompression subsystem for receiving compressed digital audio data from said digital signal transmission interface and control, for converting the compressed digital audio data into an audio signal, and for transmitting the audio signal; and a speaker for receiving the audio signal from said digital audio decompression subsystem and producing an audible sound therefrom.
28. A method for operating a video security monitoring system, the video security monitoring system including a video camera and a digital video image compression subsystem that are fabricated using digital circuits which operate in response to clock signals, said method comprising the steps of: 


 providing slow clock signals to the digital circuits included in the video security monitoring system whereby the video security monitoring system requires a low amount of electrical power; producing a video signal from an image of an area viewed by a lens of the video camera and transmitting the video signal to the digital video image compression subsystem; digitally processing the video signal in the digital video image compression subsystem to determine if any motion is occurring in the area viewed. by the lens of the video camera; if motion is detected in the area viewed by the lens of the video camera, increasing the speed of the clock signals provided to the digital circuits included in the video security monitoring system thereby increasing the amount of electrical power required by the video security monitoring system, and after increasing the speed of the clock signals commencing conversion by the digital video image compression subsystem of successive images of the video signal received from the video camera into compressed digital video data to produce compressed digital video data for a sequence of images of the area viewed by the lens of the video camera; and transmitting the compressed digital video data from the video security monitoring system to a remote video monitoring facility via a communication channel.
29. The method of claim 28 further comprising the steps of: compressing the video signal to produce a lower quality image while the digital video image compression subsystem detects no motion within a central region of the image; and compressing the video signal to produce a higher quality image if the digital video image compression subsystem detects motion in the central region of the image. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
