<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0602962</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Display for automatic rearview mirror
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60Q300	B60R112	B60R108	B60R112	B60Q304	B60R108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60Q	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60Q	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60Q3	B60R1	B60R1	B60R1	B60Q3	B60R1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rearview mirror system for a vehicle having a 
reflective element (12) with a reflective surface (28) 

and a variable light transmission element (22) includes 
an optical display device (34) behind the reflective 

element in order to produce a visual display to the 
driver. A control is provided having a light sensor (40) 

that senses light conditions in the vicinity of the 
vehicle and produces a continuously variable light signal 

indicative of such sensed light conditions. The control 
further includes a drive circuit (49) that is responsive 

to the light signal in order to supply a drive signal to 
the reflective element and thereby establish the light 

transmission level of the light transmission element. 
The control further includes an intensity control circuit 

(44) that varies the intensity of the optical display as 
a function of the value of the sensed light in the 

vicinity of the vehicle in order to accommodate 
physiological changes in the driver's eyes. The 

intensity control circuit further varies the intensity of 
the optical display device as a function of the drive 

signal supplied to the reflective element in order to 
compensate for reduced light transmission levels of the 

light transmission element. The intensity control 
circuit sums values of the light signal and the drive 

signal and processes the sum to a pulse-width modulated 
signal using a non-linear processor. The intensity 

control also provides a substantially constant high 
intensity of the optical display device for all values of 

sensed light above a predetermined high light level and 
for all values of sensed light below a predetermined low 

light level. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DONNELLY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DONNELLY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSON MARK L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYNAM NIALL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHIERBEEK KENNETH L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSON, MARK L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYNAM, NIALL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHIERBEEK, KENNETH L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to automatic 
rearview mirror systems and, more particularly, to such 
systems incorporating optical display devices within the 
reflective element in order to display alphanumeric 
indicators or graphic symbols to the driver. It has been known to incorporate alphanumeric and 
graphic displays in vehicle automatic rearview mirror 
systems. One such example is illustrated in United 
States Patent 4,882,565 issued to W. Gallmeyer for 
INFORMATION DISPLAY FOR REARVIEW MIRRORS, which is 
assigned to the assignee of the present application. In 
the Gallmeyer patent, a plurality of graphic indicia, 
such as warning signals, are individually displayed near 
the edge of the reflecting area of the mirror by 
separately illuminating light emitting diodes (LED) 
associated with each indicia. Such information displays 
are also useful for displaying, in either graphic or 
alphanumeric form, the output of an electronic compass in 
order to inform the driver of the compass heading of the 
vehicle. The indicia are etched in the reflective 
surface of the mirror and a light filter material is 
provided between the indicia and the light source. In United States Patent 5,253,109 issued to Desmond 
J. O'Farrell and Richard J. Gahan for an ELECTRO-OPTIC 
REARVIEW MIRROR WITH CONSTANT LIGHT TRANSMITTING AREA which patent 
is commonly assigned to the present assignee, a portion 
of the variable reflective element of the automatic 
rearview mirror, in the vicinity of the display, is 
maintained in a non-coloured state regardless of the 
state of coloration of the reflective element. In this 
manner, the intensity of the display placed behind the 
variable reflective element, as viewed by the driver, is 
not affected by the light transmission level, or 
transmissivity, of the electrochromic cell.  
 It is known to vary the intensity of automobile 
electronic display systems between a first intensity 
level for bright ambient light conditions and a second 
intensity level for dark ambient light conditions. Such 
intensity variation may be performed by varying the ratio 
between on and off conditions, or duty cycle, of the 
display, provided that the switching is sufficiently fast 
to avoid perception by the human eye. In United States 
Patent 4,388,558 issued to Mizuno et al. the display 
intensity of an automobile electronic display system is 
switched between such levels by monitoring the switch 
used to actuate the vehicle headlights in order to 
respond to changes in ambient light
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rearview mirror system for a vehicle comprising: 

a reflective element (12) including a variable light 
transmission element (22) and a reflective surface (28) 

behind said variable light transmission element (22), 
drive circuit means (49) for supplying a drive signal 

(52) to the reflective element (12) in order to establish 
the transmissivity of the variable light transmission 

element (22), an optical display device (34) and a 
control means including an intensity control circuit (44) 

that is operable to vary the intensity of the optical 
display device (34);
 
   characterised in that said optical display device 

(34) is an illuminated display device which emits light 
behind said variable light transmission element (22) to 

be viewed through the variable light transmission element 
and said intensity control circuit (44) varies the 

intensity of the optical display device (34) in order to 
reduce change in display intensity perceived by a driver 

resulting from changes in the light transmissivity of the 
light transmission element (22) attenuating the light 

emitted by the display. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein the intensity control circuit (44) is operable to 

vary the intensity of the optical display device (34) as 
a function of the drive signal (52). 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein the control means further include light sensing 

means (40) responsive to light in the vicinity of the 
vehicle to produce a continuously variable light signal 

(42), and wherein the intensity control circuit (44)  
 

further varies the intensity of the optical display 
device (34) as a function of the value of the light 

signal (42). 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claim 3, 
wherein the drive circuit means (49) include a light 

sensor (18,20) responsive to light in the vicinity of the 
vehicle to produce an output signal (72) indicative of 

the light in the vicinity of the vehicle, and means (74) 
response to the output signal (72) for producing the 

drive signal (52), wherein the light sensing means 
(18,20) include means responsive to the output signal for 

producing the light signal. 
A rearview mirror system as claims in claim 3, 
wherein the intensity control circuit (44) varies the 

intensity of the optical display device (34) as a non-linear 

function of the values of the drive signal (52) 
and the light signal (42). 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claim 3, 
including means (74) responsive to at least the light 

signal (42) for producing the drive signal (52). 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
3 to 6, wherein the control means include first means 

responsive to the light signal for producing a first 
value that increases for increasing sensed light levels, 

second means responsive to the drive signal for producing 
a second value that increases for decreasing light 

transmission levels of the light transmission element and 
determining means (90) response to the sum of the first 

and second values for determining the intensity of the 
optical display device (34).  

 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claim 7, 
wherein the determining means (90) include means for 

varying the intensity of the optical display device as a 
non-linear function of the sum. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein the control means include light sensing means 

(18,20) that are responsive to light conditions in the 
vicinity of the vehicle for producing a continuously 

variable light signal (42) and the intensity control 
means (44) are responsive to the light signal (42) for 

varying the intensity of the optical display device (34) 
as a function of the light conditions on the vicinity of 

the vehicle. 
A rearview mirror system as claims in claim 9, 
wherein the drive circuit means (49) include light 

sensing means (18,209) arranged to sense light in the 
vicinity of the vehicle and to produce an output signal 

(72) indicative of the light in the vicinity, and means 
(74) response to the output signal (71) for producing the 

drive signal (52), wherein the light sensing means 
include means responsive to the output signal for 

producing the light signal. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claims 9 or 
10, wherein the intensity control means (44) vary the 

intensity of the optical display device (34) as a non-linear 
function of the light signal (42). 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claim 9, 10 
or 11 wherein the control means include determining means 

for varying the intensity of the optical display device 
as a non-linear function of the sum of the light signal  

 
and the drive signal. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claim 9, 10, 
11 or 12, wherein the control means provide a control 

signal (46) for varying the intensity of another vehicle 
display device (92) as a function of at least the light 

level in the vicinity of the vehicle. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
3 to 13, wherein the intensity control means (44) are 

arranged to provide a substantially constant low 
intensity output of the optical display device (34) for 

sensed light levels below a first predetermined 
threshold. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
3 to 14, wherein the intensity control means (44) are 

arranged to provide a substantially constant high 
intensity output of the optical display device (34) for 

sensed light levels above a second predetermined higher 
threshold. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
2 to 15, wherein the intensity control means (44) include 

a time filter (84) having a time constant that is a 
function of the response characteristic of the reflective 

element (12) in order to match changes in the intensity 
of the optical display device (34) with changes in the 

light transmissivity of the variable light transmission 
element (22) resulting from changes in the drive signal 

(52). 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in claim 16, 
wherein the variable light transmission element (22)  

 
increases in light transmissivity at a different rate 

than the variable light transmission element (22) 
decreases in light transmissivity and wherein the time 

filter (84) has asymmetrical time constant. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
3 to 17, including forced-bleach input means (85) 

arranged to receive an indication that the light 
transmission element (22) is being forced into a high 

light transmissivity condition and override means 
responsive to the indication for causing the control 

means to vary the intensity of the optical display device 
(34) only as a function of the value of light in the 

vicinity on the vehicle. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
1 to 18, wherein the reflective element (12) is an 

electrochromic element. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
1 to 19, wherein the optical display device (34) is 

arranged to indicate compass headings. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
1 to 20, wherein the optical display device (34) is a 

vacuum fluorescent device. 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
1 to 21, wherein the control means are operable to 

produce a blanking period signal is disable the optical 
display device (34) and wherein the control means varies 

the intensity of the optical display device (34) by 
varying the duty cycle of the blanking signal.  

 
A rearview mirror system as claimed in any of claims 
1 to 22, wherein the control means provide an output 

signal (46) for varying the intensity of another vehicle 
display device (92) as a function of at least the value 

of light in the vicinity of the vehicle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
