<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646943</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Color cathode-ray tube
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J2907	H01J2907	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J29	H01J29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shadow mask (20) of a color cathode ray tube comprises 
a mask body (26) having a rectangular effective 

area (23) with a large number of electron beam apertures 
(21), a non-effective area (24) surrounding the 

effective area, and a skirt portion extending from a 
peripheral portion of the non-effective area. The mask 

body has a belt-shaped reinforcing bead (28) extending 
between two end edges (29) of the mask body, which are 

in parallel to the vertical axis, through a central portion 
of the mask body and projecting from the effective 

area toward a phosphor screen. The reinforcing bead 
is formed such that a projecting height thereof is 

gradually decreased from the central portion of the mask 
body toward the two end edges of the mask body and such 

that the projecting height thereof at boundaries (30) 
between the effective and non-effective areas becomes 

about not more than 2/3 the height of the reinforcing 
bead at the central portion of the mask body. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a color cathode-ray 
tube and, more particularly, to a color cathode-ray 
tube in which a reinforcing bead is formed on the effective 
area of a shadow mask to improve the mechanical 
strength of the shadow mask. Generally, a color cathode-ray tube has an envelope 
constituted by a substantially rectangular spherical 
panel and a funnel integrally bonded to this panel. A 
phosphor screen comprising dots or stripes of three-color 
phosphor layers that emit blue, green, and red 
light components is formed on the inner surface of the 
panel. A rectangular shadow mask is arranged on the 
inner side of the phosphor screen to oppose it. The 
shadow mask has a rectangular mask body and a mask frame 
attached to the skirt portion of the mask body. The 
mask body has a rectangular effective area which is 
formed spherically to have a predetermined radius of 
curvature and in which a large number of electron beam 
apertures are formed with a predetermined arrangement, 
and a non-effective area which is located around the 
effective area and in which no electron beam apertures 
are formed. The skirt portion is formed continuously to 
the non-effective area. The shadow mask is supported on 
the inner side of the panel such that its effective area 
opposes the phosphor screen, by engaging a frame holder, 
attached to the mask frame, with stud pins provided on  
 
the panel. An electron gun for emitting three electron 
beams toward the phosphor screen is disposed in the neck 
of the funnel. The shadow mask serves to select three electron 
beams emitted from the electron gun so that they are 
correctly land on the corresponding ones of the three-color 
phosphor layers. In the cathode-ray tube, the 
three electron beams emitted from the electron gun are 
deflected by a magnetic field generated by a deflecting 
yoke which is mounted on the outer surface of the 
funnel, and the deflected electron beams are selected 
by the shadow mask to scan the phosphor screen in the 
horizontal and vertical directions, thereby displaying 
a color image. In color cathode-ray tubes having this arrangement, 
one having a flat screen is recently put into practical 
use. In the color cathode-ray tube of this type, as the 
screen surface is made flat, the effective area of the 
shadow mask is also made flat. Therefore, doming of the 
effective area toward the phosphor screen, which occurs 
when the shadow mask is subjected to thermal expansion 
by impingement of the electron beams against the shadow 
mask,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A color cathode-ray tube comprising; 

a face panel (1) having a phosphor screen (3) 
formed on a inner surface thereof; and 
a shadow mask (20) disposed to oppose the phosphor 
screen with a predetermined gap, 
said shadow mask (20) including: 
a mask body (26) having a substantially 
rectangular effective area (23), formed with a large 

number of electron beam apertures (21) through which 
electron beams pass, a non-effective area (24) 

surrounding the effective area, and a skirt 
portion (25) extending from a peripheral portion of the 

non-effective area said skirt portion having end edges (29) defined as the boundary between the non-effective area (24) and the skirt portion (25), the mask body (26) having a center 
coinciding with a tube axis (Z), horizontal and 

vertical axes (X, Y) extending through the center, and 
a mask frame (27) mounted on the skirt portion of 
the mas
k body; 
 
characterized in that: 


said mask body (26) includes a belt-shaped 
reinforcing bead (28) formed by shaping said mask 

body (26) and extending between two end edges (29) of 
the skirt portion, which are in parallel to the 

vertical axis, through a central portion of the mask 
body and projecting from the effective area (23) toward 

the phosphor screen (3), 
the reinforcing bead (28) being formed such that a 
projecting height thereof is gradually decreased from 

the central portion of the mask body (26) toward said 
two end edges of the mask body (26) and such that the  

 
projecting height thereof at boundaries (30) between 

the effective and non-effective areas becomes about not 
more than 2/3 a height of the reinforcing bead at the 

central portion of the mask body. 
A color cathode-ray tube according to 
claim 1, characterized in that the reinforcing 

bead (28) is formed such that the projecting height h 
thereof at the central portion of the mask body (26) 

satisfies the following relationship: 

0.1t ≤ h ≤ 3t 
 
where t is a thickness of said mask body. 
A color cathode-ray tube according to 
claim 1, characterized in that the reinforcing 

bead (28) extends in parallel to the horizontal axis of 
the mask body (26). 
A color cathode-ray tube according to 
claim 1, characterized in that the mask body (26) has a 

plurality of reinforcing beads (28a, 28b) which extend 
in parallel to the horizontal axis of the mask body. 
A color cathode-ray tube according to 
claim 1, characterized in that:
 
   the reinforcing bead (28) is formed such that the 

projecting height thereof is constant from the central 
portion of the mask body (26) toward portions in the 

vicinities of said two end edges of the effective area 
and is gradually decreased from said portions toward 

said two end edges of the effective area to be 0 at 
said two end edges of the effective area. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
