<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630323</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CARPET AND TECHNIQUES FOR MAKING AND RECYCLING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29B1700	B29B1700	B29B1702	B29B1702	B29B1704	B29B1704	B29C4700	B29C4700	B32B500	B32B500	B32B2500	B32B2510	B32B2712	B32B2712	B32B3714	B32B3715	D05C1700	D05C1702	D06N700	D06N700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29B	B29B	B29B	B29B	B29B	B29B	B29C	B29C	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	D05C	D05C	D06N	D06N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29B17	B29B17	B29B17	B29B17	B29B17	B29B17	B29C47	B29C47	B32B5	B32B5	B32B25	B32B25	B32B27	B32B27	B32B37	B32B37	D05C17	D05C17	D06N7	D06N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYLOOM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYLOOM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINK WILBERT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINK WILBERT E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
ή.CARPET AND TECHNIQUES FOR MAKING AND RECYCLING SAMEBACKGROUNDField of the Disclosure; 5 The present invention relates to carpets and methods for making and recycling carpets. More specifically, the carpet may be tufted and possess one or more backing layers.Description of the Prior Art;10 Tufted carpets are composite structures in which the face fiber forming the pile, i .e . , the surface of the carpet, is needled through a primary backing and the base of each tuft extends through the primary backing and is exposed on the bottom surface of the15 primary backing.The basic manufacturing approach to the commercial production of tufted carpeting is to start with a woven scrim or primary carpet backing and to feed this into a tufting machine or a loom. The carpet face fiber is20 needled through and embedded in the primary carpet backing thus forming a tufted base or griege goods.Griege goods are typically backed with an adhesive coating in order to secure the face fiber to the primary backing. Low cost carpet often receives only a25 latex adhesive coating as the backing. This type of 

carpet is widely used in boats and is called marine backed carpet. Typically, the marine backed carpets are backed with a latex adhesive coating that is water and/or mildew resistant. Higher cost carpet often receives both a secondary backing and a latex adhesive coating.The face fiber or yarn used in forming the pile of a tufted carpet is typically made of any one of a number of types of fiber, e . g. , nylon, acrylics, polypropylene, polyethylene, polyamides, polyesters, wool, cotton, rayon and the like.Primary backings for tufted pile carpets are typically woven or non-woven fabrics made of one or more natural or synthetic fibers or yarns, such as jute, wool, polypropylene, polyethylene, polyamides, polyesters, and rayon. Films of synthetic materials, such as polypropylene, polyethylene and ethylene-propylene copolymers may also be used to form the primary backing. Likewise, secondary backings for tufted pile carpets are typically woven or non-woven fabrics made of one or more natural or synthetic fibers or yarns. Preferably, secondary backings for tufted pile carpets are open weave or leno weave, i.e., tape yarn in the warp direction and spun staple fiber in the fill direction. The spun staple fiber is more costly but desirable to increase adhesion between the backing and the latex adhesive.The application of the latex adhesive coating involves preparing griege goods by stitching a primary carpet backing material with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS; 1. A carpet including at least a primary backing, tufts of carpet fibers protruding from a top surface of the primary backing, secondary backing and an extruded sheet between and integrally fused to a bottom surface of said primary backing and an upper surface of said secondary backing, wherein said primary backing, secondary backing and extruded sheet comprise an isotactic polyolefin polymer.
2. The carpet as claimed in Claim l, wherein said isotactic polyolefin polymer in each of said primary backing, secondary backing and extruded sheet is an isotactic polypropylene polymer.
3. The carpet as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said isotactic polypropylene polymer is a homopolymer; random, impact or block copolymer; or terpolymer.
4. The carpet as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said carpet fibers are integrally fused to said extruded sheet.
5. The carpet as claimed in Claim 1, having a delamination strength of at least 2.5 lb./inch of width.
6. A recyclable carpet comprising a thermoplastic polyolefin primary backing having tufts of carpet fibers protruding from a top surface of said primary backing and thermoplastic polyolefin polymer extruded sheet integrally fused to a bottom surface of said primary backing. 


 7. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 6, wherein said thermoplastic polyolefin polymer is an isotactic polymer.
8. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 6, wherein said extruded sheet is about 0.5 to about 20 mils thick.
9. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 7, further comprising a thermoplastic polyolefin polymer secondary backing integrally fused to said extruded sheet, wherein said extruded sheet is positioned between said primary backing and said secondary backing.
10. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 9, wherein said primary backing and extruded sheet comprises an isotactic polymer.
11. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 10, wherein said secondary backing comprises an isotactic polymer.
12. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 7, wherein said extruded sheet comprises a thermoplastic elastomer.
13. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 7, further including a coextruded layer integrally fused to a bottom surface of said extruded sheet, wherein said coextruded layer comprises a thermoplastic elastomer.
14. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 6, wherein said carpet fibers are integrally fused to said extruded sheet. 


 15. A recyclable carpet comprising a primary backing having tufts of carpet fibers protruding from a top surface of said primary backing, and an extruded sheet integrally fused to a bottom surface of said primary backing wherein both said primary backing and said extruded sheet comprise an isotactic polypropylene polymer.
16. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 15, wherein said tufts of carpet fibers protruding from a top surface of said primary backing comprise an isotactic polypropylene polymer.
17. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 16, further including a secondary backing comprising an isotactic polypropylene polymer.
18. The recyclable synthetic carpet material as claimed in Claim 17, having a delamination strength of at least 2.5 lb./inch of width.
19. The recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 15, wherein said carpet fibers are integrally fused to said extruded sheet.
20. A recyclable carpet including at least a primary backing, tufts of carpet fibers protruding from a top surface of the primary backing, a secondary backing and an extruded sheet between and integrally fused to a bottom surface of said primary backing and an upper surface of said secondary backing wherein said primary backing, tufts, secondary backing and extruded sheet comprise an isotactic polypropylene polymer. 


 21. A process for manufacturing a recyclable carpet comprising contacting a bottom surface of a primary backing having tufts of synthetic carpet fibers protruding from its top surface with an extruded sheet of a thermoplastic polyolefin polymer at a temperature sufficiently high to integrally fuse said extruded sheet to the bottom surface of said primary backing.
22. The process for manufacturing a carpet as claimed in Claim 21, wherein said thermoplastic polyolefin polymer is an isotactic polymer.
23. The process for manufacturing a carpet as claimed in Claim 21, further comprising contacting a secondary backing with said extruded sheet at a temperature sufficiently high to integrally fuse said extruded sheet to the top surface of said secondary backing.
24. The process as claimed in Claim 23, wherein each said primary backing, extruded sheet and secondary backing comprises an isotactic polypropylene homopolymer; random, impact or block copolymer; or terpolymer.
25. The process as claimed in Claim 24, wherein said temperature is at least 450°F.
26. The process as claimed in Claim 21, wherein said temperature is at least 100°F higher than the melting point of the thermoplastic polyolefin polymer.
27. A process for manufacturing a recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 21, further comprising contacting a coextruded layer with a bottom surface of said extruded sheet at a temperature sufficiently high 


to integrally fuse said extruded sheet to said coextruded layer, wherein said coextruded layer comprises a thermoplastic elastomer.
28. The process for manufacturing a recyclable carpet as claimed in Claim 21, wherein said temperature is sufficiently high to integrally fuse said carpet fibers to said extruded sheet.
29. A method for recycling a carpet comprising manufacturing a carpet, said manufacturing comprising contacting a bottom surface of a primary backing material having tufts of carpet fibers protruding from its top surface with an extruded sheet of a thermoplastic polyolefin polymer; collecting portions of said carpet selected for recycling; grinding said selected portions; and melting said ground portions to make a feedstock.
30. The method for recycling a carpet as claimed in Claim 29, further comprising separating at least one thermoplastic polymer from said ground carpet and melting said separated thermoplastic polymer to make a feedstock.
31. The method for recycling a carpet as claimed in Claim 30, further comprising grinding said portions of said carpet to a fiber length of less than about one quarter of an inch.
32. A method for recycling a carpet comprising manufacturing a carpet, said manufacturing comprising contacting a bottom surface of a primary backing material having tufts of carpet fibers protruding from its top surface with an extruded sheet, wherein said fibers, primary backing and extruded sheet are all made 


from a thermoplastic polyolefin polymer; collecting portions of said carpet for recycling; and melting said portions to make a feedstock.
33. The method for recycling a carpet as claimed in Claim 32, further comprising grinding said collected carpet portions.
34. The method for recycling a carpet as claimed in Claim 33, further comprising grinding said portions of said carpet to a fiber length of less than about one quarter of an inch.
35. The method for recycling a carpet as claimed in Claim 34, further comprising separating at least one thermoplastic polymer from said ground carpet and melting said separated thermoplastic polymer to make a feedstock.
36. A method for recycling a thermoplastic polymer comprising grinding a carpet having at least a primary backing and tufts of carpet fibers protruding from a top surface of said primary backing, separating at least one thermoplastic polymer from the ground carpet, melting said at least one thermoplastic polymer to obtain a feedstock and extruding said at least one thermoplastic polymer into a desired shape. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
