<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637102</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for visibly indicating a properly fitted connector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R13627	H01R1364	H01R13627	H01R13639	H01R13641	H01R1364	H01R13639	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cover for covering a lock arm is mounted through 
a self hinge portion on an upper surface of a female 

housing for pivotal movement between an open and a closed 
position, and a non-engagement detection projection is 

formed on a back surface of the cover at a proximal end 
portion thereof. When the cover is pushed by an operator 

to be closed, the lock arm slants forwardly upwardly with 
a hook portion placed on an engagement portion formed on a 

male housing. If the male and female housings are not 
engaged with each other, and therefore the non-engagement 

detection projection abuts against the lock arm, the cover 
is held in a raised condition thus indicating that the 

housings are not engaged with each other. Because the 
cover is mounted integrally on the housing, the number of 

the component parts is reduced, and extra management of 
the parts and extra assembling steps are eliminated. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ICHIDA KIYOFUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEGAWA AKIHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ICHIDA, KIYOFUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEGAWA, AKIHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of indicating a
properly fitted connector and a connector that is releasably
fitted on a mating connector and is maintained in engagement
with the mating connector by a lock arm. More particularly,
this invention relates to a connector having a
clearly visible structure for indicating whether two housings
are completely engaged with each other.One known connector having such an indicator is disclosed
in Japanese Utility Model Unexamined Publication No.
2-50981.In this connector, when a male connector housing b is
fitted in a female connector housing a, which is connected
to an equipment (not shown) in a direction of an arrow 100
as shown Fig. 4(A), a lock arm c provided on the housing b
is engaged with an engagement portion d provided on the female
housing a, so that the two housings a and b are held
in an engaged condition.A cover f is mounted on an upper surface of the female
housing a for pivotal movement about a shaft h, and a detection
portion g for abutting against a projection e
formed on a rear end of the male housing b in the fitting
direction is mounted on the cover f in a projected manner.
The cover f is normally held in an upright posture (Fig.
4(A)) by a resilient force of a torsion coil spring i.In a non-engaged condition of the two housings a and b
as shown in Fig. 4(B), when the cover f is pushed down after
the male housing b is fitted, the detection portion g
on the cover f abuts against the projection e on the male
housing b, thereby detecting the fact that the two housings
a and b are not engaged with each other. However, in addition to the housing a, the detection
device of the connector requires many component parts including
the cover f, the shaft h and the torsion coil
spring i. Accordingly, the cost for this connector has been
greatly increased, and the management of the component
parts and the assembling operation have been cumbersome.Another disadvantage is that because the cover f is
mounted on the connector connected to the equipment, the
construction of the equipment has been limited. For example,
where a connector is integrally mounted on a small device
such a relay, the overall size of the device is increased
because of an increased size of the connector portion.From DE-A-38 39 728, especially the embodiment according
to Figs. 4 to 5 thereof, there is known a connector the
present invention starts from.DE-A-38 39 728 shows a female connector and a male connector,
whereas the female connector has a cover and the
male connector has a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A connector system comprising a connector adapted to be releasably fitted relative
to a mating connector (5), said connector and said mating

connector (5) constituting said connector system,
which comprises:


a connector housing (1);
a lock arm (2) that is engageable with an engagement
portion (6) to hold the connector housing (1) and mating

housing (5) in an engaged condition when the mating connector
housing (5) is engaged with the connector housing

(1);
a cover (8) mounted through a self-hinge portion (10)
on said connector housing (1) for pivotal movement between

an open position and a closed position; and
a non-engagement detection projection (11) for maintaining
said cover in a raised position when said lock arm

is not fully engaged,

   characterized in that

   said lock arm (2) and said cover (8) for covering said
lock arm (2) both are provided on said connector housing

(1) such that when said mating connector housing (5) is
fully engaged with said connector housing (1), said cover

(8) covers said lock arm (2), since said non-engagement detection
projection (11), which is formed on at least one of

said lock arm (2) and said cover (8), no longer interferes
with said lock arm (2), thus rendering said cover (8) movable

into its closed position such that said cover (8) covers
said lock arm (2).
A connector system according to claim 1, wherein said cover
(8) is provided with a retaining portion (13) that is

engageable with said connector housing (1) to hold said cover 
in such a condition that said cover covers said lock

arm.
The connector system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
said lock arm (2) provides interference between said cover

(8) and said lock arm (2) when the connector housing (1) is
not properly fitted with said mating connector housing (5).
The connector system according to anyone of claims 1 to 3,
wherein said lock arm (2) includes a hook portion (3) adapted

to engage with an engagement portion (6) of said mating
connector housing (5) when said the mating connector housing

(5) is engaged with said connector housing (1).
The connector system according to anyone of claims 1 to 4,
wherein said lock arm (2) is pivotably mounted on a fulcrum

located on said connector housing (1).
The connector system of claim 4, wherein said engagement
portion (6) and said hook portion (3) of said lock arm (2)

each includes a first inclined surface and a second surface,
and said interference is provided when said inclined

surfaces are engaged.
The connector system of claim 6, wherein a fully connected
position is achieved when said inclined surfaces disengage

and said second surfaces engage, thereby preventing said
interference between said cover (8) and said lock arm (2).
The connector system according to anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein said non-engagement detection projection (11) is

formed on said cover (8).
The connector system according to anyone of claims 1 to 8,
wherein said self-hinge (10) biases said cover (8) to an

open position. 
The connector system according to anyone of claims 1 to
9, wherein said cover (8) includes at least one retaining

portion having a retaining pawl (13) that is engageable
with a retaining hole (15) formed in said connector housing

(1) when said cover (8) and said lock arm (2) do not interfere.
A method of connecting first and second connector
housings (1, 5) and visually indicating a properly connected

condition, the first connector housing (1) including
a pivotable cover (8) and a lock arm (2) that includes a

hook portion (3) engageable with an engagement portion (6)
formed on said second connector housing (5), said method

comprising the steps of:


sliding the first and second connector housings (1, 5)
together so as to make contact between the hook portion (3)

and the engagement portion (6);
pivoting said cover (8) relative to said housing (1);
engaging the cover (8) and the lock arm (2) in an interfering
manner to indicate an incomplete connection when

the first and second connector housings (1, 5) are not
fully engaged; and
connecting a distal end of the cover (8) with the housing
(1) to indicate a complete connection when the first

and second connector housings (1, 5) are fully engaged.
The method of claim 11, wherein the distal end of
the cover includes retaining portions having locking pawls

(13) that are engageable with corresponding retaining holes
(15) formed in the housing, and the connecting step includes

inserting the locking pawls (13) in the retaining holes
(15) to maintain the indication of a complete connection.
The method of claim 11 or 12, wherein the pivoting
step includes pivoting the cover (8) about a self-hinge

member (10) mounted to said connector housing (1). 
The method of anyone of claims 11 to 13, further
comprising providing the cover (8) with a non-engagement

detection portion (11) and the step of engaging includes
engaging the non-engagement detection portion (11) with the

hook portion (3) to indicate said incomplete connection.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
