<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650322</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PEST CONTROL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01M122	A01M120	A01M114	A01M100	A01M102	A01M104	A01M110	A01M102	A01M100	A01M120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01M	A01M	A01M	A01M	A01M	A01M	A01M	A01M	A01M	A01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Pest control wherein at least part of a pest is exposed to particles which carry an electrostatic charge, preferably of opposite polarity to that of the surface of the pest, and which may be sticky or tacky and comprise a wax, for example, a plant wax, such as, Carnauba wax, or an inorganic material, such as, talc. A pesticide, such as, a chemical or microbial insecticide, or a behaviour modifying chemical may be associated with the particles which may also be dispensed in and/or dispersed via a liquid or gaseous carrier, possibly from a pressurised gas or aerosol dispenser at whose nozzle the particles are charged electrostatically by friction. In a preferred embodiment, a trap with a lure (45, 53) has a surface (34), preferably sloping, coated with the particles for destabilising pests and a trapping zone (41, 43) into which destabilised pests fall from the particle-coated surface (34) and are retained for subsequent disposal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV SOUTHAMPTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHAMPTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWSE PHILIP EDWIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWSE, PHILIP EDWIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to pest control by
trapping and/or killing and is especially, but not
exclusively, related to the control of flying or
crawling insects and the like.The most common domestic insect pests are
houseflies, mosquitoes and cockroaches.The common housefly, Musca domestica, occurs
throughout the world in domestic situations. Along
with similar species, such as, the lesser housefly,
blowflies and flesh flies, it contaminates food and
spreads diseases, such as, typhoid and cholera, and
also carries the eggs of parasitic worms.The housefly is also a problem on refuse tips and
is becoming a progressively greater nuisance in
agriculture, where it breeds in deep litter breeding
units for poultry and other animals.The cockroach is ubiquitous in urban situations
in the tropics and sub-tropics and is common in heated
buildings in Britain, the rest of Europe and North
America where food is prepared. Large cockroach
populations are found in sewers and drains and many
disease organisms have been isolated from them.The mosquito is both a severe nuisance pest and
vastly important as a vector for blood-borne diseases,
such as, malaria, yellow fever, dengue and the like.Control of those insect pests is becoming more
urgent as human populations increase and provide more
resources for them to breed. Insecticide use inevitably encourages the
evolution of resistance. In Britain, as in many other
countries, prolonged attempts to control houseflies in
animal rearing systems have led to the increasing
incidence of flies which are resistant to the major
insecticides in common use. These insects can spread
into private houses. For instance, there was national
concern recently over the discovery of pyrethroid-resistant
houseflies in households in southern
Hampshire and as a result, sales of sticky fly-papers
rocketed.Control of insects in areas where food is
prepared depends upon scrupulous hygienic procedures,
periodic fumigation with insecticides and/or the use
of traps.There is increasing public pressure throughout
Europe for the development of environmentally-acceptable
pest control measures in which synthetic
insecticides are not used. The present invention
provides a unique opportunity to meet that concern.Commercially-available insect traps divide into
three basic types:
1) "sticky traps", such as, fly-papers or
cardboard "box" or "delta" type traps (for
cockroaches and others) with sticky inserts;2) "no-exit traps", such as the Victorian-style
fly trap which is dome-shaped with a funnel-shaped
entra
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of controlling pests, such as
insects, by killing them, wherein at least part of a

pest to be killed is exposed to particles coated on a
surface to which the pest is lured, the particles

carrying an electrostatic charge which is of opposite
polarity to that of the surface of the pest, and

having a pesticide or behaviour modifying chemical associated therewith.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
surface is part of a plant.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
surface is of an enclosure into which the pest is

lured.
A method as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the pest is lured by means

of a light source or chemical lure.
A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
chemical lure is a pheromone attractant.
A method as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims wherein the particles comprise a wax,

such as Carnauba wax, or an inorganic material, such
as a magnesium silicate.
A method as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims wherein the pesticide is a chemical

or microbial insecticide. 
A method as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims wherein the particles are charged

electrostatically by friction or other suitable means.
A method as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims wherein the surface to which the

particles are applied, is inclined to the horizontal.
A pest trap comprising an enclosure with an
entrance, means arranged to lure a pest into the

enclosure via the entrance, and means arranged to
expose at least part of a pest lured into the

enclosure to particles carrying an electrostatic
charge which comprises a surface inside the enclosure

coated with the particles,
said particles

having a pesticide or behaviour modifying chemical associated therewith.
A pest trap according to claim 10, wherein
the means arranged to lure the pest is one of a light

source and a chemical lure.
A pest trap according to claim 11, wherein
the chemical lure is a pheromone attractant.
A pest trap as claimed in any one of claims
10 to 12 wherein the particles comprise a wax, such as

Carnauba wax or an inorganic material, such as a
magnesium silicate.
A pest trap as claimed in any one of claims
10 to 13 wherein the coated surface is inclined to the

horizontal. 
A method of controlling pests, such as
insects, by trapping them, wherein at least part of a

pest to be trapped is exposed to particles coated on a
surface to which the pest is lured, the particles

carrying an electrostatic charge which is of opposite
polarity to that of the surface of the pest, whereby a

pest which lands on the surface becomes at least
partially coated with the charged particles so that it

loses its ability to adhere to the surface and falls
into a trapping zone.
A method as claimed in claim 15, in which
the feet of the pest which lands on the surface become

at least partially coated with the charged particles.
A method as claimed in claim 15 or claim 16,
wherein the surface is part of a plant.
A method as claimed in claim 15 or claim 16,
wherein the surface is of an enclosure into which the

pest is lured.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 15
to 18, wherein the pest is lured by means of a light

source or chemical lure.
A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the
chemical lure is a pheromone attractant.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 15
to 20 wherein the particles comprise a wax, such as

Carnauba wax, or an inorganic material, such as a
magnesium silicate. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 15
to 21 wherein the particles are charged

electrostatically by friction or other suitable means.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 15
to 22 wherein the surface to which the particles are

applied, is inclined to the horizontal.
A pest trap comprising an enclosure with an
entrance, means arranged to lure a pest into the

enclosure via the entrance, and means arranged to
expose at least part of a pest lured into the

enclosure to particles carrying an electrostatic
charge which comprises a surface inside the enclosure

coated with the particles,
and a trapping

zone located below the surface, whereby a pest which

lands on the surface becomes at least partially coated
with the charged particles so that it loses its

ability to adhere to the surface and falls into the
trapping zone.
A pest trap as claimed in claim 24 in which
the surface is formed with an edge over which the pest

can fall into the trapping zone.
A pest trap according to claim 24 or claim
25, wherein the means arranged to lure the pest is one

of a light source and a chemical lure.
A pest trap according to claim 26, wherein
the chemical lure is a pheromone attractant.
A pest trap as claimed in any one of claims
24 to 27 wherein the particles comprise a wax, such as 

Carnauba wax or an inorganic material, such as a
magnesium silicate.
A pest trap as claimed in any one of claims
24 to 28 wherein the coated surface is inclined to the

horizontal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
