<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623142</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAMMALIAN ADIPOGENIC FACTORS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K14435	C07K1447	C07K1452	C07K1618	C07K1618	C07K1624	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C07K16	C07K16	C07K16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Mammalian adipogenic factors, including purified proteins or glycoproteins, capable of inducing the adipose differentiation of adipogenic cells are disclosed, as are antibodies to such proteins, DNA encoding the proteins and host cells expressing the proteins. A method for determining the susceptibility of a subject to obesity by measuring the levels of one or more adipogenic factors in a biological fluid or tissue extract is also disclosed, as is a method for evaluating an anti-obesity drug which comprises contacting the drug with cells capable of producing one or more adipogenic factors and measuring the amount of the factors produced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALTON JONES CELL SCIENCE CENTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALTON JONES CELL SCIENCE CENTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SERRERO GINETTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SERRERO GINETTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MAMMALIAN ADIPOGENIC FACTORSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe invention in the field of cell biology, physiology and medicine relates to purified mammalian adipogenic proteins, genetic constructs thereof, antibodies thereto, and methods of using such factors to determine susceptibility to obesity and for evaluating efficacy of anti-obesity drugs.Description of the Background Art Adipose differentiation of adipogenic cell lines is under the control of protein or glycoprotein factors called "adipogenic factors" which either trigger or stimulate the process of adipose differentiation. The isolation and complete identification of adipogenic factors is important because of their role in turning on the differentiation program. Reports in the literature have disclosed that abnormal levels of circulating adipogenic factors exist in the blood of obese individuals (Lau, D.CW. et al.. (1984) Proc. 7th International Congress Endocrinology Excerpta Medica. p. 866) . Adipogenic factors have been found in fetal bovine serum and in human serum and plasma. Crude fetuin preparations have been shown to possess adipogenic activity that is heat sensitive and acid (pH 1) sensitive. The adipogenic activity was attributed to the fetuin itself (Gaillard, D. et al. (1985) Biochem. Biophys. Acta j346.:185-191) . There have been additional reports of bovine or human serum or plasma factors which provided little or no characterization of the physico-chemical properties of the factors (Meada, Y.Y. et al. (1980) Exp. Cell. Res. 126;99-107; Kuri-Harcuch, W. et al.. (1978) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 75;6107-6109; Serrero, G. et al. (1979), In: Hormone and Cell Culture. Cold Spring Harbor Conference on Cell Proliferation, Vol. 6, (R. Ross et al.. eds.), Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.); D. Gaillard et al. (1984) In Vitro Cell. Dev. Biol. 2j):79-88; and G. Sypniewska et al. (1986) Int. J. Obesity 10.:265-276) . 

 Aproliferin, a factor purified from human plasma, is a 45 kDa protein (Weir, M.L. et al. , Am. J. Physiol. (1982) 125:546-554) which induces loss of proliferative potential of 3T3-T proadipocytes. Based on its molecular weight and mode of action (Grimaldi, P. et al. (1982) E BO J. 1:687-692) . aproliferin is distinct from the adipogenic factors of the present invention. A heat labile, acid stable and protease stable active fraction has also been isolated from fetal calf serum (Grimaldi et al. r supra) . It appears likely that the active component is arachidonic acid, a fatty
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A mammalian liver cell-derived adipogenic factor comprising an adipogenic protein having an apparent molecular weight of about 50 kDa, or an aggregate or complex of said protein, said factor being of sufficient purity such that its adipogenic activity per milligram protein is at least 625 times that of an extract or conditioned medium of liver cells from which it is obtained.
2. An adipogenic factor according to claim 1, wherein said adipogenic protein or aggregate or complex is an aggregate or complex of said protein with other identical molecules or with molecules of a carrier protein, said aggregate or complex having an apparent molecular weight of about 150 to about 230 kDa.
3. An adipogenic factor according to claim 1, wherein said adipogenic protein or aggregate or complex is said adipogenic protein substantially free of other proteins with which it is natively associated.
4. An adipogenic factor according to claim 1 that is of human origin.
5. An adipogenic factor according to claim 4 which is derived from a cultured hepatocyte or hepatocyte tumor cell line.
6. An adipogenic factor according to claim 5, wherein said cell line is the HepG2 cell line.
7. An adipogenic factor according to claim 1, prepared by the steps of:
(a) obtaining the conditioned medium of said cells and concentrating said conditioned medium about 25- to about 40-fold;
(b) subjecting the concentrated material obtained in step (a) to Heparin-Sepharose chromatography at neutral pH and eluting the bound material with a salt at a concentration of about 1 molar; 


 (c) solubilizing the eluate of step (b) with a non- ionic or non-denaturing zwitterionic detergent to dissociate any aggregates or complexes of the adipogenic protein; (d) subjecting the solubilized material obtained in step (c) to size-exclusion chromatography and collecting the material having a molecular weight of about 50 kDa;
(e) subjecting the material obtained in step (d) to anion exchange chromatography at neutral pH and eluting with a salt gradient; and
(f) subjecting the eluate of step (e) to reverse- phase HPLC and eluting with a gradient of a nonpolar organic solvent in the presence of an ion-pairing agent.
8. An adipogenic factor according to claim 7, wherein said salt in step (b) is NaCl, said detergent in step (c) is n-octyl,β-D-glucopyranoside or 3- [ (3-cholamidopropyl) - dimethylammonio] -1-propane sulfonate, said size-exclusion chromatography is with a Sephacryl S-300 column, said anion exchange chromatography is with a Mono Q column, said salt gradient of step (e) is with 0 to 5 M NaCl, said gradient of step (f) is 0-50% acetonitrile, and said ion pairing agent is 0.1% trifluoroacetate.
9. A mammalian serum-derived adipogenic factor comprising an adipogenic protein having an apparent molecular weight of about 34 kDa, a pi of 9.6, and stability to a pH of between about 4.0 and 8.0, or an aggregate or complex of said adipogenic protein, said factor being of sufficient purity such that its adipogenic activity per milligram protein is at least about 250 times that of the adipogenic activity of whole serum or of crude fetuin. 


 10. An adipogenic factor according to claim 9, wherein said adipogenic protein or aggregate or complex is an aggregate or complex of said protein with other identical molecules or with molecules of a carrier protein, said aggregate or complex having an apparent molecular weight of about 660 kDa.
11. An adipogenic factor according to claim 10, wherein said aggregate or complex is an aggregate or complex of said adipogenic protein with a carrier protein is selected from the group consisting of α2-macroglobulin and acidic glycoprotein fetuin.
12. An adipogenic factor according to claim 9, wherein said adipogenic protein or aggregate or complex is said adipogenic protein substantially free of other proteins with which it is natively associated.
13. A adipogenic factor according to claim 9 that is of bovine origin.
14. An adipogenic factor according to claim 13 isolated from crude bovine fetuin.
15. An adipogenic factor according to claim 9 prepared by the steps of:
(a) suspending, dissolving or dialyzing crude fetuin into a chromatofocusing buffer;
(b) chromatofocusing the material obtained in step (a) on a chromatofocusing column which has been equilibrated with said buffer of step (a) , and collecting the unbound flow-through fraction;
(c) solubilizing said flow through fraction with a non-ionic or non-denaturing zwitterionic detergent to dissociate any aggregates or complexes of the adipogenic protein;
(d) subjecting said solubilized flow through fraction obtained in step (c) to cation exchange chromatography and eluting with a salt gradient; 


 (e) subjecting the eluate of step (d) to reverse- phase HPLC and eluting with a gradient of a nonpolar organic solvent in the presence of an ion-pairing agent.
16. An adipogenic factor according to claim 15, wherein said buffer in step (a) is a 25 mM imidazole-HCl buffer, pH 8.0, said chromatofocusing column of step (b) is a polybuffer exchanger column, said detergent of step (c) is n- octyl,β-D-glucopyranoside or 3- [ (3-cholamidopropyl) - dimethylammonio] -1-propane sulfonate, said cation exchange chromatography is with an S-Sepharose column, said salt gradient of step (d) is 0 to 0.2 M NaCl, said gradient of step (e) is 0- 50% acetonitrile, and said ion pairing agent is 0.1% trifluoroacetate.
17. A DNA molecule encoding an adipogenic factor according to claim 3, said DNA molecule being substantially free of nucleotide sequences encoding proteins with which said protein is natively associated.
18. A DNA molecule according to claim 17 which is an expression vehicle.
19. A host cell transformed with the DNA molecule of claim 17.
20. A DNA molecule encoding an adipogenic factor according to claim 12, said DNA molecule being substantially free of nucleotide sequences encoding proteins with which said protein is natively associated.
21. A DNA molecule according to claim 20 which is an expression vehicle.
22. A host cell transformed with the DNA molecule of claim 21. 


 23. An antibody specific for an adipogenic factor according to claim 1.
24. An antibody specific for an adipogenic factor according to claim 3.
25. An antibody specific for an adipogenic factor according to claim 9.
26. An antibody specific for an adipogenic factor according to claim 12.
27. A method for determining the susceptibility of a subject to obesity which comprises removing a sample of a biological fluid or tissue from said subject and measuring the amount of a adipogenic factor according to claim 1 in said fluid or tissue, the amount of said factor being proportional to said susceptibility.
28. A method for determining the susceptibility of a subject to obesity which comprises removing a sample of a biological fluid or tissue from said subject and measuring the amount of an adipogenic factor according to claim 9 in said fluid or tissue, the amount of said factor being proportional to said susceptibility.
29. A method for evaluating the efficacy of an aπti- obesity drug which comprises contacting said drug with an adipogenic cell in vitro and measuring the amount of an adipogenic factor according to claim 1 produced by said cell.
30. A method for evaluating the efficacy of an.anti- obesity drug which comprises contacting said drug with an adipogenic cell in vitro and measuring the amount of an adipogenic factor according to claim 9 produced by said cell. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
