<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612502</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multi-dimensional visualization apparatus for observing tissue
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1500	G01S1589	G01S7523	G01S752	A61B814	G01S7539	A61B500	G01S752	A61B814	A61B500	G01S7539	G01S7526	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	A61B	G01S	A61B	G01S	A61B	A61B	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S15	G01S15	G01S7	G01S7	A61B8	G01S7	A61B5	G01S7	A61B8	A61B5	G01S7	G01S7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-dimensional visualization apparatus for observing 
tissue has a diagnostic apparatus (10) for producing ultrasonic 

tomographic image data with respect to respective parallel 
cross sections of tissue to be observed, an image memory (13a) 

for temporally storing the tomographic image data in the 
respective cross sections, fed from the diagnostic apparatus, 

and a computer (14). The computer has a detection function 
(S13, S14) for detecting layer surface positions in the 

respective cross sections of the tissue based upon the 
tomographic image data stored in the memory, to produce layer 

surface coordinate data indicative of the detected layer 
surface positions, a coordinate transformation function (S16) 

for converting the layer surface coordinate data of the 
respective cross sections into three-dimensional coordinate 

data, and a display function (S17, S18) for displaying both a 
three-dimensional image of the layer surface positions in the 

respective cross sections of the tissue based upon the 
converted three-dimensional coordinate data and the tomographic 

image of a desired cross section based upon the tomographic 
image data stored in the memory, on the same screen. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
S S B CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
S. S. B. CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJITA TATSUMORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDO SEIJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJITA, TATSUMORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDO, SEIJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a multi-dimensional
visualization apparatus for observing tissue within a body by
using a function of producing ultrasonic tomographic images
provided for example in an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus.The ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus can produce a
tomographic image of tissue in a cross section of a body,
scanned by its ultrasound probe in contact with the body
surface. In order to produce the ultrasonic tomographic image
of, for example, a certain tissue at a particular depth within
the body, following operations will be executed. First, the
linear-scanning type probe of the ultrasonic diagnostic
apparatus is contacted with the body surface near the tissue.
Then, a pulsated ultrasound beam is directed into the body from
the probe and the reflected echo is received by the probe. The
intensity of this received echo is then displayed along a time
axis. By linearly scanning the above-mentioned ultrasound beam
from the probe, a single tomographic image can be displayed. 
For diagnosis of the tissue, it is necessary to observe a
plurality of the tomographic images which are produced by
displacing the probe perpendicularly to its linear-scanning
direction.According to the conventional ultrasonic diagnosis, a
medical doctor is used to find abnormal portions within the
body and examines pathologic changes by observing a large
number of tomographic images. Therefore, it is necessary for
such the diagnosis to have special and high-degree experience
and also special skill. In other words, only a medical doctor
specially trained can examine the tomographic images.Furthermore, the conventional ultrasonic diagnostic
apparatus is a one utilized mainly for observing viscera, not
for observing bone, tendon or muscle tissues of the body. No
apparatus can easily observe bone, tendon or muscle tissues
without the assistance of expert image-examination technique.
Although bone structure of the limbs can be observed by means
of radiography, a special qualification will be necessary for
treating X-ray and also there may be harmful of X-ray
radiation.In document EP-A0 452 532, an ultrasound apparatus is disclosed wherein a
three-dimensional image
may be obtained which is, formed by
synthesizing a plurality of two-dimensional tomographic image signals which are obtained by
changing the position and direction of the probe to various positions and directions. This
known apparatus displays on the same screen
either the three-dimensional image obtained in this way or a
tomographic image together
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-dimensional visualization apparatus for observing
tissue comprising:


means (10, 11) for producing ultrasonic tomographic image data
of a plurality of parallel cross sections (D
1
, D
i
, D
n
) of tissue,
said ultrasonic tomographic image data of each of said

cross sections comprising a plurality of tomographic image pixel data
arranged in each of said cross sections (D
1
, D
i
, D
n
) in a matrix along
an ultrasound advancing direction (Z) and an

ultrasound scanning direction (X);
memory means (13a) for temporally storing the tomographic image
pixel data;
means (14) for calculating average values within a designated interesting
area (42a, 52a, 52b) on a tomographic image (42, 52) of a desired cross

section of said plurality of cross sections (D
1
, D
i
, D
n
), said average values
being obtained by averaging the stored

tomographic image pixel data along the ultrasound advancing
direction (Z) within the designated interesting area (42a, 52a, 52b), said

calculation of the average values being executed in every
cross section to produce two-dimensional image

data; and
means (14c) for displaying on the same screen (40, 50)
both a two-dimensional image (41, 51) of the

tissue based upon the produced two-dimensional image data and
the tomographic image (42, 52) of the desired cross section based upon the

tomographic image pixel data stored in the memory means (13a).
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said
displaying means (14c) includes means for displaying on the screen

(40, 50). the tomographic image (42, 52) of the desired cross section and the
two-dimensional

image (41, 51) with a mark (43, 53) for indicating the position of the displayed
cross section.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said
displaying means (14c) displays said two-dimensional image (41, 51) in various

luminance intensities depending upon the produced two-dimensional
image data.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said displaying 
means (14c) displays said two-dimensional image (41, 51) in different colors

depending upon the produced two-dimensional image data.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said
apparatus further comprises means for detecting layer surface

positions in the cross sections (D
1
, D
i
, D
n
) of the tissue based
upon the tomographic image pixel data stored in the memory

means (13a), to produce layer surface coordinate data indicative of
the detected layer surface positions, and means for deleting

the tomographic image pixel data stored in the memory means (13a),
in the cross sections (D
1
, D
i
, D
n
) of the tissue based upon the
layer surface coordinate data and a designated surface

compensation value.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said
designated interesting area (42a, 52a, 52b) is specified by at least the layer

surface coordinate data and a desired variable depth.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said

designated interesting area (42a, 52a, 52b) is a designated interesting slice
area with a strip shape.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said
apparatus further comprises means for moving said interesting

slice area in the ultrasound advancing direction (Z) to another 
designated area.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said
interesting slice area extends in parallel with the

ultrasound scanning direction (X), or inclined to the ultrasound
scanning direction (X).
An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said
detecting means includes means for eliminating low leveled echo

component from contents of the tomographic image pixel data stored in
the memory means (13a).
An apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said
eliminating means includes means for forcibly changing

to zero the contents of the tomographic image
pixel data having values equal to or less than a

predetermined value.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein said
detecting means includes means for comparing values of

neighboring tomographic image pixel data
along the ultrasound advancing direction (Z) to detect a

position where a difference between the compared values changes
to a value larger than zero.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
apparatus further comprises means (15) for measuring thermal

distribution on a body surface and means for displaying on
the screen (40, 50) the

measured thermal distribution and the
tomographic image.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said
apparatus further comprises means (16) for producing a moire pattern

on a body surface and means for simultaneously displaying
on the screen (40, 50) an

image indicating outside changes of the body surface obtained
from the moire pattern producing means (16) and the tomographic

image.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
