<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649112</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method and means for enhancing optical character recognition of printed documents.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1110	G06F1110	G06F1721	G06F1721	G06F1722	G06F1722	G06K903	G06K903	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F11	G06F11	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06K9	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A document marker (27) including first values 
dependent upon the layout and the contents of the 

document and assigned by generating or preprocessing 
software (21) is provided in machine-readable symbology 

on the face of a printed version (24) of the document. 
The marker (27) may include encoded document layout 

information and values assigned on sequences of the 
original text, including text-dependent decimation 

sequences, error correction codes or check-sums. Upon 
optical character recognition scanning (16), or other 

digitizing reproduction, the marker (27) is also scanned. 
The scanning computer (28), having corresponding software 

(29,26), assigns second values dependent upon the layout 
and contents of the reproduced document. Upon comparison 

of the first and second decimation sequences, line and 
character errors can be detected and some errors 

corrected, thereby generating re-aligned candidate 
sequences. Optional error correction codes can provide 

further correcting capabilities, as applied to the re-aligned 
reproduced document sequences, and an optional 

check-sum comparison can be utilized to verify that the 
accuracy of the reproduced sequences is correct. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOPRESTI DANIEL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDBERG JONATHAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOPRESTI, DANIEL P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDBERG, JONATHAN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the use of automatically 
generated document markers, and this 
Application is related to our European Patent 
Application No. 93308020.2. More particularly, the 
invention relates to the use of markers of 
encoded information incorporated into each page of a 
document for providing a means for not only document 
identification and document structure recognition, but 
also error detection and error correction when the 
marked documents are reproduced using optical 
character recognition technology. The identification of products using computer 
readable bar codes, wherein digital data is recorded 
directly on paper, provides for item identification 
given a fixed set of values using simple numeric 
encoding and scanning technologies. Identification of 
computer generated and stored documents is another 
technology which has been developed using binary 
encoding to identify and provide for retrieval of 
stored documents. Most document-generating software 
programs provide not only identification and/or 
retrieval information for the document, but also  
 
include encoded information for provision to an 
associated printer specifying, for example, such 
details as spacing, margins and related layout 
information. Once the document has been printed on 
paper, however, that information no longer accompanies 
the document, other than as discerned by the user. If 
it is desired to reproduce the document using an 
optical character recognition (OCR) system, there is 
no automatic means by which to communicate the layout 
information through the scanner and to the receiving 
computer. A desirable extension of the identification 
technology would be, therefore, the provision of a 
means for generating a paper version of a document 
which can be recognized, reproduced and proofread by a 
computer by optically scanning a marker incorporated 
in or on the paper document in conjunction with the 
OCR text scanning of the document. Document or product identification systems 
which have been employed in the past include bar code 
markers and scanners which have found use in a wide 
range of arenas. With respect to paper documents, 
special marks or patterns in the paper have been used 
to provide information to a related piece of 
equipment, for example the job control sheet for image 
processing as taught by Hikawa in U.S. Patent No. 
5,051,779. Similarly, identifying marks have been 
incorporated into forms as described in U.S. Patent  
 
No. 5,060,980 of Johnson, et al. The Johnson, et al.

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for electronically reproducing 
character data of a computer-generated printed 

document, comprising the steps of: 
   assigning a plurality of first binary 

values to first character data, wherein one first 
binary value is assigned to each one character of said 

first character data; 
   printing said data and said plurality of 

first binary values; 
   optically scanning said printed document 

comprising said first character data and said 
plurality of first binary values to create an 

electronic document comprising at least one string of 
second characters; 

   assigning a plurality of second binary 
values to said string of second characters, wherein 

one second binary value is assigned to each one second 
character; and 

   comparing said plurality of first binary 
values to said plurality of second binary values. 
The method Claim 1 further comprising the 
step of identifying the existence and location of 

second character errors whenever said second binary 
value for a character is different from said first 

 
binary value for said character. 
The method of Claim 2 further comprising 
the step of automatically correcting said identified 

errors. 
The method of Claim 3 wherein said 
correcting comprises realigning said plurality of 

second binary values to said plurality of first binary 
values to eliminate said errors. 
The method of any preceding Claim further 
comprising the step of creating at least one string 

of third characters by altering said at least one 
string of second characters. 
The method of any preceding Claim wherein 
said assigning further comprises assigning at least 

one first data-dependent value to said first character 
data and said printing further comprises printing 

said at least one first data-dependent value. 
The method of Claim 6 wherein said 
assigning of at least one first data-dependent value 

to said first character data comprises encoding error 
correction information for said first character data. 
The method Claim 7 further comprising 
applying said encoded error correction information to 

said at least one string of third characters. 
The method of any of Claims 6 to 8 wherein 
said assigning of at least one data-dependent value to 

said first character data comprises calculating at least 
 

one first check-sum for said first character data. 
The method of Claim 9 further comprising 
the steps of: 

   calculating at least one second check-sum 
for said at least one string of third characters; 

   comparing said at least one first 
check-sum to said at least one second check-sum; and 

   detecting the existence of at least one 
error in said at least one string of third characters 

when said check-sums differ. 
A method for encoding data-dependent 
information about a printed document having at least a 

plurality of lines of printed text comprising the 
steps of: 

   decimating said printed text into a 
plurality of binary values; and 

   printing a marker comprising said 
plurality of encoded binary values in machine-readable 

symbology on the surface of said printed document. 
The method of Claim 11 further comprising 
encoding the details of said document layout and 

printing said document layout encoding in said marker. 
The method of Claim 11 or 12 further comprising 
assigning a plurality of substitution error 

correction codes to said printed text and printing 
said codes in said marker. 
The method of any of Claims 11 to 13 further 

 
comprising calculating at least one check-sum for said 

printed text and printing said check-sum in said marker. 
A marker for provision in 
machine-readable symbology on the surface of a printed 

document having lines of printed characters, comprising: 
   at least one decimation sequence encoding 

the printed characters. 
The marker of Claim 15 further comprising 
at least one check-sum calculated on said printed 

characters. 
The marker of Claim 15 or 16 further comprising 
at least one layout dependent value calculated 

on the layout of said printed document. 
The marker of any of Claims 15 to 17 further 
comprising at least one error correction code related 

to said printed characters. 
A method for producing more accurate 
optical character recognition reproduction of 

documents having lines of original printed text and at 
least one document marker including a plurality of 

first decimation sequences, each corresponding to a 
sequence of said printed text, and at least one first 

check-sum value calculated on said sequence of printed 
text, comprising the steps of: 

   creating an electronic document 
comprising a plurality of first reproduced text 

sequences by optically scanning said original printed 
 

text; 
   optically scanning said at least one 

document marker; 
   decoding said plurality of first 

decimation sequences from said scanned document marker; 
   decimating said reproduced text into a 

plurality of second decimation sequences; 
   calculating edit distances between 

corresponding lines of original printed text and 
reproduced printed text by comparing said first and 

said second decimation sequences; 
   comparing said edit distances and 

identifying line insertion and deletion errors in said 
reproduced text when said edit distances differ by 

more than a predetermined amount; 
   correcting detected line insertion and 

deletion errors; 
   comparing each of said corresponding 

plurality of first and second decimation sequences; 
   identifying text errors in said 

reproduced text at the sequence location at which said 
decimation sequences differ; 

   substituting different characters in said 
sequence locations at which text errors have been 

identified to produce at least one second reproduced 
text sequence; 

   calculating a second check-sum for each 
 

of said at least one second reproduced text sequences; 
   comparing said second check-sum to said 

first check-sum; and 
   verifying the accuracy of said second 

reproduced text sequence when said first and said 
second check-sums are equal. 
The method of Claim 19 wherein said 
document marker further comprises a plurality of error 

correction codes for said original text and further 
comprising the step of applying said corresponding 

error correction code to said at least one second 
reproduced text sequence prior to calculating said 

second check-sum for said text. 
A printed document adapted to be 
accurately reproduced by optical scanning, comprising 

perceptible printed data and at least one 
machine-readable marker comprising at least one 

decimation sequence encoding said printed data. 
The document of Claim 21 wherein said at 
least one machine-readable marker further comprises at 

least one check-sum calculated on said printed data. 
The document of Claim 21 or 22 wherein 
said at least one machine-readable marker further 

comprises at least one layout dependent value calculated 
on the layout of said printed document. 
The document of any of Claims 21 to 23 
 

wherein said at least one machine-readable marker 
further comprises at least one error correction code 

related to said printed data. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
