<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0292902</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SINGLE CUE FLIGHT DIRECTOR INDICATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B64D4300	B64D4300	G01C2300	G01C2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B64D	B64D	G01C	G01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B64D43	B64D43	G01C23	G01C23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flight director command indicator for a cathode ray 
tube display has a single cue (38) positioned in roll, 

pitch and translation by combining roll attitude and 
pitch attitude command signals. It includes cooperating 

indicia (30 to 34) for providing visual commands to 
bring the aircraft to a predetermined flight path of 

attitude to satisfy the flight director command. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RASINSKI, JOHN ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to indicating instruments, and 
more particularly to a flight director instrument having 
a single cue responsive to roll, pitch, and heading of an 
aircraft. Aircraft flight director instruments are well known 
for use in providing visual commands to the pilot. 
Thrust, pitch attitude, and bank attitude controls are 
exercised by the human pilot while observing the flight 
director display. When the pilot manipulates the 
aircraft controls in a manner to keep the steering cues 
aligned with corresponding fixed symbols, he will satisfy 
the pitch and roll attitude control laws so that the 
aircraft is maintained on predetermined flight path. The advantages of a command cue which engenders an 
instantaneous pilot response to move the associated 
flight control to satisfy the flight director command are 
discussed in US-A 3,967,236.  A command cue described therein is 
particularly adapted to simulate the appearance and 
response of the collective pitch stick of a helicopter. 
However, the instrument referenced therein provides a 
multiplicity of steering cues and indicia which must be 
coordinated by the human pilot. Such flight director steering cues have in general 
been provided in two forms - steering bars, adapted for 
movement up or down to command corresponding changes in 
pitch and for movement left or right to command bank 
angle changes, and aircraft symbols, representative of 
the attitude of the aircraft, which move up and down to 
command pitch changes and roll left or right to command 
required bank angle changes. An indicator for a flight director instrument which 
is provided with a single cue positioned in roll and 
pitch to provide visual commands for bringing the craft 
to a predetermined flight path of attitude is described 
in US-A 4,351,187. The single cue has 
the advantage of minimizing the workload of the human 
pilot in following the flight director's commands. However, instruments of the type described suffer 
from operational and structural deficiencies. As  
 
mechanical devices, they require complex and delicate 
servos, gears, and meter movements which must be 
accurately calibrated and are expensive to fabricate. 
Further, from an operational viewpoint, while the pitch 
cue seems adequate in the case of both the steering bars 
and aircraft symbol, the roll cue type steering bar 
translates left or right but does not in itself roll, 
while the aircraft symbol rolls, but does not translate 
left or right. Thus, neither device reflects the true 
attitude
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. Display apparatus for an aircraft having a roll axis and 
a pitch axis and having a display face for indicating to 

the pilot the pitch and roll attitudes and horizontal 
translation of the aircraft with respect to said axes, 

characterized by :
a) a stationary reference index (30) indicative of a zero 
error command signal, said index being horizontally 

and centrally disposed with respect to said display 
face, 
b) an elongated indicator element or steering cue (38) 
generally resembling the shape of an aircraft viewed 

in a tail-on perspective, said steering cue being 
moveable in roll, pitch and translation with respect 

to said stationary reference index, and being normally 
disposed in coincidence with said stationary reference 

index (30), 
c) means (16, 24) for providing roll attitude and pitch 
attitude error signals representative of deviations 

from a predetermined flight path, and 
d) means (18) for combining said roll attitude and pitch 
attitude signals and for applying said combined 

signals (26) to said steering cue (28), so that said 
steering cue is commanded to 

d1) a predetermined vertical deviation relative to 
said stationary index in response to said pitch 

attitude error signal and 
d2) to a predetermined bank angle and horizontal 

deviation relative to said stationary index in 
 

responseto a commanded bank angle, 
and for restoring said steering cue to substantial 

coincidence with said stationary reference index 
when said command signals are satisfied by 

redirecting the flight path of the aircraft so that 
said roll attitude error signal and said pitch 

attitude error signal have a null value. 
2. The display apparatus of claim 1, character­
ized in that said display face comprises 

the face of an electroluminescent display. 
3. The display apparatus of claim 2, character­
ized in that said display comprises the 

face of a cathode ray tube. 
4. The display apparatus of claim 2 or 3, charac­
terized by a plurality of horizontal index 

marks (32) vertically disposed on said display face and 
indicative of a predetermined pitch attitude of the 

aircraft. 
5. The display apparatus of claim 4, character­
ized in that said steering cue (38) is 

scaled with respect to said pitch axis to deflect 1,524 
mm per one degree of pitch attitude error signal. 
6. The display apparatus of one of the preceding claims, characterized by a plurality of index 
marks (34) radially disposed on said display face and 

indicative of a predetermined bank angle of the 
aircraft. 
7. This display apparatus of claim 6, charac­
terized in that said steering cue (38) 

is scaled with respect to said roll axis to bank one 
degree of roll per one degree of roll attitude error. 
8. The display apparatus of claim 6 or 7, charac­
terized in that said steering cue (38) 

is scaled with respect to said roll axis to displace 
laterally 25,4 mm per 30 degrees of roll attitude 

error. 
9. The display apparatus of one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the 

steering cue (38) has the general shape of an aircraft 
in silhouette, including 


a) a first elongated member extending generally 
laterally and representative of the wing portions of 

said aircraft, 
b) a second bar-shaped member extending orthogonally 
from said first member and centrally and upwardly 

disposed thereupon, representative of the stabilizer 
portion of said aircraft, and 
c) third and fourth bar-shaped members of equal length, 
 

disposed equidistant from said second member and 
extending downwardly and parallel to said second 

member and representing the landing gear portions of 
said aircraft, 

said second member having a predetermined length 
exceeding the length of said third and fourth 

members. 
10. The display apparatus of claim 9, character­
ized by indicia means (32, 34) cooperating with 

said steering cue (38) for indicating the value of a 
commanded roll angle or a commanded pitch angle of said 

aircraft when said steering cue (38) is displaced 
relative to said indicia means, said steering cue and 

said indicia comprising cooperable pointer and scale 
means responsive to bank angles of the aircraft for 

indicating the bank angle thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
