<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641013</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Gas supply system for a plasma reactor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J3732	H01J3732	C23C1434	H01L21302	H01L2102	C23C1434	C23F400	H01L213065	C23F400	H01L21205	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	C23C	H01L	H01L	C23C	C23F	H01L	C23F	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J37	H01J37	C23C14	H01L21	H01L21	C23C14	C23F4	H01L21	C23F4	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to an RF inductively 
coupled plasma reactor including a vacuum chamber (102) 

for processing a wafer (82), one or more gas sources 
(98, 100) for introducing into the chamber reactant 

gases, and an antenna (80) capable of radiating RF 
energy into the chamber to generate a plasma therein by 

inductive coupling, the antenna lying in a 
two-dimensionally curved surface. In another embodiment 

a plasma reactor includes apparatus for spaying a 
reactant gas at a supersonic velocity toward the portion 

of the chamber overlying the wafer. In a further 
embodiment a plasma reactor includes a planar spray 

showerhead for spraying a reactant gas into the portion 
of the chamber overlying the wafer with plural spray 

nozzle openings facing the wafer, and plural magnets in 
an interior portion of the planar spray nozzle between 

adjacent ones of the plural nozzle openings, the plural 
magnets being oriented so as to repel ions from the 

spray nozzle openings. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a gas supply system for
reactors for performing radio frequency (RF) plasma
chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and sputter etch
processes and particularly to such reactors for
performing both processes simultaneously.CVD formation of a thin silicon dioxide film on
an integrated circuit structure having small (0.5 µm
or less) features with high aspect ratios (i.e., a
large value of the ratio of channel depth to channel
width, e.g., greater than two) is nearly impossible to
accomplish without formation of voids between the
metal lines. As shown in FIG. 1A, in depositing a
dielectric material 10 on a device having a very
narrow channel 12 (i.e., an aspect ratio greater than
2) separating two metal lines 14a, 14b, relatively
little of the dielectric material 10 reaches the
bottom of the channel 12, leaving a void 15. This is
because dielectric material 10 is deposited more
quickly at the corners 16 of the metal lines 14 than
elsewhere along the vertical walls of the metal lines
14, thus at least nearly sealing off the bottom of the
channel 12 during the deposition process. A solution
to this problem is to simultaneously etch the
dielectric material 10 from the corners while
depositing using an RF sputter etch process that uses
ions impinging vertically on the surface, thus
preventing pinching off of the channel 12. This
process can be used for spaces with aspect ratios
greater than two, unlike currently-used sequential
deposition and sputtering which fails below 0.5 µm. As illustrated in the graph of FIG. 1B, an RF
sputter etch process has a maximum etch rate for surfaces
disposed at a 45° angle relative to the incoming ions.
By directing the ions to impinge in a perpendicular
direction relative to the wafer surface, the sputter etch
process quickly etches angled surfaces formed by the
simultaneous deposition process (such as dielectric
surfaces formed over the corners 16) and etches other
surfaces (i.e., horizontal and vertical surfaces) much
more slowly, thus preventing the blockage of the channel
12 and formation of the void 15 shown in FIG. 1A. This
permits deposition of dielectric material preferentially
at the bottom of the channel 12 and on top of the lines
14, relative to the side walls and corners 16, as
illustrated in FIG. 1C.In order to accomplish the foregoing, the RF plasma
sputter etch rate near the corners 16 must be on the
order of the deposition rate. High plasma density is
required to meet the requirement of high sputtering rate
(production throughput) without
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A plasma reactor including a vacuum chamber
means for holding a wafer in the vacuum chamber, an

antenna capable of radiating RF energy into said
chamber to generate a plasma therein and a plurality

of straight, elongate, gas injection nozzles (106)
extending in a radial direction away from a

containment wall of said chamber toward an area
overlying said wafer support, the nozzles being

thermally coupled to the containment wall of the
chamber; characterised in that the nozzles comprise a

plurality of straight, elongate projecting tubes
extending from the containment wall with which they

are in thermal contact and having distal ends to
discharge gas into said area overlaying the wafer

support.
A plasma reactor as claimed in claim 1,
characterised in that the distal end of each of the

nozzles is disposed no closer to a wafer held by said
wafer holding means than an edge thereof.
A plasma reactor as claimed in claim 7,
characterised in that 
the distal end of each nozzle
extends up to but not overlying the edge of a wafer

held by said wafer holding means.
A plasma reactor as claimed in claim 1,
characterised in that the antenna has an upper end and

a lower end, and the nozzles extend away from the
containment wall of the vacuum chamber from a point

between the lower end of the antenna and wafer holding
means.
A plasma reactor as claimed in claim 1,
characterised in that each nozzle comprises a nozzle 

tip having a gas distribution orifice at the distal
end.
A plasma reactor as claimed in claim 5,
characterised in that each nozzle has a ceramic

sleeve disposed within said gas distribution orifice
to prevent clogging.
A plasma reactor as claimed in claim 1,
characterised in that said gas injection nozzles are

capable of spraying a reacting gas at a supersonic
velocity towards a portion of said chamber overlying

said holding means.
A plasma reactor as claimed in claim 7,
characterised in that each of the said nozzles has an

inner portion tapering radially inwardly and an outer
portion tapering radially outwardly.
A plasma reactor as claimed in claim 7,
characterised in that supersonic gas flow from each

nozzle forms a gas diffusion centre displaced from the
distal end thereof to a location overlying said wafer.
A plasma reactor as claimed in claim 7,
characterised in that said orifices each have a size

in the order of 10 mils (0.25 mm) and said chamber has a vacuum
between 1 and 30 milliTorr (0.13 and 40 Pa).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
