<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614283</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Phase lock loop circuit using a sample and hold switch circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03L714	H04L700	H03L708	H04L7033	H04L7033	H04L700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03L	H04L	H03L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03L7	H04L7	H03L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A phase lock loop circuit that can be formed 
into a full monolithic integrated circuit without 

an external component part, and that can maintain 
the phase locked state even for a consecutive 

identical bit state of input data including more 
than several tens of consecutive identical bits. 

The input data (6A) applied to a data input 
terminal (6) is doubled in frequency by a doubler 

(2). A phase difference between the output of 
the doubler and that of a VCO (3) is detected by 

a phase comparator (4), and is supplied to a low-pass 
filter (5) through a sample and hold switch 

circuit (9). The low-pass filter produces a DC 
output corresponding to the phase difference, and 

supplies it to the frequency control terminal of 
the VCO. The output frequency of the VCO is 

controlled so that the phase difference becomes 
zero. The sample and hold switch circuit is 

maintained at the off state (holding mode) during 
the consecutive identical bit state to hold the 

output of the low-pass filter, so that the VCO 
continues that frequency at the beginning of the 

consecutive identical bit state. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON TELEGRAPH 
&
 TELEPHONE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHIHARA NOBORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHIHARA, NOBORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a phase 
lock loop circuit using a sample and hold switch 
circuit which can maintain stable operation in 
spite of input data including many consecutive 
identical bits (0s or 1s) in a data transmission 
system or the like. Phase lock loop circuits play an important 
role as a basic circuit in data transmission 
systems such as communication networks or 
computer networks. They are employed in 
repeating circuits or terminating circuits of the 
data transmission systems as a timing signal 
recovery circuit for generating a clock signal 
from data, or as a skew timing control circuit 
for adjusting timings between data and clock. Fig. 1 shows a conventional circuit which 
employs a phase lock loop circuit for deciding 
data and recovering a timing signal (clock 
signal). In this figure, the reference numeral 1 
designates a decision circuit for detecting data, 
2 designates a doubler, 3 designates a voltage 
controlled oscillator (VCO), 4 designates a phase  
 
comparator, 5 designates a low-pass filter (LPF), 
6 designates a data input terminal, 7 designates 
a data output terminal, and 12 designates a 
timing signal (clock signal) output terminal. The input data 6A applied to the data input 
terminal 6 is doubled in frequency by the doubler 
2, and its output signal 2A is compared with the 
VCO output 3A by the phase comparator 4. The 
output 4A of the phase comparator 4 is converted 
to a DC voltage 5A by the low-pass filter 5, and 
is fed back to the oscillation frequency control 
terminal of the VCO 3. Thus, the timing signal 
(clock signal) in phase with the input data 6A is 
recovered. The decision circuit 1 detects the 
logic state of the input data 6A by using the 
clock signal, and outputs the detected data 
through the data output terminal 7. Fig. 2 schematically illustrates operational 
waveforms of various portions of the conventional 
circuit of Fig. 1 during the phase lock process. 
The input data 6A to the data input terminal 6, 
the output data 7A from the data output terminal 
7, the doubler output 2A of the doubler 2, the 
VCO output 3A of the VCO 3, the phase compared 
output 4A of the phase comparator 4, and the low-pass 
filter output 5A of the low-pass filter 5 
are shown in (A) - (F) of Fig. 2, respectively. 
The phase compared output 4A from the phase 
comparator 4 is illustrated in terms of (a) phase 
lead, (b) in phase, and (c) phase lag, and the 
low-pass filter output 5A is illustrated in terms 
of a phase lead and a phase lag. The operation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A phase lock loop circuit comprising: 

a phase comparator (4) detecting a phase difference 
between input data (6A) and a comparison signal (3A); 
a sample and hold switch circuit (9); 
a DC component detecting means (5) for detecting a 
DC component of the output of the sample and hold switch 

circuit (9), and 
a variable frequency oscillator (3) generating a 
signal whose frequency is controlled in accordance with 

the output of the DC component detecting means (5), and 
supplying the output signal (3A) of the variable 

frequency oscillator (3) to the phase comparator (4) as 
the comparison signal; 
 
   characterized by: 


a control circuit (8) adapted to detect a 
consecutive identical bit state of the input data (6A), 

and output a control signal; 
and by the sample and hold switch circuit (9) being 
adapted to sample and hold the output (4A) of the phase 

comparator (4); and 
maintain a holding mode on the basis of the control 
signal (8A) supplied from the control circuit (8) while 

the consecutive identical bit state is present. 
A circuit according to claim 1, wherein the DC 
component detecting means (5) is a low-pass filter.  

 
A circuit according to claim 1 or claim 2, further 
comprising a frequency multiplier (2) for multiplying the 

frequency of the input data (6A), and wherein the phase 
comparator (4) detects a phase difference between the 

comparison signal (3A) and the input data (6A) whose 
frequency has been multiplied by the frequency multiplier 

(2). 
A circuit according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the variable frequency oscillator (3) is 

a voltage controlled oscillator. 
A circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein the variable frequency oscillator (3) comprises 

a fixed frequency oscillator and a variable phase 
circuit. 
A circuit according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the phase lock loop circuit is formed 

into a monolithic integrated circuit. 
A circuit according to claim 6, wherein the phase 
comparator (4) comprises a first multiplier producing a 

phase difference between the input data (6A) and the 
output (3A) of the variable frequency oscillator (3), a 

second multiplier producing a phase difference between 
the input data whose phase is not delayed and the input  

 
data whose phase is delayed by 90 degrees, and a 

subtracter subtracting the output of the second 
multiplier from the output of the first multiplier. 
A circuit according to claim 6 or claim 7, when 
dependent upon any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the 

variable frequency oscillator (3) comprises a hysteresis 
comparator, and a delay circuit delaying the output of 

the hysteresis comparator in accordance with the DC 
component fed from the DC component detecting means (5) 

and positively feeding the delayed output back to the 
input of the hysteresis comparator. 
A circuit according to any one of claims 6 to 8, 
wherein the sample and hold switch circuit (9) is of a 

differential type and the DC component detecting means 
(5) is a differential type low-pass filter. 
A circuit according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the control circuit (8) comprises a delay 

circuit (13) delaying the input data (6A), and an 
exclusive OR circuit (11) performing an exclusive OR 

operation between the input data and the output of the 
delay circuit (13). 
A circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 9, 
wherein the control circuit (8) comprises a detecting  

 
circuit (26) detecting a DC level of the inpu
t data (6A), 
and an output circuit producing the control signal (8A) 

that holds the sample and hold switch circuit (9) when 
the DC level is higher than a predetermined first level 

(Vh), or lower than a predetermined second level (Vl) 
which is lower than the first level. 
A circuit according to claim 11, wherein the 
detecting circuit (26) is a low-pass filter, and the 

output circuit comprises an A/D converter that digitizes 
the output of the low-pass filter and a logic circuit 

(29) that produces the control signal (8A) by comparing 
the output of the A/D converter with the predetermined 

first and second levels. 
A circuit according to claim 11, wherein the 
detecting circuit (26) is a low-pass filter, and the 

output circuit comprises a first comparator (27) 
comparing the DC level with the first level, a second 

comparator (28) comparing the DC level with the second 
level, and a NOR circuit (29) that performs a NOR 

operation between the outputs of the first (27) and 
second (28) comparators. 
A circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 9, 
wherein the control circuit (8) comprises a complementary 

output circuit (31) that outputs a non-inverted signal  
 

and an inverted signal of the input data (6A), a first 
peak detecting circuit (32) detecting a peak value of the 

non-inverted signal, a second peak detecting circuit (33) 
detecting a peak value of the inverted signal, and an 

exclusive OR circuit (34) performing an exclusive OR 
operation on the outputs of the first (32) and second 

(33) peak detecting circuits. 
A circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 9, 
wherein the control circuit (8) comprises a 

differentiator circuit (36) producing a differentiated 
signal of the input data (6A), a full-wave rectifier (37) 

performing a full-wave rectification on the output of the 
differentiator circuit (36), and a peak value holding 

circuit (38) holding a peak value of the output of the 
full-wave rectifier (37) for a predetermined time period. 
A circuit according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein a functional circuit (40) provides the 

output (3A) of the variable frequency oscillator (3) with 
a frequency conversion or a delay to obtain the 

comparison signal (3A). 
A circuit according to claim 16, wherein the 
functional circuit (40) comprises a first flip-flop and 

a second flip-flop which are connected in cascade and 
operate in response to the signal (3A) fed from the  

 
variable frequency oscillator (3), and the first flip-flop 

delays the phase of the input data by substantially 
1/2 bit to produce the comparing signal. 
A circuit according to claim 17 when claim 16 is 
dependent upon any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the 

control circuit comprises an exclusive OR circuit 
performing an exclusive OR operation between the input 

data (6A) and the output of the second flip-flop. 
A circuit according to claim 16, wherein the 
functional circuit comprises a flip-flop and a delay 

circuit which are connected in cascade, and the flip-flop 
delays the phase of the input data (6A) by substantially 

1/2 bit in response to the signal (3A) fed from the 
variable frequency oscillator (3) to produce the 

comparison signal, and supplies the comparison signal to 
the phase comparator (4). 
A circuit according to claim 19 when claim 16 is 
dependent upon any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the 

control circuit (8) comprises an exclusive OR circuit 
performing an exclusive OR operation between the input 

data (6A) and the output of the delay circuit. 
A circuit according to claim 18, wherein the phase 
comparator (4) comprises a first multiplier producing a  

 
phase difference between the input data (6A) and the 

output of the first flip-flop, a second multiplier 
producing a phase difference between the input data whose 

phase is not delayed and the input data whose phase is 
delayed by 90 degrees, and a subtracter subtracting the 

output of the second multiplier from the output of the 
first multiplier. 
A signal processing circuit comprising: 

a phase comparator (4) detecting a phase difference 
between input data (6A) and a comparison signal (3A); 
a sample and hold switch circuit (9); 
a DC component detecting means (5) for detecting a 
DC component of the output of the sample and hold switch 

circuit (9); 
a variable frequency oscillator (3) generating a 
signal whose frequency is controlled in accordance with 

the output of the DC component detecting means (5); and 
a functional circuit (40) providing the input data 
(6A) with a predetermined processing, and providing the 

output of the variable frequency oscillator (3) with a 
frequency conversion or a delay to obtain the comparison 

signal (3A), and supplying the comparison signal (3A) to 
the phase comparator (4), 
 
   characterized by a control circuit (8) adapted to 

detect a consecutive identical bit state of the input 
data (6A), and output a control signal;  

 

and by the sample and hold switch circuit (9) being 
adapted to sample and hold the output (4A) of the phase 

comparator (4); and 
maintain on the basis of the control signal supplied 
from the control circuit a holding mode while the 

consecutive identical bit state is being detected. 
A circuit according to claim 22, wherein the 
functional circuit (40) is a circuit that recovers the 

input data. 
A circuit according to claim 22, wherein the input 
data is an AM modulation signal, and the functional 

circuit (40) comprises a multiplier (48) multiplying the 
AM modulation signal by the output of the variable 

frequency oscillator (46), and a delay circuit (47) 
delaying the output of the variable frequency oscillator 

(46) and feeding the delayed output back to the phase 
comparator (45) as the comparing signal. 
A circuit according to claim 22, wherein the input 
data is a reference signal, and the functional circuit 

comprises a frequency divider (59) dividing the output 
frequency of the variable frequency oscillator (58), and 

feeding the output whose frequency is divided back to the 
phase comparator (57) as the comparing signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
