<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632902</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAGNETIC INTERFEROMETER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2782	G01N2782	G01N2783	G01R3312	G01R3312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magnetic interferometer (10) for performing nondestructive magnetic induction testing and inspection of wire rope and cable (12). The device concentrically surrounds a wire rope or cable to be tested and includes means (28) for inducing a magnetic field in the rope or cable as well as means (86, 88) for detecting flux changes in the induced magnetic field. By detecting flux changes in the magnetic field the condition of the rope or cable can be determined.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMERCIAL TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMERCIAL TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DYER JOSEPH PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HICKMAN WILLIAM JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DYER JOSEPH PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HICKMAN WILLIAM JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MAGNETIC INTERFEROMETERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to a device for the inspection and quality control of wire rope and cables. The device is adapted to concentrically surround a portion of a wire rope or cable to be tested. The device induces a magnetic field in the wire rope or cable and senses any deviation in the magnetic field indicating an anomaly in the wire rope or cable. Description of the Prior ArtPolish Patent No. 45,862 discloses an induction sensor of a measuring head for the inspection of cables. The induction sensor has a two-part frame with cutouts of different diameter in which are located two bifilar coils connected in series and arranged concentrically with respect to the axis of the sensor and separately in the upper and lower parts of the frame.Polish Patent No. 122,500 discloses two devices for the inspection and quality control of steel cables. According to each device a cable is magnetized by a magnetic field set up by a circuit which includes permanent magnets, the steel' cable and pole pieces which are attached to the permanent magnets and include sliding guides which contact the steel cable.The devices disclosed in Polish Patent No. 122,500 have several serious drawbacks. First, the inclusion of the pole pieces and sliding guides, some of which are necessarily made of ferrous material, makes the devices quite large and quite heavy. In addition, due to the large size of these devices, they require that the cable undergoing testing be contacted by the sliding guides which are subject to failure due to frictional erosion after a certain period of use.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe magnetic interferometer of the present invention avoids the above-mentioned disadvantages which are characteristic of the prior art. The magnetic interferometer of the present invention provides a means for performing nondestructive magnetic induction testing and inspection of wire rope and cable. 

 The magnetic interferometer of the present invention is adapted to concentrically surround a wire rope or cable to be tested and comprises means for inducing a magnetic field in wire rope or cable and means for detecting flux changes in the induced magnetic field. A change in the flux of the induced magnetic field indicates that there is an anomaly in the cross-sectional profile of the wire rope or cable undergoing testing.In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the means for inducing a magnetic field comprises a pair of magnet housings, each of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A device, comprising:
(a) means for inducing a magnetic field;
(b) sensing means for detecting anomalies in the induced magnetic field, said sensing means generating electrical signals; and
(c) means for processing said electrical signals and obtaining output.
2. A device according to claim 1, wherein said induced magnetic field is circumferentially symmetrical.
3. A device according to claim 1, wherein said means for inducing a magnetic field comprises a first magnet housing and a second magnet housing, each of said magnet housings comprising a body with a central cavity and a plurality of magnets disposed circumferentially within each of said magnet housings to approximate a magnetic coil.
4. A device according to claim 3, wherein said first magnet housing and said second magnet housing further comprise one or more pairs of diametrically opposed roller guide means.
5. A device according to claim 4, wherein said first magnet housing and said second magnet housing further comprise a first pair and a second pair of diametrically opposed roller guide means wherein an axis between said first pair of roller guide means is perpendicular to an axis between said second pair of roller guide means.
6. A device according to claim 3, wherein said sensing means comprises a central cavity and said sensing means is disposed between said first magnet housing and said second magnet housing.
7. A device according to claim 6, wherein said central cavity of said first magnet housing, said second magnet housing and said sensing means are aligned.
8. An apparatus for detecting defects in a metal cable, comprising:
(a) means for inducing a magnetic field in a portion of said cable such that said magnetic field experiences flux changes according to changes in the condition of said portion; 


 (b) sensing means for producing electrical signals indicative of said flux changes, said sensing means comprising at least one sensing element spaced apart from said cable; and,
(c) means for processing said electrical signals and obtaining output.
9. An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said means for inducing a magnetic field in a portion of said cable comprises two separate magnetic circuits.
10. An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said means for inducing a magnetic field in a portion of said cable comprises two magnet housings electrically insulated from each other and in proximity to said cable such that a magnetic circuit is created by said magnet housings through said cable.
11. An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said at least one sensing element comprises a conductive rod and a helical wire winding.
12. An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said conductive rod is positioned perpendicular to said cable.
13. An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said helical wire winding is bifilar.
14. An apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising a plurality of said sensing elements spaced around said cable.
15. An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said sensing means comprises a housing having a large diameter portion and a reduced-diameter portion, a first array of said sensing elements secured to the inner surface of said large-diameter portion, and a second array of said sensing elements secured to the inner surface of said reduced-diameter portion.
16. An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said sensing elements of said second array are positioned closer to said cable than said sensing elements of said first array.
17. An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said sensing elements of said first and second arrays are aligned in different longitudinal planes, respectively.
18. An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said sensing elements of said first and second arrays are connected electrically in series, respectively. 


 19. An apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising means for processing said electrical signals.
20. Apparatus for detecting defects in metal cable moving relative to said apparatus, comprising:
(a) means for inducing a magnetic field in a portion of a metal cable whereby said magnetic field experiences flux changes according to changes in the condition of said portion, said means for inducing a magnetic field comprises a first and a second magnet housing, each said magnet housing defining a central cavity for receiving said cable, and a plurality of permanent magnets spaced circumferentially within each said magnet housing;
(b) sensing means disposed between said first and second magnet housings for producing electrical signals indicative of said flux changes, said sensing means comprising a housing defining a central cavity for receiving said cable and at least one sensing element supported in said housing in a perpendicular spaced relationship from said cable, said at least one sensing element comprising a conductive rod and a helical wire winding; and
(c) means for supporting said cable for relative movement with respect to said means for inducing a magnetic field and said sensing means.
21. An apparatus according to claim 20 further comprising a plurality of said sensing elements arranged circumferentially around said portion of said cable.
22. An apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising a first and second array of said sensing elements wherein said sensing elements of each said array are electrically connected in series, respectively.
23. An apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said sensing elements of said first array are aligned in the same longitudinal planes as corresponding ones of said permanent magnets.
24. An apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said sensing elements of said second array are aligned in longitudinal planes between corresponding ones of said permanent magnets. 


 25. An apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said sensing elements of said first array are positioned closer to said cable than the sensing elements of said second array.
26. An apparatus according to claim 20 further comprising means for processing said electrical signals.
27. A method for detecting defects in metal cable comprising the steps of:
(a) passing a metal cable through an induced magnetic field wherein changes in the condition of a portion of said cable in said magnetic field cause flux changes in said magnetic field;
(b) providing a first sensing means for producing electrical signals indicative of said flux changes, said first sensing means comprising at least one sensing element in a first spaced apart location from said cable;
(c) providing a second sensing means for producing electrical signals indicative of said flux changes, said second sensing means comprising at least one sensing element in a second spaced apart location from said cable; and,
(d) processing said electrical signals from said first and second sensing means whereby the condition of said cable is determined.
28. A method according to claim 27 wherein said signals from said first and second sensing means are processed separately.
29. A method according to claim 27 wherein said signals from said first and second sensing means are integrated. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
