<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649003</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical gyroscopes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C1972	G01C1972	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C19	G01C19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In an open loop gyroscope clockwise (CW) and counter-clockwise 
(CCW) beams from a common source 10 pass in 

opposite directions around a coil 20 of optical fibre and 
recombine on a detector 24. A phase modulator 22 applies a 

stepped phase modulation in which each step is of duration 
equal to the transit time of the coil 20 and in which 

alternate steps are zero. The intermediate steps increase 
linearly from zero to 2π. Without modulation, the CW and 

CCW beams combine on the detector with a combined intensity 
which varies as a cosine of rate. The above modulation 

causes two points to either side of the cosine fringe to be 
sampled which move progressively further as the amplitude of 

the stepped modulation increases. The sample data is 
processed to determine the rate applied to the gyroscope. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH AEROSPACE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH AEROSPACE PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALVERN ALAN RICHARD C O BRITI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALVERN, ALAN RICHARD, C/O BRITISH AEROSPACE SYST.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optical gyroscopes and in 
particular to open loop interferometric fibre optic 
gyroscopes. In an interferometric fibre optic gyroscope a clockwise 
(CW) beam and a counterclockwise (CCW) beam pass around a 
coil of optical fibre and are brought together on leaving 
the coil to interfere on a detector. Rotation applied to 
the gyroscope induces a rate-related non-reciprocal phase 
shift between the CW and CCW beams which causes the 
intensity on the detector to vary co-sinusoidally with 
applied rate. In general, two different methods of signal processing 
may be used. In closed loop systems, a compensatory non-reciprocal 
phase shift is applied to null the phase shift 
induced by rotation. In open loop systems, the intensity of 
the combined beams at the detector is used to determine the 
applied rate. In both methods, the measurand is linearly 
related to rate with the constant of proportionality being 
referred to as the Scale Factor. Previously it has been thought necessary to use a 
closed loop architecture to achieve high accuracy of the 
scale factor. In this context, high accuracy means a scale 
factor performance which does not differ by more than 100ppm 
with respect to an ideal output over a rate range of +/-500 
deg/sec or greater, which is the rate range needed for 
aircraft and missile applications. Such an accuracy is  
 
needed for inertial navigation in both civil and military 
applications, and for guidance of long range missiles. For agile military aircraft or naval vessels, where 
typically a ring laser gyroscope system is currently used, 
an even higher scale factor accuracy of about 5ppm over the 
rate range is needed, and this represents one of the highest 
accuracy scale factor requirements. To allow a fibre gyroscope to replace the more 
expensive ring laser gyroscope for these applications, scale 
factor performance at this level is required. Replacement of 
ring laser gyroscopes by fibre optic gyroscopes is likely to 
produce a much lower cost navigation system, as the cost of 
the gyroscope sensors is one of the largest elements in the 
cost of the overall system. For a fibre optic gyroscope with closed loop 
architecture, optical modulation is applied so that at zero 
rate there is a null signal. At rate, after demodulation, a 
signal is derived which is proportional to rate. This is 
used to operate a feedback loop as the error signal, and a 
second signal is applied to a phase modulator to null out 
this error signal. In a typical example, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical gyroscope, comprising:- 
   means defining a coil or ring around a sensing 

axis and around which light may propagate in a clockwise 
(CW) and a counterclockwise (CCW) direction; 

   beam input means for introducing into said 
coil or ring a clockwise (CW) beam and a counterclockwise 

(CCW) beam to propagate in opposite directions around said 
coil or ring; 

   means for combining said CW and CCW beams 
after passage around said coil or ring; 

   detector means for detecting the intensity of 
said combined CW and CCW beams, 

   phase modulator means for applying between 
said CW and CCW beams a plurality of different phase shifts, 

and processor means for monitoring the corresponding 
detected intensity for each of said phase shifts, thereby to 

sample the intensity across at least a major portion of a 
complete fringe. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 1, 
wherein the phase modulator applies between said CW and CCW 

beams a plurality of phase shifts sufficient to sample 
substantially a complete fringe. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 1 or 2, 
wherein said phase modulator means applies a series of phase 

shifts made up from a plurality of positive phase shifts of 
predetermined magnitudes and a corresponding plurality of 

 
negative phase shifts of magnitudes equal to said positive 

magnitudes. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 3, wherein 
said series comprises a plurality of pairs of positive and 

negative phase shifts of substantially the same magnitude, 
the magnitude of the pairs progressively varying through the 

series. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 4, wherein 
the magnitude of the phase shift increases in stepped linear 

fashion from O to 2π. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 5, 
including servo control means for controlling the maximum 

phase modulation to be 2π. 
An optical gyroscope according to any of Claims 3 
to 6, wherein said series is a repeating series. 
An optical gyroscope according to any preceding 
claim, wherein said phase modulator means applies to both 

said CW and CCW beams, at one end of said coil or ring, a 
stepped modulation waveform wherein the duration of each 

step is substantially equal to the transit time of the coil 
or ring. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 8, wherein 
the modulation waveform is of magnitude o,Δ₁, o,Δ₂,o,Δ₃ 

....2π, whereby the modulation sweeps across 2π of the 
intensity fringe. 
An optical gyroscope according to any of Claims 3 
to 9, wherein for each magnitude of phase shift, the 

processor means monitors the detected intensity for a 
 

positive shift and that for a negative shift. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 10, 
wherein the processor means determines the sum and the 

difference of the two intensities monitored for each 
magnitude of phase shift, thereby to obtain a series of sum 

data and difference data respectively. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 10, wherein 
said processor determines the rate experienced by the 

gyroscope is on the basis of at least one of said sum and 
difference data. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 12, 
wherein said processor means applies a Fourier Transform to 

at least one of said sum and difference data, thereby to 
obtain the applied rate. 
An optical gyroscope according to claim 12, 
wherein said processor means:- 


(i) multiplies said sum data by a cosine function 
and integrates to give a first signal, 
(ii) multiplies said sum data by a sine function and 
integrates to give a second signal, 
(iii) multiplies said difference data by a cosine 
function and integrates to give a third 

signal,and 
(iv) multiplies said difference data by a sine 
function and integrates to give a fourth signal, 
 
and uses said first, second, third and fourth signals to 

obtain the rate applied. 
An optical gyroscope according to any preceding 
claim, wherein said phase modulator means applies between 

said CW and CCW beams a phase modulation comprising a 
stepped waveform made up of a repeating series of steps 

varying from a preset minimum value to a preset maximum and 
returning to said minimum between each step, wherein the 

profile of a ramp defined by said steps is non-linear. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 15, 
wherein said ramp profile is generally linear with a 

periodic modulation component. 
An optical gyroscope according to Claim 16, 
wherein said modulation is of sinusoidal form. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
