<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649663</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Single needle recirculation system for harvesting blood components.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M102	A61M102	A61M130	A61M130	A61M136	A61M136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A single needle system for withdrawing donated blood, 
processing the blood to harvest components such as platelets, and 

returning processed blood to the donor through the single needle (10). 
Processing is performed by a centrifuge (24) which separates blood 

components into stratified layers with a buffy coat containing 
platelets and white blood cells stably interfacing a red blood 

cell layer. Blood is withdrawn during a draw cycle and returned 
to the donor during a return cycle. A recirculation system is 

provided so that blood flows at a reduced rate through the 
processing system during the return cycle in order to minimize 

return cycle time while maintaining the stable position of the 
interface between buffy coat and red blood cell layers. A 

storage bag (37) receives processed blood during the draw cycle and 
blood is squeezed from the bag (37) during the return cycle, a portion 

returned to the donor and another portion entering the 
recirculation path (35,37',38). A pressure sensor (40) is located in the return 

path (35,37',38) to indicate an empty storage bag (37) upon a precipitous drop in 
pressure. In that manner an immediate switch to the draw cycle 

is made to further minimize return cycle time. To still further 
minimize the return cycle time, flow resistance in the return 

path (35,37',38) is minimized with more than 80% of the flow resistance in 
the return path associated with the needle (10). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COBE LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COBE LABORATORIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGLEY ROBERT W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGLEY, ROBERT W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to harvesting blood components from 
a donor by processing the donated blood and returning it to the 
donor through the same needle from which it was withdrawn. Donated blood is typically processed by withdrawing it 
through a needle and sending it through a disposable tubing set 
to a centrifuge in order to separate the blood into its various 
components. The centrifugal apparatus is fitted with a 
disposable plastic vessel through which the blood is circulated. 
The vessel is fitted into a centrifuge bowl that is driven by a 
motor. An exemplary vessel is a circumferential separation 
channel having several outlets positioned at different radial 
positions within the channel in order to remove blood components 
separated into stratified layers of differing density by the 
centrifuge. Red blood cells (RBC), being the most dense of the 
components, are packed within the channel at the most radially 
outward location, whereas the stratified layer of plasma is at 
the most radially inward location. A relatively thin, yellowish  
 
layer, called the buffy coat, contains white blood cells and 
platelets and is located between the red blood cell layer and the 
plasma layer. Within the buffy coat, the platelets are 
stratified toward the plasma, while the white blood cells are 
stratified toward the red blood cells. U.S. Patent No. 4,708,712, incorporated herein by reference, 
describes a two-stage separation channel for collecting platelets 
separately from white blood cells and also having an outlet for 
collecting source plasma. The red and white blood cells are 
returned to the donor, along with most of the plasma. In a dual-needle procedure, frequently used with a 
centrifuge apparatus such as described above, whole blood is 
removed from the donor through a needle usually positioned in one 
of the donor's arms. The whole blood is then processed by the 
centrifugal apparatus and the white and red blood cells are 
returned to the donor through the tubing set and a needle usually 
positioned in the other arm. If only platelets are being 
harvested, more of the plasma is returned as well as the red and 
white blood cells. For the separation channel described in U.S. Patent 
4,708,712, the dual-needle procedure is satisfactory for 
harvesting platelets in a manner that is relatively free from 
white blood cell contamination. It is, however, a somewhat 
difficult procedure for the donor since the donor must remain 
quiet for a significant period of time with needles in both arms.  In a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A system for separating and collecting blood components during both a 
draw cycle and a return cycle, said system for drawing and returning 

blood to a source of blood through a single lumen needle, comprising 
   a connector having at least three branches, a first branch 

connected to said single lumen needle; 
   a constant volumetric flow rate inlet pump with an inlet and an 

outlet; 
   an inlet line connected to a second branch of said connector and 

to said inlet pump for supplying blood to the inlet side of said pump; 
   a centrifuge apparatus with a separation vessel connected to the 

outlet side of said inlet pump for said vessel for separating blood 
components into stratified layers within said vessel; 

   a collection bag connected to said separation channel for 
receiving and holding a collected component of the donated blood; 

   a return path including a return line connected to a third branch 
of said connector; 

   a flexible storage bag with an inlet connected to said separation 
vessel for receiving and holding the processed donated blood other than 

collected components, said storage bag having an outlet connected to 
said return line; 

   a pressure application member associated with said flexible 
storage bag for applying pressure to the external sides of said storage 

bag during said return cycle to force the accumulated fluids in said 
storage bag into said return line; 

   a return valve associated with said return line to open said 
return line during said return cycle to allow a first portion of said 

accumulated fluids to be returned to said source of blood, a second 
portion of said accumulated fluids passing through said connector to 

 
said inlet line for establishing and maintaining a recirculation path 

for blood during said return cycle; 
   a sensing device associated with said return path for producing 

a signal upon detecting an empty storage bag; and 
   a control device connected to said sensing device and to said 

return valve and to said inlet pump, said control device including 
means for minimizing the time duration of said return cycle. 
2. The system of claim 1 characterized in that said means for minimizing 
the time duration of said return cycle includes interface control means 

for establishing the volumetric flow rate of said second portion at a 
value sufficient to stably maintain the interface position of said 

stratified layers. 
3. The system of claim 2 characterized in that said interface control 
means includes means for setting the recirculation volumetric flow rate 

of said inlet pump on said return cycle substantially lower than the 
draw volumetric flow rate established during said draw cycle. 
4. The system of claim 3 characterized in that said recirculation flow 
rate approaches a minimum value sufficient to stably maintain said 

interface position. 
5. The system of claims 3 or 4 characterized in that said recirculation 
flow rate is 50% or less of said draw flow rate. 
6. The system of any of claims 1-5 characterized in that said means for 
minimizing the time duration of said return cycle includes 

   means for closing said return valve thereby ending said return 
cycle upon receiving said signal detecting an empty storage bag. 
7. The system of any one of claims 1-6 characterized in that said sensing 
device monitors pressure in said return path and detects an empty 

storage bag by a precipitous drop in pressure. 
8. The system of any one of claims 1-7 characterized in that said means 
for minimizing the duration of said return cycle further includes said 

return path wherein the resistance to the flow of blood through the 
return path is minimal, except for the flow resistance of said needle, 

said return path including said needle, said connector, said return 
line, and said storage bag. 
9. The system of any one of claims 1-8 characterized in that said return 
line is of a larger diameter than other tubing in said system. 
10. The system of any one of claims 1-9 characterized in that the flow 
resistance of said needle is more than 80% of the total flow resistance 

in the return path. 
11. The system of any one of claims 1-10 characterized in that a target 
hematocrit level is decreased as a percentage of inlet flow as inlet 

flow increases. 
12. The system of claim 11 characterized in that the relationship of said 
target to inlet flow QIN, is C₁ - C₂QIN, wherein C₁ and C₂ are constant 

values. 
13. A method of separating and collecting blood components during both a 
draw cycle and a return cycle of a run phase, said method for drawing 

and returning blood to a source of blood through a single lumen needle, 

said method comprising the steps of: 
   providing a single lumen needle for insertion into the source of 

blood; 
   providing a connector having at least three branches, a first 

branch connected to said needle; 
   providing an inlet pump with an inlet and an outlet;

 
   providing an inlet line connected to a second branch of said 

connector and to said inlet pump for supplying blood to the inlet side 
of said pump; 

   providing a centrifuge apparatus with a separation vessel 
connected to the outlet side of said pump, said vessel for separating 

blood components into stratified layers; 
   providing a collection bag connected to said separation vessel 

for receiving and holding a collected component of the donated blood; 
   providing a flexible storage bag with an inlet connected to said 

separation vessel for receiving and holding the processed donated blood 
other than the collected components, said storage bag having an outlet; 

   providing a return system including said storage bag and a return 
line connected to a third branch of said connector and to said outlet 

of said storage bag; 
   providing a pressure application member associated with said 

return bag for applying pressure on the external sides of said return 
bag during said return cycle to force the fluids in said bag into said 

return line; 
   providing a sensing device associated with said return system; 

   providing a return valve associated with said return line; 
   providing a control device for operating said return valve to 

close said valve during said draw cycle so that blood enters said inlet 
pump from said source of blood, is processed by said centrifuge to 

harvest blood components, and to send the reprocessed blood to said 
storage bag, said control device operating said return valve to open 

said valve during a return cycle so that blood in said storage bag is 
squeezed into said return line, a first portion of blood in said return 

line passing through the first branch of said connector to said needle 
for return to the source of blood, a second portion of blood in said 

 
return line passing through the second branch of said connector to the 

inlet side of said pump for maintaining circulation of blood through 
said centrifuge apparatus to said storage bag and return line thereby 

providing a recirculation flow for reprocessing that portion of the 
blood not returned to the source of blood during the return cycle, said 

control device for minimizing return cycle time by reclosing said 
return valve thereby ending said return cycle and reinstituting said 

draw cycle when said sensing device indicates that said storage bag is 
empty, and 

   further minimizing return cycle time by providing return line 
flow resistance at a low level that produces return flow through said 

needle at a rate that is essentially independent of said recirculation 
flow. 
14. The method of claim 13 characterized in that the return system flow 
resistance, excluding flow resistance through said needle, is less than 

20% of all flow resistance in said return system, said return system 
including flow resistance through said storage bag, said return line, 

said connector, and said needle. 
15. The method of claims 13 or 14 further including the step of operating 
said inlet pump at a reduced speed during said return cycle relative to 

pump speed during said draw cycle to reduce the return cycle volumetric 
flow rate while maintaining an interface position. 
16. The method of any of claims 13-15 further including the steps of 
   providing a plasma collection bag connected to said separation 

vessel for receiving and holding plasma, and 
   operating valves associated with the plasma collection to collect 

plasma during said draw cycle only. 
17. The method of any of claims 13-16 further including the step of 
establishing a target hematocrit level as a decreasing function of the 

blood processing rate. 
18. The method of claim 17 characterized in that said hematocrit target 
level is determined by C₁-C₂QIN where QIN is the inlet flow and C₁ and C₂ 

are constants. 
19. The method of any of claims 13-18 further including a start-up phase 
independent of said run phase, said start-up phase designed to rid the 

collection system of saline solution in a minimal period of time, said 
method including start-up steps comprising: 

   providing a waste bag connected to receive saline solution during 
a prime divert period, 

   sensing when blood arrives at the entry of said waste bag and 
thereupon ending said prime divert period and entering a succession of 

start-up draw and return cycles: 
   during said start-up return cycle, halting operation of said 

inlet pump thereby causing all blood accumulated in said storage bag to 
be returned to said source of blood thereby creating no recirculation 

flow. 
20. The method of any of claims 13-19 characterized in that said sensing 
device monitors pressure in said return system and further including 

the step of indicating an empty storage bag by a precipitous drop in 
pressure. 
21. A method of separating and collecting harvested blood components 
utilizing a centrifuge apparatus for separating blood components and 

one single lumen needle for insertion into a source of blood, 
comprising: 

   beginning a draw cycle of a predetermined duration; 
   withdrawing whole blood from the source of blood through the 

single lumen needle during the draw cycle;
 

   delivering the whole blood to the centrifuge apparatus at a first 
substantially constant predetermined flow rate during said draw cycle; 

   centrifuging the whole blood in the centrifuge apparatus during 
the draw cycle to separate the whole blood into stratified layers 

stably positioned within said centrifuge apparatus, the stratified 
blood providing at least one harvested blood component and a remaining 

blood component; 
   storing the remaining blood component in a storage reservoir 

during the draw cycle; 
   ending the draw cycle at the end of the predetermined duration; 

   beginning a return cycle; 
   returning a first portion of the remaining blood component stored 

in the storage reservoir to the source of blood during a return cycle; 
   recirculating a second portion of the remaining blood component 

from the return storage reservoir to the centrifuge apparatus at a 
second predetermined flow rate during the return cycle, said second 

rate substantially lower than said first rate while maintaining the 
stability of the interface position of the stratified layers; 

   centrifuging the second portion of the remaining blood component 
during the return cycle; 

   sensing when the storage reservoir is substantially empty; and 
ending the return cycle when the storage reservoir is 

substantially empty. 
22. The method of claim 21 wherein: 
   the storage reservoir is a flexible bag held under pressure; and

 
   the sensing step is performed by sensing the pressure in the bag, 

low pressure being indicative of a substantially empty flexible bag. 
23. The method of claims 21 or 22 characterized in that the remaining blood 
component contains a fraction of at the least one harvested blood 

component, and the step of centrifuging the second portion of the 
remaining blood component further comprises separating the second 

portion of the remaining blood component into a further quantity of the 
at least one harvested blood component and third portion of the 

remaining blood component and returning the third portion of the 

remaining blood component to the source of blood. 
24. The method of any of claims 21-23 characterized in that the ending of 
the draw cycle step is substantially simultaneous with the beginning of 

the return cycle step. 
25. The method of any of claims 21-24 further comprising beginning a 
subsequent draw cycle wherein the ending of the return cycle step is 

substantially simultaneous with the beginning of the subsequent draw 
cycle step. 
26 The system of any of claims 1-25 characterized in that said source of 
blood is a donor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
