<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651922</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INDUCTION MOTOR SPEED CONTROL HAVING IMPROVED SENSING OF MOTOR OPERATIVE CONDITIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02P116	H02P142	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02P	H02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02P1	H02P1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method control the speed of an AC induction motor by varying the frequency and current to the motor from an inverter power supply. A Counter EMF regulator receives a reference signal corresponding to the desired speed, and a signal proportional to CEMF for feedback. The output of the CEMF regulator is provided to the power supply to control the current to the motor. The CEMF feedback signal is also utilized to vary the output frequency of the power supply in accordance with the magnitude of the CEMF. This maintains the magnetizing component of stator winding current at a constant value for all operating frequencies of the motor. A signal corresponding to the load current component of the stator winding adds to the speed reference signal to the CEMF regulator to increase CEMF and frequency with increasing load, thereby to compensate for increased slip and maintain constant speed. The phase displacement between CEMF and stator winding current is determined. If the phase displacement is less than 90 DEG , the motor is in the motoring condition and the frequency of the power supply is determined solely by the CEMF. If the phase displacement is greater than 90 DEG , the motor is regenerating, and the frequency of the power supply is increased to prevent regeneration, and to avoid the need for the power supply to absorb regenerative energy.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILKERSON A W
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILKERSON, ALAN W.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILKERSON ALAN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILKERSON, ALAN W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INDUCTION MOTOR SPEED CONTROL HAVING IMPROVED SENSING OF MOTOR OPERATIVE CONDITIONSThe present invention relates to a control for an AC induction motor that provides improved speed regulation and avoids regenerative operation of the motor.Background of the Invention In many applications where a load is driven by an electric motor, it is desirable to vary the speed of the motor to provide optimum performance of the driven load.DC motors have long been widely used for this purpose, since the speed of a DC motor can be easily controlled by changing the voltage applied to its termi¬ nals. A good measure of the DC motor speed is the armature voltage, and this voltage is used in many control systems for feedback purposes to regulate the motor speed. Similarly, armature current is a good indication of load torque.However, a DC motor is expensive because of the complex windings on its armature, and because a commutator is required. In addition, a DC motor has brushes to conduct current to the armature. These brushes have a limited life, making periodic maintenance necessary.A "squirrel cage" AC induction motor, on the other hand, is relatively inexpensive, since the rotor windings consist of metal bars which are cast into steel laminations that make up the remainder of the rotor and the stator windings can easily be inserted in slots in stator laminations. An induction motor, at least in a polyphase variety, has no brushes, no moving parts other than the rotor, and virtually no maintenance.While the speed of an induction motor can be varied to a certain extent by varying the voltage applied to the station winding, and holding the applied frequency constant, only a limited speed range is available. And the electrical losses in the motor can be excessive, if the load is too great, with a serious potential for burning out the motor. 

 It is, however, possible to efficiently control the speed of an induction motor by varying the frequency as- well as the magnitude of the AC voltage applied to the motor. Solid state inverters are often used for this purpose. The inverter generates variable frequency multi¬ phase AC voltages to feed the induction motor stator windings and varies the magnitude of these voltages to be essentially proportional to the frequency. The waveform of the applied voltage may be a square wave; a multi-stepped rectangular waveform that approximates a sine wave; or a true sine wave, commonly generated by pulse-width modula¬ tion. For any of these waveforms, AC power in AC power mains is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims I claim:
1. A control for controlling the speed of the rotor of an AC induction motor and avoiding regenerative operation of the motor; said motor having a stator winding electromagnetically coupled to the rotor, the stator winding having terminals couplable to an AC power means; the operating frequency and the current magnitude of the AC power means being alterable by current command and frequen¬ cy command signals, respectively; there being a synchronous speed of the motor corresponding to the operating frequency of the AC power means, said control comprising: means for providing a signal corresponding to the desired speed of said motor; means for providing a signal corresponding to the CEMF developed in the stator winding as a result of the flow of the magnetizing current component of the stator current through the stator winding, said CEMF signal being appliable to the AC power source as the frequency command signal to vary the frequency of the AC power means in accordance with the magnitude of the CEMF signal, so that the magnetizing current component of the stator current may be maintained at a constant value at all frequencies; regulating means having input means receiving said desired speed signal as a reference signal and said CEMF signal as a feedback signal, said regulating means having an output providing a signal appliable to the AC power source as the current command signal for establishing the magnitude of the stator winding current; means for providing a signal proportional to the magnitude of the load current component of the stator winding current, said load current signal being applied said input means of said regulating means in an additive manner of to said desired speed signal; means for determining whether the phase displace¬ ment between the CEMF and the stator winding current is less than, or greater than, a predetermined phase displace- 



ment amount, said predetermined phase displacement being that existing between the CEMF and the stator winding current when the speed of the rotor is at the synchronous speed of the motor; and means for allowing the frequency of the AC power means to be determined by the magnitude of the CEMF signal when the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator current is less than the predetermined amount and for increasing the frequency command signal to the AC power means when the phase displacement is greater than the predetermined amount to avoid regenerative operation of the motor.
2. The control according to claim 1 wherein the speed of the rotor may differ from the synchronous speed by the slip of the motor and wherein said control includes means for limiting the magnitude of the current command signal appliable to the AC power source, thereby to limit the magnitude of the stator winding current while maintain¬ ing the magnitude of the magnetizing current component at a constant value and hence limiting the load current component and therefore the slip of the motor.
3. The control according to claim 2 wherein said means for limiting the magnitude of the current command signal appliable to the AC power source is further defined as means for limiting the output of said regulating means.
4. The control according to claim 1 wherein the AC power means applies a voltage to the terminals of the stator winding said means for providing a signal corre¬ sponding to the CEMF is further defined as means for providing a signal proportional to the voltage applied to the terminals of the stator winding by the AC power means, means for providing a signal representative of the stator impedance voltage drop, and means for subtracting the latter signal from the former signal to provide said signal corresponding to CEMF. 


 5. The control according to claim 4 wherein the AC induction motor has a plurality of phase windings in the stator winding and the AC power means is a polyphase means, and wherein said CEMF signal providing means includes a polyphase rectifier bridge connected to the output of said subtracting means.
6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for providing a signal proportional to the load current component of the stator winding current in the stator winding comprises means for determining the load current component from the vector subtraction of the magnetizing current component of the stator winding current from the total stator winding current.
7. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for providing a signal proportional to the load current component of the stator winding current in the stator winding comprises means for generating a linear function approximating the relationship among the currents in the motor and selected in accordance with the operating characteristics of the AC induction motor.
8. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said means for providing a signal proportional to the load current component of the stator winding current in the stator winding comprises: means for providing a first signal proportional to the magnitude of the actual stator current for the stator winding; first differential means having a pair of inputs and providing an output proportional to the difference in the signals applied to said inputs, one of said inputs of said first differential means being connected to said means providing said first signal; regulating means having a pair of inputs and an output, the output of said first differential means being connected to one of the inputs of said regulating means; second differential means having a pair of inputs and providing an output proportional to the difference in 


the signals applied to said inputs, one of said inputs of said third means being connected to the output of said regulating means; means for supplying a fixed signal proportional to the magnitude of the maximum stator current and for providing said signal to other input of said second differential means so that the output of said second differential means is a signal proportional to the differ¬ ence between the output of said regulating means and the signal proportional to maximum stator current; means for selecting a portion of the signal output of said second differential means proportional to a desired magnetizing current component for the stator winding and for providing the signal so selected to the other of the inputs of said regulating means so that, through the regulating action of said regulating means, the input signals to said regulating means become equal and the output of said regulating means comprises a signal propor¬ tional to the load current component of the stator current, the output of said regulating means being provided to the other input of said first means; and means for obtaining a signal proportional to the load current component of the stator current from the output of said regulating means.
9. The control according to claim 1 wherein the
AC induction motor has a plurality of phase windings in the stator winding and the AC power means is a polyphase means, and wherein said phase displacement determining means comprises: multiplier means for multiplying a signal corresponding to the stator current in each of the phase windings with a signal corresponding to the CEMF in the corresponding phase winding; adding means for adding the outputs of said multiplier means to provide a phase difference signal indicative of whether the phase difference between the CEMF 


and the stator current is less than or greater than the predetermined phase difference amount.
10. The control according to claim 9 wherein said adding means provides a phase difference signal based on a trigonometric function of the phase displacement such that the signal has one characteristic for phase displace- ments less than the predetermined amount and a different characteristic for phase displacements greater than the desired amount.
11. The control according to claim 9 further including integrating means connected in the output of said
-phase displacement determining means.
12. A method for controlling the speed of the rotor of an AC induction motor and avoiding regenerative operation of the motor; said motor having a stator winding electro agnetically coupled to the rotor, the stator winding having terminals coupled to an AC power means; the operating frequency and the current magnitude of the AC power means being alterable by current command and frequen¬ cy command signals, respectively; there being a synchronous speed of the motor corresponding to the operating frequency of the AC power means; said method comprising the steps of: establishing a reference signal proportional to the desired speed of the rotor; determining the magnitude of the CEMF of the motor and providing a signal proportional to same; applying the CEMF signal, as a feedback signal, in opposition to the speed reference signal to form an error signal; amplifying the error signal to provide a current command signal to the AC power means; supplying the CEMF signal to the AC power means as the frequency command signal for varying the operating frequency of the AC means in accordance with the magnitude of the CEMF of the motor so that the magnetizing current component of the stator current many be maintained at a constant value at all frequencies; 



 determining the magnitude of a load current component of the stator winding current and providing a signal proportional to the load current component; applying the load current component signal to the speed reference signal in an additive manner; determining whether the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator winding current is less than or greater than a predetermined phase displacement amount, said predetermined amount of phase displacement being that existing between the CEMF and the stator winding current when the speed of the rotor is at the synchronous speed of the motor; and allowing the frequency of the AC power means to be determined by the magnitude of the CEMF signal when the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator current is less than the predetermined amount and increasing the frequency command signal to the AC power means when the phase displacement is greater that the predetermined amount thereby to avoid regenerative operation of the motor.
13. The method according to claim 12 further defined as limiting the magnitude of the current command signal thereby to limit the magnitude of the stator winding current while maintaining the magnitude of the magnetizing current component at a constant value and hence limiting the slip and the load current component of the motor.
14. The method according to claim 12 wherein the AC power means applies a voltage to the terminals of the stator winding and the step of determining magnitude of the CEMF is further defined as determining the magnitude of the stator impedance voltage drop of the motor and vectorially subtracting same from the terminal voltage of the motor.
15. The method according to claim 12 wherein the step of determining the magnitude of a load current component of the stator winding current comprises vector¬ ially subtracting the magnetizing current component of the stator winding current from the total stator winding current. 


 16. The method according to claim 12 wherein the step of determining the magnitude of a load current component of the stator current in the stator winding comprises generating a linear function approximating the relationship among the currents in the motor and selected in accordance with the operating characteristics of the AC induction motor.
17. The method according to claim 12 wherein the AC induction motor has a plurality of phase windings in the stator winding and the AC power means is a polyphase means, and wherein the step of determining the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator winding current comprises: multiplying a signal corresponding to the stator current in each of the phase windings with a signal corresponding to the CEMF in the corresponding phase winding; adding the products of the foregoing multiplica¬ tion to provide a phase difference signal indicative of whether the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator winding current is less than or greater than the predetermined phase displacement amount.
18. The method according to claim 17 further including step of integrating the phase difference signal.
19. A method for determining the speed of the rotor of an AC induction motor, said motor having a stator winding electromagnetically coupled to the rotor and forming a magnetizing inductance for the motor, the stator winding having terminals coupled to an AC power means, the operating frequency and the current magnitude of the AC power means being variable, there being a synchronous speed of the motor corresponding to the operating frequency of the AC power means, the rotor speed differing from the synchronous speed by the slip speed of the rotor; said method comprising the steps of: determining the magnitude of the stator current at the terminals of the stator winding; 


 determining the magnitude of the magnetizing current component of the stator current, the flow of the magnetizing current component through the magnetizing inductance of the motor inducing a CEMF across the induc- tance which is out of phase with the magnetizing current component; determining the load current component of the stator current from the magnitudes of the stator current and the magnetizing current component, the load current component being proportional to rotor slip speed; determining whether the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator current is less than or greater than the predetermined phase displacement amount, said predetermined phase displacement being that existing between the CEMF and the stator current when the speed of the rotor is at the synchronous speed of motor; and algebraically summing the synchronous speed and rotor slip speed, as determined from the load current component, in accordance with said determination to obtain the speed of the rotor by subtracting the slip speed from the synchronous speed when the phase displacement is less than the predetermined phase displacement amount and adding the slip speed to the synchronous speed when the phase displacement is greater than the predetermined phase displacement amount.
20. The method according to claim 19 wherein the AC power means applies a voltage to the terminals of the stator winding and the step of determining the magnitude of the magnetizing current component is further defined as determining the magnitude of the CEMF dividing the magni¬ tude of the CEMF by a quantity proportional to the frequen¬ cy of the AC power means, dividing the magnitude of the CEMF by a quantity proportional to the magnitude of the magnetizing inductance of the motor.
21. The method according to claim 20 wherein the step of determining magnitude of the magnetizing current component is further defined as obtaining a signal propor- 


tional to the magnitude of the CEMF, as dividing the signal proportional to magnitude of the CEMF by a signal propor¬ tional to the frequency of the AC power means, and as dividing the signal proportional to the magnitude of the CEMF by a signal proportional to the magnitude of the magnetizing inductance of the motor.
22. The method according to claim 20 wherein the step of determining CEMF is further defined as subtracting the stator impedance voltage drop from the terminal voltage applied to the terminals of the stator winding.
23. The method according to claim 22 wherein the step of determining the CEMF is further defined as sub¬ tracting a signal proportional to the stator impedance voltage drop from a signal proportional to the terminal voltage applied to the terminals of the stator winding.
24. The method according to claim 23 wherein the load current component is out of phase with the magnetizing current component by 90 electrical degrees and wherein the step of determining the magnitude of the load current is further defined as determining the square root of the difference between the square of the stator winding current magnitude and the square of the magnitude of the magnetiz¬ ing current component.
25. The method according to claim 24 wherein the step of determining the magnitude of the load current is further defined as obtaining a signal proportional to the square root of the difference between the square of a signal proportional to the-stator winding current magnitude and the square of a signal proportional to the magnitude of the magnetizing current component.
26. The method according to claim 19 wherein the predetermined amount of phase displacement is 90 electrical degrees.
27. The method according to claim 19 wherein the step of algebraically summing the synchronous speed and the rotor speed is further defined as obtaining a signal proportional to the operating frequency of the AC power 


means applied to the stator winding and algebraically summing same with a signal proportional to the load current component magnitude.
28. The method according to claim 19 wherein the algebraic summation step is further defined as obtaining a signal proportional to the operating frequency of the AC power means applied to the stator winding and algebraically summing same with a signal proportional to the load current component magnitude.
29. A method for energizing the stator winding of an AC induction motor from an AC power means at a frequency providing a synchronous speed equal to the speed of the rotor, said stator winding being electromagnetically coupled to the rotor; the stator winding being connected to the AC power means, the operating frequency and the current magnitude of the AC power means being variable, the synchronous speed of the motor corresponding to the operating frequency of the AC power means, the rotor speed differing from the synchronous speed by the slip of the rotor; said method comprising the steps of: applying AC energization of an arbitrarily selected magnitude and frequency to the stator winding; sensing the CEMF of the motor generated by the excitation of the stator winding; sensing the stator winding current; determining whether the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator winding current is less than or greater than a predetermined phase displacement amount, said predetermined phase displacement amount being that existing between the CEMF and the stator winding current when the speed of the rotor is at synchronous speed; and altering the frequency of the AC power means in accordance with the foregoing determination, from the selected frequency to a frequency that causes the synchro¬ nous speed corresponding to the frequency of the AC power means to be equal to the rotor speed by decreasing the 


frequency of the AC power means when the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator winding current is less than the predetermined amount and increasing the frequency when the phase displacement is greater than the predeter- mined amount.
30. The method according to claim 29 wherein the AC power means applies a voltage to terminals of the stator and wherein the step of determining the magnitude of the CEMF is further defined as determining the magnitude of the stator impedance voltage drop of the motor and vectorially subtracting same from the terminal voltage of the motor.
31. A control for energizing AC motor from an AC power source, the rotor of the motor rotating at the time the energization of the motor is commenced; the motor having a stator winding electromagnetically coupled to the rotor, the stator winding having terminals couplable to an AC power means; the operating frequency and the current magnitude of the AC power means being alterable by current command and frequency command signals, respectively; there being a synchronous speed of the motor corresponding to the operating frequency of the AC power means, the rotor speed differing from the synchronous speed by the slip of the rotor; said control comprising: means for providing a signal corresponding to an arbitrarily selected speed of said motor; means for providing a signal corresponding to the
CEMF developed in the stator winding as a result of the flow of the magnetizing current component of the stator current through the stator winding, said CEMF signal being appliable to the AC power source as the frequency command signal to vary the frequency of the AC power means in accordance with the magnitude of the CEMF signal, so that the magnetizing component of the stator current may be maintained at a constant value at all frequencies; regulating means having input means receiving said speed signal as a reference signal and said CEMF signal as a feedback signal, said regulating means having 


an output providing a signal appliable to the AC power source as the current command signal for establishing the magnitude of the stator current in the stator winding; means for providing a signal proportional to the magnitude of the load current component of the stator current in the stator winding, said load current signal being applied said input means of said regulating means in an additive manner to said desired speed signal; means for determining the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator current; means for determining whether the phase displace¬ ment between the CEMF and the stator current is less than, or greater than, a predetermined phase displacement amount, said predetermined phase displacement amount being that existing between the CEMF and the stator current when the speed of the rotor is at the synchronous speed of the motor; and means for allowing the frequency of the AC power means to be determined by the magnitude of the CEMF signal when the phase displacement between the CEMF and the stator current is less than the predetermined amount and for increasing the frequency command signal to the AC power means when the phase displacement is greater than the predetermined amount.
32. The control according to claim 31 wherein the speed of the rotor may differ from the synchronous speed by the slip of the motor and wherein said control includes means for limiting the magnitude of the current command signal appliable to the AC power source, thereby to limit the magnitude of the stator current while maintaining the magnitude of the magnetizing current at a constant value and hence limiting the slip and the load current of the motor.
33. The control according to claim 32 wherein said means for limiting the magnitude of the current command signal appliable to the AC power source is further 


defined as means for limiting the output of said regulating means.
34. The control according to claim 31 wherein said means for providing a signal corresponding to the CEMF is further defined as means for providing a signal propor¬ tional to the voltage applied to the terminals of the stator winding, means for providing a signal representative of the stator impedance voltage drop, and means for subtracting the latter signal from the former signal to provide said signal corresponding to CEMF.
35. The control according to claim 34 wherein the AC induction motor has a plurality of phase windings in the stator winding and the AC power means is a polyphase means, and wherein said CEMF signal providing means includes a polyphase rectifier bridge connected to the output of said subtracting means.
36. The apparatus according to claim 31 wherein said means for providing a signal proportional to the load current component of the stator current in the stator winding comprises means for determining the load current component from the vector subtraction of the magnetizing current component of the stator current from the total stator current.
37. The apparatus according to claim 31 wherein said means for providing a signal proportional to the load current component of the stator current in the stator winding comprises means for generating a linear function approximating the relationship among the currents in the motor and selected in accordance with the operating characteristics of the AC induction motor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
