<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643913</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fishing rod with a pre-inserted fishing line guide member
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K8700	A01K8700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K87	A01K87	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a fishing rod with a pre-inserted 
fishing line guide member which can reduce the resistance of a 

fishing line during casting and reeling operations. Thereby an 
operator is able to play out and draw in the fishing line smoothly. 

In the fishing rod, the whole periphery of the inner surface of a 
fishing line guide cylinder is mounted on the leading end portion 

of a fishing rod pipe. The line guide is enlarged in diameter more 
greatly than the inner periphery contour of the leading end portion 

of the fishing rod pipe when the latter is extended in the 
direction of the axis of the rod pipe. The lower inner surface of 

the fishing line guide cylinder is downwardly shifted with respect 
to the fishing rod end pipe and enlarged in diameter more greatly 

than the oppositely located and upwardly enlarged diameter of the 
upper inner surface with respect to the axis of the fishing rod. 

A wear resisting guide member including an inner peripheral surface 
formed as a curved surface may also be mounted on the leading end 

portion of the enlarged lower inner surface of the fishing line 
guide cylinder. In addition, a second wear resisting fishing line 

guide member can be mounted near or to the terminal end of the 
fishing rod pipe to further reduce wear and contact between the 

fishing line and the end portion of the rod pipe. A selected one 
of several of the fishing line guides can be chosen for a given 

fishing condition by virtue of the removable attachment of the 
fishing line guide to the fishing rod end pipe. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIWA SEIKO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIWA SEIKO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKIBA MASARU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSURUFUJI TOMOYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKIBA, MASARU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSURUFUJI, TOMOYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a 
fishing line guide member 
for mounting to a fishing rod pipe, 
which includes an enlarged 
diameter cylindrical portion capable of reducing the resistance of 
a fishing line when the fishing line is played out and drawn in 
through the fishing rod during a fishing operation. In Japanese Patent Publication No. 5-3737 of Heisei, there is 
disclosed a fishing rod with a pre-inserted fishing line guide 
member which includes an enlarged diameter cylindrical portion 
capable of reducing the resistance of a fishing line when the 
fishing line is played out and drawn in through the leading end of 
the fishing rod during a fishing operation. In particular, the 5-3737 
publication discloses a structure in which a fishing rod 
includes an opening formed in the leading end portion thereof and 
which opening is enlarged in the leading end direction. An 
enlarged diameter cylindrical member, uniform in the 
circumferential direction thereof, and made of ceramics is mounted 
on the inner surface of the leading end portion thereof. The 
structure disclosed in the present 5-3737 publication prevents the 
fishing line from being in contact with the steep or sharp corner 
portion of the rod structure and, therefore, this structure can 
reduce the damage of the fishing line in this sense.  
 Generally, when a fishing line is played out or drawn in 
during a fishing operation, the behavior and contact of the fishing 
line is widely distributed in the leading end portion of a fishing 
rod. That is, since tension is applied to the fishing line and the 
speed of the fishing line varies when it is played out and drawn 
in, as shown in Fig. 6, the fishing line behaves in a meandering 
manner in the enlarged diameter cylindrical portion of the leading 
end portion of the fishing rod. However, in the above-mentioned 
conventional fishing rod in the 5-3737 publication, the behavior 
range of the fishing line does not coincide with the shape of the 
enlarged diameter cylindrical portion and, during the fishing 
operation, the fishing line can be contacted strongly and widely 
with the inner surface of the enlarged diameter cylindrical portion 
of the rod or with the ceramics ring, which increases the 
resistance of the fishing line. In view of the above, it is an object of the invention to 
provide a fishing line guide member 
which can reduce the frictional resistance of a fishing line to 
thereby allow the fishing line to be played out and drawn in 
smoothly. Also, it is another object of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fishing-line guide member (16) for mounting to a 
fishing rod pipe (10) defining a longitudinal axis (L), 

said fishing-line guide member comprising: 

a forward portion for engaging and mounting to a 
terminus end of said fishing rod pipe; 
a rearward portion connected to said forward portion for 
contacting and guiding a fishing-line (18) within said 

rod pipe, said rearward portion being enlarged in diameter 
with respect to said forward portion, with an end 

of said rearward portion opposite said forward portion 
defining a passage for said fishing-line and including a 

periphery,
 
characterised in that, 
part of the inner surface (16D) of the rearward portion 
of said fishing-line guide member is more greatly 

radially offset and enlarged in its periphary with 
respect to an axis (L) passing longitudinally through 

said guide member and said fishing rod pipe when mounted 
thereto, than the remaining inner surface (16U) of the 

rearward portion of said fishing-line guide member. 
A fishing-line guide member as in claim 1, wherein: 

a width dimension of said periphery measured from side to side 
across said periphery as a diameter varies from comparatively 

smaller to larger as said offset from said axis increases. 
A fishing-line guide member as in claim 2, further 
comprising: 


a wear resisting guide member, including an inner peripheral 
surface formed as a curved surface, mounted at least on the leading 

end portion of a lower inner surface of said periphery of said 
fishing line guide cylinder. 
A fishing-line guide member as set forth in Claim 1, 
wherein said member has a transverse section in which the width 

thereof in the right and left direction is smaller and the width 
thereof in the vertical direction is comparatively larger. 
A fishing-line guide member as set forth in Claim 1, 
wherein: 


said mounting to an end of said fishing rod pipe is freely 
rotatable about a longitudinal axis of said fishing rod pipe. 
A fishing-line guide member as in claim 1, further 
comprising: 


a wear resisting guide member, including an inner peripheral 
surface formed as a curved surface, mounted at least on the leading 

end portion of a lower inner surface of said periphery of said 
fishing line guide cylinder. 
A fishing-line guide member as set forth in claim 6, 
wherein: 


said wear resisting guide member comprises a rotatable member 
which rotates about an axis transverse to a longitudinal axis of 

said rod pipe. 
A fishing-line guide member as in claim 1, wherein a 
plurality of wear resisting members are fixed on the 

internal surface of the rearward portion of said guide 
member, with each wear resisting member including an 

inner periphery formed as a curved surface and being 
longitudinally spaced from each other and from the 

terminus with said fishing rod pipe, and arranged so 
that the distance between the inner peripheral surface 

of a first wear resisting member and said fishing rod 
pipe longitudinal axis is greater that the distance 

between the inner peripheral surface of a second wear 
resisting member and said fishing rod pipe longitudinal 

axis, with said first wear resisting member being 
located further away from said terminus with said 

fishing rod pipe than said second wear resisting member. 
A fishing-line guide member as in claim 8, wherein one of 
said wear resisting members, located nearest to said terminus, is 

in abutment with said terminus. 
A fishing-line guide member as in claim 9, wherein said 
nearest one of said wear resisting members has an inner diameter 

larger than an inner diameter of said terminus.  
 
A fishing-line guide member as claimed in at least one 
of the preceding claims 1 to 10, wherein the forward 

portion and the rearward portion are separate components 
detachably connected to each other. 
A fishing-line guide member according to claim 11, wherein said second 
portion of said holding member supports one of said wear resisting 

members, which is located nearest to said terminus. 
A fishing-line guide member according to claim 8, wherein said rearward 
portion includes a hole formed therethrough. 
A fishing-line guide member as claimed in at least one 
of the preceding claims 1 to 13, wherein said forward 

portion comprises a connecting portion for removably 
supporting said rearward portion, and wherein a selected 

one of a plurality of rearward portions of different 
shapes is connectable to said connecting portion. 
A fishing-line guide member as claimed in claim 14, 
wherein the connecting portion comprises an outer thread 

for threadingly engaging an inner thread of said 
rearward portion. 
A fishing-line guide member as claimed in one of the 
preceding claims 1 to 15, wherein the wear resisting 

members are made of ceramics. 
A fishing rod in combination with a fishing-line guide 
member as claimed in at least one of the preceding 

claims 1 to 16. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
