<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642553</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COPOLYESTER/POLYAMIDE BLEND HAVING IMPROVED FLAVOR RETAINING PROPERTY AND CLARITY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4700	B29C4700	B29C5100	B29C5100	B32B2736	B32B2736	C08L6700	C08L6700	C08L6702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B32B	B32B	C08L	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C47	B29C47	B29C51	B29C51	B32B27	B32B27	C08L67	C08L67	C08L67	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN CHEM CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLS DAVID EARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STAFFORD STEVEN LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLS, DAVID, EARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STAFFORD, STEVEN, LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COPOLYESTER/POLYAMIDE BLEND HAVING IMPROVED FLAVOR RETAINING PROPERTY AND CLARITYFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a copolyester/polyamide blend having an improved flavor retaining property and clarity. More particularly, the present invention relates to an essentially noncrystalline copolyester containing poly(ethylene terephthalate) units blended with a critical amount of a nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide. The use of a nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide in a critical amount reduces the concentration of acetaldehyde contained in the polyfethylene terephthalate) copolyester, and thus, improves the storage property, flavor—retaining property, and fragrance retaining property of a food or the like.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) is widely used for the production of light weight plastic articles since PET is excellent in mechanical properties such as formability and creep resistance and can be biaxially molecularly oriented. However, during molding or extrusion processes, acetaldehyde is formed by thermal decomposition of the polyester or copolyester containing poly(ethylene terephthalate) units, and when the polyester or copolyester is formed into an article, the acetaldehyde in the article walls migrates into the contents of the article. Small amounts of acetaldehyde adversely affect the flavor retaining property of foods and beverages, and the fragrance retaining property of foods, beverages, cosmetics, and other package contents. For these reasons, it is desirable to minimize the migration of acetaldehyde into package contents. 

 Acetaldehyde content has been successfully reduced in crystalline PET compositions by solid—stating. Solid—stating PET not only decreases its acetaldehyde content but also decreases the tendency to form acetaldehyde. Absent solid—stating, large amounts of polyamides are required to reduce the level of acetaldehyde to an acceptable range. Such large amounts of polyamides adversely* effect the clarity of the polyester blend. Thus, PET which has been solid stated exhibits a much lower acetaldehyde content than PET which has not been solid—stated and does not require large amounts of polyamides.Crystalline PET can be solid—stated since crystalline PET has a well defined melting point. In contrast, noncrystalline or amorphous copolyesters can not be solid—stated since such copolyesters lack a definite crystal structure and a well—defined melting point and thus melt during the solid—stating process forming large agglomerates. As a result,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An essentially noncrystalline copolyester composition having an improved flavor retaining property comprising: (A) 98.0 to 99.95 weight percent of a copolyester which comprises
(1) a dicarboxylic acid component comprising repeat units from at least 50 mole percent terephthalic acid; and (2) a diol component comprising repeat units from at least 50 mole percent ethylene glycol; based on 100 mole percent dicarboxylic acid and 100 mole percent diol, provided that there is at least 20 mole percent dicarboxylic acid or diol comonomers present in the copolyester; and
(B) 2.0 to 0.05 weight percent of a nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide, wherein the combined weights of (A) and (B) total 100 percent.
2. An essentially noncrystalline copolyester composition having an improved flavor retaining property comprising:
(A) 98.0 to 99.95 weight percent of a copolyester which comprises (1) a dicarboxylic acid component comprising repeat units from at least 50 mole percent terephthalic acid; and
(2) a diol component comprising repeat units from at least 50 mole percent ethylene glycol; based on 100 mole percent dicarboxylic acid and 100 mole percent diol, provided that there is at least 20 mole percent dicarboxylic acid or diol comonomers present in the copolyester; and 


 (B) 2.0 to 0.05 weight percent of a low molecular weight nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide selected from the group consisting of low molecular weight partially aromatic nonhydroxyfunctional polyamides having a number average molecular weight of less than 15,000, low molecular weight aliphatic nonhydroxyfunctional polyamides having a number average molecular weight of less than 7,000, and combinations thereof, wherein the combined weights of (A) and (B) total 100 percent.
3. A heat—molded or draw—formed plastic article composed of an essentially noncrystalline copolyester composition comprising:
(A) 98.0 to 99.95 weight percent of a copolyester which comprises
(1) a dicarboxylic acid component comprising repeat units from at least 50 mole percent terephthalic acid; and
(2) a diol component comprising repeat units from at least 50 mole percent ethylene glycol; based on 100 mole percent dicarboxylic acid and 100 mole percent diol, provided that there is at least 20 mole percent dicarboxylic acid or diol comonomers present in the copolyester; and (B) 2.0 to 0.05 weight percent of a nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide, wherein the combined weights of (A) and (B) total 100 percent. 


 4. A heat—molded or draw—formed plastic article composed of an essentially noncrystalline copolyester composition comprising:
(A) 98.0 to 99.95 weight percent of a copolyester which comprises
(1) a dicarboxylic acid component comprising repeat units from at least 50 mole percent terephthalic acid; and
(2) a diol component comprising repeat units from at least 50 mole percent ethylene glycol; based on 100 mole percent dicarboxylic acid and 100 mole percent diol, provided that there is at least 20 mole percent dicarboxylic acid or diol comonomers present in the copolyester; and (B) 2.0 to 0.05 weight percent of a low molecular weight nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide selected from the group consisting of low molecular weight partially aromatic nonhydroxyfunctional polyamides having a number average molecular weight of less than 15,000, low molecular weight aliphatic nonhydroxyfunctional polyamides having a number average molecular weight of less than 7,000, and combinations thereof, wherein the combined weights of (A) and (B) total 100 percent.
5. The copolyester according to Claim 1 wherein the dicarboxylic acid component consists essentially of repeat units from terephthalic acid and the diol component consists essentially of repeat units from 60 to 75 mole percent ethylene glycol and 25 to 40 mole percent 1,4—cyclohexanedimethanol. 


 6. The article according to Claim 3 wherein the dicarboxylic acid component consists essentially of repeat units from terephthalic acid and the diol component consists essentially of repeat units from 60 to 75 mole percent ethylene glycol and 25 to 40 mole percent 1,4—cyclohexanedimethanol.
7. The composition according to Claim 1 wherein the nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide is selected from the group consisting of poly(m-xylylene adipamide) , poly(hexamethylene adipamide) , polycaprolactam, poly(hexamethylene isophthalamide) , poly(hexamethylene adipamide-co—isophthalamide) , poly(hexamethylene adipamide-co—terephthalamide) , and poly(hexamethylene isophthalamide—co—terephthalamide) .
8. The composition according to Claim 7 wherein the nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide is poly(m-xylylene adipamide) .
9. The composition according to Claim 2 wherein the low molecular weight partially aromatic nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide is selected from the group consisting of poly(m-xylylene adipamide), poly(hexamethylene isophthalamide), poly(hexamethylene adipamide—co—isophthalamide) , poly(hexamethylene adipamide-co—terephthalamide) , and poly(hexamethylene isophtha1amide—co—terephtha1amide) .
10
"
. The composition according to Claim 9 wherein the low molecular weight partially aromatic nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide is poly(m-xylylene adipamide) . 


 11. The composition according to Claim 2 wherein the low molecular weight aliphatic nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide is selected from the group consisting of 
r
polγ(hexamethylene adipamide) and poly(caprolactam) .
12. The composition according to Claim 11 wherein the low molecular weight aliphatic nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide is poly(hexamethylene adipamide) .
13. The article according to Claim 3 which is a multilayer article comprising a layer of said copolyester composition.
14. The article according to Claim 4 which is a multilayer article comprising a layer of said copolyester composition.
15. The article according to Claim 3 which is obtained by forming a laminate having a layer of said copolyester composition by coextrusion and forming the laminate into an article.
16. The article according to Claim 4 which is obtained by forming a laminate having a layer of said copolyester composition by coextrusion and forming the laminate into an article.
17. The composition according to Claim 1 further comprising an additive selected from the group consisting of impact modifiers, surface lubricants, denesting agents, stabilizers, antioxidants, ultraviolet light absorbing agents, metal deactivators, colorants, phosphate stabilizers and fillers. 


 18. The article according to Claim 3 further comprising an additive selected from the group consisting of crystallization aids, impact modifiers, surface lubricants, denesting agents, stabilizers, antioxidants, ultraviolet light absorbing agents, metal deactivators, colorants, phosphate stabilizers and fillers.
19. A process for reducing the acetaldehyde concentration in a heat— olded polyester article, which comprises dry—blending an essentially noncrystalline copolyester with 0.05 to 2.0 weight percent, based on the polyester, of a nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide, melt—kneading the composition and thermoforming the melt—kneaded composition into an article.
20. A process for reducing the acetaldehyde concentration in a heat—molded polyester article, which comprises dry—blending an essentially noncrystalline copolyester with 0.05 to 2.0 weight percent, based on the polyester, of a low molecular weight nonhydroxyfunctional polyamide selected from the group consisting of low molecular weight partially aromatic polyamides having a number average molecular weight of less than 15,000, low molecular weight aliphatic polyamides having a number average molecular weight of less than 7,000, and combinations thereof, melt—kneading the composition and thermoforming the melt—kneaded composition into an article.
21. The product of the process of Claim 19.
22. The product of the process of Claim 20. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
