<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628342</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for cleaning gas containing sulphur dioxide
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5334	B01D5377	B01D5377	B01D5350	B01D5334	B01D5350	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and an apparatus for cleaning sulphurdioxide-containing 
gas, such as flue gas, are disclosed. 

In the method, the sulphur-dioxide-containing gas (1) is 
treated in a scrubber (2) with a washing liquid (3) 

which is circulated in a primary circuit (5). From the 
primary circuit (5), a partial flow is drawn off through 

a conduit (11) to a secondary circuit (12) for regeneration 
by means of the so-called indirect lime method. The 

invention is distinguished by a cooling circuit (25) 
which is connected to the secondary circuit (12) and in 

which a partial amount of washing liquid drawn off from 
the secondary circuit is treated by cooling in a cooling 

tank (27) to a temperature below 30째C, preferably below 
5째C, for the precipitation of sodium sulphate. After the 

separation of precipitated sodium sulphate, the washing 
liquid is further treated in a tank (32) for the 

precipitation of more sulphate by the addition of a 
calcium-ion source (33), preferably consisting of calcium 

carbonate sludge from the secondary circuit (12). 
After the separation of precipitated calcium sulphate, 

the treated liquid now having a reduced sulphate content 
below about 300 mg/l is drawn off from the cooling circuit 

(25). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLAEKT AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABB FLAEKT AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAGNARSSON SVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAGNARSSON, SVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and an apparatus 
for cleaning gas containing sulphur dioxide, as defined 
in the preambles to appended claims 1 and 7, respectively. 
To be more specific, the invention aims at 
restricting the sulphate content of the wastewater 
resulting from such cleaning of sulphur-dioxide-containing 
gas. An increasing number of countries are adopting 
tougher regulations on the amount of impurities permissible 
in wastewater, e.g. as regards the sulphate 
content. For instance, both Swedish and Dutch law provides 
that the sulphate content of wastewater must not 
exceed 300 mg/l. When cleaning sulphur-dioxide-containing gases, 
such as flue gases from oil-fired power stations, coal-fired 
power stations, and refuse incineration plants, 
the sulphur dioxide is absorbed in a washing liquid containing 
lime (e.g. calcium carbonate or slaked lime). 
By reacting with the lime, the sulphur dioxide is 
separated, chiefly in the form of calcium sulphate 
(gypsum). Even though most of the absorbed sulphur 
dioxide is thus removed as a solid material (gypsum), 
the washing liquid retains a high sulphate content of 
about 3,000-10,000 mg/l. Before the washing liquid can 
be discharged into the sewage system, it must be cleaned 
in order to reduce its content of sulphate, which is 
done in a special treatment plant. Such cleaning not-withstanding, 
the sulphate content is merely reduced to 
the saturation value of calcium sulphate, which is about 
1500 mg/l, and the above-mentioned provision for a maximum 
sulphate content of wastewater of 300 mg/l is thus 
not met.  
 Use is also made of the so-called dual salt technique, 
which primarily serves to clean flue gases from 
refuse incineration plants, which contain hydrogen chloride 
as well as sulphur dioxide. According to this technique, 
the flue gases are cleaned in a two-stage scrubber, 
where hydrogen chloride is separated in the first 
stage and sulphur dioxide is separated in the second 
stage. The acid washing liquid from the first stage is 
neutralised by means of lime, whereupon heavy metal 
impurities are separated, such that the washing liquid 
then chiefly contains calcium chloride. In the second 
stage, the washing liquid is more alkaline and contains 
sodium hydroxide, and will thus come to contain sodium 
sulphate on the absorption of sulphur dioxide. The washing 
liquid from the second stage is mixed with the calcium-chloride-containing 
washing liquid from the first 
stage, calcium sulphate (gypsum) being precipitated. The

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for cleaning sulphur-dioxide-containing 
gas (1), such as flue gas, wherein the gas is treated in 

a gas scrubber (2) for the absorption of sulphur dioxide 
in an aqueous sodium-based washing liquid (3) circulating 

in a primary circuit (5) whence a partial flow is 
drawn off to a secondary circuit (12) to be regenerated 

by adding a calcium-ion source (14) for the precipitation 
and removal of calcium sulphate (17) and then adding 

a carbonate-ion source (20) for the precipitation 
and removal of calcium carbonate, whereupon the partial 

flow of regenerated washing liquid is recycled to the 
primary circuit (5), 
characterised
 by 
drawing off from the secondary circuit (12) a partial 

amount of washing liquid to a cooling circuit (25) where 
it is brought to a temperature below about 30째C for the 

precipitation and separation of sodium sulphate, and 
then adding to the partial amount of washing liquid a 

calcium-ion source (33) for the precipitation and 
removal of calcium sulphate, whereupon the partial 

amount of washing liquid freed of precipitated material 
is drawn off. 
A method as set forth in claim 1, 
characterised
 
by adding precipitated calcium carbonate 

from the secondary circuit (12) as calcium-ion source 
(33) in the cooling circuit (25). 
A method as set forth in claim 1 or 2, 

characterised
 by bringing the partial amount 
of washing liquid in the cooling circuit (25) to a temperature 

below about 5째C. 
A method as set forth in any one of the preceding 
claims, 
characterised
 by drawing off 
the partial amount of washing liquid to the cooling circuit  

 
(25) from the partial flow in the secondary circuit 

(12) before this has been regenerated. 
A method as set forth in any one of the preceding 
claims, 
characterised
 by acidifying, 
upon the precipitation of calcium sulphate, the partial 

amount of washing liquid in the cooling circuit (25) by 
means of an acid washing liquid obtained upon the 

absorption of hydrogen chloride. 
A method as set forth in claim 5, 
characterised
 
by conducting the partial amount of washing 

liquid that has been freed of precipitated material 
from the cooling circuit (25) to a washing liquid that 

has been obtained upon the absorption of hydrogen chloride 
and neutralised. 
An apparatus for cleaning sulphur-dioxide-containing 
gas (1), such as flue gas, the apparatus comprising 

a gas scrubber (2) including at least one stage 
which comprises a primary circuit (5) having means (9) 

for circulating an aqueous sodium-based washing liquid 
(3) in contact with the gas, a conduit (11) for drawing 

off a partial flow of washing liquid to a secondary circuit 
(12) which has means for supplying a calcium-ion 

source (14) and separating precipitated calcium sulphate 
(17), and means for supplying a carbonate-ion source 

(20) and separating precipitated calcium carbonate as 
well as recycling (24) regenerated washing liquid to the 

primary circuit (5), 
characterised
 by 
a conduit (26) from the secondary circuit (12) to a 

cooling circuit (25) having a cooling means (28, 29) for 
cooling a partial amount of washing liquid from the 

secondary circuit (12) and precipitating sodium sulphate, 
means for separating and recycling (30) precipitated 

sodium sulphate to the secondary circuit (12), 
means for supplying a calcium-ion source (33) to the 

remaining partial amount and precipitating gypsum, means 
(34) for recycling the precipitated gypsum to the secondary  

 
circuit (12), and means (36) for drawing off the 

partial amount of washing liquid freed of precipitated 
sodium sulphate and gypsum. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 7, 
characterised
 
in that the means for supplying a 

calcium-ion source to the cooling circuit consists of a 
conduit (23) for feeding precipitated calcium carbonate 

from the secondary circuit (12) to the cooling circuit 
(25). 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 7 or 8, 

characterised
 in that the cooling means consists 
of a heat pump (29). 
An apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 
7-9, 
characterised
 in that the means for 
supplying a calcium-ion source (33) to the cooling 

circuit (25) comprise means for acidification by means 
of an acid washing liquid obtained from the cleaning of 

hydrogen-chloride-containing gas, such as flue gas. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
