<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653042</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DRYING PARTICULATE MATERIAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F26B1700	F26B1710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F26B	F26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F26B17	F26B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for drying particulate materials such as seeds and grains in which an air dryer (10) having at least one drying stage containing mesh openings (20) in its bottom (16), which is accompanied by means to create an upward vertical air flow having a velocity in the mesh openings (20) at least equal or larger than to the suspension speed of the particles to be dried so that they are temporarily suspended until enough accumulate to provide sufficient weight or downward pressure for the particles to overcome the upward air flow, pass downward through one or more mesh screens (20) and reach the bottom of the dryer (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRANA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRANA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEIN PETER CENTRO COM CIUDAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEIN, PETER CENTRO COM. CIUDAD TAMANACO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DRYING PARTICULATE MATERIALBackground Of The Invention The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for drying materials, particularly seeds and grains, by introducing the material at the top of an upwardly vertical air flow arrangement.The present invention also relates to a method and apparatus for effecting chemical and/or physical reactions by means of solid/gas contact. The present invention has application to oxidation reactions, water/gas reactions, ammonia or methanol synthesis reactions, gas or liquid absorption reactions, and removal of Nox from flue gas.In certain industries there is a need to dry large amounts of particle formed materials such as seeds and grains. In the past, various methods have been used which require relatively high investment and space. Moreover, in most systems, the seeds may get damaged in the drying process.It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an improved method and apparatus for drying of particle formed materials such as seeds and grains.airnimwy nf The Invention For the purpose of attaining the object mentioned above, the present invention provides an apparatus for drying particle formed materials such as seeds and grains, comprising a housing having a top, bottom and side walls, means for introducing materials to be dried into the housing, at least one drying stage having mesh means defining openings greater than the largest size particle of the material to be dried, the drying stage located between the top and bottom walls and extending to the side walls of the housing, air flow means for creating an 

upwardly vertical flow of air within the housing having a velocity within the mesh openings at least equal to the speed at which the material to be dried remains suspended, whereby material to be dried will remain suspended until enough particles accumulate above the mesh means to provide sufficient weight or downward pressure for the particles to overcome the upward air flow, pass through the openings in the mesh means and fall to the bottom of the housing.According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided an air dryer wherein the air flow means comprises an air inlet means at the bottom of the housing and an air outlet means at the top of the housing.The invention still further provides an air dryer wherein the particle formed materials are seeds or grains and wherein said housing is cylindrical.According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided an air dryer wherein the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An air dryer for drying particle formed materials comprising: a housing having a top, bottom and substantially parallel side walls and defining an interior having a substantially uniform cross-section in the vertical direction; means for introducing materials to be dried into said housing; at least one drying stage having mesh means defining openings slightly greater than the largest size particle of the material to be dried, said drying stage located between the top and bottom walls and extending to the side walls of said housing; air flow means for extracting air from the top of said housing and for creating a subatmospheric pressure and a rotating and upwardly vertical flow of air within said housing having a velocity within the mesh openings at least equal to the speed at which the material to be dried remains suspended, and for suspending the particles above the mesh means until enough particles accumulate above the mesh means to provide sufficient weight or downward pressure for the particles to overcome the upward air flow, pass through the openings in the mesh means and fall to the bottom of said housing.
The air dryer according to claim 1, wherein the air flow means comprises an air inlet means at the bottom of the housing and air outlet means at the top of the housing.
An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein the particle formed materials are seeds or grains. 


4. An air dryer according to claim l, wherein said housing is cylindrical.
5. An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein said means for introducing comprises a plurality of concentric distribution cones to distribute said materials over a horizontal plane of an uppermost drying stage.
6. An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein the cones are made of mesh material having a clearance smaller than the particle material to be dried.
7. An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein said means for introducing comprises a distributor at the top of the housing and wherein the housing increases in diameter at the top.
8. An air dryer according to claim 1, further comprising supply means for supplying said materials to the interior of said distributor.
9. An air dryer according to claim 8, wherein said supply means is a belt conveyor.
10. An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein said mesh means comprises a ring and a wire mesh screen attached to said ring.
11. An air dryer according to claim 1, further comprising removal means for removing dried materials from the bottom of said housing.
12. An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein the number of said drying stages is about five. 


13. An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein said air flow means comprises means for introducing air tangentially to the bottom of said housing.
14. An air dryer according to claim 1, further comprising means for introducing air into each drying stage.
15. An air dryer according to claim 14, wherein said means for introducing air introduces air in a rotating pattern.
16. An air dryer according to claim 1, further comprising heating means for heating the air entering the housing.
17. An air dryer according to claim 16, wherein said means for heating the air entering the housing comprises an inner chamber for receiving air to be heated and for providing heated air to the housing and an outer chamber, in thermal communication with the inner chamber, for receiving combustion air, whereby air in said inner chamber is heated through thermal contact with said outer chamber.
18. An air dryer according to claim 1, which further comprises an extraction fan and a damper for controlling the upward rate of flow of air within said housing.
19. An air dryer according to claim 2, further comprising a separator placed after the outlet means for removing relatively small particle material from outlet air. 


20. An air dryer according to claim 1, further comprising material removal means at the bottom of the housing for removing said dried materials.
21. An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein said housing has a plurality of windows for monitoring drying stages within said housing.
22. An air dryer according to claim 1, further comprising means for dividing the interior of said housing into a plurality of vertical chambers.
23. An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein said outlet means comprises an upper spiral shaped exit chamber communicating with the housing top by a plurality of openings in the vicinity of the top of said housing, and a corresponding plurality of pivotable gates over said openings to control the air flow through said openings, and the rotation of the upward air flow.
24. An air dryer according to claim 1, wherein said air flow means further comprises a lower spiral shaped air flow chamber communicating with the chamber bottom wall by a plurality of openings in the bottom wall of said housing, and a corresponding plurality of pivotable gates over said openings to control the air flow through said openings.
25. A method for drying particle formed materials comprising the steps of: loading particle formed materials to be dried into the top of a housing of a dryer having a top, bottom and substantially parallel 


 side walls to define an interior having a substantially uniform cross-section in the vertical direction, and at least one drying stage having a mesh means defining openings slightly greater than the largest size particles to be dried, said drying stage located between the top and bottom walls and extending to the side walls of the housing; and
extracting air from the top of the housing to create a subatmospheric pressure and a rotating and upward air flow in said housing having a velocity within the mesh openings at least equal to the suspension speed of particles to be dried, whereby particles to be dried will remain suspended until enough particles accumulate above the mesh means to provide sufficient weight or downward pressure for the particles to overcome the upward air flow, pass through the openings in the mesh means and fall to the bottom of said housing.
26. A method for drying materials according to claim 25, further including the step of heating said air prior to introduction of said air into said housing.
27. A method for drying materials according to claim 26, further including the step of introducing air into the top of said housing above the drying stage to inject dry air in the upper portion of the chamber.
28. A method for drying materials according to claim 26, further including the step of removing said dried materials from the bottom of said housing. 


29. A method for drying materials according to claim 26, wherein the materials are seeds or grains.
30. A method for drying materials according to claim 26, further including the step of providing a plurality of drying stages vertically spaced from each other.
31. An apparatus for effecting chemical and/or physical reactions by means of a solid/gas contact, comprising: a housing having a top, bottom and substantially parallel side walls and defining an interior having a substantially uniform cross-section in the vertical direction; means for introducing solid materials having a defined particle size into said housing; at least one interaction stage having mesh means defining openings slightly greater than the particle size of the material, said interaction stage located between the top and bottom walls and extending to the side walls of said housing; gas flow means for extracting gas from the top of said housing and for creating a subat ospheric pressure and a rotating and upwardly vertical flow of gas within said housing having a velocity within the mesh openings at least equal to the speed at which the material remains suspended, as for the suspending the particles until enough particles accumulate above the mesh means to provide sufficient weight or downward pressure for the particles to overcome the upward gas flow, pass 


 through the openings in the mesh means and fall to the bottom of said housing.
32. A method for effecting chemical and/or physical reactions by means of a solid/gas contact comprising: loading particle formed solid materials having a defined particle size into the top of a housing having a top, bottom and substantially parallel side walls to define an interior having a substantially uniform cross- section in the vertical direction, and at least one interaction stage having a mesh means defining openings slightly greater than the particle size of the material, said interaction stage located between the top and bottom walls and extending to the side walls of the housing; and extracting gas from the top of the housing and for creating a subatmospheric pressure and a rotating and upward gas flow in said housing having a velocity within the mesh openings at least equal to the suspension speed of particles, to suspend the particles until enough particles accumulate above the mesh means to provide sufficient weight or downward pressure for the particles to overcome the upward gas flow, pass through the openings in the mesh means and fall to the bottom of said housing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
